Our neighbourhood was what is called very clannish.  There were two 
families, the Horsmans and the Stympsons, who seemed to make up all 
the society.  The sons either had the good livings, or had retired 
from their professions into cottages round and about, and the first 
question after any party was, how many of each.  The outsiders, not 
decidedly of inferior rank, were almost driven into making a little 
clique--if so it might be called--of their own, and hanging together 
the more closely.  Lord Erymanth of course predominated; but he was 
a widower of many years' standing, and his heir lived in a distant 
county.  His sister, Lady Diana, had been married to an Irish Mr. 
Tracy, who had been murdered after a few years by his tenants, upon 
which she had come with her three children to live at Arked House.  
I never could guess how she came to marry an Irish landlord, and I 
always thought she must have exasperated his people.  She was viewed 
as the perfection of a Lady Bountiful and pattern of excellence; but, 
I confess, that I always thought of her when I heard of the devout 
and honourable women who were stirred up against St. Paul.  She was 
a person who was admired more than she was liked, and who was greatly 
praised and honoured, but somehow did not proportionably endear 
herself on closer acquaintance, doing a great deal of good, but all 
to large masses rather than individuals.  However, all the 
neighbourhood had a pride in her, and it was a distinction to be 
considered a fit companion for Diana and Viola Tracy.  I never cared 
for Di, who was her mother over again, and used to set us to rights 
with all her might; but she had married early, a very rich man--and 
Viola and I had always been exceedingly fond of one another, so that 
I could not bear to be cut off from her, however I might be disposed 
to defy her mother.

The upshot of my perplexities was that I set off to Mycening to lay 
them before Miss Woolmer, another of the few belonging to neither 
clan, to know what all this meant, as well as to be interested in my 
nephews.

Mycening is one of the prettiest country towns I know, at least it 
was twenty years ago.  There is a very wide street, unpaved, but with 
a broad smooth gravelled way, slightly sloping down towards the 
little clean stone-edged gutters that border the carriage road along 
the centre, which is planted on each side with limes cut into arches.  
The houses are of all sorts, some old timbered gable-ended ones with 
projecting upper stories, like our own, others of the handsome old 
Queen Anne type with big sash windows, and others quite modern.  Some 
have their gardens in front, some stand flush with the road, and the 
better sort are mixed with the shops and cottages.

Miss Woolmer lived in a tiny low one, close to the road, where, from 
her upstairs floor, she saw all that came and went, and, intellectual 
woman as she certainly was, she thoroughly enjoyed watching her 
neighbours, as by judiciously-arranged looking-glasses, she could do 
all up and down the street.  I believe she had been a pretty woman, 
though on a small scale, and now she had bright eyes, and a very 
sweet bright look, though in complexion she had faded into the worn 
pallor that belongs to permanent ill health.  She dressed nicely, and 
if she had been well, might, at her age, scarcely above forty, have 
been as much a young lady as Philippa Horsman; but I fancy the great 
crush of her life had taken away her girlhood and left her no spring 
of constitution to resist illness, so that she had sunk into a 
regular crippled invalid before I could remember, though her mind was 
full of activity. 

"You are come to tell me about them, my dear," was her greeting.  
"I've seen them.  No, I don't mean that they have been to see me.  
You'll bring them some day, won't you?  I'm sure Ambrose's boy would 
come to see a sick woman.  I watched one of them yesterday pick up 
old Molly's oranges for her in the street, when her basket got upset 
by a cart, and he then paid her for them, and gave them among the 
children round.  It did my heart good, I'd not seen such a sight 
since the boys were sent away."

"Harold would do anything kind," I said, "or to see an old friend of 
his father.  The worst of it is that there seem to be so few who wish 
to see him, or can even forgive me for staying with him."

I showed her Lord Erymanth's letter, and told her of the others, 
asking her what it meant.  "Oh, as to Lady Diana," she said, "there 
is no doubt about that.  She was greatly offended at your having sent 
away her carriage and not having taken her advice, and she goes about 
saying she is disappointed in you."

For my mother's sake, and my little Viola, and Auld Lang Syne 
besides, I was much hurt, and defended myself in a tone of pique 
which made Miss Woolmer smile and say she was far from blaming me, 
but that she thought I ought to count the cost of my remaining at 
Arghouse.  And then she told me that the whole county was up in arms 
against the new comers, not only from old association of their name 
with revolutionary notions, but because the old Miss Stympsons, of 
Lake Side, who had connections in New South Wales, had set it abroad 
that the poor boys were ruffians, companions of the double-dyed 
villain Prometesky, and that Harold in especial was a marked man, who 
had caused the death of his own wife in a frenzy of intoxication.

At this I fairly laughed.  Harold, at his age, who never touched 
liquor, and had lived a sort of hermit life in the Bush, to be 
saddled with a wife only to have destroyed her!  The story 
contradicted itself by its own absurdity; and those two Miss 
Stympsons were well-known scandal-mongers.  Miss Woolmer never 
believed a story of theirs without sifting, but she had been in a 
manner commissioned to let me know that society was determined not to 
accept Eustace and Harold Alison, and was irate at my doing so.  
Mothers declared that they should be very sorry to give poor Lucy 
Alison up, but that they could not have their children brought into 
contact with young men little better than convicts, and whom they 
would, besides, call my cousins, instead of my nephews.  "I began to 
suspect it," I said, "when nobody left cards but Mr. Lawless and 
Peter Parsons."

"And that is the society they are to be left to?"

"But I shall not leave them," I cried.  "Why should I, to please Miss 
Stympson and Lord Erymanth?  I shall stand by my own brothers' sons 
against all the world."

"And if they be worthy, Lucy, your doing so is the best chance of 
their weathering the storm.  See! is not that one of them?  The 
grand-looking giant one, who moves like a king of men.  He is 
Ambrose's son, is he not?  What a pity he is not the squire!"

Harold was, in effect, issuing from the toy-shop, carrying an immense 
kite on his arm, like a shield, while Dora frisked round in 
admiration, and a train of humbler admirers flocked in the rear.

I hurried down into the street to tell Harold of my old friend's wish 
to see them, and he followed me at once, with that manner which was 
not courtesy, because, without being polished, it was so much more.  
Dora was much displeased, being ardent on the kite's tail, and 
followed with sullen looks, while Harold had to stoop low to get into 
the room, and brushed the low ceiling with his curly hair as he stood 
upright, Miss Woolmer gazing up to the very top of him.  I think she 
was rather disappointed that he had not taken more after his father; 
and she told him that he was like his uncle Lewthwayte, looking 
keenly to see whether he shrunk from the comparison to a man who had 
died a felon's death; but he merely answered, "So I have been told."

Then she asked for his mother, and he briefly replied that she was 
well and in New Zealand.  There was an attempt at noticing Dora, to 
which she responded like the wild opossum that she was, and her 
fidgeting carried the day.  Harold only made answer to one or two 
more observations, and then could not but take leave, promising on 
the entreaty of the old lady, to come and see her again.  I outstayed 
them, being curious to hear her opinion.

"A superb being," she said, with a long breath; "there's the easy 
strength of a Greek demi-god in every tread."

"He seems to me more like Thor in Nifelheim," I said, "being, no 
doubt, half a Viking to begin with."

"They are all the same, as people tell us now," she said, smiling.  
"Any way, he looks as if he was a waif from the heroic age.  But, my 
dear, did not I hear him call you Lucy?"

"They generally do."

"I would not let them.  Cling to your auntship; it explains your 
being with them.  A grand creature!  I feel like the people who had 
had a visit from the gods of old."

"And you understand how impossible it would be to run away," I said.

She smiled, but added, "Lucy, my dear, that looked very like a 
wedding-ring!"

I could not think it possible.  Why, he was scarcely five-and-twenty!  
And yet the suggestion haunted me, whenever my eyes fell on his 
countenance in repose, and noted the habitual sadness of expression 
which certainly did not match with the fine open face that seemed 
fitted to express the joy of strength.  It came on me too when, at 
the lodge, a child who had been left alone too long and had fallen 
into an unmitigated agony of screaming, Harry had actually, instead 
of fleeing from the sound, gone in, taken the screamer in his arms, 
and so hushed and pacified it, that on the mother's return she found 
it at perfect rest.

"One would think the gentleman was a father himself, ma'am," she had 
said to me; and thereupon Harold had coloured, and turned hastily 
aside, so that the woman fancied she had offended him and apologised, 
so that he had been forced to look back again and say, "Never mind," 
and "No harm done," with a half laugh, which, as it now struck me, 
had a ring of pain in it, and was not merely the laugh of a shy young 
man under an impossible imputation.  True, I knew he was not a 
religious man, but to believe actual ill of him seemed to me 
impossible.

He had set himself to survey the Arghouse estate, so as to see how 
those dying wishes of his father could best be carried out, and he 
was making himself thoroughly acquainted with every man, woman, 
child, and building, to the intense jealousy of Bullock, who had been 
agent all through my mother's time, and had it all his own way.  He 
could not think why "Mr. Harold" should be always hovering about the 
farms and cottages, sometimes using his own ready colonial hand to 
repair deficiencies, and sometimes his purse, and making the people 
take fancies into their heads that were never there before, and which 
would make Mr. Alison lose hundreds a year if they were attended to.  
And as Mr. Alison always did attend to his cousin, and gave orders 
accordingly, the much-aggrieved Bullock had no choice but in delaying 
their execution and demonstrating their impracticability, whereas, of 
course, Harold did not believe in impossibilities.

It was quite true, as he had once said, that though he could not 
bring about improvements as readily as if he had been landlord, yet 
he could get at the people much better, and learn their own point of 
view of what was good for them.  They were beginning to idolise him; 
for, indeed, there was a fascination about him which no one could 
resist.  I sometimes wondered what it was, considering that he was so 
slow of speech, and had so little sunshine of mirth about him.

I never did enforce my title of Aunt, in spite of Miss Woolmer's 
advice.  It sounded too ridiculous, and would have hindered the 
sisterly feeling that held us together.

Eustace was restless and vexed at not being called upon, and anxious 
to show himself on any occasion, and I was almost equally anxious to 
keep him back, out of reach of mortification.  Both he and Harold 
went to London on business, leaving Dora with me.  The charge was 
less severe than I expected.  My first attempts at teaching her had 
been frustrated by her scorn of me, and by Harold's baffling 
indulgence; but one day, when they had been visiting one of the 
farms, the children had been made to exhibit their acquirements, 
which were quite sufficient to manifest Dora's ignorance.  Eustace 
had long declared that if she would not learn of me she must either 
have a governess or go to school, and I knew she was fit for neither.  
Harold, I believe, now enforced the threat, and when he went away, 
left her a black silk necktie to be hemmed for him, and a toy book 
with flaming illustrations, with an assurance that on her reading it 
to him on his return, depended his giving her a toy steam-engine.

Dora knew that Harold kept his word, even with her.  I think she had 
a great mind to get no one's assistance but the kitchenmaid's, but 
this friendship was abruptly terminated by Dora's arraying the 
kangaroo in Sarah's best bonnet and cloak, and launching it upon a 
stolen interview between her and her sweetheart.  The screams brought 
all the house together, and, as the hero was an undesirable party who 
had been forbidden the house, Sarah viewed it as treachery on Miss 
Dora's part, and sulked enough to alienate her.

Dora could make out more to herself in a book than she could read 
aloud, and one day I saw her spelling over the table of degrees of 
marriage in a great folio Prayer-Book, which she had taken down in 
quest of pictures.  Some time later in the day, she said, "Lucy, are 
you Harry's father's sister?" and when I said yes, she added, with a 
look of discovery, "A man cannot marry his father's sister."

It was no time to protest against the marriage of first cousins.  I 
was glad enough that from that time the strange child laid aside her 
jealousy of me; and that thenceforth her resistance was simply the 
repugnance of a wild creature to be taught and tamed.  Ultimately she 
let me into the recesses of that passionate heart, and, as I think, 
loved me better than anybody else, except Harold; but even so, at an 
infinite distance from that which seemed the chief part of her whole 
being.


CHAPTER II. THE LION OF NEME HEATH.


The work was done.  The sixteen pages of large-type story book were 
stumbled through; and there was a triumphant exhibition when the 
cousins came home--Eustace delighted; Harold, half-stifled by London, 
insisting on walking home from the station to stretch his legs, and 
going all the way round over Kalydon Moor for a whiff of air!

If we had not had a few moors and heaths where he could breathe, 
I don't know whether he could have stayed in England; and as for 
London, the din, the dinginess, the squalor of houses and people, 
sat like a weight on his heart.

"They told me a great deal had been done for England.  It is just 
nothing," he said, and hardly anything else that whole evening; while 
Eustace, accoutred point-device by a London tailor, poured forth 
volumes of what he had seen and done.  Mr. Prosser made up a dinner 
party for them, and had taken them to an evening party or two--at 
least, Eustace; for after the first Harold had declined, and had 
spent his time in wandering about London by gas-light, and standing 
on the bridges, or trying how far it was on each side to green 
fields, and how much misery lay between.

Eustace had evidently been made much of, and had enjoyed himself 
greatly.  It grieved me that his first entrance into society should 
be under no better auspices than those of the family solicitor; but 
he did not yet perceive this, and was much elated.  "I flatter myself 
it was rather a success," was the phrase he had brought home, apropos 
to everything he had worn or done, from his tie to his shoe-buckles.  
He told me the price of everything, all the discussions with his 
tradesmen, and all the gazes fixed on him, with such simplicity that 
I could not help caring, and there sat Harold in his corner, 
apparently asleep, but his eye now and then showing that he was 
thinking deeply.

"Lucy," he said, as we bade one another good-night, "is nothing being 
done?"

"About what?" I asked.

"For all that wretchedness."

"Oh yes, there are all sorts of attempts," and I told him of model 
cottages, ragged schools, and the like, and promised to find him the 
accounts; but he gave one of his low growls, as if this were but a 
mockery of the direful need.

He had got his statement of Prometesky's case properly drawn up, and 
had sent up a copy, but in vain; and had again been told that some 
influential person must push it to give it any chance.  Mr. Prosser's 
acquaintance lay in no such line; or, at least, were most unlikely to 
promote the pardon of an old incendiary.

"What will you do?" I asked.  "Must you give it up?"

"Never!  I will make a way at last."

Meantime, he was necessary to Eustace in accomplishing all the 
details of taking possession.  Horses were wanted by both, used to 
riding as they had always been, and there was an old-fashioned fair 
on Neme Heath, just beyond Mycening, rather famous for its good show 
of horses, where there was a chance of finding even so rare an 
article as a hunter up to Harold's weight, also a pony for Dora.

An excellent show of wild beasts was also there.  Harold had been on 
the heath when it was being arranged in the earliest morning hours, 
and had fraternised with the keepers, and came home loquacious far 
more than usual on the wonders he had seen.  I remember that, instead 
of being disappointed in the size of the lions and tigers, he dwelt 
with special admiration on their supple and terrible strength of 
spine and paw.

He wanted to take Dora at once to the menagerie, but I represented 
the inexpedience of their taking her about with them to the horse-
fair afterwards, and made Eustace perceive that it would not do for 
Miss Alison; and as Harold backed my authority, she did not look like 
thunder for more than ten minutes when she found we were to drive to 
Neme Heath, and that she was to go home with me after seeing the 
animals.  Eustace was uncertain about his dignity, and hesitated 
about not caring and not intending, and not liking me to go alone, 
but made up his mind that since he had to be at the fair, he would 
drive us.

So we had out the barouche, and Eustace held the reins with infinite 
elation, while Harold endured the interior to reconcile Dora to it, 
and was as much diverted as she was at the humours of the scene, 
exclaiming at every stall of gilt gingerbread, every see-saw, and 
merry-go-round, that lined the suburbs of Mycening, and I strongly 
suspect meditating a private expedition to partake of their delights.  
Harold was thoroughly the great child nature meant him for, while 
poor Eustace sat aloft enfolded in his dignity, not daring to look 
right or left, or utter a word of surprise, lest he should compromise 
himself in the eyes of the coachman by his side.

The fair was upon the heath, out to which the new part of the town 
was stretching itself, and long streets of white booths extended 
themselves in their regular order.  We drove on noiselessly over the 
much-trodden turf, until we were checked by the backward rush of a 
frightened crowd, and breathless voices called out to Eustace, "Stop, 
sir; turn, for Heaven's sake.