Scanned by John Edward Heaton in Guatemala.


Tom Cringle's Log.


Michael Scott (1789--1835).


The Launching of the Log.


Dazzled by the glories of Trafalgar, I, Thomas Cringle, one fine morning
in the merry month of May, in the year one thousand eight hundred and so
and so, magnanimously determined in my own mind, that the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland should no longer languish under the want of a
successor to the immortal Nelson, and being then of the great
perpendicular altitude of four feet four inches, and of the mature age of
thirteen years, I thereupon betook myself to the praiseworthy task of
tormenting, to the full extent of my small ability, every man and woman
who had the misfortune of being in any way connected with me, until they
had agreed to exert all their interest, direct or indirect, and
concentrate the same in one focus upon the head and heart of Sir Barnaby
Blueblazes, vice--admiral of the red squadrons a Lord of the Admiralty,
and one of the old plain K.B.'s (for he flourished before the time when a
gallant action or two tagged half of the letters of the alphabet to a
man's name, like the tail of a paper kite), in order that he might be
graciously pleased to have me placed on the quarterdeck of one of his
Majesty's ships of war without delay.

The stone I had set thus recklessly a--rolling, had not been in motion
above a fortnight, when it fell with unanticipated violence, and crushed
the heart of my poor mother, while it terribly bruised that of me, Thomas;
for as I sat at breakfast with the dear old woman, one fine Sunday morning,
admiring my new blue jacket and snow white trowsers, and shining well
soaped face, and nicely brushed hair, in the pier glass over the chimney
piece, I therein saw the door behind me open, and Nicodemus, the waiting
man, enter and deliver a letter to the old lady, with a formidable looking
seal.

I perceived that she first ogled the superscription, and then the seal,
very ominously, and twice made as if she would have broken the missive
open, but her heart seemed as often to fail her.  The old Redhead found
the lost fledgling about the time that I did and flew over to it with
what looked like a big grub. At the delectable sight, the youngster dropped
all its airs of independence, and with weak infantile cries turned and
opened wide its bill!

Two days later I found two birds that may have been father and son, on the
side of a gladpole, out in the big world together. The old bird's head
glowed crimson in the strong sunlight, and it was fortunate indeed that
only friends were by.

The striking tricolor makes the Redheads such good targets that
they are in especial danger from human enemies and need loyal,
valiant defenders wherever they live.

And what a privilege it is to have birds of such interesting habits and
beautiful plumage in your neighborhood!
How the long country roads are enlivened, how the green fields are lit
up, as one of the brilliant birds rises from a fence-post and flies
over them!

In the city, it is rare good luck, indeed, to have a pair nest in
an oak where you can watch them and even a passing glimpse or an
occasional visit is something to be thankful for.

"There's the
Redhead!" you exclaim exultantly, when a loud tattoo beats on your city
roof in spring. And "There's the Redhead!" you cry with delight, as a
soft kikarik comes from a leafless oak you are passing in winter;
and the city street, so dull and uninteresting before, is suddenly illumined
by the sight.

--_Reprinted from Bird-lore._

FOUR LEAF CLOVERS.

I know a place where the sun is like gold, And the cherry blooms
burst with snow, And down underneath is the loveliest nook, Where
the four-leaf clovers grow.

One leaf is for hope, and one is for faith, And one is for love, you know,
But God put another in for luck-- If you search, you will find where they
grow.

But you must have hope, and you must have faith, You must love and be
strong, and so If you work, if you wait, you will find the place
Where the four-leaf clovers grow.

--_Ella Higginson._

THE FLOWER FOLK."Jane tells me your mamma is in a sad taking,
Master Tom.  You ben't going to leave us, all on a heap like, be you?
Surely your stay until your sister comes from your uncle Job's?  You know
there are only two on ye--You won't leave the old lady all alone, Master
Thomas, win ye?' The worthy old fellow's voice quavered here, and the
tears hopped over his old cheeks through the flour and tallow like peas,
as he slowly drew a line down the forehead of his well--powdered pate,
with his fore--finger.

"No--no--why, yes," exclaimed I, fairly overcome; "that is--oh Nic, Nic
you old fool, I wish I could cry, man--I wish I could cry!" and
straightway I hied me to my chamber, and wept until I thought my very
heart would have burst.

In my innocence and ignorance, child as I was, I had looked forward to
several months preparation; to buying and fitting of uniforms, and dirks,
and cocked hat, and swaggering therein, to my own great glory, and the
envy of all my young relations; and especially I desired to parade my
fire--new honours before the large dark eyes of my darling little creole
cousin, Mary Palma; whereas I was now to be bundled on board, at a few
days warning, out of a ready--made furnishing shop, with lots of illmade,
glossy, hard mangled duck trowsers, the creases as sharp as the backs of
knives, and--"oh, it never rains, but it pours," exclaimed I; "surely all
this promptitude is a little de plus in Sir Barnaby."

[Illustration: WAYNE TOWNSHIP CENTRALIZED SCHOOL LOCATED AT LEES CREEK,
CLINTON COUNTY, OHIO.]
On its edge was a promising old stub with a number of big, round
holes and, picking up a stick, I rapped on the trunk. Both birds were
over my head in an instant, rattling and scolding till you would have
thought I had come to chop down the tree and carry off the young before
their eyes. I felt injured, but having found the nest could afford to
watch from a distance.

It was not long before the old birds began feeding their young. They would
fly to the stub and stand under the nest while rousing the brood by
rattling into the hole, which had the odd effect of muffling their voices.
When, as they flew back and forth a Yellow-hammer stopped in passing,
they drove him off in a hurry. They wanted that grove to themselves.

On my next visits, if, in spite of many precautions, they discovered
me, they flew to dead tree tops to watch me, or startled me by an angry
quarr´ quarr´ quarr´ over my head. When they found that I made no attempt
to go near the nest, however, they finally put up with me and went
about their business.

After being at the nest together they would often fly off in opposite
directions, to hunt on different beats.

If one hunted in the grove, the other would go out to the rail fence.

A high maple was a favorite lookout and hunting-ground for the one
who stayed in the grove, and cracks in the bark afforded good
places to wedge insects into. The bird who hunted on the fence, if
suspecting a grub in a rail, would stand motionless as a Robin on
the grass, apparently listening; but when the right moment came
would drill down rapidly and spear the grub.

If an insect passed that way the Redhead would make a sally into
the air for it, sometimes shooting straight up for fifteen or twenty feet
and coming down almost as straight; at others flying out and back
in an ellipse, horizontally or obliquely up in the air or down over
the ground.

But oftener than all, perhaps, it flew down onto the ground to pick
up something which its sharp eyes had discovered there.

Once it brought up some insect, hit it against the rail, gave a business-like
hop and flew off to feed its young.

The very second evening we were at sea, it came on
to blow, and the night fell very dark, with heavy rain.  Towards eight
bells in the middle watch, I was standing on a gun well forward on the
starboard side, listening to the groaning of the main--tack, as the
swelling sail, the foot of which stretched transversely right athwart the
ship's deck in a black arch, struggled to tear it up, like some dark
impalpable spirit of the air striving to burst the chains that held him,
and escape high up into the murky clouds, or a giant labouring to uproot
an oak, and wondering in my innocence how hempen cord could brook such
strain when just as the long waited--for strokes of the bell sounded
gladly in mine ear, and the shrill clear note of the whistle of the
boatswain's mate had been followed by his gruff voice, grumbling hoarsely
through the gale, "Larboard watch, ahoy!" The look--out at the weather
gangway, who had been relieved, and beside whom I had been standing a
moment before, stepped past me, and scrambled up on the booms  "Hillo,
Howard, where away, my man?" said I.

"Only to fetch my"--

Crack!--the main tack parted, and up flew the sail with a thundering flap,
loud as the report of a cannon--shot, through which, however, I could
distinctly hear a heavy smash, as the large and ponderous blocks at the
clew of the sail struck the doomed sailor under the ear, and whirled him
off the booms over the fore--yard--arm into the sea, where he perished, as
heaving--to was impossible, and useless if practicable, as his head must
have been smashed to atoms.

This is one of the stray plums of the trifle, what follows is a whisk of
the froth, written when we looked into Corunna, about a week after the
embarkation of the army:--

MONODY ON THE DEATH OF SIR JOHN MOORE.

Farewell, thou pillar of the war,
Warm--hearted soldier, Moore, farewell,
In honour's firmament a star,
As bright as ere in glory fell.

When the tide was full, this was
clear and still, like a pool on a
land river; only there was a
difference in the weeds and fishes, and the water itself was green
instead of brown; but when the tide went out, in the bottom of the
ebb, there was a day or two in every month when you could pass
dryshod from Aros to the mainland.

There was some good pasture, where my
uncle fed the sheep he lived on;
perhaps the feed was better because the
ground rose higher on the islet than the main level of the Ross,
but this I am not skilled enough to settle.

The house was a good one for that
country, two storeys high. It
looked westward over a bay, with a
pier hard by for a boat, and from the door you could watch the
vapours blowing on Ben Kyaw.

On all this part of the coast, and
especially near Aros, these great
granite rocks that I have spoken of
go down together in troops into the sea, like cattle on a summer's
day.

There they stand, for all the world like
their neighbours ashore; only
the salt water sobbing between
them instead of the quiet earth, and clots of sea-pink blooming
on their sides instead of heather; and the great sea conger to
wreathe about the base of them instead of the poisonous viper of
the land.

On calm days you can go wandering
between them in a boat for
hours, echoes following you about
the labyrinth; but when the sea is up, Heaven help the man that
hears that cauldron boiling.

Off the south-west end of Aros these
blocks are very many, and much
greater in size. Indeed, they must
grow monstrously bigger out to sea, for there must be ten sea miles
of open water sown with them as thick as a country place with houses,
some standing thirty feet above the tides, some covered, but all
perilous to ships; so that on a clear, westerly blowing day, I have
counted, from the top of Aros, the great rollers breaking white and
heavy over as many as six-and-forty buried reefs.

But it is nearer in shore that the danger is worst; for the tide, here
running like a mill race, makes a long belt of broken water--a
_Roost_ we call it--at the tail of the land.

I have often been out there in a dead calm at the slack of the tide; and a
strange place it is, with the sea swirling and combing up and boiling
like the cauldrons of a linn, and now and again a little dancing mutter
of sound as though the _Roost_ were talking to itself.

With regard to
these same fishermen, I cannot convey a better notion of them, than by
describing one of the two North Sea pilots whom we had on board.  This
pilot was a tall, raw--boned subject, about six feet or so, with a blue
face--I could not call it red--and a hawk's--bill nose of the colour of
bronze.  His head was defended from the weather by what is technically
called a south--west, pronounced sow--west,--cap, which is in shape like
the thatch of a dustman, composed of canvass, well tarred, with no snout,
but having a long flap hanging down the back to carry the rain over the
cape of the jacket.  His chin was embedded in a red comforter that rose to
his ears.  His trunk was first of all cased in a shirt of worsted
stocking--net; over this he had a coarse linen shirt, then a thick cloth
waistcoat; a shag jacket was the next layer, and over that was rigged the
large cumbrous pea jacket, reaching to his knees.  As for his lower spars,
the rig was still more peculiar;--first of all, he had on a pair of most
comfortable woollen stockings, what we call fleecy hosiery--and the
beauties are peculiarly nice in this respect--then a pair of strong
fearnaught trowsers; over these again are drawn up another pair of
stockings, thick, coarse, rig--and--furrowed as we call them in Scotland,
and above all this were drawn a pair of long, well--greased, and liquored
boots, reaching half--way up the thigh, and altogether impervious to wet.
However comfortable this costume may be in bad weather in board, it is
clear enough that any culprit so swathed, would stand a poor chance of
being saved, were he to fall overboard.  But the wetness of it made it
often appear more beautiful to my eyes; for when the sun struck upon
the hill sides, there were many wet rocks and watercourses that shone
like jewels even as far as Aros, fifteen miles away.
The road that I followed was a cattle-track.We then bore away for Cuxhaven, and I now knew for the first time
that we had a government emissary of some kind or another on board,
although he had hitherto confined himself strictly to the captain's
cabin.

