GENERAL. There, you see, you wrote that there are such and such texts in
the Gospels. Well, the Priest knows all about that. Have a talk with the
Priest, and then think things over. That will be best. Good-bye, and I
hope "au revoir," when I shall be able to congratulate you on having
entered the Tsar's service. Send the Priest here. [Exit, followed by
Colonel and Adjutant].

BORÍS [To Clerk and Convoy Soldiers] There you see how they deceive you.
They know that they are deceiving you. Don't submit to them. Lay down
your rifles and go away. Let them put you into the Disciplinary
Battalions and flog you; it will not be as bad as it is to serve such
impostors.

CLERK. But how could one get on without an army? It's impossible.

BORÍS. That is not for us to consider. We have to consider what God
demands of us; and God wants us.

ONE OF THE SOLDIERS. But how is it that they speak of "the Christian
army"?

BORÍS. That is not said anywhere in the Bible. It's these impostors who
invented it.

    Enter a Gendarme Officer with Clerk.

GENDARME OFFICER. Is it here that the conscript, Prince Cheremshánov, is
being kept?

CLERK. Yes, sir. Here he is.

GENDARME OFFICER. Come here, please. Are you Prince Borís Siménovich
Cheremshánov, who refuses to take the oath?

BORÍS. I am.

GENDARME OFFICER [sits down and points to a seat opposite] Please sit
down.

BORÍS. I think our conversation will be quite useless.

GENDARME OFFICER. I don't think so. At any rate not useless to you. You
see it's like this. I am informed that you refuse military service and
the oath, and are therefore suspected of belonging to the Revolutionary
Party, and that is what I have to investigate. If it is true, we shall
have to withdraw you from the service and imprison you or banish you
according to the share you have taken in the revolution. If it is not
true, we shall leave you to the military authorities. You see I express
myself quite frankly to you, and I hope you will treat us in the same
way.

BORÍS. In the first place I cannot trust men who wear this sort of thing
[pointing to the Gendarme Officer's uniform]. Secondly, your very
occupation is one I cannot respect, and for which I have the greatest
aversion. But I do not refuse to answer your questions. What do you wish
to know?

GENDARME OFFICER. In the first place, tell me your name, your calling,
and your religion?

BORÍS. You know all that and I will not reply. Only one of the questions
is of great importance to me. I am _not_ what is called an Orthodox
Christian.

GENDARME OFFICER. What then is your religion?

BORÍS. I do not label it.

GENDARME OFFICER. But still?...

BORÍS. Well then, the Christian religion, according to the Sermon on the
Mount.

GENDARME OFFICER. Write it down [Clerk writes. To Borís] Still you
recognise yourself as belonging to some nationality or rank.

BORÍS. No, I don't. I recognise myself as a man, and a servant of God.

GENDARME OFFICER. Why don't you consider yourself a member of the
Russian Empire?

BORÍS. Because I do not recognise any empires.

GENDARME OFFICER. What do you mean by not recognising? Do you wish to
overthrow them?

BORÍS. Certainly I wish it, and work for it.

GENDARME OFFICER [To Clerk] Put that down. [To Borís] How do you work
for it?

BORÍS. By exposing fraud and lies, and by spreading the truth. When you
entered I was telling these soldiers not to believe in the fraud into
which they have been drawn.

GENDARME OFFICER. But beside this method of exposing and persuading, do
you approve of any others?

BORÍS. No, I not only disapprove, but I consider all violence to be a
great sin; and not only violence, but all concealment and craftiness ...

GENDARME OFFICER. Write that down. Very well. Now kindly let me know
whom you are acquainted with. Do you know Ivashénko?

BORÍS. No.

GENDARME OFFICER. Klein?

BORÍS. I have heard of him, but never met him.

    Enter Priest (an old man wearing a cross and carrying a Bible). The
    Clerk goes up to him and receives his blessing.

GENDARME OFFICER. Well, I think I may stop. I consider that you are not
dangerous, and not within our jurisdiction. I wish you a speedy release.
Good-day. [Presses Borís's hand].

BORÍS. One thing I should like to say to you. Forgive me, but I can't
help saying it. Why have you chosen this wicked, cruel profession? I
should advise you to give it up.

GENDARME OFFICER [smiles] Thank you for your advice, but I have my
reasons. My respects to you. [To Priest] Father, I relinquish my place
to you [Exit with Clerk].

PRIEST. How can you so grieve the authorities by refusing to fulfil the
duty of a Christian, to serve the Tsar and your Fatherland?

BORÍS [smiling] Just because I want to fulfil my duty as a Christian, I
do not wish to be a soldier.

PRIEST. Why don't you wish it? It is said that, "To lay down one's life
for a friend" is to be a true Christian....

BORÍS. Yes, to "lay down one's life," but not to take another man's.
That is just what I want to do, to "lay down my life."

PRIEST. You do not reason rightly, young man. John the Baptist said to
the soldiers ...

BORÍS [smiling] That only goes to prove that even in those days the
soldiers used to rob, and he told them not to!

PRIEST. Well, but why don't you wish to take your oath?

BORÍS. You know that the Gospels forbid it!

PRIEST. Not at all. You know that when Pilate said: "I adjure thee by
the living God, art thou the Christ?" the Lord Jesus Christ answered "I
am." That proves that oaths are not forbidden.

BORÍS. Are not you ashamed to talk so? You--an old man.

PRIEST. Take my advice and don't be obstinate. You and I cannot change
the world. Just take your oath and you'll be at ease. Leave it to the
Church to know what is a sin and what is not.

BORÍS. Leave it to you? Are you not afraid to take so much sin upon
yourself?

PRIEST. What sin? Having been brought up firmly in the faith, and
having worked as a priest for thirty years, I can have no sins on my
shoulders.

BORÍS. Whose then is the sin, when you deceive such numbers of people?
What have these poor fellows got in their heads? [Points to Sentinel].

PRIEST. You and I, young man, will never settle that. It is for us to
obey those placed above us.

BORÍS. Leave me alone! I am sorry for you and--I confess--it disgusts me
to listen to you. Now if you were like that General--but you come here
with a cross and the Testament to persuade me in the name of Christ, to
deny Christ! Go [excitedly]. Leave me--Go. Let me be taken back to the
cell that I may not see anyone. I am tired, dreadfully tired!

PRIEST. Well, if that is so, good-bye.

    Enter Adjutant.

ADJUTANT. Well?

PRIEST. Great obstinacy, great insubordination.

ADJUTANT. So he has refused to take the oath and to serve?

PRIEST. On no account will he.

ADJUTANT. Then he must be taken to the hospital.

PRIEST. And reported as ill? That no doubt would be better, or his
example may lead others astray.

ADJUTANT. To be put under observation in the ward for the mentally
diseased. Those are my orders.

PRIEST. Certainly. My respects to you. [Exit].

ADJUTANT [approaches Borís] Come, please. My orders are to conduct
you----

BORÍS. Where to?

ADJUTANT. First of all to the hospital, where it will be quieter for
you, and where you will have time to think things over.

BORÍS. I've thought them over long ago. But let us go! [Exeunt].


                                Curtain.


SCENE 3

    Room in Hospital. Head Doctor, Assistant Doctor, an Officer-Patient
    in a dressing-gown, and two Warders wearing blouses.

PATIENT. I tell you that you are only leading me to perdition. I have
already several times felt quite well.

HEAD DOCTOR. You must not get excited. I should be glad to sign an order
for you to leave the hospital, but you know yourself that liberty is
dangerous for you. If I were sure that you would be looked after ...

PATIENT. You think I should take to drink again? No, I have had my
lesson, but every extra day I spend here only does me harm. You are
doing [gets excited] the opposite of what you ought to do. You are
cruel. It's all very well for _you_!

HEAD DOCTOR. Don't get excited. [Makes a sign to Warders; who come up
from behind].

PATIENT. It's easy for you to argue, being at liberty; but how about us
who are kept among madmen! [To Warders] What are you after? Be off!

HEAD DOCTOR. I beg of you to be calm.

PATIENT. But I beg and I demand that you set me free. [Yells, and rushes
at the Doctor, but the Warders seize him. A struggle; after which he is
taken out].

ASSISTANT DOCTOR. There! Now it has begun again. He nearly got at you
that time.

HEAD DOCTOR. Alcoholic ... nothing can be done. But there is some
improvement.

    Enter Adjutant.

ADJUTANT. How d'you do.

HEAD DOCTOR. Good morning!

ADJUTANT. I have brought you an interesting fellow, a certain Prince
Cheremshánov, who has been conscripted, but on religious grounds refuses
to serve. He was sent to the Gendarmes, but they say he does not come
within their jurisdiction, not being a political conspirator. The Priest
exhorted him, but also without effect.

HEAD DOCTOR [laughing] And then as usual you bring him to us, as the
highest Court of Appeal. Well, let's have him.

    Exit Assistant Doctor.

ADJUTANT. He is said to be a highly educated young man, and he is
engaged to a rich girl. It's extraordinary! I really consider this is
the right place for him!

HEAD DOCTOR. Yes, it's a mania.

    Borís is brought in.

HEAD DOCTOR. Glad to see you. Please take a seat and let's have a chat.
[To Adjutant] Please leave us. [Exit Adjutant].

BORÍS. I should like to ask you, if possible, if you mean to lock me up
somewhere, to be so good as to do it quickly and let me rest.

HEAD DOCTOR. Excuse me, we must keep the rules. Only a few questions.
What do you feel? What are you suffering from?

BORÍS. Nothing. I am perfectly well.

HEAD DOCTOR. Yes, but you are not behaving like other people.

BORÍS. I am behaving as my conscience demands.

HEAD DOCTOR. Well, you see you have refused to perform your military
service. On what grounds do you do so?

BORÍS. I am a Christian, and therefore cannot commit murder.

HEAD DOCTOR. But one must defend one's country from her foes, and keep
those who want to destroy the social order from evil-doing.

BORÍS. No one is attacking our country; and there are more among the
governors who destroy social order, than there are among those whom they
oppress.

HEAD DOCTOR. Yes? But what do you mean by that?

BORÍS. I mean this: the chief cause of evil--vódka--is sold by the
Government; false and fraudulent religion is also fostered by the
Government; and this military service which they demand of me--and which
is the chief means of demoralising the people--is also demanded by the
Government.

HEAD DOCTOR. Then, in your opinion, Government and the State are
unnecessary.

BORÍS. That I don't know; but I know for certain that I must take no
part in evil-doing.

HEAD DOCTOR. But what is to become of the world? Is not our reason given
in order to enable us to look ahead.

BORÍS. It is also given in order to enable us to see that social order
should not be maintained by violence, but by goodness; and that one
man's refusal to participate in evil cannot be at all dangerous.

HEAD DOCTOR. Well now, allow me to examine you a bit. Will you have the
goodness to lie down? [Begins touching him] You feel no pain here?

BORÍS. No.

HEAD DOCTOR. Nor here?

BORÍS. No.

HEAD DOCTOR. Take a deep breath, please. Now don't breathe. Now allow me
[takes out a measure and measures forehead and nose]. Now be so good as
to shut your eyes and walk.

BORÍS. Are you not ashamed to do all this?

HEAD DOCTOR. What do you mean?

BORÍS. All this nonsense? You know that I am quite well and that I am
sent here because I refuse to take part in their evil deeds, and because
they have no answer to give to the truth I told them; and that is why
they pretend to think me mad. And you co-operate with them. It is
horrid and it is shameful. Don't do it!

HEAD DOCTOR. Then you don't wish to walk?

BORÍS. No, I don't. You may torture me, but you must do it yourself; I
won't help you. [Hotly] Let me alone! [The Doctor presses button of
bell. Enter two Warders].

HEAD DOCTOR. Don't get excited. I quite understand that your nerves are
strained. Will you please go to your ward?

    Enter Assistant Doctor.

ASSISTANT DOCTOR. Some visitors have just come to see Cheremshánov.

BORÍS. Who are they?

ASSISTANT DOCTOR. Sarýntsov and his daughter.

BORÍS. I should like to see them.

HEAD DOCTOR. There is no reason why you shouldn't. Ask them in. You may
see them here. [Exit, followed by Assistant and Warders].

    Enter Nicholas Ivánovich and Lyúba. The Princess looks in at the
    door and says, "_Go in, I'll come later._"

LYÚBA [goes straight to Borís, takes his head in her hands and kisses
him] Poor Borís.

BORÍS. No, don't pity me. I feel so well, so joyful, so light. How d'you
do. [Kisses Nicholas Ivánovich].

NICHOLAS IVÁNOVICH. I have come to say chiefly one thing to you. First
of all, in such affairs it is worse to overdo it than not to do enough.
And in this matter you should do as is said in the Gospels, and not
think beforehand, "I shall say this, or do that": "When they deliver you
up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak: for it is not ye that
speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaketh in you." That is to
say, do not act because you have reasoned out beforehand that you should
do so and so, but act only when your whole being feels that you cannot
act otherwise.

BORÍS. I have done so. I did not think I should refuse to serve; but
when I saw all this fraud, those Mirrors of Justice, those Documents,
the Police and Officers smoking, I could not help saying what I did. I
was frightened, but only till I had begun, after that it was all so
simple and joyful.

    Lyúba sits down and cries.

NICHOLAS IVÁNOVICH. Above all, do nothing for the sake of being praised,
or to gain the approval of those whose opinion you value. For myself I
can say definitely, that if you take the oath at once, and enter the
service, I shall love and esteem you not less but more than before;
because not the things that take place in the external world are
valuable, but that which goes on within the soul.

BORÍS. Of course, for what happens within the soul must make a change in
the outside world.

NICHOLAS IVÁNOVICH. Well, I have said my say. Your mother is here. She
is terribly upset. If you can do what she asks, do it--that is what I
wished to say to you.

    From the corridor outside hysterical weeping is heard. A Lunatic
    rushes in, followed by Warders who drag him out again.

LYÚBA. How terrible! And you will be kept here? [Weeps].

BORÍS. I am not afraid of it, I'm afraid of nothing now! I feel so
happy, the only thing I fear is what you feel about it. Do help me; I am
sure you will!

LYÚBA. Can I be glad about it?

NICHOLAS IVÁNOVICH. Not glad, that is impossible. I myself am not glad.
I suffer on his account and would gladly take his place, but though I
suffer I yet know that it is well.

LYÚBA. It may be well; but when will they set him free?

BORÍS. No one knows. I do not think of the future. The present is so
good, and you can make it still better.

    Enter the Princess, his mother.

PRINCESS. I can wait no longer! [To Nicholas Ivánovich] Well, have you
persuaded him? Does he agree? Bórya, my darling, you understand, don't
you, what I suffer? For thirty years I have lived but for you; rearing
you, rejoicing in you. And now when everything has been done and is
complete--you suddenly renounce everything. Prison and disgrace! Oh no!
Bórya!

BORÍS. Mamma! Listen to me.

PRINCESS [to Nicholas Ivánovich] Why do you say nothing? You have ruined
him, it is for you to persuade him. It's all very well for you! Lyúba,
do speak to him!

LYÚBA. I cannot!

BORÍS. Mamma, do understand that there are things that are as impossible
as flying; and I cannot serve in the army.

PRINCESS. You think that you can't! Nonsense. Everybody has served and
does serve. You and Nicholas Ivánovich have invented some new sort of
Christianity which is not Christianity, but a devilish doctrine to make
everybody suffer!

BORÍS. As is said in the Gospels!

PRINCESS. Nothing of the kind, or if it is, then all the same it is
stupid. Darling, Bórya, have pity on me. [Throws herself on his neck,
weeps] My whole life has been nothing but sorrow. There was but one ray
of joy, and you are turning it into torture. Bórya--have pity on me!

BORÍS. Mamma, this is terribly hard on me. But I cannot explain it to
you.

PRINCESS. Come now, don't refuse--say you will serve!

NICHOLAS IVÁNOVICH. Say you will think it over--and do think it over.

BORÍS. Very well then. But you too, Mamma, should have pity on me. It is
hard on me too. [Cries are again heard from the corridor]. You know I'm
in a lunatic asylum, and might really go mad.

    Enter Head Doctor.

HEAD DOCTOR. Madam, this may have very bad consequences. Your son is in
a highly excited condition. I think we must put an end to this
interview. You may call on visiting days--Thursdays and Sundays. Please
come to see him before twelve o'clock.

PRINCESS. Very well, very well, I will go. Bórya, good-bye! Think it
over. Have pity on me and meet me next Thursday with good news!

NICHOLAS IVÁNOVICH [shaking hands with Borís] Think it over with God's
help, and as if you knew you were to die to-morrow. Only so will you
decide rightly. Good-bye.

BORÍS [approaching Lyúba] And what do you say to me?

LYÚBA. I cannot lie; and I do not understand why you should torment
yourself and everybody. I do not understand--and can say nothing. [Goes
out weeping. Exeunt all except Borís].

BORÍS [alone] Oh how hard it is! Oh, how hard, Lord help me! [Prays].

    Enter Warders with dressing-gown.

WARDER. Please change.

    Borís puts on dressing-gown.


                                Curtain.


ACT IV


SCENE 1

    In Moscow a year later. A drawing-room in the Sarýntsov's town house
    is prepared for a dance. Footmen are arranging plants round the
    grand piano. Enter Mary Ivánovna in an elegant silk dress, with
    Alexándra Ivánovna.

MARY IVÁNOVNA. A ball? No, Only a dance! A "Juvenile Party" as they once
used to say. My children took part in the Theatricals at the Mákofs, and
have been asked to dances everywhere, so I must return the invitations.

ALEXÁNDRA IVÁNOVNA. I am afraid Nicholas does not like it.

MARY IVÁNOVNA. I can't help it. [To Footmen] Put it here! [To Alexándra
Ivánovna] God knows how glad I should be not to cause him
unpleasantness. But I think he has become much less exacting.

ALEXÁNDRA IVÁNOVNA. No, no! Only he does not show it so much. I saw how
upset he was when he went off to his own room after dinner.

MARY IVÁNOVNA. What can I do? After all, people must live. We have seven
children, and if they find no amusement at home, heaven knows what they
may be up to. Anyhow I am quite happy about Lyúba now.

ALEXÁNDRA IVÁNOVNA. Has he proposed, then?

MARY IVÁNOVNA. As good as proposed. He has spoken to her, and she has
said, Yes!

ALEXÁNDRA IVÁNOVNA. That again will be a terrible blow to Nicholas.

