I was then taken sick and for two long weeks kept my bed of earth
under the mess wagon, with no mother or doctor, and two thousand miles
from home. You may be able to imagine my feelings, but I doubt it. At
the end of the second week Mr. Perry came and told me they would make
a start the next afternoon and, in his judgment, he thought it unwise
to think of making the trip in my present condition. I knew my
condition was serious, but I would rather have died on the road, among
those outlaws, than to have been left in Atchison among entire
strangers. They were all very kind and did what they could for me, but
were powerless to check my fast failing strength. I had wasted to less
than one hundred pounds in weight and was too weak to even lift an
arm.

The sideway vibration did not amount to more than 1/32 in. on
either side of the normal position. More vibration was caused by
heavy trucks and wagons going over the stone pavement than
by the elevated railway trains or surface cars.
"As you will," he said, and had the boys get some
straw which together with the Buffalo robe made a very comfortable bed
when not on the move.


A THUNDER STORM

The next day they picked me up and put me in the second or reserve
mess wagon. Shortly after that the start was made. The average number
of feet of drilling per cubic yard of excavation was about 2.4.

The average excavation per pound of dynamite was 2.2 cu. yd.

The average amount of excavation per derrick shift of ten hours,
87% of the excavation being rock, was 50 cu. yd.Never in my young life had I witnessed such a storm. It
seemed as if thunder, lightning and clouds had descended to earth and
were mad with anger. The racket was deafening. Between the angered
claps could be heard the cursing of those Missouri bushwhackers, who,
in their oaths, defied the Almighty to do his worst and hurled
unspeakable insults at the memory of the mothers who gave them birth.
I knew they were trying hard to make corral; whether they could do it,
rested entirely with the wagon boss.

The cattle were crazed with fright and the moment they were loose,
would certainly stampede. The oxen were finally unyoked and such a
snorting and bellowing, it would be impossible to describe. As the
racket died away in their mad race, my thoughts turned to my chum, who
I knew was with them, and would be trampled beyond recognition by
their death-dealing hoofs, if he had not gained his proper position in
the rear.

[Illustration: LOG CABIN IN KANSAS]


THE LOG CABIN

At that juncture the front flaps of my wagon were parted and at a
flash I recognized two of the men, who bore me across the way to the
"Old Log Cabin" on the extreme edge of the then Western civilization.
As they laid me down I swooned from sheer exhaustion and fright.
Before I had become fully conscious I heard that gruff old wagon boss
telling the good woman of the cabin to spare nothing for my comfort.
She felt of my pulse, asked me a few questions and assured him that
she would soon have me on my feet. He bade "God bless me," and passed
out into the dark and stormy night. The good woman poked up the fire
and placed an old-fashioned, iron tea-kettle in position to do its
duty. At that juncture a young miss about my own age came from
somewhere, as if by magic, and was told by the good mother to prepare
a chicken, that she might make broth for the sick young man, pointing
to where I lay. For two hours that good mother worked over me, now and
then giving me draughts of hot herb tea, while the daughter deftly
prepared nature's wild bird of the prairie, occasionally shooting
darts of sympathy from her jet black eyes. When the bird had been
cooked, the meat and bones were removed leaving only the broth which
was seasoned to a nicety and given me in small quantities and at short
intervals until early morning, when I passed into dreamland with the
mother keeping vigil as though I were her own son. When I awoke I felt
refreshed and comfortable, and found her still at my side, doing for
me that which only a mother can.

At daybreak I heard footsteps above; presently the father and son came
in. The daughter was called and breakfast was prepared. They told me
that our cattle had stampeded and it might be days before they were
found. After a three days search my chum and the cattle were overtaken
miles from camp, but none the worse for their fearful experience. The
moment he arrived he came to see me. I was sitting up for the first
time, wrapped in Indian blankets, but very weak. I assured him that I
would certainly get well, emphasizing the fact, however, that had we
not run into that fearful storm, making my present haven of care
possible, I could never have recovered, and believed that the prayers
of a loving mother at home had been answered.


A CATTLE STAMPEDE

He then related his experience with those storm-maddened cattle. The
first clap of thunder awoke him, and when the rain began he knew he
was in for a bad night, and had taken every precaution to supply
himself with all things needful. His description of the storm and mad
race to keep up with those wild animals, crazed with fright, was
enough to congeal the blood of a well man, and in my condition it
nearly unnerved me. But I was delighted to know that he was safe, for
we were like brothers. His safe arrival, together with the motherly
care I had received and was receiving, put me rapidly on the gain. Not
a morning passed that the daughter did not shoulder her trusty rifle
and go out in search of some refreshment for me, always returning with
a number of chickens of the prairie. She was a sure shot, as were the
entire family, for they were all born and brought up on the border,
moving farther West as the country became settled. From the father I
learned the treachery of the Indians, their mode of warfare and
different methods of attack; in fact, I had the devilish traits of the
noble red men--as history called them--down to a nicety.

When the daughter's day's work was done, she would read to me and
relate stories of her life, which reminded me of the "Wild Rose" in
all its purity and strength.

A portion of the old trestle was left in place near Tenth Avenue, a
derrick was erected thereon, and the tracks were used for cars to
receive the excavated material hoisted from sub-grade. The disposal
trestle was maintained in this position until such time as it would
interfere with the excavation, and then the tracks were abandoned.

This was done on November 11th, 1908.

Fig. 3, Plate L, shows the finishing of the excavation on the north
side of the work. On August 30th, 1908, a cut was made under Ninth
Avenue at sub-grade, and cars could then be run from Seventh to Tenth
Avenue at sub-grade. On October 24th, 1908, the connection with the
disposal trestle east of Ninth Avenue was abandoned, and all
excavated material was hoisted from sub-grade at Tenth Avenue by
derricks.

As previously stated, the contractor was required to make complete
disposal of all excavated material after January 1st, 1909, but was
allowed the use of the pier until January 20th, 1909, after which date
the materials were hoisted by derricks at Tenth Avenue, loaded on
2-horse trucks, and transported to the 30th Street pier, North
River, where it was loaded on scows by two electric derricks.

A considerable amount of the rock excavation was broken up and used
for back-fill.

_Earth Excavation.

_--Practically all the earth excavation, amounting to about 57,000 cu,
yd., was done with steam shovels. The average quantity of earth
excavated by a steam shovel per 10-hour shift was 180 cu. yd. This
material was loaded on side-dump cars and taken to the disposal
pier where it was dumped through chutes to the decks of scows.

Inasmuch as the quantity of earth excavation was small, as compared
with the rock, the earth was used principally for the first layer
on the scows for padding, so that small stones might be dumped
through the chutes without injuring the decks.

_Rock Excavation._--As previously stated, the rock broke better on
the south than on the north side, where there were several slides, and
considerable excavation had to be taken out beyond the neat line
required in the specifications.

The worst slide occurred at midnight on July 3d, 1909, at about Station
188 + 50. The last blast, to complete the excavation to sub-grade at
this point, had been fired in the afternoon of the same day, and the
mucking was practically completed. Great care had been taken
in excavating near this point, as it was evident that the rock was
not of a very stable character, but, when the excavation had been
completed, it was thought that the rock remaining in place would
stand.

The volume of material brought down by this slide amounted to about 200
cu. yd. The rock on the south side broke very well, and there were
no slides of any consequence.

When within a quarter of a mile of it, she
informed me she was going no farther. Both quickly dismounted. Our
conversation would not interest you. Suffice to say, the parting was
painful to both. I bade her good-bye and she was off like a flash. I
walked slowly into camp, now and then turning to watch the fast
retreating figure of as brave a prairie child as nature ever produced.
The men appeared glad to see me; the gruff old wagon boss more so than
any of the others, for he would not let me turn my hand to any kind of
work until I was able. Then I did my best to repay him for his many
kindnesses.

At 2 o'clock that afternoon the train broke corral, and for the first
time I realized the slowness of our progress, and the long trip before
us. Under the most favorable circumstances we could not make over ten
miles a day and more often at the beginning three, five and seven.

Our bed was mother earth, a rubber blanket and buffalo robe the
mattress, two pairs of blankets the covering, Heaven's canopy the
roof; the stars our silent sentinels. The days were warm, the nights
cool. We would go into camp at sundown. The cattle were unyoked and
driven to water. After grub the night herder and one of the drivers
would take them in charge, and if there were no Indians following,
would drive them to a good grazing spot over the bluffs.

We passed through Kansas, after crossing the Little and Big Blue
rivers, and part of Nebraska without seeing another log cabin or
woods. Every fifteen or twenty miles there was a stage station of the
Ben Holiday coach line, which ran between Atchison, Kansas, and
Sacramento, California. At every station would be a relay of six
horses, and by driving night and day would make one hundred miles
every twenty-four hours. They were accompanied by a guard of United
States soldiers on top of coaches and on horseback.

[Illustration: FORT CARNEY, NEBRASKA, 1859]


CHAPTER II

ARRIVAL AT FORT CARNEY


[Illustration: A] Arriving at Fort Carney we struck the Platte River
trail leading to Denver. We were compelled by United States army
officers to halt and await the arrival of a train of fifty armed men
before being allowed to proceed. In a few hours the required number
came up, together with three wagon loads of pilgrims. No train was
permitted to pass a Government fort without one hundred well-armed
men; but once beyond the fort, they would become separated and therein
lay the danger.

A captain was appointed by the commander of the fort to take charge.
Here we struck the plains proper, or the great American desert, as it
was often called, the home of the desperate Indians, degraded
half-breeds, and the squaw man--white men with Indian wives--who were
at that time either French or Spanish; also the fearless hunters and
trappers with nerves of steel, outdoing the bravest Indian in daring
and the toughest grizzly in endurance. It is a matter of record that
these men of iron were capable and some did amputate their own limbs.
A knife sharpened as keen as a razor's edge would cut the flesh;
another hacked into a saw would separate the bones and sensitive
marrow; while an iron heated to white heat seared up the arteries and
the trick was done. There was no anesthetic in those days.

There were also the cattle and mule thieves who lived in the bluffs,
miles from the trail of white men, a tough lot of desperadoes,
believing in the adage "Dead men tell no tales."

There were the ranchmen at intervals of twenty, fifty and a hundred
miles, who sold to the pilgrims supplies, such as canned goods,
playing cards, whiskey of the vilest type, and traded worn-out cattle,
doctored to look well for a few days and then give out, thus cheating
freighters and pilgrims alike.

These adobe ranches were built of sod cut in lengths of from two to
four feet, four inches in thickness and eighteen inches in width and
laid grass side down. The side walls were laid either single or
double, six feet in height, with the end walls tapering upward. A long
pole was then placed from peak to peak and shorter poles from side
walls to ridge pole. Four inches of grass covered the poles and the
same depth of earth completed the structure making the best
fortifications ever devised; no bullet was able to penetrate their
sides nor could fire burn them. The poles used for building these
adobe ranches were in most cases hauled two hundred miles and in some
cases three hundred miles.


As much excavation, to a depth of about 20 ft., was taken out
adjoining the elevated railway foundations as could be done with
safety.

Fig. 2, Plate XLVII, shows this condition of the work. The 48-in.
brick sewer was broken, and the sewage was pumped across the
excavation.Coyotes about the size of a shepherd dog would
assemble on the high bluffs or invade the camp and make night hideous
by their continuous and almost perfect imitation of a human baby's
cry, making sleep impossible. The prairie dog, the fierce rattlesnake,
and the beautiful little white burrowing-owl, occupied the same hole
in the ground, making a queer family combination. Contrary to the
belief of all dwellers and travelers of the plains in that day,
Colonel Roosevelt claims it is not a fact that the three mentioned
animals occupied the same quarters together, and that the story is a
myth.

The little prairie dogs had their villages the same as the Indians. I
have frequently seen a prairie dog come out and return into the same
hole in the ground. I have also seen a beautiful little white owl
silently perched at the side of the same hole and finally enter it,
and a few moments later a fierce rattlesnake would crawl into the same
hole. Whether it was the snake's permanent abode and it went in for a
much needed rest, or whether it was an enemy to the others and the
snake went in for a game supper of prairie dog puppies and owl squabs,
departing by another route, I am unable to say, as I never took the
trouble to investigate one of the holes to confirm the fact. If I had,
I would in all probability still be digging. These girders were located
so that a cradle could be laid on them east of the elevated railway
structure to carry a proposed 48-in. cast-iron water main.

_Girders "B."_--Eighteen of these girders were required, each weighing
about 6,000 lb.The Government, through its agents, have destroyed thousands
every year in the West by distributing poisoned grain. Last, but not
least, of the life of the plains was the Pole Cat. Conscious of his
own ability to protect himself, he would often invade the camps at
night, making the life of the sleeper miserable.