AFLOAT ON THE FLOOD

by

LAWRENCE J. LESLIE


[Frontispiece: They were being swept downstream at a tremendous pace]


M. "I will not equivocate;
I will not excuse;" I will use the severest language I can command,
and yet not one word shall escape me that any man, whose judgment
is not blinded by prejudice, or who is not at heart a slave-holder,
shall not confess to be right and just.

But I fancy I hear
some one of my audience say it is just in this circumstance that
you and your brother abolitionists fail to make a favorable impression
on the public mind.

Would you argue more and denounce less, would you persuade more and
rebuke less, your cause would be much more likely to succeed.

But, I submit, where all is plain there is nothing to be argued.

    What point in the anti-slavery creed
   would you have me argue?
  On what branch of the subject
   do the people of
    this country need light?
   Must I undertake to prove
  that the slave is a man?
 That point is conceded
   already. Nobody doubts it.
    The slave-holders
   themselves acknowledge it in the
  enactment of laws for
 their government.
  They acknowledge it
   when they punish disobedience
  on the part of the slave.

There are seventy-two crimes in the State of Virginia, which, if
committed by a black man (no matter how ignorant he be), subject
him to the punishment of death; while only two of these same crimes
will subject a white man to like punishment.

What is this but the acknowledgment that the slave is a moral,
intellectual, and responsible being?

The manhood of the slave is conceded.

It is admitted in the fact that Southern statute-books are covered
with enactments, forbidding, under severe fines and penalties, the
teaching of the slave to read or write.

When you can point to any such laws in reference to the beasts of
the field, then I may consent to argue the manhood of the slave.

When the dogs in your streets, when the fowls of the air, when the
cattle on your hills, when the fish of the sea, and the reptiles
that crawl, shall be unable to distinguish the slave from a brute,
then will I argue with you that the slave is a man!

For the present it is enough to affirm the equal manhood of the
Negro race.
Toby may have had an obstruction in his vocal cords, but he could run
like a streak; on the other hand, while Bandy-legs could not be said to
have an elegant walk, which some hateful fellows compared to the waddle
of a duck, there was nothing the matter with his command of language,
for he could rattle on like the machinery in one of Carson's mills.

"And," he went on to say, excitedly, "the last news I heard was that
school would have to stay closed all of next week, because the water is
on the campus now, and likely to get in the cellars before the river
goes down again.  Which means we'll have a week's vacation we didn't
count on."

Somehow even that important event, which at another time would have
caused the boys to throw their hats into the air with glee, did not
seem to create a ripple of applause among the three young chaps.
Carson was threatened with a terrible disaster, the greatest in all her
history, and even these boys could experience something of the
sensation of awe that had begun to pass through the whole community.

The Evergreen River that ran past the town was already bank-full; and
all manner of terrifying reports kept circulating among the
panic-stricken people of that section of the State, adding to their
alarm and uneasiness.  More rain meant accessions to the flood, already
augmented by the melting of vast quantities of snow up in the
mountains, owing to the sudden coming of Spring.  Besides this, some
people claimed to know that the great reservoir which supplied water to
many towns, was not as secure as it might be, and they spread reports
of cracks discovered that might suddenly bring about another Johnstown
disaster.

It was a strange spectacle that the three boy friends looked upon as
they stood on the street corner that Saturday morning.  Water had
already invaded many of the buildings in the lower section of the town,
and in every direction could be seen excited families moving their
household goods to higher levels.

Horses and wagons were at a premium that morning, and from the way
things looked just then it might not be long before every boat that was
owned within five miles would be needed to rescue people imprisoned in
their homes, or to carry valuable goods out of the reach of the
terrible flood.

The three young fellows whom we meet on this dark morning in the
history of the enterprising little town of Carson were chums who had
for many moons been accustomed to spending their vacations together in
the woods, or on the waters.  In all they were five close friends, but
Owen Hastings, a cousin of Max, and who had made his home with him, was
at present away in Europe with another uncle; and Steve Dowdy happened
to be somewhere else in town, perhaps helping his father remove his
stock of groceries from his big store, which being in the lower part of
town was apt to suffer from the rising waters.

In previous volumes of this series we have followed the fortunes of
these chums with considerable pleasure; and those who have been
fortunate enough to have read one or more of these stories will need no
further introduction to the trio.  Inflation was brought down to
single digit annual figures, but not fast enough to avoid substantial
real exchange rate appreciation during the transition phase of the
Real Plan.

This appreciation meant that Brazilian goods were now more expensive
relative to goods from other countries, which contributed to large
current account deficits.
However, no shortage of foreign currency ensued because of the
financial community's renewed interest in Brazilian markets as
inflation rates stabilized and the debt crisis of the eighties faded
from memory.

The maintenance of large current account deficits via capital account
surpluses became problematic as investors became more risk averse to
emerging market exposure as a consequence of the Asian financial
crisis in 1997 and the Russian bond default in August 1998.
After crafting a fiscal adjustment program and pledging progress
on structural reform, Brazil received a $41.5 billion IMF-led
international support program in November 1998.

In January 1999, the Brazilian Central Bank announced that the real
would no longer be pegged to the US dollar. This devaluation helped
moderate the downturn in economic growth in 1999 that investors had
expressed concerns about over the summer of 1998. Brazil's debt to
GDP ratio of 48% for 1999 beat the IMF target and helped reassure investors
that Brazil will maintain tight fiscal and monetary policy even
with a floating currency.

The economy is expected to push growth up to 3% in 2000.

"Does anybody know where Steve is?" asked Max, when they had been
observing the remarkable sights that were taking place all around them
for some little time, now laughing at some comical spectacle, and again
springing to help a little girl who was staggering under a heavy load,
or a woman who needed assistance, for all of them had generous hearts.

"He told me early this morning that his father had a dozen hands
employed carrying the stuff up out of the basement of the grocery store
and taking it to the second story," Bandy-legs replied.

"I wish I'd known that," remarked Max; "for I'd have offered to help,
because my house happens to be well up on the highest ground in town,
and nothing could hurt us, even if the reservoir did burst, which I
surely hope it won't."

They exchanged uneasy glances when Max mentioned the possibility of
that disaster coming upon the unhappy valley, which would suffer
seriously enough from the flood without that appalling happening coming
to pass.

"D-d-don't mention it, Max, p-p-please," said Toby, with a gloomy shake
of his head; "because while my f-f-folks might be out of d-d-danger
from a regular f-f-flood, if a monster wave of water came a
s-s-sweepin' along down here, it'd sure ketch us, and make our
p-p-place look like a howling wilderness."

"Same with me," added the third boy; "but I don't believe that
reservoir's goin' to play hob with things, like some people say.
They're shaking in their shoes right now about it; but if the new rain
that's aheadin' this way'd only get switched off the track I reckon
we'd manage to pull through here in Carson without a terrible loss.
I'd say go down and help Mr. Dowdy, Max, but I just heard a man tell
that everything in the cellar had been moved, and they were cleaning
out the lower floor so's not to take chances."

"But we might get around and see if we couldn't help somebody move,"
suggested Max; "it would be only play for us, but would mean a whole
lot to them."

"S-s-second the motion," assented Toby, quickly.  "And say, fellows, I
was just thinking about that poor widow, Mrs. Badger, and her t-t-three
children.  Her house is on low g-g-ground, ain't it; and the water must
be around the d-d-doorsill right now.  G-g-give the word, Max, and
let's s-s-scoot around there to see."

Max was the acknowledged leader of the chums, and as a rule the others
looked to him to take command whenever any move was contemplated.

"That was a bright thought of yours, Toby," he now said, as he shot a
look full of boyish affection toward his stuttering chum; "if you do
get balled up in your speech sometimes, there's nothing the matter with
your heart, which is as big as a bushel basket.  So come on, boys, and
we'll take a turn around that way to see what three pair of willing
hands can find to do for the widow and her flock."

They had to make a little circuit because the water was coming up
further in some of the town streets all the tune, with a rather swift
current that threatened to undermine the foundations of numerous flimsy
buildings, if the flood lasted long.

"Whew! just look out there at the river, would you?" exclaimed
Bandy-legs, when they came to a spot where an unobstructed view could
be obtained of the yellow flood that was whirling past the town at the
rate of many miles an hour, carrying all sorts of strange objects on
its bosom, from trees and logs, to hencoops and fence rails.

They stood for a minute or so to gaze with ever increasing interest at
the unusual spectacle.  Then as the three boys once more started to
make their tortuous way along, avoiding all manner of obstacles, Max
went on to say:

"Pretty hard to believe that's our old friend the Evergreen River,
generally so clear and pretty in the summer time, and with such good
fishing in places up near where the Big Sunflower and the Elder
branches join.  And to think how many times we've skated for twenty
miles up and down in winter; yet look there now, and you'd almost
believe it was the big Mississippi flowing past."

"And mebbe you noticed," observed Toby, warmly, "how f-f-funny the
b-b-bridge looks with the w-w-water so near the s-s-span.  Let me tell
you, if ever she does g-g-get up so's to wash the roadway, g-g-good-bye
to b-b-bridge.  I wouldn't want to be on it right then."

"Nor me, either," Max added; "but that bridge has weathered a whole lot
of floods, and let's hope it won't go out this time either; though we
do need a new one the worst kind.  But here's the widow's place, boys,
and seems like she does need help.  The water's creeping up close to
her door, and inside another hour it would be all over the floors of
her cottage.  There she is, looking out now, and with three kids
hanging to her dress.  Let's ask her where we could take her stuff near
by.  She hasn't got so much but that we might save most of it."

The poor woman looked white and frightened, and indeed there was reason
she should with that flood closing in on her little home and her
helpless family.  When the three chums proposed to carry the best of
her belongings to higher ground she thanked them many times.  It
happened that she had a friend whose home was not far away, and on a
good elevation; so anything that could be taken there she might have
stored in their barn, where doubtless the friend would allow her to
stay temporarily, until the river receded.

Accordingly the stout boys settled down to business, and were soon
staggering under heavy loads, just as many other people in Carson
chanced to be doing at that time.  It was slow and laborious work, and
Max knew that they would never be able to get some of the heavier
articles to a place of safety.  Although they did not represent any
great commercial value, still they were all in all to Mrs. Badger.

Just then an idea came into his head which he hastened to put into
execution.  An empty wagon was passing, and Max recognized it as
belonging to his father.  Mr. Hastings, realizing the need of all the
conveyances that could be obtained, had sent his man down town with the
conveyance, so as to be of assistance to those in distress.

Calling to the man Max soon had him backing up to the cottage, and the
heavier things, such as the cook stove, beds, wash tubs and other
household articles were soon loaded.  In this fashion the possessions
of the widow were saved from being water soaked, for before they had
taken the last thing out the river was lapping her doorstep greedily,
and steadily rising all the while.

Having dismissed the driver with his wagon, to go and make himself
useful elsewhere, Max and his two chums were walking slowly along,
wondering what next they might do, when a fourth boy was seen hurrying
toward them.

"There comes Steve," announced Bandy-legs, whose quick eyesight had
discovered the approach of the other chum, "and chances are he's
bringing some news, because he carries the map on his face.
'Touch-and-Go Steve' we call him, because he's ready to fly off his
base at the first crack of the gun; but he's sure got plenty now to
excite him.  Hello!  Steve, how's things getting on at the store?"

"Oh! my dad's got his stock out of reach of the water, all that could
be hurt by a soaking; and he thinks the brick building will stand if
the reservoir don't give way; but did you hear that the river is above
the danger line by two feet; higher than ever before known, and rising
like a race-horse all the time?  Gee whiz! what's the answer to this
question; where's this thing going to end?" and Steve looked at his
three chums as he put this question; but they only shook their heads in
reply, and stared dolefully out on the swiftly rushing river.


CHAPTER II

LENDING A HELPING HAND

"What we see here isn't all of the trouble by a lot," Max ventured, as
they stood and watched the remarkable sights all around them.

"I should say not," Steve quickly added; "already they've begun to get
reports of washouts down below, where houses have left their
foundations, and gone off on the current; while barns, chicken coops,
pig pens and fences are being swept away by dozens and scores.  It's
going to be the most terrible flood that ever visited this section.  I
only hope nobody gets drowned in it, that's all."

"I met Gus French a while back," Bandy-legs happened to remember,
though he had said nothing of the circumstance before, there being so
many exciting events taking place right along, "and he told me they
were a heap worried at their house."

"What for?" demanded Steve, who had a weakness for the pretty sister of
Gus, though of late there had existed a foolish coolness between them,
founded on some small happening that grew into a misunderstanding;
"their house stands higher than a whole lot in town, and I don't see
why they'd worry."

"Oh! it ain't that," the other boy hastened to say; "but p'raps you
didn't know that yesterday Mazie Dunkirk and Bessie French went to stay
over Sunday with an aunt of the French girl's about twenty miles down
the river; and they say that the old house is on pretty low ground, so
that if the river rises much more she might be carried off the
foundation!"

Steve gave a half groan, and Max too turned a little white, for the
Mazie whom Bandy-legs referred to was a very good friend of his, whom
he had always escorted to barn dances and singing school, and also
skated with winters.

"If I had a friend who owned a good motorboat now," said Steve, between
his set teeth, "I give you my word I'd like to borrow the same."

"W-w-what for?" demanded Toby, appalled at the thought of any one
venturing out on that swirling river in a puny powerboat.

"I'd take chances, and run down below to see if I could be of any help
to the folks there," Steve went on to say, gloomily; "but I don't know
anybody that I might borrow even a skiff from."

"Yes, and if you did, the chances are he'd think twice before loaning
you his boat," Max told him.  "In the first place he'd expect you to
snag the craft, and sink the same, because you do everything with such
a rush and whoop.  And then again, the way things look around here
every boat that's owned within five miles of town will be needed to
rescue people from second-story windows before to-morrow night."

"D-d-do you think it's g-g-going to be as b-b-bad as all that, Max?"

"I'm afraid so, Toby, if half of all that rain gets here, with the
river more than out of its banks now.  But, Steve, I wouldn't worry
about the girls if I were you.  Long before this Bessie's relatives
have taken the horses, and made for the higher ground of the hills.
Even if you did manage to get down there you'd find the house empty,
and have all your work for nothing."

Steve did not answer, but his face remained unusually serious for a
long time, since he was doubtless picturing all sorts of terrible
things happening to the girls who were visiting down the river.

As the morning advanced more and more discouraging reports kept
circulating through the stricken town.  The river was rising at a rate
that promised to cause its waves to lap the roadway of the bridge by
night-time; and everybody believed this structure was bound to go out
before another dawn.

It was about the middle of the morning when the four chums, in
wandering around bent on seeing everything that was going on during
such exciting times, came upon a scene that aroused their immediate
indignation.

Several rough half-grown young rowdies had pretended to offer to assist
a poor old crippled storekeeper remove his stock of candies and cakes
from the threatened invasion of the waters, already lapping his door
and creeping across the floor of his little shop.  Their intentions
however were of a far different character, for they had commenced to
pounce upon the dainties on his shelves, despite his weak if energetic
protests.

"What you shoutin' about, old codger?" demanded one of the three
bullies, as he crammed his pockets with whatever he fancied in the line
of candy; "the water's coming right in and grab all your stock, anyway;
so, what difference does it make if we just lick up a few bites?  Mebbe
we'll help get the rest of your stuff out of this, if so be we feels
like workin'.  So close your trap now, and let up on that yawp!"

Max and the others heard this sort of talk as they stopped outside the
door of the little candy shop in which, as small lads, they could
remember having spent many a spare penny.

It filled them with indignation, first because they thought a good deal
of the poor old crippled man who made a scant living selling small toys
and candies to the school children; and second on account of the fact
that they knew this set of rowdies of old, having had many disputes
with them in the past.

Their former leader, Ted Shatter, had been missed from his accustomed
haunts for some time now, and it was whispered that he had been sent to
a reform school by his father, who wielded considerable power in
political circles, but could not expect to keep his lawless boy from
arrest if he continued to defy the authorities as he had been doing.

Since then the "gang" had been led by a new recruit, named Ossie Kemp;
and the other two with him were the old offenders, who have appeared
before now in the stories of this series, Amiel Toots and Shack Beggs.

"Back me up, boys," said Max, hastily turning to his three chums, "and
we'll run that crowd out of there in a hurry, or know the reason why."

"We'll stand by you, Max," replied Bandy-legs, quickly.

"You b-b-bet we will," added Toby, aggressively doubling up his fists.

"To the limit!" echoed Steve, stooping down to secure a stout stick his
roving eye chanced to alight upon, and which appealed to his fighting
instincts as just the thing for an emergency like this.

Max immediately pushed straight into the little store, and, as he
expected would be the case, his eyes fell first upon the raiding
bullies, and then the slight figure of the distressed crippled
storekeeper, wringing his hands as he faced complete ruin, between his
inhuman persecutors and the pitiless flood.

Bot. I will discharge it in either your straw-colour'd beard, your
orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your French-crown-colour'd
beard, your perfect yellow.

Quin. Some of your French-crowns have no hair at all, and then you will
play bare-fac'd.

But, masters here are your parts, and I am to intreat you, request
you, and desire you to con them by to-morrow night; and meet me in the
palace-wood, a mile without the town, by moonlight, there we will
rehearse; for if we meet in the city, we shall be dog'd with company,
and our devices known.

In the mean time I will draw a bill of properties, such as our play
wants. I pray you fail me not.

Bot. We will meet, and there we may rehearse more obscenely and courageously.
Take pains, be perfect, adieu.

Quin. At the Duke's oak we meet.

Bot. But hold ye, hold ye, neighbours; are your voices in order, and your
tunes ready? For if we miss our musical pitch, we shall be all 'sham'd
and abandon'd.

Quin. Ay, ay! Nothing goes down so well as a little of your sol, fa, and
long quaver; therefore let us be in our airs--and for better assurance
I have got the pitch pipe.

Bot. Stand round, stand round! We'll rehearse our eplog--Clear up your
pipes, and every man in his turn take up his stanza-verse--Are you all
ready?

All. Ay, ay!--Sound the pitch-pipe, Peter Quince.

[Quince blows.

Bot. Now make your reverency and begin.

SONG--for Epilogue;
By Quince, Bottom, Snug, Flute, Starveling, Snout.

Quin. Most noble Duke, to us be kind; Be you and all your courtiers
blind, That you may not our errors find, But smile upon our sport.
For we are simple actors all, Some fat, some lean, some short, some
tall; Our pride is great, our merit small; Will that, pray, do at
court?

II.

Starv. O would the Duke and Dutchess smile, The court would do the same
awhile, But call us after, low and vile, And that way make their sport:

Nay, would you still more pastime make, And at poor we your purses
shake, Whate'er you give, we'll gladly take, For that will do at
court.

Bot. Well said, my boys, my hearts! Sing but like nightingales thus when
you come to your misrepresentation, and we are made for ever, you rogues!
so! steal a way now to your homes without inspection; meet me at the
Duke's oak--by moon light--mum's the word.

All. Mum!

[Exeunt all stealing out.

SCENE, a Wood.

Enter a Fairy at one Door, and Puck, or Robin-good-fellow, at another.

Puck. How now, Spirit! whither wander you?

1st Fai. Over hill, over dale, Through bush, through brier, Over
park, over pale, Through flood, through fire, I do wander every where,
Swifter than the moon's sphere; And I serve the Fairy Queen, To dew
her orbs upon the green:
I must go seek some dew-drops here, And hang a pearl in every
cowslip's ear.

AIR.

Kingcup, daffodil and rose, Shall the fairy wreath compose; Beauty,
sweetness, and delight, Crown our revels of the night:
Lightly trip it o'er the green Where the Fairy ring is seen; So no
step of earthly tread, Shall of end our Lady's head.

Virtue sometimes droops her wing, Beauties bee, may lose her sting;
Fairy land can both combine, Roses with the eglantine:
Lightly be your measures seen, Deftly footed o'er the green; Nor a spectre's
baleful head Peep at our nocturnal tread.

Farewel thou lob of spirits, I'll be gone; Our Queen and all her Elves
come here anon.

Puck. The King doth keep his revels here to-night, Take heed the
Queen come not within his sight; For they do square, that all their
Elves for fear Creep into acorn-cups, and hide them there.

1st Fai.

But why is Oberon so fell and wrath?

Puck. Because that she, as her attendant hath A lovely boy stol'n from
an Indian King; And she perforce with-holds the changling, Tho' jealous
Oberon wou'd have the child Knight of his train, to trace the
forests wild.

1st Fai.

Or I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd
and knavish Sprite Call'd Robin-good-fellow.

Puck. Thou speak'st aright; I am that merry wand'rer of the
night:
I jest to Oberon, and make him smile, Oft lurk in gossip's bowl, and her
beguile In very likeness of a roasted crab; And when she drinks,
against her lips I bob, And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale;
The wisest aunt telling the saddest tale, Sometime for three-foot
stool mistaketh me; Then slip I from her bum, down topples she, And
rails or cries, and falls into a cough, And then the whole choir
hold their hips and loffe.

AIR.

1st Fai.

Yes, yes, I know you, you are he That frighten all the villagree; Skim
milk, and labour in the quern, And bootless make the huswife churn;
Or make the drink to bear no barm, Laughing at their loss and harm,
But call you Robin, and sweet Puck, You do their work, and bring good
luck.

Yes, you are that unlucky Sprite!
Like Will-a-whisp, a wandring light, Through ditch, thro' bog, who lead
astray Benighted swains, who lose their way; You pinch the slattern black
and blue, You silver drop in huswife's shoe; For call you Robin and
sweet Puck, You do their work, and bring good luck.

Puck.

But make room, Fairy, here comes Oberon.

1st Fai. And here my mistress: Would that he were gone!

Enter Oberon King of Fairies at one door, with his train, and the Queen
at another with hers.

Ob. Ill met by moon-light, proud Titania!

Queen. What, jealous Oberon? Fairy, skip hence, I have forsworn his bed
and Company.

Ob. Tarry, rash wanton!

Am not I thy Lord?

Queen. Then I must be thy Lady: Why art thou here?

Come from the farthest steep of India?
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskin'd mistress, and your
warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded; and you come To give their bed
joy and prosperity.

Ob. How canst thou thus, for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit with
Hippolita, Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigune,
whom he ravished, And make him, with fair Egle, break his faith With
Ariadne and Antiopa?

Queen. These are the forgeries of jealousy:
And never since that middle summer's spring Met we on hill, in dale, forest,
or mead, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls
thou hast disturb'd our sport.
The spring, the summer, The chiding autumn, angry winter, change
Their wonted liveries; and the amazed world By their increase now
knows not which is which; And this same progeny of evil comes From
our debate, from our dissention, We are their parents and original.

Ob. Do you amend it then, it lies in you.
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?

I do but beg a little changling boy To be my henchman.

Queen. Set your heart at rest, The Fairy-land buys not the child of
me.
His mother was a votress of my order, And in the spiced Indian air
by night Full often she hath gossipt by my side; And sat with me
on Neptune's yellow sands.

Marking th' embarked traders of the flood, When we have laught to see the
sails conceive, And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with
pretty and with swimming gait, Would imitate, and sail upon the
land, To fetch me trifles, and return again As from a voyage rich
with merchandize; But she being mortal of that boy did die, And for
her sake I do rear up her boy, And for her sake I will not part
with him.

Ob. How long within this wood intend you stay?

Queen. Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.

If you will patiently dance in our round, And see our moon-light
revels, go with us; If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.

Ob. Give me that boy, and I'll go with thee.

Queen. Not for thy Fairy kingdom.

AIR. DUET.

Queen. Away, away, I will not stay, But fly from rage and thee.

King. Begone, begone, You'll feel anon What 'tis to injure me.

Queen. Away, false man!
Do all you can, I scorn your jealous rage!

King. We will not part; Take you my heart!
Give me your favourite page.

Queen. I'll keep my page!

King. And I my rage!

Nor shall you injure me.

Queen. Away, away!
I will not stay, But fly from rage and thee.

Both. Away, away, &c. [Exe. Queen, &c.

Ob.

Well, go thy way; thou shalt not from this grove, Till I torment thee
for this injury-- My gentle Puck, come hither:
There is a flow'r, the herb I shew'd thee once, The juice of it on sleeping
eyelids laid, Will make a man or woman madly doat Upon the next live
creature that it sees.
Fetch me that herb, and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can
swim a league.

Puck.

I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes. [Exit.

Ob. Having once this juice, I'll watch Titania when she is asleep,
And drop the liquor of it in her eye; The next thing which she
waking looks upon, (Be it on bear, lion, wolf, bull, ape or monkey),
She shall pursue it with the soul of love; And ere I take this charm
off from her sight, (As I can take it with another herb), I'll make
her render up her page to me.

[Exit.

SCENE another part of the Wood.

Enter Queen of the Fairies, and her Train.

Queen. Come, now a roundel, and a fairy song.

AIR.

2d Fai. Come, follow, follow me, Ye fairy Elves that be; O'er tops of dewy
grass, So nimbly do we pass, The young and tender stalk Ne'er bends
where we do walk.

SCENE The Wood.

Queen. Now, for the third part of a minute hence, Some to kill cankers
in the musk-rose buds, Some war with rear-mice for their leathern
wings, To make my small Elves coats: And some keep back The clamorous
owl, that nightly hoots, and wonders, At our queint spirits.

Sing me now asleep, Then to your offices, and let me rest.

[Goes to the Bower and lies down.

AIR.

1st. Fai.

You spotted snakes with double tongue, Thorny hedge-hogs, be not seen,
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong, Come not near our fairy Queen.

Philomel with melody, Sing in your sweet lullaby, Lulla, lulla, lullaby,
lulla, lulla, lullaby:

Never harm, nor spell, nor charm, Come our lovely Lady nigh, So
good night with lullaby.

II.

Weaving spiders come not here; Hence, you long-leg'd spinners, hence:
Beetles black approach not near, Worm nor snail do no offence.

Philomel with melody, &c.

Hence away! now all is well; One aloof stand centinel. [Exeunt
Fairies.

Enter Oberon and First Fairy.
[Oberon squeeses the Juice of the Flower on the Queen's Eyes.
Ob. What thou seest when thou dost wake, Do it for thy true love
take; Love and languish for his sake; Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
Pard, or boar with bristled hair, In thy eye what shall appear,
When thou wak'st, it is thy dear; Wake when some vile thing is near.
[Exit Ob.

AIR.
1st Fai. Such the force of Magic Pow'r, Of the juice of this small
flower, It shall jaundice so her sight, Foul shall be fair, and
black seem white; Then shall dreams, and all their train, Fill with
Fantasies her brain; Then, no more her darling joy, She'll resign
her changeling boy.

[Exeunt.

End of the First Act.

ACT II.
SCENE Continues.
Enter Quince, Snug, Bottom, Flute, Snout and Starveling.
The Queen of Fairies lying asleep.

Bot. Are we all met?
Quin. Pat, pat! and here's a marvellous convenient place for our
rehearsal. This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn brake
our tyring house, and we will do it in action, as we will do it
before the Duke.

Bot. Peter Quince.
Quin. What say'st thou, Bully Bottom?
Bot. There are things in this Comedy of Pyramus and Thisby, that
will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself,
which the Ladies cannot abide. How answer you that?
Snout. By'rlaken, a parlous fear!
Starv. I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.
Bot. Not a whit; I have a device to make all well; write me a
prologue, and let the prologue seem to say, we will do no harm with
our swords, and that Pyramus is not kill'd indeed; and for more
better assurance tell them, that I Pyramus am not Pyramus, but
Bottom the weaver: this will put them out of fear.
Quin. Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be written
in eight and six.
Bot. No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
Snout. Will not the Ladies be afraid of the Lion?
Starv. I fear it, I promise you.
Bot. Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves; to bring in,
heaven shield us! a Lion among Ladies, is a most dreadful thing;
for there is not a more fearful wildfowl than your Lion, living;
and we ought to look to it.
Snout. Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a Lion.
Bot. Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen
through the lion's neck; and he himself must speak through, saying
thus, or to the same defect: Ladies, or fair Ladies, I would wish
you, or I would request you, or I would intreat you, not to fear,
not to tremble; my life for yours; if you think I come hither as a
lion, it were pity of my life; no, I am no such thing; I am a man
as other men are; and there indeed let him name his name, and tell
them plainly, He is Snug the Joiner.
Quin. Well, it shall be so; but there is two hard things, that is,
to bring the moon-light into a chamber; for you know Pyramus and
Thisby met by moon-light.
Snug. Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
Bot. A kalendar, a kalendar! look into the almanack; find out
moon-shine, find out moon-shine.
Quin. Yes, it doth shine that night.
Bot. Why then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window,
where we play, open, and the moon may shine in at the casement.
Quin. Ay, or else one must come in with a bush of throns and a
lanthern; and say he comes to disfigure or to present the person
of moon-shine. Then there is another thing; we must have a wall in
the great chamber, for Pyramus and Thisby (says the story) did talk
through the chink of a wall.
Snug. You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
Bot. Some man or other must present wall; and let him have some
plaster, or some loome, or some rough-cast, about him, to signify
wall: Or let him hold his fingers thus, and through the cranny shall
Pyramus and Thisby whisper.
Quin. If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit down every mother's
son, and rehearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin; and when you have
spoken your speech, enter into that brake, and so every one according
to his cue.

Enter Puck.
Puck. What hempen homespuns have we swaggering here, so near the
cradle of the Fairy Queen?
What, a play tow'rd; I'll be an auditor; An actor too, perhaps, if
I see cause.

Quin. Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
Pyr. Thisby, the flower of odious savours sweet.
Quin. Odours, odours.
Pyr. Odours savours sweet; So doth thy breath, my dearest Thisby
dear:
But hark, a voice! Stay thou but here a while, And by-and-by I will
to thee appear, 
Puck. A stranger Pyramus than e'er play'd here!Besides, I've been thinking that we
might have a chance to do some rescue work, because any old time somebody
is apt to come down the swollen river hanging to a floating log or a
frame house.  I'm surprised that it hasn't happened before now."

"Well, come on, and don't let's stand around here talking so long," Steve
urged, for he was nearly always in a great hurry, which fact had been the
main cause for his school mates dubbing him "Touch-and-Go-Steve."

As the four boys approached the bridge they must have felt more or less
qualms of nervous apprehension, because the prospect was appalling, with
the river up only a comparatively few feet below the centre of the span.
But each hesitated to let his companions see that he felt timid in the
least; and assuming a carelessness that he was far from feeling, Steve
was the first to set foot on the approach to the bridge that spanned the
Evergreen River.

Several men called out to warn them that it was dangerous, but no one
really attempted to stop them from walking out.  As the water was already
commencing to lap the roadway at the end, they had to pick their steps;
but once out toward the middle it seemed as though confidence began to
return.

Pride kept all of the boys from allowing anything like a tremor to appear
in their voices when they exchanged remarks.  At the same time all of
them felt the quivering of the structure, and could understand what a
mighty force was commencing to pluck at its supports.  When these were
undermined, if such a thing should happen, the whole affair would go with
a rush, and they realized what that would mean.

Steve immediately busied himself in snapping off several pictures, posing
his chums so that they would enter into his views of the flood as seen
from the river bridge.  In this interesting work he forgot the peril he
was running; while Max and Toby and Bandy-legs found plenty to do in
looking all around, and watching the strange spectacle of floating trees
or logs wedge up against the bridge at various places until they began to
form quite a barricade.

"That's what will tell against the bridge more than anything else," Max
remarked, as he pointed to where a tree was being pressed by the rush of
the water, so that it kept striking against the abutment on the side
toward Carson.  "When a certain quantity of floating stuff begins to
exert all its push against the bridge it'll have to go.  We've got to
keep our eyes open, boys, and be ready to skip out of here if we see
another big tree coming down."

"There's another hencoop, and, Toby, what do I see on the bridge but a
big Plymouth Rock rooster!" exclaimed Bandy-legs, excitedly, "so Johnny
get your gun, or else your rope, and let's see what sort of a cowboy you
c'n be."

Toby ran along the upper side of the bridge, and with his rope coiled
awaited a chance to let fly.  The conditions were not as favorable as he
might have liked, for the railing seemed to be somewhat in the way; and
an object moving swiftly toward him did not offer any great hope for his
success in casting the lariat; but when the proper time had arrived he
bravely let fly.

"Whoop! see it drop right over the old rooster would you?" yelled
Bandy-legs; "pull as quick as you can, Toby!  Aw! you're slow as molasses
in winter, and it just slipped over his back.  And now he's running under
the bridge, and you won't have fricasseed chicken for supper to-night, as
you expected."

"B-b-but you all saw how I d-d-dropped the n-n-noose right over him,
didn't you?  And that c-c-counts some.  When I g-g-get the hang of the
thing I expect to do a heap b-b-better.  Watch out for another hencoop,
Bandy-legs, that's a good feller.  I'm sure enjoying myself first-rate."

"Well, looks to me like something coming along up there again," remarked
Bandy-legs, who had splendid eyesight, and was sometimes called "Eagle
Eye" by his comrades.

"A dog this time, seems like," suggested Steve, carelessly.  "I wonder
now if I could get his picture when he comes closer?  It'd be worth
keeping, just to show what sort of things you'll meet up with when
there's a big flood on.  I reckon I'll try it anyhow; no damage done if I
make a foozle."

He hunted up a suitable place, where he thought the light would be most
serviceable, and then started to focus his camera on a spot which he
selected; when the drifting piece of wreckage reached that position it
would be at the proper distance for effective work, and he could press
the button with the belief that he had obtained a good picture.

Max was intently looking up the river.

All these things interested him, naturally, though deep down in his heart
he knew that they were taking big risks in remaining out on the bridge
when others more sensible or less adventurous carefully refrained from
trusting themselves to view the flood from so dangerous a standpoint.

The three other boys heard Max give utterance to a startled exclamation.
It was not his nature to betray excitement unless there was some very
good excuse for doing so, and consequently Steve turned his head to look
over his shoulder and ask: "What ails you, Max, old chum?  The shaking
didn't feel any worse, did if?  I'd hate some myself to go with the old
bridge, if she does take a notion to cut loose from her moorings, and
head down the valley; and, Max, if you reckon we'd better quit this
monkey business, and go ashore, why, I'll call it off, though I did want
to get this one picture the worst kind."

"Wait!" said Max, quickly; "we couldn't go now, no matter how much we
wanted to!"

"Oh! why not?" exclaimed Bandy-legs, looking anxious, as he fancied he
felt a new and sickening swaying to the bridge; and unconsciously he
gripped the railing while speaking, as though desirous of having
something substantial to hold on to.

"Because, unless I'm away off in my guess," said Max, positively, "that
object on that roof of a cabin you thought was a dog is a little child;
and we've got to try our level best to save it when the wreckage gets
down to the bridge!"

His words almost stunned the others.  They stood and gazed at the swiftly
approaching floating object as though unable to believe their very eyes;
but soon Steve managed to find his voice, for he bellowed:

"Max, it is, for a fact, a poor little abandoned child, crouching there,
and like as not nearly frightened out of its life.  Oh!  I wonder what's
become of its mother and father?  P'raps they've been drowned.  Max, what
can we do to save it?  Think as fast as ever you did in all your life.
I'd never get over it if we let that helpless child sweep under the
bridge like that rooster did.  It'd haunt me the rest of my days.  Max,
haven't you thought up a plan?"

"Yes, and it's the only way we can have a chance," replied the other,
quickly.  "Here, let me have the noose end of your rope, Toby; I'm going
to slip it around under my arms.  Then you three get hold, and I'll climb
over the railing here, just where that cabin roof is going to pass under.
Too bad that there's so much room, because it won't stick fast; so I must
drop down on the roof and grab the child.  Everything depends on how you
can get me up again.  It's all got to be done like a flash, you see.  And
if the rope holds, I'll do my part, I promise you."

"Count on us, Max, and here's hoping you do get hold of the poor little
thing!" said Steve, who had laid his camera aside, the better to use both
hands.

They nerved themselves for the coming ordeal.  Teeth were tightly
clenched, and every muscle summoned to do its full duty.  Nor could the
emergency be long delayed, because that drifting wreckage of a cabin was
approaching them swiftly, borne on the wild current of the flood, and in
another ten seconds would have reached the middle of the span of the
bridge!


CHAPTER IV

A BRAVE RESCUE

They could hear shouting on the shore, though not daring to pay any
attention to it just then, lest it distract their minds from the
dangerous business they had on hand.

No doubt some one had discovered that a little child was coming
floating down on the swollen current of the river, and the startling
news was being communicated from mouth to mouth with the astonishing
celerity with which such things can travel.

Had the boys but glanced toward the bank they would have seen people
running madly to and fro, and gathering in larger clusters than ever
wherever they could get a chance to see out upon the raging waters.

Max had calculated things carefully.  He did not want to make any
mistake when he clambered over the railing, because such a thing might
be fatal to whatever hope he had of rescuing the child.

They could now see plainly that it was a little boy.  He was clinging
to some part of the surging roof, which seemed to be in danger of
capsizing at any moment, for it wobbled fearfully.  Max prayed that it
would hold its own until he had been given a chance to do his part.  He
also hoped that he would have sufficient strength in his arms to snatch
the child, and then hold him, while his chums tugged and pulled to get
them both safely up to the bridge.

As he watched the coming of the fragment of a roof, he was doing some
nice calculating, making up his mind just how he must seize upon the
one he wished to save, and allow nothing to keep him from obtaining
full possession.  He had feared that the child might have been tied
there by his mother, and had such proven to be the case a rescue must
have been well nigh hopeless; but the closer the onrushing object came
the more Max assured himself that there did not seem to be any obstacle
to his success.

He was over the rail now.  Those on shore must have seen what the boy
meant to try and accomplish, for all of a sudden a terrible hush had
fallen on the gathered groups.  Every eye was doubtless glued on the
figure that clung to the rail out there, over the rushing waters,
waiting for the proper second to arrive.  Women unconsciously hugged
their own little ones all the tighter to their breasts, perhaps sending
up sincere thanks that it was not their child in peril; and at the same
time mute prayers must have gone out from many hearts that the brave
boy succeed in his mission.

"Steady, Max, old pal!" said Steve, who was braced there for the
expected strain.  "Don't worry about us, for we'll back you up.  Get a
clutch on him, and the rest is going to be easy.  Ready now!"

Max heard all this but was paying no attention to what was being said.
His whole mind was concentrated on the swaying roof of the wrecked
cabin, and the piteous sight of that frightened little fellow clinging
desperately there.

He could not depend on anything his chums might decide, but must
himself judge of the proper time to drop down.  The swiftness of the
current had to be taken into consideration, as well as the swaying of
the wreckage.

When he felt sure of himself Max suddenly let go his precarious hold on
the lower part of the railing.  It was a bold thing to do, and must
have sent a shudder through many a breast ashore, as men and women held
their breath, and stared at the thrilling spectacle.

Fortunately Max Hastings was no ordinary lad.  He not only had a
faculty for laying out plans, but the ability to execute the same as
well.  And besides that, his love of outdoor life had given him such a
muscular development that athletic feats were possible with him such as
would have proven rank failures with many other boys.

His judgment proved accurate, for he dropped exactly upon the fragment
of the cabin roof, and directly in front of the crouching child.  The
little fellow must have been watching him, for instantly two hands were
outstretched toward Max as though some intuition told the child that
his only hope of escape from the angry flood lay in the coming of this
boy.

Like a flash Max swooped down upon him.  His movements were wonderfully
quick, because he knew that this was absolutely necessary when coping
with such a treacherous enemy as that moving flood.

He snatched the child up in one arm and held him almost fiercely to his
breast.  If the little fellow gave utterance to any sort of cry Max
failed to hear it, though that in itself might not be so very strange,
for there were all sorts of roaring sounds in his ears just then.

Almost at the same instant he felt himself roughly plucked off his
feet, and being swung upward.  His comrades were tugging at the rope
savagely, knowing that unless they were very speedy Max would find
himself engulfed in the waters; and the work of rescue be made doubly
difficult.

The rope proved equal to the terrific strain, thanks to Toby's good
judgment when selecting a braided line with which to play the role of
cow puncher and lariat thrower.

Max felt the water around his legs, but that was all, for he did not go
down any further than his knees; and yet the suction was tremendous
even at that.

He was now being slowly but surely drawn upward, and this was a task
that called for the united powers of the three who had hold of the
rope.  Bandy-legs had been wise enough to wrap the end around a beam
that projected from the flooring of the bridge.  He did not know what
might happen, and was determined that Max should not be swept away on
the flood, if it came to the worst.

When they had drawn their comrade far enough up so that Steve, calling
on the others to hold fast, bent down and took the child from the grasp
of Max, it was an easy matter for the latter to clamber over the rail
himself.

Steve was already holding the rescued child up so that those on shore
could see that the attempt at rescue had met with a glorious success;
for he was naturally proud of his chum's work.

A deep-throated hum broke out; it was the sound of human voices
gathering force; and then a wild salvo of cheers told that the good
people of Carson could appreciate a brave deed when they saw it, no
matter if disaster did hover over the town, and kept them shivering
with a dread of what was coming next.

Some of the more impetuous would have started to rush out on the
bridge, in order to tell Max what they thought of him; only that
several cool-headed men kept these impulsive ones back.

"Keep off!" they kept shouting, waving the crowd away; "if you rushed
out there now it would be the last straw to send the bridge loose from
its moorings.  Stay where you are, men, women!  You would only invite a
terrible tragedy by going on the bridge!"

"Bring the child to us, boys!" Well may ABERCORN wonder and FIFE tootle
praise, His two thousand hearers raise cheering--raise cheering.
Of wild would-be Scuttlers he proves the mad craze, And of Governments
prone to small-beering--small-beering.

Sullen Boers may prove bores to a man of less tact, A duffer funk wiles
Portuguesy--tuguesy; But Dutchmen, black potentates, all sorts, in fact,
To RHODES the astute come quite easy--quite easy.

The British South-African Company's shares _May_ be at a
discount--(Trade-martyrs!--trade-martyrs!)-- But he, our Colossus,
strides on, he declares, Whether with or without chums or charters--or
charters.

Hooray! We brave Britons are still to the front-- Provided we've someone
to boss us--to boss us; And Scuttlers will have their work cut
out to shunt This stalwart, far-striding Colossus--Colossus!

* * * * *
[Illustration:
=A HEARTY WELCOME.=
_Local Flyman_ (_who also officiates at Funerals_).
"Mornin', Sir. Glad to see you out again! Really thought I should 'a'
had the honor of drivin' you to the cemetery, Sir!"]

* * * * *
TAXES. A HOARDING AND SAVING CLAUSE.--_À propos_ of an article in the
_Times_ on this subject, and a paragraph of _Mr. Punch's_, last week,
anent "Hoardings," we may now put a supplementary question in this
form, "As Government taxes _Savings_, would it not be quite
consistent to tax _Hoardings_?"

Since the answer must, logically, be in the affirmative, let Government
begin at once with all the Hoardings displaying any kind of
hideous pictorial advertisement.

* * * * *
"HE rumbles so in his conversation," observed Mrs. R. of an orator whose
sentences were considerably involved, "that I can seldom catch the
grist of what he says."
* * * * *

PRACTICAL THEOSOPHY.

MRS. BESANT is said to have told a representative of a daily paper,
that "an adept in Theosophy uses his supernatural powers solely
for his own convenience, just as ordinary people avail themselves
of a messenger, or the telephone or telegraph."

We have it on the very best of authority that the discharge of
handbills from aërial bombs is to be entirely surpassed as a method for
advertising a commodity, by a new and protected process.

"A Company is being formed," so runs the prospectus, "for the express
purpose of importing Mahatmas of the very best vintage (guaranteed
_extra sec_), direct from Thibet, where an exceptionally luxuriant
crop has been produced during past years.

"They will be shipped to any port in the United Kingdom, and delivered
to any address, carriage free, at prices which will compare most favourably
with those quoted by foreign firms for inferior articles.

"The trade supplied by special contract.

"They will prove invaluable to advertisers and others.

"No family should be without one. Order early.

"They can be used for a variety of purposes; but they will be found most
particularly serviceable for distributing handbills and posters,
especially in inaccessible places.

"_Domestic servants entirely superseded by them._
"Prompt and accurate delivery of any object may be effected by their
agency, owing to their marvellous powers of precipitation.

"Full instructions for working, and instruments for repairing, supplied
with each specimen.

"Not liable to get out of order.

"Safe in the hands of a child. Yet they are not toys.

"Procurable of any respectable Lunatic Asylum.

"Ask for Our Brand, and see that you get none other.

"Beware of worthless foreign imitations, which dishonest dealers
will try to foist upon you.

"Of Mahatmas young, and Mahatmas old, Of Mahatmas meek, and Mahatmas
bold, Of Mahatmas gentle, and Mahatmas rough, We lay long odds that
we'll sell enough."

The financial column of the Journal of the Future, we may expect,
will read somewhat as follows:--"Mahatmas opened weak, but slowly
advanced a third.

Later they became stronger, and closed firm at 8-1/4.
Latest--Mahatmas fell rapidly."

_Tempora mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis._
* * * * *

CHARITY BEGINS ABROAD.--The following advertisement (which recently
appeared in the _Times_) has been sent for solution:--
GENTLEMAN, with knowledge of business and disposing of 100,000 francs,
is desirous of REPRESENTING, either in Europe, Africa, America, or
elsewhere, a serious FIRM, capable of giving important profits.

Offers to be addressed, &c.

In reply to this appeal, _Mr. Punch_ begs to say that "the gentleman
with knowledge of business" seems to be anxious to act as an _alter
ego_ to a serious (not a jocular) firm "capable of giving profits."
"GENTLEMAN" does not specify whose profits the serious firm is
capable of giving, and thus it may be presumed that the 100,000
francs would form the capital with which the charitable transaction
would be conducted.

This is the more probable as "GENTLEMAN" says he knows how to dispose
of them.

* * * * * 
ALL ROUND THE FAIR.

No. IV.

The Irish Giant Baby "At Home."
The exterior of the Show is painted to represent a Cottage, and bears
the highly improbable name of "Polly O'Gracious," with an even
less credible announcement that this is the identical "little cot
where she was born."

Inside is an ordinary tent, with a rough platform at the further
end, whereon is an empty chair, at which a group of small Boys,
two or three young Women, and some middle-aged Farm-labourers, have
been solemnly and patiently staring for the last quarter of an hour.

_First Farm Labourer_ (_to Second_).

I bin in 'ere 'bout erf an hour, I hev, and ain't seed nowt so fur!

_Second F. L._ Same 'ere! Seems to take 'em a proper good time a-gittin'
o' this 'ere baby claned up!

_First F. L._ Ah, it do. But look at the _size_ on her!

_Second F.

L._ Size! They cudn't be no slower not with a hellyphant!

[The tedium is relieved by a very audible dispute outside between the
Driver of the Baby's Caravan and the Wife of the Conjuror next door, who
appears to have excited the Driver's displeasure by consenting to take
the money in the absence of the Baby's proprietress.

_The Driver_ (_with dignity_).

I consider it a bloomin' liberty, and a downright piece of himpertinence,
you comin' 'ere interferin' with with my business--and so I tell
yer!

_The Lady_ (_with more dignity_). I'm not taking no liberties with
nobody--she ast me to it, or I shoudn't _be_ 'ere--_I_ don't want to
take the money, not without bein' ast to do so. She come and ast me
to take her place while she was away, and in course _I_ wasn't goin'
to say no.

_Driver._ Don't you tork to me.

I know what _you_ are, puttin' yerself forward whenever yer can--a
goin' tellin' the people on the road as you was the Baby's mother!

_The Lady._ I never said no such thing!

Why should I want to tell sech a story for?

_Driver._ Arsk yourself--not me. And p'raps you never said you 'ad
valuable property in our waggin' neither.

_Lady_ (_apparently cut to the heart by this accusation_).

It's a false'ood! I never 'ad no valuable property in your waggin', nor
yet nobody else's; and I'll thank you to keep your distance, and not
go raggin' me.

_Driver_ (_edging nearer_), I'll keep _my_ distance. But don't you make
no mistake--I'm not to be _played_ with!

I'm sick o' your goin's on. And then(_reviving a rankling and mysterious
grievance_) to think o' you a comin' mincin' up on the road with
yer(_mimicking_), "Oh, yus, Mrs.
FAIRCHILD, there's a blacksmith jest across the way!"

What call 'ad you got to shove _your_ nose in like that, eh? you're a
interferin' cat, that's what _you_ are!

[The Conjuror's Lady is moved to the verge of tears and assault,
and her wrath is only assuaged by the arrival of the missing
Proprietress, who patches up a temporary peace; presently the
hangings at the back are parted, and an immensely stout child,
dressed in an infant's frock, waddles in, hoists herself on the
platform and into the chair, from which she regards the Spectators
with stolid composure; the small boys edge back, nudge one another
and snigger furtively; the girls say "Oh, lor!"

in a whisper, and a painful silence follows.

_A Middle-aged Labourer_ (_feeling the awkwardness of the
situation_).
'Ow old may you be, Missy?

_The Giant Baby_ (_with a snap_). Ten!

[She gazes all round with the hauteur peculiar to a phenomenon, and
her visitors are only relieved from the strain by the timely
appearance of the Exhibitor, a Mulatto lady, who gives a brief
biographical sketch of the Infant's career, with details of her
weight and measurements.

Then Miss POLLY sings a stanza of "Little Annie Rooney" in a phonographic
manner, dances a few ponderous steps, and identifies the most sheepish
youth in the audience--much to his embarrassment--as her sweetheart,
after which her audience is permitted to shake hands with her and
depart

.

* * * * *
A Prize Lottery.

A Young Man in a light suit, and a paste pin in a dirty white necktie,
has arrived with a chest, from which he extracts a quantity of
small parcels in coloured tissue-paper.

_The Young Man_ (_as a group collects around him_). Now, I'm 'ere to orfer
those among yer who 'ave the courage to embark in speckilation an
unrivalled opportunity of enriching themselves at next to no
expense.
Concealed in each o' these small porcels is a prize o' more or less
value, amongst them bein', I may tell yer, two 'undred threepenny
pieces, not to mention 'igher coins up to 'arf a sov'rin.

Mind, I promise nothing--I only say this: that those who show
confidence in me I'll reward beyond their utmost expectations.( _To
an_ Agricultural Labourer _in the circle._) 'Ere, you Sir, 'ave you
ever seen me before in all your life?

[Illustration:
"Concealed in each o' these small porcels is a prize o' more or less
value."]
_The Agricultural Labourer_ (_with a conscientious fear of committing
himself_). I _may_ 'ave.

_The Young Man._ You _may_ 'ave! '_Ave_ you? 'Ave _I_ ever seen _you_?
Come now!

_The Agr. L._ (_cautiously_). I carn't answer fur what you've _seen_,
Sir.

_The Y. M._ Well, are you a friend o' mine?

_The A. L._ (_after inward searchings_). Not as I'm aweer on.

_The Y. M._ Then take this packet.(_The_ A. L.

_grins and hesitates._) Give me a penny for it.(_The_ A. L. _hangs back._)
Do as I _say_! (_His tone is so peremptory that the_ A. L. _hastens to
obey._) Now don't open that till I tell you, and don't go away--or
I shall throw the money after yer.

(_The_ A. L. _remains in meek expectation;_ Old Billy Fairplay, _and
a_ Spotty-faced Man, _happen to pass; and join the group out of
innocent curiosity._) Will _you_ give me a penny for this, Sir?

(_To the Spotty-faced One, who shakes his head._) To oblige Me! (_This
is said in such an insinuating tone, that it is impossible to resist
him._) Now you've shown your confidence in me, will you open that
packet and show the company what it contains.

_The Spotty-faced Man_ (_undoing the packet_). There's nothink inside o'
mine--it's a reg'lar do!

[_Roars of laughter._
_The Y.

M._ Quite right--there _was_ nothink inside o' thet partickler packet.
I put it there a-purpose, as a test.

But I don't want nobody to go away dissatisfied with my manner o' doin'
business, and, though I ain't promised yer nothing, I'll show yer I'm
better than my word, and them as trusts me'll find no reason to
repent of 'aving done so.

'Ere's your original penny back, Sir, and one, two, _three_ more
atop of that--wait, I ain't done with yer yet--'ere's sixpence more,
because I've took a fancy to yer face--and _now_ I 'ope you're
satisfied!

_The Sp.-F. M._ (_in an explanatory undertone to his neighbours_). I
knew it's on'y them as comes last thet gits left, d' yer see!

[_Several bystanders hasten to purchase._
_Old Billy Fairplay_ (_in an injured tone_). There ain't on'y a
three-penny-bit in mine!

_The Y.

M._ 'Ark at 'im--there's a discontented ole josser for yer! I carn't put
'arf a sov'rin' in _all_ o' the packets, not and make my expenses.
P'raps you'll 'ave better luck next time.

[_The packets are in more demand than ever._
_The Agr. L._ May I open this 'ere packet now, Master?

_The Y. M._ If you don't tell nobody what's in it, you may. I've
sold as many as I keer to a' ready.

_The Agr. L._ (_opening the parcel, and finding a toy-watch of the value
of one farthing sterling_). 'Ere, I'll give yer this back--'tain't no
good to me!

_The Y. M._ (_with concern_). I'm reelly very sorry, Sir, I've given you
a wrong 'un by mistake.

I _quite_ fancied as----Allow me to apologise, and, as a proof I
'aven't lost your good opinion, give me a penny for this one.

[_He selects a packet with great care from the heap._
_The A. L._ You don't take me in no moor--I'd sooner make ye a
_present_ o' the penny!

_The Y. M._ (_wounded_).

Don't talk like that, Sir--you'll be sorry for it afterwards! (_In a
whisper._) It's all right _this_ time, s'elp me!

_The A. L._ I know as it's a kitch o' some sort ... --hows'ever, jest
this once. (_He purchases another packet, and is rewarded by an
eyeglass, constructed of cardboard and coloured gelatine, which he
flings into the circle in a fury._) 'Tis nobbut a darned swindle--and
I've done wi' ye! Ye're all a pack o' rogues together!

[Exit, amidst laughter from the rest, whose confidence, however,
has been rewarded by very similar results.

_The Y. M._ He don't know what he's lost by givin' way to his narsty
temper--but there, _I_ forgive 'im! (_He begins to replace the
remaining parcels in the chest; one packet escapes his notice, and
is instantly pounced upon by a sharp, but penniless urchin._) Now,
Gentlemen, I'm 'ere reppersentin' two Charitable Institootions--the
Blind Asylum, and the Idjut Orfins--but I'm bloomin' sorry to say
that, _this_ time, arter I've deducted my little trifling commission,
there'll be a bloomin' little to 'and over to either o' them deservin'
Sercieties; so, thenkin' you all, and wishin' you bloomin' good
luck, and 'appiness and prosperity through life, I'll say good-bye
to yer.

_The Sharp Urchin_ (_after retiring to a safe distance with his booty._)
Theer's _summat_ inside of 'un--I can 'ear un a-rartlin' ... 'ow many
_moor_ wrops! 'Tis money, fur sartin!... (_Removes the last wrapping._)
Nawthen but a silly owld cough-drop!

(_He calls after the_ Young Man, _who is retreating with_ Mr.
Fairplay, _and his spotty friend._) I've a blamed good mind to 'ave
th' Lar on ye fur that, I hev--a chatin' foaks i' sech a way! Why
don't ye act honest?

[_Is left masticating the cough-lozenge in speechless indignation._
* * * * * 
"THE SINS OF SOCIETY."

READ yesterday, in the _Fortnightly_, this article by OUIDA. Resolved
to follow her teachings at once. Changed my "frightful, grotesque, and
disgraceful male costume" for the most picturesque garments I had--a
kilt, a blue blazer, and a yellow turban, which I once wore at a fancy
dress ball. Then strolled along Piccadilly to the Club.

Rather cool.

Having abandoned "the most vulgar form of salutation, the shake-hands,"
bowed distantly to several men I had known for years--but they looked
another way. Met a policeman. "Hullo!" he said.

"Come out o' that! Your place is in the road." He mistook me for a
sandwich-man!

Explained that I was advocating a new style of dress. "Where's yer
trousers?"

he asked.
"Trousers!" I cried. "Why, OUIDA"--but it was useless to explain to such
a fool--so I left him.

At the Club, immense astonishment. Again explained.

Members tapped their foreheads, and said I had better see the Doctor.
Why? Then they all avoided me. Grand chance to show my ability "to support
solitude, and to endure silence." Deuced dull, but it saved me from "the
poisoned atmosphere of crowded rooms." Began to feel hungry about
lunch-time, but happily remembered that "it is not luxury which
is enervating, it is over-eating."

Exhausted, but virtuous.

Remembered that I had to dine at my aunt's.

Awkward! Could I go in that dress?

She is so prim, and so prejudiced in favour of trousers. Also she is
so rich, and I was her heir. It needs money to obtain the luxury which
the great teacher advocates.

Hurried home, and put on hateful evening dress.

Avoided hansoms, they being too much connected with one "ugly
hurry-skurry," and drove to my aunt's in a damp, dirty four-wheeler.

Even the new moralist herself would have been satisfied with the
slowness of that.

At dinner sat between two charming women, evidently as clever as
they were beautiful.

Suddenly remembered that we "lose the subtle and fine flavours of our
best dishes, because we consider ourselves obliged to converse with
somebody," and after that did not speak a word. Charming women stared,
and then each turned towards me a beautiful shoulder, and I saw
her face no more.

Was just enjoying the flavours when I recollected that nothing "can make
even tolerable, artistically speaking, the sight of men and women sitting
bolt upright close together taking their soup." We were long past the
soup, but it was not too late.
I left the table at once, and reclined elegantly on the floor, with
my plate by my side.

"AUGUSTUS," said my Aunt, "are you ill?" I shook my head; I could not
speak, for I was just enjoying an unusually subtle flavour. Then one of
the guests, a member of my Club, whispered to my aunt, and tapped
his forehead.

Then she tapped her forehead, and all the guests tapped their foreheads.
I had finished that flavour, so I said, "My dear Aunt, I am not mad,
I----" "Then," said she, "you must be intoxicated.

Leave the house!" And, with the butler and the footmen escorting me to
the street-door, I was obliged to do so.

It is all over. I know that my Aunt will bequeath her fortune to the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Ancient Buildings among
the Jews, but I am consoled by the thought that I, at least, have
followed the noble teachings of the New Morality

.

* * * * *

"WHEN FOUND MAKE A NOTE OF."--By Captain SCUTTLE, to British East African
Co.:--"Your Room is better than your Company."
* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

THE title of Mr. CONAN DOYLE'S new book, _Adventures of Sherlock Holmes_,
is incomplete without the addition of, "And the D.D., or Dummy
Doctor," who plays a part in the narratives analogous to that of
"Charles, his Friend," on the stage.

The book is, in many respects, a thriller, reminding one somewhat of
_The Diary of a Late Physician_, by SAMUEL WARREN.

This volume is handsomely got up--too handsomely--and profusely, too
profusely, illustrated. For both romancer and reader, such stories
are better un-illustrated. A sensational picture attracts, and
distracts. In this collection the Baron can recommend _The Beryl
Coronet_, _The Red-Headed League_, _The Copper Beeches_, and _The Speckled
Band_.

The best time for reading any one of these stories is the last thing
at night, before turning in. "At such an hour, try _The Speckled Band_,
and see how you like it," says the Bold Baron.

The Baron's assistant dives into the Christmas Card Basket, and
produces RAPHAEL TUCK AND SONS,--"Tuck," a schoolword dear to "our
boys,"--who lead off the Christmas dance.

Daintily and picturesquely got up, their Cards are quite full. Their
Watteau Screens will serve as small ornaments afterwards. These "Correct
Cards," with few exceptions, are not particularly for Christmas,
but for all time.

Here's Luck To RAPHAEL TUCK!

"Todgers's could do it when it liked," and so can Messrs. HUTCHINSON
& Co. at this Fairy Tale time, when they bring out three capital
books, edited by ALFRED H.

MILES; _i.e._, _Fifty-two Fairy Tales_, _Fifty-two other Stories for
Boys_, and _Fifty-two other Stories for Girls_. Why not Fairy Tales
for a holiday task, and an examination in Fairy Lore, with a Fairy Lore
Degree for the successful candidate?

Then come BLACKIE AND SONS with Plenty from HENTY--Mr.

G. A.

HENTY--who at Christmas-time is anything but a "Non-Henty-ty."

_Beric the Briton_, _In Greek Waters_, _Condemned as a Nihilist!_--"Go
it, HENTY!" The Baron cheers you onward.

[Illustration:
A NORSE TALE.]
_The Thirsty Sword_, by ROBERT LEIGHTON. It's a killing story.
_An Old-Time Yarn_, by EDGAR PICKERING, about the adventures of
DRAKE and HAWKINS. HAWKINS, mariner, not Sir 'ENRY, the Judge. New
yarn.
Strong old salts--very refreshing.
_The Bull Calf_, brought out for JOHN BULL JUNIOR'S amusement at
Christmas, and seasonably illustrated by FROST, is a queer sort of
animal of the Two Macs Donkey breed. Right for NIMMO to have some
fun at Christmas, according to old example, "_Nimmo mortalium omnibus
horis sapit._"
What's in a name? not the first time this question has been asked
and answered--but 'tis impossible for the Baron to avoid quoting
it now, when in consequence of its title, he was within an ace of
putting aside _The Germ Growers_, under the impression that it was
a scientific work on Bacillus and Phylloxera. On taking it up,
however, the Baron soon became deeply interested, but was subsequently
annoyed to find how the artful author had beguiled him by leading
up to a kind of imitation of the _In hoc Signo vinces_ legend, and
had somewhat adroitly adapted to his purpose the imagery of one of
the most poetic and sublime of ancient Scripture narratives; _i.e._,
where the prophet sees the chariots of Israel in the air. One
remarkable thing about the romance is the absence of "love-motive,"
and, indeed, the absence of all female interest.They
involuntarily gripped the railing tenaciously, because they had the
last words of Max ringing in their ears; and no doubt it was this more
than anything else that enabled them to come through the adventure with
fair chances.

Max with his other hand had seized hold of Toby's arm, because they
happened to be close together at the time.  So it was that when he
could catch his breath, after swallowing a gulp or two of muddy water,
he called out:

"Are you all right, Toby?"

"Y-y-yep, s-s-seems so, Max!" he heard close to his ear in reply.

"What about the others?  Steve, Bandy-legs, how is it with you?"
continued Max, unable to see as yet, for his eyes were full of the
spray that had dashed around them at the time the bridge carried them
down.

Faint replies came to his ears, one from the left, and the other
welling up in the opposite direction; but they cheered the heart of the
leader greatly.  It seemed almost like a miracle that all of them
should have come through with so little damage.  Looking back
afterwards Max was of the opinion that much of this wonderful luck
resulted from the fact that when the bridge swung around and allowed
itself to be carried away it did not actually turn over.

They were being swept down-stream at a tremendous pace.  Their strange
craft rose and fell on the heaving flood with a sensation that might
cause one to believe he had taken passage on the ocean itself, and was
about to endure the discomforts of sea sickness.

Turning to look toward the shore Max realized for the first time how
rapid was their passage; for when his eyes remained fixed on the water
itself, which was making exactly the same speed as their craft, he
seemed to be standing still.

"Max, oh!  Max!" came in Steve's voice, a minute later.

"Hello! there, that you, Steve?  Can't you make your way over here
closer to us?" was the answer Max sent back; for now he could manage to
glimpse the crouching figure from which the excited hail proceeded.

"Sure I can, easy as anything," Steve told him, and immediately
proceeded to work along the railing, which fortunately remained above
the water.

Bandy-legs had heard what was said, and from the other side he too came
crawling along, moving like a crab backward, for he wished to keep his
face toward the danger, since every dip of the whirling raft threatened
to allow the waves to overwhelm him, as his position was not so secure
as that of the others.

In this fashion, then, they gathered in a clump, gripping the railing
with desperate zeal.  Somehow or other the mere fact of getting
together seemed to give each of the chums renewed courage.

"Ain't this a fierce deal, though?" Steve was saying, as drenched from
head to foot he clung there, and looked at the swirling flood by which
they found themselves surrounded, with the shore far away on either
hand.

"B-b-beats anything I ever s-s-struck!" chattered Toby, whose teeth
were apparently rattling like castanets, either from cold or
excitement, possibly a little of both.

"We're in a tight hole, that's a fact," Max admitted, "but we ought to
be thankful it's no worse than it is.  One of us might have been swept
loose, and drowned, or had a hard time getting around.  We're all
together, and it'll be queer if we can't figure out some way to get
ashore, sooner or later."

"That's the ticket, Max; 'never give up the ship,' as Lawrence said
long ago," was the way Steve backed the leader up.

"Huh!" grunted Bandy-legs, who had bumped his head, and because it felt
sore he was not in the happiest mood possible; "that's just what we're
wantin' to do, if you c'n call this turnin' twistin' raft a ship.
Makes me dizzy the way she reels and cavorts; just like she might be
trying one of them new fangled dance steps."

"Listen! what was that?" exclaimed Max, breaking in on Bandy-legs'
complaint.

"What did you think you heard?" asked Steve, eagerly; "we're too far
away from either shore right here to hope for anything, because you
remember the banks of the Evergreen are low after passing our town, and
the water's had a chance to spread itself.  Whew! it must be half a
mile across here, and then some."

"There it came again," said Max.  "And seems to me it sounded like a
half-drowned shout for help."

"What, away out here?" cried Steve; "who under the sun could be wanting
us to give him a helping hand, d'ye think, Max?"

"I don't know, but at a time like this you can look for anything to
happen.  Perhaps there were other people carried away on the flood.
Look around, and see if you can glimpse anything."

The water was not quite so riotous now, since it spread over a wider
territory; and the boys had succeeded in getting their eyes clear; so
that almost immediately Bandy-legs was heard to give a shout.

"I see him, fellers!" he announced, excitedly; "over yonder, and
swimmin' to beat the band!  He's tryin' to make the floating bridge
we're on, but seems like the current keeps agrippin' him, and holdin'
him back.  Looks like he's mighty near played out in the bargain."

"Why, however could he have got there, and who is he, d'ye reckon,
Max?" Steve inquired, turning as usual to the leader when a knotty
problem was to be solved.

"I think I know," replied Max, without hesitation; "you seem to have
forgotten that we weren't alone on the bridge when it fell."

"Oh! shucks! yes, you mean that Shack Beggs!" Bandy-legs suggested, and
there was a vein of disappointment and indifference in his voice that
Max did not like.

True, that same Shack Beggs had been one of the most aggressive of
their foes in Carson.  From away back he in company with a few other
choice spirits of like mean disposition had never let an opportunity
for annoying the chums pass.  On numerous occasions he had planned
miserable schemes whereby Max, or some of his best friends, would be
seriously annoyed.

All the same that could be no excuse for their turning a deaf ear to
the wild appeal for help which the wretched Shack was now sending
forth.  He was human like themselves, though built on different lines;
and they could never hold their own respect if they refused to hold out
a helping hand to an enemy in dire distress.

"We've just _got_ to try to get Shack up here with us, boys, if the
chance comes our way," said Max, firmly.

"S'pose we have," muttered Bandy-legs, moodily; and his manner was as
much as to say that in his opinion the young scoundrel struggling there
in the water was only getting something he richly deserved; and that if
it rested with him he would feel inclined to let Shack stay there until
the extreme limit.

"But how can we do anything for him, Max?" asked Steve, who was not so
bitter as Bandy-legs, and already began to feel a little compassion
toward the wretched boy struggling so desperately in the agitated
water, and nearly exhausted by his efforts.

"There's a small chance," said Max, who had been looking more closely
than any of his chums.  "You see this piece of the broken bridge keeps
on turning around in the water all the while.  Now we've got the west
shore on our right hand, and pretty soon we'll have the east side that
way.  Well, perhaps we'll swing around next time far enough for us to
stretch out and give Shack a helping hand."

"I believe you're right, Max," admitted Steve; "yes, she's swinging
right along, and if he's wise he'll work in this way as much as he can.
But, Max, if we do pass him by without being able to reach him, it's
going to be hard on Shack, because he looks like he's nearly all in,
and won't be on top when we come around again."

"Then we've just got to reach him, you see!" returned Max, with that
glow in his eyes the others knew so well, for it generally meant
success to follow.

The fragment of the broken bridge continued to move around as the swirl
of the waters kept turning it.  Max was watching eagerly, and making
his calculations with as much earnestness as though it were one of his
chums in peril instead of their most bitter enemy.

He believed there was a good chance for him to reach Shack, if he could
manage in some way to stretch out from the end of the railing just
beyond where Toby clung.  And acting on this inspiration he hastily
clambered past the other.

"What's doing, Max?" demanded Toby, immediately.

"If I can reach him at all it's got to be from the end of the raft
here, the further point, don't you see?" Max replied, still pushing
along, with Toby close at his heels, ready now to assist to the best of
his ability.

So Max, on reaching the extreme tip of the uneasy raft, climbed out as
far as he could go, and called back to Toby to grip him by the legs so
that he might have both hands free to work with when the critical
moment arrived.

It could not be long delayed, for as they swung slowly in the grip of
the swirling current he could see the swimming Shack's head close by.
Once the almost exhausted boy disappeared, and Max felt his heart give
a great throb as he thought it was the very last he would ever see of
Shack; but almost immediately afterwards the head came in sight again,
for Shack was a stout fellow, and desperation had nerved him to
accomplish wonders.

Presently Max gritted his teeth together for the effort he meant to put
forth, and upon which so much depended.

"Swim this way as hard as you can, Shack!" he had shouted again and
again, and the boy in the river was evidently bent on doing what he was
told, though hardly able to sustain himself on account of complete
exhaustion, added to a severe case of fright.

Then the crisis came.  Max had figured nicely, and knew to a fraction
of a second just when he must make his clutch for the swimmer.  Shack
saw what was coming, and as though ready to give up and sink if this
effort to save him failed, he threw out one of his hands despairingly
toward Max.

As he managed to clutch the swimmer's wrist Max braced himself, and
gradually drew Shack toward the woodwork of the floating bridge, an
inch as it were at a time, but constantly coming.

Presently he had him close enough for Steve, who with Bandy-legs was
near by, to get a frenzied grip on the other arm of the exhausted boy;
and then together they managed to help him aboard.

It was necessary that they change their position quickly, since their
combined weight at one end of the wreckage of the bridge was causing it
to sink in an ominous way.

"Move along there, Bandy-legs and Steve!" called Max; "or we'll be
under water!"

Fortunately the other boys realized what was meant, and they hurried
away, constantly clinging to the friendly railing which had proven so
valuable all the while, in keeping them from being washed overboard.

Max helped Shack crawl along, for the boy was panting for breath, and
almost choked with the vast quantities of water he had swallowed.

In this way they presently reached their old positions about the middle
of the floating timbers.  It was a wild picture that confronted them as
they now took the time to look around them.  The river was narrowing
somewhat again and of course the current became considerably swifter on
this account, so that the bridge raft rocked violently back and forth,
sometimes even threatening them with a fresh disaster in the shape of a
jam, and consequent overturn.

"My stars! what's the answer going to be to this thing?" Steve called
out, after one of these exciting experiences, during which it was with
considerable difficulty that the whole of them maintained their hold.

Max had seen to it that the tired Shack was fastened to the rail with a
strap he chanced to have in his pocket at the time; only for that
possibly the other might have lost his weakened grip, and been carried
off.

"Oh! don't think of giving up yet, Steve," Max sang out cheerily; "the
further we get downstream the more chances there are that we'll either
be rescued by men in boats, or else find a way ourselves to get ashore.
We've got so much to be thankful for that it seems as if we'd soon hit
on a way out.  Keep watching, and if some eddy in the current happens
to throw us on a bar close to the shore, we'll hustle to reach land the
best we know how, no matter where it is, or how far from home."

"T-t-that's what I s-s-say," stammered Toby; "all I w-w-want is to feel
the g-g-good old g-g-ground under my f-f-feet again.  I never thought
it could be so n-nice as it seems right now."

"You never miss the water till the well runs dry!" chanted Bandy-legs,
now getting over his fit of depression, and beginning to pluck up new
courage and spirits.

"We are whooping it up at a mile a minute clip, ain't we, Max?" Steve
asked, a short time later.

"Well, I'd hardly like to say that, Steve," answered the other; "but
we're certainly making pretty swift time, twenty miles an hour, perhaps
nearer thirty, I'd say.  And that's going some, considering that we
haven't any motor to push us along."

"And didn't they tell me it was about twenty miles down the valley that
Asa French lived?" Steve went on to say, showing that even in the
dreadful grip of the flood he had remembered that Bessie French was
somewhere down below, and possibly also exposed to the perils that
threatened all who lived along the banks of the furious Evergreen River.

Max too had given more than a few thoughts to this fact during the
earlier part of that eventful day.

"The way we're going," he told Steve, "we ought to be down there before
a great while; and let's hope we'll strike luck, and get a chance to go
ashore."

"And also find the girls all right," added Steve, who had apparently
quite forgotten how Bessie had recently cut him cruelly, while
suffering from an unfortunate misunderstanding.

"But what ails Toby there; he seems to be excited over something?" Max
went on to exclaim; for Toby was bending forward, and showed plain
evidences of growing interest.

"Hey! fellers!" he now burst out with, "just looky there, will you?
We're in for a f-f-fresh lot of t-t-trouble seems like.  W-w-watch him
p-p-pop up again, would you?  Whew! but he's a b-b-bouncer, too,
biggest I ever saw in my born days, and must be twenty feet long.  Max,
it's a s-s-sure enough s-s-sea serpent, ain't it, now?"


CHAPTER VII

THE SUBMERGED FARM-HOUSE

"Gee whiz! where is it, Toby?" cried Steve.  "And none of us got a gun
along, worse luck.  Hey, show me the sea serpent, and p'raps my camera
ain't so wet but what I might crack off a picture of the same; because
nobody's ever going to believe you when you tell that yarn.  Show me,
Toby!"

Toby was only too willing to comply.  He had always had a decided
weakness for collecting all sorts of wild animals, and that might
explain why he displayed such extraordinary excitement now.

"There, right over past the end of the r-r-raft, where it s-s-sticks up
like a c-c-church spire!" he stuttered, pointing as he spoke.  "Now
watch everybody, when he pokes his old h-h-head up again.  There, don't
you s-s-see?  And s-s-say, he seems to be s-s-swimmin' this way, don't
he?"

Steve broke out into a yell.

"Why, bless your old timid soul, Toby, that isn't any snake at all,
only one of those big wild-grape vines, like enough, that's ketched on
to that floating tree trunk close by.  She's all twisted and turned,
and I reckon a fellow as crazy over wild animals and things, like you
are, might be excused for thinkin' it was a regular sea serpent."

Bandy-legs too was showing amusement.

"Guess that's the way nearly all sea serpents are discovered," he
remarked, trying to make it appear as though he had not been almost as
excited as Toby, when the other burst out so suddenly with his
announcement.

"Well, we haven't lost any snakes," commented Max, "and so we won't try
to rescue that floating vine.  We've had our turn at saving menageries,
seems to me, enough for one season anyway."

What Max referred to was a series of remarkable adventures that came to
the four chums at a time when a storm blew down the tents belonging to
a circus about to exhibit in Carson, and liberating many of the animals
connected with the menagerie; but full particulars of this thrilling
experience have already been given in the volume preceding this, so
that further explanation would seem to be unnecessary here.

Toby did not make any reply.  He rubbed his eyes pretty hard, as though
wondering how they could have deceived him so strangely.  But then a
fellow who was devoting so much of his thoughts to the mania for
strange pets in the shape of wild animals might be expected to see
things in a different light from his chums, who were not addicted to
that weakness.

"For one," said Bandy-legs, "I'm real glad it wasn't a snake, because
they always give me the creeps, you remember, I hate 'em so.  Just
think what a fine pickle we'd be in now if a monster anaconda or a big
boa constrictor or python, broke loose from a show, should climb up on
our bridge boat, and start to chasin' us all overboard.  Things look
bad enough as they are without our takin' on a bunch of new trouble.
So, Toby, please don't glimpse anything else, and give us fits, will
you?"

Steve seemed to be intently watching the shore, especially whenever the
revolving timbers brought them in a line with the western bank, because
that was more familiar to the boys than the other, since Carson lay on
that side of the river toward the setting sun.

"I'm trying to make out where we are, Max," he explained, upon seeing
that the other was observing him curiously.

Bandy-legs uttered a loud and significant grunt.

"Say, Steve," he remarked with a touch of satire in his voice, "I can
tell you that much, if you're all mixed up.  We're squattin' on the
remains of our bloomin' bridge, which used to cross the river in front
of Carson; yes-siree, and we seem to be takin' an unexpected voyage
downstream, without a port in sight.  'Water, water everywhere, and not
a drop to drink,' as the ship-wrecked sailor used to sing; only we
_could_ manage with this muddy stuff if we had to, because it ain't
salty, you know."

"How far have we come, Max?" Steve continued, anxious to know, and
pretending to pay no attention to Bandy-legs' humorous remarks.

"I'm trying to figure it out myself, Steve," admitted the other, who
had also been studying the shore line, though everything was so changed
during the high water that it was difficult to recognize land marks
that had previously been quite familiar to him; "and the best I can
make out is that we must be somewhere near Dixon's Point, where the
river makes that first sharp curve."

"And, Max, that's about fifteen miles below Carson, isn't it?" Steve
added, as he twisted his head the better to look down-stream again.

"Something like fifteen or sixteen, Steve."

"And if Asa French's place is twenty, we ought to strike in there right
soon, hadn't we, Max?"

"Before ten minutes more, like as not," Max told him.

Steve drew in a long breath.  He was undoubtedly wondering what the
immediate future had in store for them, and whether some strange
fortune might not bring him in close touch with Bessie.  He doubtless
had been picturing this girl friend of his in all sorts of thrilling
situations, owing to the rapidly rising river, and always with some one
that looked suspiciously like Steve Dowdy rushing valiantly to the
relief of the helpless ones.

Steve had once tried to play the hero part, and stopped what he
believed was a runaway horse, with Bessie in the vehicle, only to have
her scornfully tell him to mind his own business after that, since he
had spoiled her plans for proving that their old family nag still had
considerable speed left in him.

Steve had never forgotten the scorn and sarcasm that marked the girl's
face and voice when she said that to him.  It had come back to his mind
many times since that occasion; and he had kept aloof from all social
events ever since, because he did not mean to be snubbed again.  And
even now, when he was picturing Bessie in real trouble, he kept telling
himself that he meant to make sure she was surely in danger of
drowning, or something like that, before he ventured to try and succor
her.  "Because," Steve told himself, "once bit, twice shy; and not if I
know it will I ever give any girl the chance again to say I'm trying to
show off."

All the same his eyes seldom roved in any other quarter now but
down-stream, which was mute evidence that Steve was thinking about
other peoples' troubles besides his own.

"We couldn't do anything to help move this old raft closer to shore,
could we, Max?" Bandy-legs was suggesting.

"Hardly, though I'd like to first-rate," he was told; "but it's too
cumbersome for us to move it, even if we pulled off some boards to use
as paddles.  So it looks as if we'd have to trust to luck to take us in
the right quarter for making our escape."

"Well, we can be ready, and if the chance comes, make the plunge,"
Bandy-legs continued, "We're all so wringing wet as it is that if we
had to jump in and swim a piece it wouldn't hurt any.  Just remember
that I'm ready if the rest of you are.  I'm not caring any too much for
this sort of a boat.  It keeps on turning around too many times, like a
tub in a tub race, and you never know what minute you're going to be
dumped out, if it takes a notion to kick up its heels and dive."

"Don't look a g-g-gift horse in the m-m-mouth, Bandy-legs!" advised
Toby.

Steve was manifesting more and more restlessness.

"Max, you've been down this far before, I reckon, even if most all our
camping trips were to the north and west of Carson?" he asked, turning
to the leader.

"Yes, several times, to tell you the truth," admitted Max; "but with
the flood on, things look so different ashore that it's pretty hard to
tell where you are.  Why do you ask me that, Steve?"

"Do you remember whether there's a bend about a mile or so above the
French farm house?" continued Steve.

After reflecting for several seconds Max gave his answer.

Queen. Be kind and courteous to this Gentleman; Hop in his walks, and
gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricots and dewberries; With
purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries; The honey-bags steal
from the humble bees, And for night-tapers, crop their waxen thighs,
And light them at the fiery glow-worms eyes, To have my love to-bed,
and to arise:
Nod to him, Elves, and do him courtesies.

Pease. Hail, mortal, hail!

Cob. Hail!

Moth. Hail!

Queen. Come, wait upon him, lead him to my bow'r.

The moon, methinks, looks with a watry eye, And when she weeps, weep ev'ry
little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity.

Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently. [Exeunt.

SCENE Another part of the Wood.

Enter Oberon.

Ob.

I wonder if Titania be awak'd:
Then what it was that next came in her eye, Which she must doat on in
extremity?

Enter Puck.

Here comes my messenger! how now, mad sprite!
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?

Puck. My mistress with a mortal is in love.

Ob. This falls out well and fortunate in truth; Now to my Queen, and
beg her Indian youth:
And then I will her charmed eye release From mortals view, and all
things shall be peace.

Away, away, make no delay, We may effect this business yet ere day. [Exit
Puck.

AIR.

Up and down, up and down, We will trip it up and down.
We will go through field and town, We will trip it up and down.

[Exit Oberon.

SCENE The Wood and Bower.

Enter Queen of Fairies, Bottom; Fairies attending and the King
behind them.

Queen. Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed.
Say wilt thou hear some music sweet dove.
Bot. I have a reasonable good ear in music.
DUET. By 1st and 2d Fairy.
Welcome, welcome to this place, Favorite of the Fairy Queen; Zephyrs,
play around his face, Wash, ye dews, his graceful mien.
Pluck the wings from butterflies, To fan the moon-beams from his
eyes; Round him in eternal spring Grashoppers and crickets sing.
By the spangled starlight sheen, Nature's joy he walks the green;
Sweet voice, fine shape, and graceful mien, Speak him thine, O Fairy
Queen!

Queen. Or say, sweet love, what thou desir'st to eat.
I have a ventrous Fairy that shall seek The squirrels hoard, and
fetch thee new nuts.
Bot. I pray you, let none of your people stir me; I have an exposition
of sleep come upon me.
Queen. Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms; Fairies begone,
and be always away.
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist.
O how I love thee! how I doat on thee! [They sleep.
Enter Puck, at one door, Oberon and 1st Fairy at another.
Ob. Welcome, good Robin! See'st thou this sweet sight?
Her dotage now I do begin to pity:
For meeting her of late behind the wood, I then did ask of her her
changeling child, Which strait she gave me; wherefore I'll undo
This hateful imperfection of her eyes:
[He strokes her eyes with the flower.
Now, Fairy, sing the charm.

AIR.

1st Fai.They would have all
they could do to find a way to gain the shore, and cheat the flood of
its prey.  Max could not forget that some twenty miles below where they
were now the river plunged over a high dam; and even in time of flood
this might prove to be their Waterloo, if they were prevented from
getting on land before the broken bridge timbers reached that
obstruction.

"Now, look, everybody, because we're turning the bend!" Steve called
out, in his great excitement hardly knowing what he was saying.

Eagerly they strained their eyes.  The strange craft swung around the
bend, and continued to keep edging toward the west side of the river.
A broad expanse of turgid water met their eyes, broken here and there
with a few objects such as treetops.

Once there had been numerous barns and out-buildings connected with the
French farm, but everything had apparently been swept clean away saving
the house itself, and that still stood, although the flood was even
then three quarters of the way up to the gutters of the roof, and must
be exerting a tremendous pressure that could not much longer be baffled.

"Oh! it's still standing, Max!" shouted Steve, hoarsely; "who'd ever
think it could have held out so long?  I tell you that's a bully old
house, and built like a regular Gibraltar.  But, Max, don't you glimpse
something up there clinging to the roof?  Somehow I don't seem able to
see as clear as I might; I don't know what's the matter with me."

But Max knew that Steve was blinking as fast as he could, to dry the
tears that had come unbidden into his eyes under the excess of his
emotions.

"I honestly believe it's the girls!" he exclaimed, startled himself at
making such a thrilling discovery.

Steve gave a cry of dismay.

"Whatever can they be doing up there; and where's Bessie's Uncle Asa,
that he's left them all alone in the storm?  Oh!  Max, we've just got
to work over to the house and help them.  Do you think we're heading
that way fast enough?  Ain't there any way we could help the old raft
to hurry up, and strike the house so we could climb up there?  Well, if
the worst comes I'm meaning to swim for it, current or no current."

"Wait and see!" cautioned Max; "I'm still thinking we'll swing far
enough around to strike against the upper side of the house.  I only
hope the blow doesn't finish things, and topple the submerged building
over."

This gave Steve something new to worry over.  He started to shouting,
and waving his hat vigorously, and received answering signals from
those who were perched on the sloping roof of the farmhouse.

Doubtless the ones in peril may have been praying for rescuers to heave
in sight, but certainly it could never have entered into their heads to
conjure up such a strange way for assistance to come to them, in the
shape of a raft composed of the timbers of the wrecked Carson bridge.

But so great had been their terror, when surrounded by those wild and
rising waters, that no doubt they gladly welcomed the possibility of
help in any shape.  Besides, the coming of those four husky and
resourceful lads was a thing not to be despised.  Though they may not
have owned a motorboat, or even a skiff, they had sturdy arms and
active brains, and would surely find some way to serve those who just
then seemed to be in great need of assistance.


CHAPTER VIII

REFUGEES OF THE ROOF

"Hi! here's more trouble!" cried Bandy-legs, while they were
approaching the inundated farmhouse, borne on the sweeping current of
the flood.

"What's the matter now?" called Steve, so anxious about the safety of
those who clung to the sloping roof of the doomed building that he
would not even turn his head all the way around, but shot the words
back over his shoulder.

"Why, the blooming old wreck's going all to pieces, so that we'll each
have to pick out a timber, and straddle mighty soon, if it keeps on
this way!" Bandy-legs informed him.

This caused Max to take a little survey in order to satisfy himself
that what the other said was true.  What he discovered did not bring
much assurance of comfort.  Just as the sharp-eyed chum had declared,
the remnant of the broken bridge was being by degrees torn apart by the
violence of its fall and the subsequent action of conflicting currents
of water.

It materially changed his plans, formed on the spur of the moment, when
they had discovered the victims of the flood on the roof of the
farmhouse.  Instead of taking them off, as he had at first intended, it
now began to look as though he and his comrades would be compelled to
seek refuge alongside the girls.

This was not a pleasant thought, for Max could see that the building
was very near the collapsing point as it was, and might topple over at
any minute.

Max was, however, a boy who would accept what fortune offered, and do
the best he could with it.  Once on the roof, they could turn their
attention to some other method of escape; at any rate they had no
choice in the matter.

"We've got to climb up where they are, that's plain," he observed; "and
if this stuff strikes the end of the house we'll be lucky enough."

"Then do we have to let it go, and be marooned up there?" asked
Bandy-legs, in a forlorn tone.

"Looks that way," Steve went on to say, and somehow he did not seem to
share the gloom that had gripped Bandy-legs, possibly because it began
to look as though the glorious chance had come at last to show the
girls he could do his duty without any boasting, and never meant to
pose as a great hero.

"But why can't we hold on to some of these timbers, and make a jolly
old raft?" Bandy-legs continued eagerly.

"Hurrah! that's the t-t-ticket!" Toby was heard to remark; "I never yet
read about a R-r-robinson C-c-crusoe but what he made him a r-r-raft!"

"It might be a good idea, boys," admitted Max, "but I'm afraid you'll
find it more than you can manage.  Then besides, even if you did get
some of the timbers to stick there, how could you fasten them together
so as to make that raft?  Show me your ropes and I'll join in with you
mighty quick.  But it isn't going to be the easiest thing going to
climb up that wobbly roof; and we'll all be glad to find ourselves
perching up on that ridge-pole with the girls, I think."

That dampened the enthusiasm and ardor of Bandy-legs considerably.
Like the rest of them he realized that what Max said was about true,
and that they could not expect to pay much attention to the parting
timbers, once they reached the house.  It would be all they could do to
get up on the roof.

"Are we going to hit up against it, Max?" asked Steve, struggling
between hope and fear, as they rapidly bore down toward the partly
submerged farm building.

"Yes, there's no doubt about that," came the quick reply; "and come to
think of it, we can get up where they are better by working our way
around to that lower end to the right.  Every fellow look out for
himself when the time comes."

"Give us the word, Max?" Steve asked.

"All right, when you hear me shout 'now,' make your jump, and be sure
you've picked out the right place beforehand, or you may drop back
again."

Max could say no more, because they were so close to the little island
in the midst of the raging flood that he had to conserve his breath in
order to make a successful leap himself.

On the roof crouched the two girls, Bessie French and Mazie Dunkirk,
together with a little lame cousin of the former, a girl of about
eight.  All of them were greatly interested in the coming of the boys,
and stared eagerly at the remarkable craft that was bearing them on the
surface of the flood.  Perhaps they may have already jumped to the
conclusion that the whole town of Carson had been inundated and swept
away, and that these five lads might be the sole remaining survivors.
That thought would in part account for their white faces; though of
course their own perilous situation was enough to give them pale cheeks.

Max was on the alert.  Just as the timbers came alongside the lower
edge of the roof he shot out that one energetic word:

"Now!"

Immediately every fellow was in motion, and as they had selected their
landing places beforehand, they fortunately did not interfere with each
other's movements.  Such a remarkable scrambling as followed; if you
have ever watched a cat that has made too risky a jump, barely get her
claws fastened on a limb, and then strain to clamber up, you can
imagine something of the efforts of Toby and Bandy-legs in particular,
as they did not seem to be quite as fortunate as the others.

But none of them dropped back into the river, and that was worth
noticing.  The girls continued to utter various exclamations of alarm
and excitement as they watched their supposed-to-be rescuers trying to
join them on the roof.  Bessie even clapped her hands when Bandy-legs
after a series of contortions that would have done credit to a
professional athlete, managed to crawl over the edge, assisted by a
hand given him, not from Max, nor yet Steve, but the despised Shack
Beggs, who seemed to have had no difficulty whatever in making the
landing, for he was a muscular fellow, and as wiry as a cat.

So they climbed up the slope of the submerged farm house, and joined
those who were already perched along the ridgepole, like so many birds
awaiting the time for flight.

Bandy-legs watched the timbers bumping against the side of the house
until they parted company, and floated swiftly away in smaller
sections.  He felt like waving a sad farewell after the strange craft
that had borne them all the way down the valley; never would he forget
how it looked, passing away in pieces, as though its mission had been
completed after allowing them to reach the farm-house.

There had been three refugees of the flood on the roof before; now
their number had increased to eight.  But whether the coming of the
boys added anything to the hopefulness of the situation remained to be
proved.

At least it seemed to have cheered up both girls considerably.  Mazie
welcomed the coming of Max when he climbed to a place beside her, with
a look that was intended to be sunny, but bordered on the pitiful.
Truth to tell the poor girl had just passed through the most terrible
experience of her young life, having had responsibility crowded upon
her in the absence of older heads.

"Oh!  I am _so_ glad you have come to help us, Max!" she told him,
after they had shaken hands like good friends, which they always had
been.

Max tried to laugh at that; he thought there was altogether too much
gloom in the gathering, and it would be better for all hands to
discover some sort of rift in the clouds.

"A queer old way of coming to help you, I should say, Mazie," he told
her.  "What you saw floating off after it carried us here was all that
is left of the Carson bridge, which was carried away by the flood an
hour or so ago."

"Oh! were there many people on it when it fell?" asked Bessie French,
her eyes filled with suspense; she had pretended not to pay any
attention to Steve, who had deliberately found a place beside her, and
was sitting there as though he had a perfect right, and that nothing
disagreeable had ever come up between them; but in spite of her seeming
indifference she was watching him out of the tail of her eye all the
same, just as a girl will.

"I'm glad to say that we were the only ones who went down with the
bridge," Max hastened to tell her, knowing that she had loved ones in
Carson, about whose safety she must naturally feel anxious.

"And all of you managed to cling to the timbers of the bridge?"
questioned Mazie, looking with open admiration, first at Max, and then
those with him, until a puzzled frown came on her pretty face, for she
had finally noticed Shack Beggs, and could not understand how a boy of
his bad reputation chanced to be in the company of Max and his chums.

"Yes, it wasn't so hard, after we got settled in the water," Max
explained.  "We had the railing to help us out.  And a little later we
managed to help Shack in out of the wet, for he was on the bridge at
the same time, being thrown into the water when it collapsed."

"What a strange thing that you should be carried right down to where we
were in such dreadful need of help; and on such a remarkable boat,
too," Mazie went on to say, with a tinge of color in her cheeks now,
which spoke volumes for the confidence she felt in the ability of this
particular boy to discover some means for bringing about their eventual
rescue.

When civil a dudgeon, &c.] Dudgeon. Who made the alterations in the last
Edition of this poem I know not, but they are certainly sometimes for
the worse; and I cannot believe the Author would have changed a
word so proper in that place as dudgeon for that of fury, as it
is in the last Edition.

To take in dudgeon, is inwardly to resent some injury or affront; a
sort of grumbling in the gizzard, and what is previous to actual
fury.

24 b That could as well, &c.] Bind over to the Sessions as being a Justice
of the Peace in his County, as well as Colonel of a Regiment of
Foot in the Parliament's army, and a committee-Man.
38 c As MONTAIGNE, &c.]

Montaigne, in his Essays, supposes his cat thought him a fool, for losing
his time in playing with her.

62 d To make some, &c.] Here again is an alteration without any
amendment; for the following lines,
And truly, so he was, perhaps, Not as a Proselyte, but for Claps,
Are thus changed,
And truly so, perhaps, he was; 'Tis many a pious Christian's case.

The Heathens had an odd opinion, and have a strange reason why
Moses imposed the law of circumcision on the Jews, which, how
untrue soever, I will give the learned reader an account of without
translation, as I find it in the annotations upon Horace, wrote by
my worthy and learned friend Mr.

William Baxter, the great restorer of the ancient and promoter of modern
learning.
Hor. Sat. 9. Sermon. Lib. I. -- Curtis; quia pellicula imminuti sunt;
quia Moses Rex Judoeorum, cujus Legibus reguntur, negligentia PHIMOZEIS
medicinaliter exsectus est, & ne soles esset notabi omnes circumcidi
voluit. Vet. Schol. Vocem. -- (PHIMOZEIS qua inscitia Librarii exciderat
reposuimus ex conjectura, uti & medicinaliter exsectus pro medicinalis
effectus quae nihil erant.)

Quis miretur ejusmodi convicia homini Epicureo atque Pagano excidisse?
Jure igitur Henrico Glareano Diaboli Organum videtur. Etiam Satyra
Quinta haec habet: Constat omnia miracula certa ratione fieri, de quibus
Epicurei prudentissime disputant. [Circumcised: Moses the King of the
Jews, by whose laws they are ruled, and whose foreskin overhung
(the tip of his penis), had this blockage carelessly medicinally
removed, and not wishing to be alone wanted them all to be
circumcised.

(We have tentatively restored the word BLOCKAGE, which the scribe's
incompetence has omitted, and substituted medically removed for
carried out by a doctor which was never there.)

Who shall wonder that this kind of cutting caused an outcry by Epicureans
and Pagans? It can be seen therefore, why Henricus Glareanus judged it
an implement of the devil. So the Fifth Satire has it: It is certain
that every miracle can be fitted into the philosophical systems
which the Epicureans most carefully discuss.]
66 e Profoundly skill'd, &c.]

Analytick is a part of logic, that teaches to decline and construe
reason, as grammar does words.

93 f A Babylonish, &c.]

A confusion of languages, such as some of our modern Virtuosi used
to express themselves in.

103 g Or CERBERUS himself, &c.] Cerberus; a name which poets give a
dog with three heads, which they feigned door- keeper of Hell,
that caressed the unfortunate souls sent thither, and devoured them
that would get out again; yet Hercules tied him up, and made him follow.
This dog with three heads denotes the past, the present, and the time
to come; which receive, and, as it were, devour all things.

Hercules got the better of him, which shews that heroic actions are
always victorious over time, because they are present in the memory
of posterity.

115 h That had the, &c.] Demosthenes, who is said to have had a defect
in his pronunciation, which he cured by using to speak with little
stones in his mouth.

120 i Than TYCHO BRAHE, &c.] Tycho Brahe was an eminent Danish
mathematician. Quer. in Collier's Dictionary, or elsewhere.

131 k Whatever Sceptick, &c.] Sceptick. Pyrrho was the chief of the
Sceptick Philosophers, and was at first, as Apollodorus saith, a
painter, then became the hearer of Driso, and at last the disciple
of Anaxagoras, whom he followed into India, to see the Gymnosophists.

He pretended that men did nothing but by custom; there was neither
honesty nor dishonesty, justice nor injustice, good nor evil. He was
very solitary, lived to be ninety years old, was highly esteemed in
his country, and created chief priest. He lived in the time of Epicurus
and Theophrastus, about the 120th Olympiad.

His followers were called Phyrrhonians; besides which they were named
the Ephecticks and Aphoreticks, but more generally Scepticks.

This sect made their chiefest good to consist in a sedateness of mind,
exempt from all passions; in regulating their opinions, and
moderating their passions, which they called Ataxia and Metriopathia;
and in suspending their judgment in regard of good and evil, truth
or falsehood, which they called Epechi.

Sextus Empiricus, who lived in the second century, under the Emperor
Antoninus Pius, writ ten books against the mathematicians or astrologers,
and three of the Phyrrhonian opinion. The word is derived from the
Greek SKEPTESZAI, quod est, considerare, speculare. [To consider or
speculate]

143 l He cou'd reduce, &c.] The old philosophers thought to extract
notions out of natural things, as chymists do spirits and essences;
and, when they had refined them into the nicest subtilties, gave them
as insignificant names as those operators do their extractions: But (as
Seneca says) the subtiler things are they are but the nearer to
nothing.

So are all their definitions of things by acts the nearer to nonsense.

147 m Where Truth, &c.] Some authors have mistaken truth for a real thing,
when it is nothing but a right method of putting those notions or
images of things (in the understanding of man) into the same and
order that their originals hold in nature, and therefore Aristotle
says Unumquodque sicut habet secundum esse, ita se habet secundum
veritatem.

Met. L. ii. [As every thing has a secondary essence, therefore it has a
secondary truth]
148 n Like words congeal'd, &c.]

Some report in Nova Zembla, and Greenland, mens' words are wont to
be frozen in the air, and at the thaw may heard.

151 In School-Divinity as able, As o he that Hight, Irrefragable,
&c.]

Here again is another alteration of three or lines, as I think, for
the worse.

Some specific epithets were added to the title of some famous
doctors, as Angelicus, Irrefragabilis, Subtilis, [Angelic, Unopposable,
Discriminating] &c.

Vide Vossi Etymolog.
Baillet Jugemens de Scavans, & Possevin's Apparatus
153 p A Second THOMAS or at once, To name them all, another DUNCE.
Thomas Aquinas, a Dominican friar, was born in 1224, and studied
at Cologne and Paris.

He new modelled the school- divinity, and was therefore called the
Angelic Doctor, and Eagle of Divines. The most illustrious persons of
his time were ambitious of his friendship, and put a high value
on his merits, so that they offered him bishopricks, which he refused
with as much ardor as others seek after them.

He died in the fiftieth year of his age, and was canonized by Pope
John XII. We have his works in eighteen volumes, several times
printed.

Johannes Dunscotus was a very learned man, who lived about the end
of the thirteenth and beginning of the fourteenth century. The English
and Scotch strive which of them shall have the honour of his birth. The
English say, he was born in Northumberland: the Scots alledge he was
born at Duns, in the Mers, the neighbouring county to Northumberland,
and hence was called Dunscotus.

Moreri, Buchanan, and other Scotch historians, are of this opinion,
and for proof cite his epitaph:

Scotia me genuit, Anglia suscepit, Gallia edocuit, Germania tenet.
[Scotland bore me, England reared me, France instructed me, Germany
kept me.]
He died at Cologne, Novem. 8. 1308.

In the Supplement to Dr.
Cave's Historia Literaria, he is said to be extraordinary learned in
physicks, metaphysicks, mathematicks, and astronomy; that his fame was
so great when at Oxford, that 30,000 scholars came thither to hear
his lectures: that when at Paris, his arguments and authority
carried it for the immaculate conception of the Blessed Virgin; so
that they appointed a festival on that account, and would admit us
scholars to degrees but such as were of this mind.

He was a great opposer of Thomas Aquinas's doctrine; and, for being a
very acute logician, was called Doctor Subtilis; [Discriminating (or,
literally, Slender) Teacher] which was the reason also, that an
old punster always called him the Lathy Doctor.
158 q As tough as, &c.]

Sorbon was the first and most considerable college of the university
of Paris, founded in time reign of St.

Lewis, by Robert Sorbon, which name is sometimes given to the whole
University of Paris, which was founded, about the year 741, by
Charlemagne, at the persuasion of the learned Alcuinus, who was one
of the first professors there; since which time it has been very
famous.

This college has been rebuilt with an extraordinary magnificence,
at the charge of Cardinal Richlieu, and contains lodgings for
thirty-six doctors, who are called the Society of Sorbon.

Those which are received among them before they have received their
doctor's degree are only said to be of the Hospitality of Sorbon. Claud.
Hemeraus de Acad. Paris. Spondan in Annal.

173 r he knew, &c.] There is nothing more ridiculous than the various
opinions of authors about the seat of Paradise.

Sir.
Walter Raleigh has taken a great deal of pains to collect them, in
the beginning of his History of the World; where those, who are
unsatisfied, may be fully informed.

180 s By a High-Dutch, &c.]

Goropius Becanus endeavours to prove that High-Dutch was the language
that Adam and Eve spoke in Paradise.

181 t If either of &c.]

Adam and Eve being made, and not conceived and formed in the womb had
no navels as some learned men have supposed, because they had no need
of them.

182 u Who first made, &c.] Musick is said to be invented by Pythagoras,
who first found out the proportion of notes from the sounds of
hammers upon an anvil
232 w Like MAHOMET's &c.) Mahomet had a tame dove, that used to pick
seeds out of his ear that it might be thought to whisper and inspire
him.

His ass was so intimate with him, that the Mahometans believed it carried
him to heaven, and stays there with him to bring him back again.
257 x It was Monastick, and did grow In holy Orders by strict Vow.

He made a vow never to cut his beard until the Parliament had subdued
the King; of which order of phanatick votaries there were many in those
times.

281 y So learned TALIACOTIUS &c.] Taliacotius was an Italian surgeon,
that found out a way to repair lost and decayed noses. This Taliacotius
was chief surgeon to the Great Duke of Tuscany, and wrote a treatise,
De Curtis Membris, [Of Cut-off Parts] which he dedicates to his
great master wherein he not only declares the models of his wonderful
operations in restoring of lost members, but gives you cuts of the
very instruments and ligatures he made use of therein; from hence
our Author (cum poetica licentia [with poetic licence]) has taken
his simile.

289 z For as AENEAS, &c.]

AEneas was the son of Anchises and Venus; a Trojan, who, after long
travels, came to Italy, and after the death of his father-in-law,
Latinus, was made king of Latium, and reigned three years. His story
is too long to insert here, and therefore I refer you to Virgil's
AEneids.

Troy being laid in ashes, he took his aged father Anchises upon his
back, and rescued him from his enemies.

But being too solicitous for his son and household gods, he lost his
wife Creusa; which Mr.

Dryden, in his excellent translation, thus expresseth.

Haste my dear father (tis no time to wait,) And load my shoulders
with a willing freight.

Whate'er befals, your life shall be my care; One death, or one deliv'rance,
we will share.
My hand shall lead our little son; and you, My faithful consort,
shall our steps pursue.

337 a -- For ARTHUR, &c.]

Who this Arthur was and whether any ever reigned in Britain, has been
doubted heretofore, and is by some to this very day.

However, the history of him, which makes him one of the nine worthies
of the world, is a subject, sufficient for the Poet to be pleasant
upon.

359 b -- Toledo trusty, &c.]

The capital city of New Castile, Spain, with an archbishopric and
primacy.

It was very famous, amongst other things, for tempering the best metal
for swords, as Damascus was and perhaps may be still.

389 c But left the trade, as many more Have lately done, &c.
Oliver Cromwell and Colonel Pride had been both brewers.

433 d That CAESAR's Horse, who, as Fame goes, Had corns upon his
Feet and Toes.

Julius Caesar had a horse with feet like a man's. Utebatur equo insigni;
pedibus prope humanis, modum digitorum ungulis fissis. [He rode a horse
with this distinction; it had feet like a man's, having the hooves split
like toes] Suet. in Jul. Cap. 61.

467 c The mighty Tyrian Queen, that gain'd With subtle Shreds a Tract
of Land.
Dido, Queen of Carthage, who bought as much land as she could
compass with an ox's hide, which she cut into small thongs, and
cheated the owner of so much ground as served her to build Carthage
upon.

476 f As the bold, &c.]

AEneas, whom Virgil reports to use a golden bough for a pass to hell;
and taylors call that place Hell where they put all they steal.

526 g As three, &c.] Read the great Geographical Dictionary, under that
word.

520 h In Magick, &c.] Talisman is a device to destroy any sort of
vermin, by casting their images in metal, in a precise minute, when the
stars are perfectly inclined to do them all the mischief they can.
This has been experienced by some modern Virtuosi upon rats, mice,
and fleas, and found (as they affirm) to produce the effect with
admirable success.

Raymund Lully interprets cabal, out of the Arabic, to signify
Scientia superabundans; which his commentator, Cornelius Agrippa, by
over-magnifying, has rendered a very superfluous foppery.

532 i As far as, &c.] The author of Magia Adamica endeavours to prove the
learning of the ancient Magi to be derived from that knowledge
which God himself taught Adam in Paradise before the fall.
535 And much of Terra Incognita, The intelligible World cou'd say.

The intelligible world is a kind of Terra Del Fuego, or Psittacorum
Regio[Land of Parrots], &c. discovered only by the philosophers; of
which they talk, like parrots, what they do not understand.

538 k learned &c.] No nation in the world is more addicted to this
occult philosophy than the Wild-Irish are, as appears by the whole
practice of their lives; of which see Camden in his description
of Ireland.

539 l Or Sir AGRIPPA, &c.]

They who would know more of Sir Cornelius Agrippa, here meant, may
consult the Great Dictionary.

541 m He ANTHROPOSOPHUS and FLOUD, And JACOB BEHMEN understood.
Anthroposophus is only a compound Greek word, which signifies a
man that is wise in the knowledge of men, as is used by some anonymous
author to conceal his true name.

Dr. Floud was a sort of an English Rosy-crucian, whose works are
extant, and as intelligible as those of Jacob Behmen.

545 n In ROSY-CRUCIAN Lore as learned As he that Vere Adeptus earned.
The fraternity of the Rosy-crucians is very like the sect of the
ancient Gnostici, who called them selves so from the excellent learning
they pretended to, although they were really the most ridiculous sots
of mankind.

Vere Adeptus is one that has commenced in their phanatick extravagance.

646 o Thou that with Ale or viler Liquors, Didst inspire WITHERS,
PRYN, and VICARS.
This Vicars was a man of as great interest and authority in the late
Reformation as Pryn or Withers, and as able a poet. He translated
Virgil's AEneids into as horrible Travesty, in earnest, as the
French Scaroon did in burlesque, and was only outdone in his way
by the politic author of Oceana.

714 p We that are, &c.]

This speech is set down as it was delivered by the Knight, in his own
words: But since it is below the gravity of heroical poetry to
admit of humour, but all men are obliged to speak wisely alike, and
too much of so extravagant a folly would become tedious and impertinent,
the rest of his harangues have only his sense expressed in other words,
unless in some few places, where his own words could not be so well
avoided.

753 q In bloody, &c.]

Cynarctomachy signifies no thing in the world but a fight between dogs
and bears; though both the learned and ignorant agree that in such
words very great knowledge is contained: And our Knight, as one, or
both, of these, was of the same opinion.

758 r Or Force, &c.] Averruncate: Another of the same kind, which, though
it appear ever so learned and profound, means nothing else but the
weeding of corn.

777 s The Indians fought for the Truth Of th' Elephant and Monkey's
Tooth.

The History of the White Elephant and the Monkey's-Tooth, which the
Indians adored, is written by Mons. le Blanc. This monkey's tooth was
taken by the Portuguese from those that worshipped it; and though
they offered a vast ransom for it, yet the Christians were persuaded
by their priests rather to burn it.
But as soon as the fire was kindled, all the people present were
not able to endure the horrible stink that came from it, as if the
fire had been made of the same ingredients with which seamen use
to compose that kind of granados which they call stinkards.
786 t The Rage, &c.]

Boute-feus is a French word, and therefore it were uncivil to suppose any
English person (especially of quality) ignorant of it, or so ill-bred
as to need an exposition.

903 u 'Tis sung, &c.] Mamaluke is the name of the militia of the Sultans
of Egypt. It signified a servant or soldier. They were commonly
captives taken from amongst the Christians, and instructed in military
discipline, and did not marry.

Their power was great; for besides that the Sultans were chosen out
of their body, they disposed of the most important offices of the
kingdom. They were formidable about 200 years; 'till at last
Selim, Sultan of the Turks, routed them, and killed their Sultan, near
Aleppo, 1516, and so put an end to the empire of Mamalukes, which had
lasted 267 years.

No question but the rhime to Mamaluke was meant Sir Samuel Luke, of whom
in the Preface.

913 w Honour is like, &c.] Our English proverbs are not impertinent to
this purpose:

He that woos a Maid, must seldom come in her sight:
But he that woos a Widow, must woo her Day and Night.
He that woos a Maid, must feign, lye, and flatter:
But he that woos a Widow, must down with his Breeches, and at her.

This proverb being somewhat immodest, Mr Ray says he would not have
inserted it in his collection, but that he met with it in a little
book, intitled, the Quakers' Spiritual Court Proclaimed; written by
Nathaniel Smith, Student in Physic; wherein the author mentions
it as counsel given him by Hilkiah Bedford, an eminent Quaker in
London, who would have had him to have married a rich widow, in
whose house he lodged.

In case he could get her, this Nathaniel Smith had promised Hilkiah a
chamber gratis. The whole narrative is worth the reading.

PART I.

CANTO II.

THE ARGUMENT.

------------------------------------------------- The catalogue and
character Of th' enemies best men of war; Whom, in bold harangue,
the Knight Defies, and challenges to fight.

H' encounters Talgol, routs the Bear, And takes the Fiddler prisoner,
Conveys him to enchanted castle; There shuts him fast in wooden
bastile.
-------------------------------------------------

THERE was an ancient sage philosopher, That had read ALEXANDER Ross
over, And swore the world, as he cou'd prove, Was made of fighting and
of love:
Just so romances are; for what else 5 Is in them all, but love and
battels?
O' th' first of these we've no great matter To treat of, but a world
o' th' latter; In which to do the injur'd right We mean, in what
concerns just fight. 10 Certes our authors are to blame, For to
make some well-sounding name A pattern fit for modern Knights To
copy out in frays and fights; Like those that a whole street do
raze 15 To build a palace in the place.

They never care how many others They kill, without regard of mothers,
Or wives, or children, so they can Make up some fierce, dead-doing man,
20 Compos'd of many ingredient valors, Just like the manhood of
nine taylors.
So a Wild Tartar, when he spies A man that's handsome, valiant, wise,
If he can kill him, thinks t' inherit 25 His wit, his beauty, and
his spirit As if just so much he enjoy'd As in another is destroy'd
For when a giant's slain in fight, And mow'd o'erthwart, or cleft
down right, 30 It is a heavy case, no doubt; A man should have his
brains beat out Because he's tall, and has large bones; As men kill
beavers for their stones.

admitted Steve, presently, while all of them
continued to stare eagerly at the advancing object; "but a derelict you
might say, because there's not a sign of anybody aboard.  And from the
way she rolls so logy, I bet you she's half full of water right now."

The girls began to utter little plaintive exclamations.

"But notice that she floats all right, Steve," Max hastened to tell
him; "and we'll soon find a way to empty that water out, if only we're
lucky enough to lay our hands on that craft."

"But d'ye think it'll come this way?" asked Bandy-legs; "because I'm
ready to swim out after it if there's any chance of the bloomin' old
tub giving our crowd the go-by."

"We've _got_ to get it, that's all," said Max, firmly; "I'd go after it
myself if I thought it would miss hitting the house here.  But let's
watch, and see how that comes out.  And, Bandy-legs, slip that noose at
the end of the balance of the rope under your arms.  If you do have to
swim out to waylay the boat, we can pull you back again whether you get
aboard or not."

"Now, that's a good idea, Max," Steve admitted.  "It sure takes you to
think up the right thing at the right time and place.  I don't reckon
there'll be such good luck as to be oars aboard a runaway boat; but
even then it's going to be better for the girls than a floating door."

"Oh!  I do hope you can get it then!" declared Bessie; and Steve
hearing her say this felt as though he ought to be the one to have that
noose fastened under his arms, rather than Bandy-legs, who could not
swim quite as good.

There was intense excitement on the roof of the imperiled farm-house
about that time.  Every one of them seemed to be watching the coming of
that bobbing object as though the fate of the world depended on its
taking a direct course for the building standing alone in the flood.

"Seems like she was coming right along over the same course we did; how
about that, Max?" called out Steve, presently, as the boat drew
steadily closer to the fugitives of the wash-out.

"Yes, as nearly as I can decide that's what she's doing, Steve," Max
replied.

"Oh! let's hope so," Mazie remarked, with a tremor in her voice, that
told of quivering lips, and rapidly beating heart.

"Looky there!" burst out Bandy-legs just then; "if she ain't takin' a
shoot this way even while we're sitting here wishing for the same to
happen.  I tell you she's going to hit the house ker-flop, too.  No
need of anybody jumpin' over and swimmin' out to her.  But I'll leave
the rope where it is, because I'll be in condition to roll off the
roof, and grab her before she c'n slide past."

Nearer and nearer came the boat.  It was easy to see that the craft was
partly waterlogged, though still having her gunnels a considerable
distance above the water.  Either the boat leaked terribly, or else
this water had splashed in from time to time as rougher places were
encountered.

"Ready, Bandy-legs!" cried Max.

"Watch your eyes, old fellow!" warned Steve.

"And d-d-don't you l-l-let her g-g-get away on your l-l-life!" added
Toby, who was greatly aroused, and had been edging down toward the
gutter for several minutes now, evidently bound to be ready to lend a
helping hand, if the other chum needed it.

It really seemed as though some unseen hand might be guiding that half
swamped rowboat, in the interest of those who were so greatly in need
of assistance; for it came heading in toward the house, urged on by the
grip of the changing current, and finally actually bumped confidingly
against the wall below the edge of the roof.

Bandy-legs was on the alert.  He dropped over instantly, and they heard
him utter a whoop of delight as he found himself actually in possession
of a boat.

His first act was to slip the noose from under his arms, and his next
to secure that end of the rope to the bow of the boat.  Then he started
in to make the water fly like everything, using his hat as a bailing
bucket.

When he had to rest for a minute Bandy-legs stood up so that his head
and shoulders came above the gutter of the roof, and grinned at the
rest.

"How does she seem to be, Bandy-legs?" asked Steve.

"Course I can't just say for certain yet," came the reply; "but looks
like our boat might be watertight, and that the waves have been
splashing aboard all the time she's been adrift.  Wait till I get the
rest of the stuff out, and then I'll know for sure."

"How about oars?" asked Max.

"Ain't nary a sign of the same around, and I'm afraid they must a been
washed overboard when--but hold on there, what's this I'm knocking
against every time I dip deep?  Say, here's luck in great big gobs,
fellers; it's an oar stuck under the thwarts, as sure as you live!
What, two of the same, seems like!  Well, well, what do you know about
that?  Couldn't have asked for anything better, could we?  Oh! don't I
wish I had all this water out, though."

He had hardly spoken when some one else dropped into the boat, and
started to hurling the water in great quantities over the side.  It was
Shack Beggs, and he had a tin basin in his hands.  Max remembered
having seen it floating around in the interior of the house, along with
many other things; but at the time, as none of them wanted to take a
wash, he had not bothered securing it.  Shack must have remembered the
basin, and realizing how well it might be utilized now as a bailing
bucket, he had slipped through the scuttle and secured it.

The water began to go down rapidly under their united efforts; though a
little kept coming in over the exposed side of the boat, as it rubbed
against the wall of the farm-house.

Seeing this Max managed to help the other boys shift the location of
their valued prize, and presently it was dangling alongside the three
floating doors, no longer of any moment in their eyes.

"When will we go aboard?" asked Steve, as a more violent shiver passed
over the doomed building than at any previous time.

"Right away," replied the other, who had felt his own heart stop
beating for a brief space of time, as he actually feared that the
catastrophe was about to overwhelm them.

"I'm willing, Max," said Mazie, trying to speak bravely.

"Then come, let me help you down; and the boys in the boat will be
there to do their part; after which we'll get the other girls aboard,"
and saying this Max proceeded to give Mazie his hand, so that she might
creep down the slope of the roof securely.

It was no easy task to manage things so that the three girls were all
taken on board without any accident; but then Shack Beggs again proved
himself invaluable, for it was his strong arms that held the boat close
to the house while the transfer was being made.  Max was secretly
delighted with the way Shack was turning out.  He actually believed
there would be another vacancy in the ranks of that gang of young
toughs in Carson after this; and was determined that if any friendly
word or act of his could induce Shack to turn over a new leaf, they
would certainly not be withheld.  Presently all of them had embarked.

The water by how was well out of the boat, and so far as they could see
not much more was coming in; and that could be readily handled, thanks
to the possession of that dented basin which Shack had twisted into a
handy scoop.

Max had fixed the rope so that by releasing one end it would allow the
boat to drop down the stream with the swift current.

Steve had one oar and Bandy-legs the other, thrust out, and ready for
use.

"Well, here's where we have to say good-bye to the French farm-house,"
and saying this Max let go the rope; "now, pull away, boys, and head
for the shore!"

It had already been decided which bank they must aim to reach; there
was really very little choice between them so far as nearness went; but
the boys thought it would be wiser to make for the west shore.  Carson
lay on that side, and then the ground as a whole lay somewhat higher,
so that once they landed they would be less liable to come across
impassable sloughs and lagoons formed by the back-water of the flooded
river.

Both rowers bent their backs, and the boat began to make progress.
They had not been laboring in this fashion three minutes when Bessie
gave utterance to a bubbling cry of anguish.

"Oh! see there what is happening to Uncle Asa's place!" she exclaimed.

The little lame girl set up a loud cry, and sobbed as though her heart
would break, because that farm-house had been her home all her life;
and it was now toppling over into the river.

They could see it moving, at first slowly, then with a sudden rush.  It
careened far on one side, and then surged to the other dreadfully.  Had
they still been clinging to the ridge the chances were that they would
have been thrown into the water; and besides, there was always great
danger that the house would fall to pieces before long.

"Well, we've got a whole lot to be thankful for, anyway!" Steve
presently remarked, as he patted Bessie's, hand with one of his, using
the oar with the other meanwhile.

"I should say we had!" declared Bandy-legs; "I'd rather be here in this
bully old boat ten times over, to squattin' up on that old roof,
seesawin' along every-which-way.  Here, pull harder, Steve; you're
lettin' her yaw around terrible.  We want to head for the shore and not
down-river way."

As the two rowers continued to work regularly they kept gradually
nearing the western shore of the flood.  Of course this was far removed
from what the bank must be under ordinary conditions, in places as much
as a quarter of a mile further inland.  The water was sweeping through
the lower branches of trees that all their lives had been far removed
from the influence of the river; and there would be many changes in the
aspect of things when the flood eventually subsided.

The girls sat there silent, and absorbed in watching the dizzy
evolutions of the drifting farmhouse that was rapidly passing away from
them down-stream.  Of course it meant more to the lame child than any
one else, and Max could feel sorry for her.  He had only to put himself
in her place, to realize the sadness that would be sure to overwhelm
him should he watch his loved home carried off, never to be seen again.

However he had many other things to think of, and could not spend any
time in crying over spilt milk.  Nothing they could do would mend
matters so far as saving the French home was concerned; and they had
enough to do in looking out for their own safety.

"If you get tired, let some of the rest of us spell you, boys," Max was
saying to the pair of rowers, who had all they could do to stem the
furious current that every now and then caught them in a pocket, from
which they could only drag the boat by desperate labor; "I'm a good
hand with the oar, and I know Shack is a regular crackerjack at the
business.  Just say the word when you get played out, and we'll change
places with you."

Shack shot him a grateful look.  It seemed as though he appreciated
what Max had said, and which seemed to place him on the same level as
the rest of the fellows.  Somehow Shack was feeling differently from
any time in the past; why, all this business of getting soaked through,
and battling with the flood was in the nature of a picnic to him,
accustomed to rubbing up against hard knocks as he was.  And it felt
pretty nice to be looked on as a "comrade" by these fellows whom he had
always fought tooth and nail in the past; much nicer than loafing with
that old crowd once led by Ted Shatter but now under the guidance of
Ossie Kemp.

They had struck another bad place in the flood, where cross currents
made it difficult work rowing.  Both boys strained themselves to the
utmost to resist the grip of the stream.  Once across this section, and
possibly they would have it easier all the way to the shore.

Steve was working with his accustomed fits and starts.  He would allow
things to go against him, for a short interval, and then throwing on
all his reserve power into the breach make his oar fairly bend with the
furious strain he put upon it.

Suddenly there was a sharp snap.  One of the girls gave a cry; it was
Bessie, for she had been watching Steve at the time, and saw instantly
what had happened.

Indeed, it was manifest to every one, because Steve almost took a
"crab" by falling backwards.  His sudden splurge had been too much for
the strength of the oar he was handling; and it had broken in two!

The catastrophe staggered them all for the moment; because they could
readily understand what it would mean; since with but one oar they
could hardly expect to continue rowing the boat to the shore, still
some little distance away.


CHAPTER XI

GOOD CHEER BY THE CAMP FIRE

Toby made a quick lurch, and managed to snatch up the broken blade of
Steve's now useless oar.  As they had no way of mending it, tin, nails,
or hammer, it was next-door to useless to them.

Already that fierce current was seizing them in its remorseless grip;
and the overloaded boat began to spin down-stream, turning around and
around in its helplessness.

"Gee! whiz! what can we do now, Max?" asked Bandy-legs, ready to jump
overboard if the other but said the word, and urge the boat toward the
shore by swimming on his back.

Before Max could frame a reply something happened.  Shack leaned
forward from toward the stern and took the oar from the hands of
Bandy-legs.

"Let me show yuh how tuh do it!" he said, not roughly at all, but
eagerly, as though just too well pleased to have it in his power to
assist.

Max understood what he meant to do; in fact, he had been about to
suggest the very same remedy for their ills when Shack made his move.

"There's a sculling hole in the back of the stern seat, Shack!" he
called out, being more up in the bow himself.

The oar upon being fitted in the cavity could be rapidly turned to the
right and to the left, with a peculiar motion known to those who have
learned the art of successfully sculling a craft in this way.  It is
wonderful what progress can be made in that fashion.  Shack seemed to
know all about it, for presently Bandy-legs emitted a whoop that would
have shamed an Indian brave.

"Say, you're making her just walk along, Shack, that's right!" he
exclaimed.

"And that oar going bad didn't knock us out at all, did it?" demanded
Steve, who felt sorely distressed because it had been his bungling way
of rowing that had brought about their trouble, and with Bessie on
board too, which cut him worse than anything else.

"Seems like it wouldn't," Max told him, feeling quite satisfied himself.

Shack kept working away like a good fellow, and the boat drew closer
and closer to the shore all the time.  There was now no reason to
believe that they would have any more trouble in landing; and Max began
to take closer notice of the shore than he had up to that time done.

"None of us have ever been as far down the river as this," he remarked;
"I know I haven't, anyway."

"I was down once years ago, and saw the big falls where we might have
taken a header if we'd kept drifting," Bandy-legs explained; "but say,
I don't seem to remember the first thing about the country.  You could
lose me down here without any trouble, I guess.  Plenty of forest all
right, eh, Max; and we won't have any great time makin' a fire, if only
we get matches?  Mine are all wet."

"I carry a few in a waterproof case," Max told him; "so don't let that
worry you any, Bandy-legs.  The question is with us, after the fire,
what?  We'll all be hungry and the girls haven't had a bite to eat
since early morning."

"Well, there's a house, surrounded by water," suggested Steve; "guess
we'll have to cabbage anything we can find around loose.  In times like
this you can't wait to ask permission.  Eat first, and pay for it
afterwards, that's the motto we'll have to go by.  If we're on the
right side of the luck fence we might even run across a smoked ham
hangin' from the rafters.  They keep all kinds of good things sometimes
in these cabins along the shore."

"Seems to be something like a hencoop back of the house," added
Bandy-legs.

"Oh! s-s-say, don't go to g-g-getting a feller's m-m-mouth all made up
for nice r-r-roast chicken, and then never find any," objected Toby.

"Course we'll find all sorts of good things," declared Bandy-legs,
stoutly; "why, look what's happened to us already; and tell me that
this ain't our lucky day.  We went down with the old bridge, but not
one of us got thrown into the water.  Then we sailed twenty miles, and
dropped in on the roof of the French house just like we'd been drawn by
a magnet, which p'raps some of us must a been, hey, Steve?  And then,
by George! just when we wanted a boat the worst ever, along came this
tub, and heading straight in for our shaky roost like it was being
piloted by hands none of us could see.  Luck?  Why, we've got it
plastered all over us, from head to foot.  Chickens, ham, anything you
want, just ask for it, and then wait and have faith!"

"We're glad that you feel so certain," Mazie told him, "because I'm
ready to own up that I'm awfully hungry, and could eat almost anything
just now."

"And I'm beginning to feel a little weak myself," admitted Bessie;
"which, I suppose, is caused from going without any regular meal.  None
of us dared go back down through that trap once we got on the roof,
because we were afraid the house might float off while we were below.
Yes, we hope there will be something you can get in that house."

"Seems to be abandoned, all right," Steve remarked, shading his eyes
with his hands in order to see better.

"There's somebody over on the bank beyond, and as near as I can make
out it's an old woman," Max told them just at that point; "perhaps
she's guarding some of the stuff that was saved from the cabin when the
water came up around it; while her man has gone to get a horse and
wagon, or a boat."

"Well, we're going to land here," Bandy-legs ventured; "and it won't be
hard to go up and interview the old lady.  P'raps we can make a bargain
with her for some of her grub.  I've got a dollar along with me, and I
reckon some of the rest ought to make as good a showing."

"There'll be no trouble about that part of it, if only the food is
around," Max assured them.  "If the worst comes we'll have to
commandeer the food market, and settle afterwards.  Can you make it all
right, Shack?"

"Easy as fallin' off a log," replied the stout boy, who was still
wielding the sculling oar back and forth with that peculiar turning
motion that presented the broad surface of the blade to the water all
the time, and induced the boat to move forward with a steady action.

He made his words good a few minutes later, for the stem of the boat
ran gently up against the bank, where a log offered a good chance for
disembarking.

No one would want a better landing stage; and so the three girls
managed to go ashore without wetting their feet any more than they had
been before.

Every one seemed glad to get on solid ground again.  Even Max secretly
admitted that it did feel very good to know he had no longer to depend
on the whims of the current, but could go wherever he willed.

"Let's hunt out a decent place to make a camp," he remarked, "and then
after we get the shelter started, and the cheery fire warming things
up, two of us ought to wander off up the bank and see what's doing
around that house."

"I'll go with yon, Max," said Bandy-legs hastily, as though more or
less afraid that he might come in a poor second, as it was a case of
"first come, first served."

They drew the boat well up, and fastened it with the length of rope
that served as a painter; the clothes-line Max thought to take along
with him, as there was a possibility they might need it before through
with this adventure.

Then they started through the woods, which just at this point happened
to be unusually dense, with great trees rearing their crests a hundred
feet or so above the heads of the shipwrecked Crusoes.

It was not long before Max called attention to a certain spot which he
claimed would answer all their present needs.

"There's plenty of stuff to make a shelter of brush and branches with,"
he observed, "though it would be easier all around if we had a hatchet
along."

"That's right," added Steve; "and if I'd only had any idea that old
bridge was going to dump us all into the drink the way it did I'd have
had lots of things fixed different, give you my affidavy I would.  But
we ought to be able to work a fairly decent brush shanty without.  It
won't be the first we've put up, and I certainly hope it isn't goin' to
be the last, either."

Filled with this winning spirit the boys quickly busied themselves.
Shack gathered brush with the rest, and really did more than his share
of the work.  This was right in his element, and no one had to tell him
how to proceed.

Max waited to see things progressing before he started off.  A fire had
already been started, and the cheery flames did much toward dispelling
the feeling of gloom that had begun to gnaw at their hearts.  There is
nothing in the world better calculated to dissipate worry and liven
things up than a genuine camp-fire.  It seems to dissipate doubt, give
the heart something to grip, and in every way make the prospect
brighter.

After escaping from the flood without any serious damage they were all
full of enthusiasm now.  Even the two older girls insisted on helping
later on; if only food could be procured the boys must let them do all
the cooking.  That was only a fair distribution of the labor; it was
what happened in Indian camps, with the warriors securing game, and the
squaws preparing the meals.

Presently Max, catching the eye of Bandy-legs, crooked his finger, and
made a significant gesture with his head.  The other understood just
what was in the wind for he dropped the armful of fuel he happened at
the time to be carrying toward the fire, and hastened to reach the side
of the leader.

Max knew that just then they could not think of walking any distance in
order to seek aid.  The day was pretty well along, and as more rain
might come with the night, it seemed the part of prudence that they
prepare in advance to meet further trials.  If only they managed to
come across something that could be made to do for a supper, all else
could for the time being be forgotten.

"We're off, Steve," Max called out, after he had waved his hand in the
direction of the girl whose eyes followed him wherever he went; "you
three keep right along as you're doing now.  Make the shack as snug as
you can; and if it'll shed water, so much the better; though I don't
think we're going to get any more rain just at present."

Bandy-legs was at his side, and together they strode away.  It was no
great task to keep heading up-stream, because they had frequent
glimpses of the heaving surface of the flood, which was ever at their
right, because they had landed on the western shore, and were heading
north at the time.

"Thought I heard dogs abarkin' just then," observed Bandy-legs, who had
good ears as well as sharp eyes.

"Yes, I did too, but somewhere away up on the wooded hills there.  Like
as not this flood has chased plenty of dogs away from their homes, and
they may be running in packs, hunting something to eat."

"Huh! hope we don't happen to run foul of a pack then," Bandy-legs
insinuated; "and for fear that we do I'm going to be ready."

With that he picked up a rather stout cudgel which he swung a few times
as if to accustom his arm to the motion.

Apparently Max did not think there was any particular reason for alarm.
He must have figured that the dogs they had heard were hunting game a
mile or two back in the woods, and that there was little chance of
their coming closer to the river.

"I can see the house ahead there," he announced five minutes later.

"Yes, and it's surrounded by water too," added his chum; "no wonder the
folks got out and left; they'd be silly to stay till it was too late.
Why, that cabin might be carried off any time like the other house was,
even if it ain't so far out I reckon we must have drifted half a mile
further down when we kept rowing so hard; because that was a stiff
current, believe me."

"Fully half a mile, Bandy-legs," Max assured him, and then fell to
craning his neck in the endeavor to locate the woman they believed they
had seen among the trees at a point where the water ended.

Two minutes later and Max uttered a satisfied exclamation.

"I see the woman," he told his companion, "and just as we thought she's
an old person, bent over considerably.  Perhaps she couldn't go far
away after she had to quit her house; perhaps she's nearly as helpless
as the crippled French child.  If it wasn't for Mabel being unable to
walk we might be trying to find shelter back in the country right now.
Come on and we'll interview her.  She may be glad to go with us, and
spend the night in camp; it would be good for her and the girls would
like it too."

The old woman had seen their approach.  She looked anything but happy,
and Max really began to believe that the poor soul stood in danger of
losing all she owned in the wide world, if her little cabin went out
with the flood.

"How do you do, ma'm?" he said, cheerily, as he and his chum came up.
"We're all from the town of Carson.  The bridge went out, and we were
on it at the time.  It carried five of us down to where the French
farm-house was standing, half under water, and there we found three
girls on the roof, two of them friends of ours from town.  A boat
happened to drift within reach, and we have come ashore.  But as Asa
French's little daughter, Mabel, is lame and weak the chances are we'll
have to camp in the woods for the night, and go for help in the
morning.  Now, wouldn't you like to join us to-night, because it'll be
a lonely time for you here, and it may start in and rain again?  We
want to get something to eat the worst kind, and have money to buy
whatever you happen to have handy, chickens, ham, potatoes or anything
at all.  The girls are nearly starved they say.  Now how about it,
ma'm?"

The little old woman had listened to him talking with a sparkle of
interest in her eyes.  Apparently she admired the lad from the very
start.  Bandy-legs was hardly prepossessing enough to hope to make a
favorable impression on a stranger at first sight; you had to know the
boy with the crooked legs in order to appreciate his good qualities;
but Max won friends by the score even before they understood how clever
he could be.

"You're perfectly welcome to anything you can find in my cabin,
providing that you can get out there, and secure it," the little old
woman told them.  "Perhaps you might manage with the aid of the boat.
And I believe I'll accept your kind invitation to accompany you back to
your camp.  I'm accustomed to being by myself, but inside a house, not
out in the open woods, and on the brink of a dreadful flood.  So
consider it a bargain, son.  Show me the way to get there, and after
that it may pay you to bring your boat up so as to reach my little
house out there surrounded by water."


CHAPTER XII

THE WILD DOG PACK

This prospect pleased the two boys very much.  Max believed that they
could manage to drag the boat up along the shore, and then scull out to
where the house stood, surrounded by water.

Accordingly they first of all led the old woman to where the others
were making as comfortable a camp as the meager conditions allowed.  It
turned out that the little lame girl, Mabel French, knew her very well,
and addressed her as Mrs. Jacobus.  She took occasion to tell Max aside
that the old lady had lived alone for many years, but that instead of
being poor as she seemed, in reality people said she was very rich,
only eccentric.  Perhaps she had a history, Max thought, as he looked
at the wrinkles on her face, and noticed the kindly eyes, and wanted to
hide her pain away from a cruel world.

He and Bandy-legs proceeded to drag the boat up to a point above the
cabin, and then pushing out, headed for their goal.  The current was
fully as swift as before, but as they had taken all proper precautions
they did not have a great deal of difficulty in making it.

Once they had secured their boat by the kitchen door, and they entered,
wading with the water up to their waists.  As soon as they had entered
Bandy-legs gave a wild cheer.

"Great governor! look at the fine ham hanging from the rafters, with
strings of garlic, and all sorts of things!" he cried out.  "You
rummage around in closets, Max, while I'm climbing up, and grabbing
that same smoked pork.  Say, the country is saved, and those poor girls
can have something worth while to eat.  I've learned a new way to fry
ham without even a pan; though chances are we'll be able to pick up
something along that line in the kitchen here."

They did, and all sorts of other things besides, which Max fancied the
girls could make use of, and which were really in danger of being lost,
if the cabin was carried away.  He rooted in every cupboard, secured a
lot of dishes and tinware, knives, forks and spoons, even a loaf of
bread and some cake that he found in a japanned tin box high up on the
shelf of a closet, coffee, sugar, and condensed milk, butter, potatoes,
onions and a lot of other things too numerous to mention, but which
attracted the attention of the hungry boys.

Bandy-legs was fairly bubbling over with delight, and kept declaring
that it was the greatest picnic ever known.  Mr. Belden heard his name
whispered in another direction, in connection with the cashiership of
the new bank which was to be built. The cashiership and the mayoralty
might be nebulous honors, but it _was_ sweet, for once, to be
recognized for what he was--man of might; a man of talent, and of
honor.

There was a hurried rush for the train at the last on the part of the
visitors. Mr. William Belden snatched his mackintosh from the peg
whereon it had hung throughout the evening, and went with the
crowd, talking and laughing in buoyant exuberance of spirits.

The night had cleared, the moon was rising, and poured a flood of light
upon the wet streets. It was a different world from the one he had
traversed earlier in the evening. He walked home with Miss Wakeman's
exaggeratedly tender "Good-by, dear Billy!" ringing in his ears, to
provoke irrepressible smiles.

The pulse of a free life, where men lived instead of vegetating, was in
his veins. His footstep gave forth a ringing sound from the pavement;
he felt himself stalwart, alert, his brain rejoicing in its sense
of power.

It was even with no sense of guilt that he heard the church clocks
striking twelve as he reached the house where his wife had been
awaiting his return for four hours.

She was sitting up for him, as he knew by the light in the parlor window.
He could see her through the half-closed blinds as she sat by the table,
a magazine in her lap, her attitude, unknown to herself, betraying a
listless depression. After all, is a woman glad to have all her aspirations
and desires confined within four walls?

She may love her cramped quarters, to be sure, but can she always forget
that they are cramped? To what does a wife descend after the bright
dreams of her girlhood! Does she really like above all things to be
absorbed in the daily consumption of butter, and the children's clothes,
or is she absorbed in these things because the man who was to have widened
the horizon of her life only limits it by his own decadence?

She rose to meet her husband as she heard his key in the lock. She had
exchanged her evening gown for a loose, trailing white wrapper,
and her fair hair was arranged for the night in a long braid.

Her husband had a smile on his face.

"You look like a girl again," he said brightly, as he stooped and
kissed her. "No, don't turn out the light, come in and sit down a while
longer, I've ever so much to tell you.

You can't guess where I've been this evening."
"At the political meeting," she said promptly.

"How on earth did you know?"
"The doctor came here to see Willy, and he told me he saw you on the
way.

I'm glad you did go, William; I was worrying because I had sent you out;
I did not realize until later what a night it was."
"Well, I am very glad that you did send me," said her husband. He lay
back in his chair, flushed and smiling at the recollection. "You ought
to have been there, too; you would have liked it. What will you say
if I tell you that I made a speech--yes, it is quite true--and was
applauded to the echo. This town has just waked up to the fact that
I live in it.
And Henry said--but there, I'll have to tell you the whole thing,
or you can't appreciate it."

His wife leaned on the arm of his chair, watching his animated face
fondly, as he recounted the adventures of the night. He pictured
the scene vividly, and with a strong sense of humor.

"And you don't say that Marie Wakeman is the same as ever?"

she interrupted, with a flash of special interest. "Oh, William!"
"_She_ called me Billy." He laughed anew at the thought. "Upon my word,
Nettie, she beats anything I ever saw or heard of."
"Did she remind you of the time you kissed her?"
"Yes!" Their eyes met in amused recognition of the past.

"Is she as handsome as ever?"
"Um--yes--I think so. She isn't as pretty as you are."

"Oh, Will!" She blushed and dimpled.

"I declare, it is true!" He gazed at her with genuine admiration.
"What has come over you to-night, Nettie?--you look like a girl again."

"And you were not sorry when you saw her, that--that--"
"Sorry! I have been thinking all the way home how glad I was to
have won my sweet wife.

But we mustn't stay shut up at home as much as we have; it's not good
for either of us. We are to be asked to join the whist club--what do
you think of that? You used to be a little card fiend once upon
a time, I remember."
She sighed. "It is so long since I have been anywhere! I'm afraid I
haven't any clothes, Will.

I suppose I _might_--"
"What, dear?"
"Take the money I had put aside for Mary's next quarter's music lessons;
I do really believe a little rest would do her good."
"It would--it would," said Mr. Belden with suspicious eagerness. Mary's
after-dinner practising hour had tinged much of his existence with
gall.

"I insist that Mary shall have a rest. And you shall join the reading
society now.

Let us consider ourselves a little as well as the children; it's really
best for them, too. Haven't we immortal souls as well as they? Can we
expect them to seek the honey dew of paradise while they see us contented
to feed on the grass of the field?"
"You call yourself an orator!" she scoffed.

He drew her to him by one end of the long braid, and solemnly kissed
her. Then he went into the hall and took something from the pocket of
his mackintosh which he placed in his wife's hand--a little wooden
dish covered with a paper, through which shone a bright yellow
substance--the pound of butter, a lump of gleaming fairy gold, the
quest of which had changed a poor, commonplace existence into one
scintillating with magic possibilities.

Fairy gold, indeed, cannot be coined into marketable eagles. Mr. William
Belden might never achieve either the mayoralty or the cashiership,
but he had gained that of which money is only a trivial accessory. The
recognition of men, the flashing of high thought to high thought, the
claim of brotherhood in the work of the world, and the generous social
intercourse that warms the earth--all these were to be his. Not even
his young ambition had promised a wider field, not the gold of the
Indies could buy him more of honor and respect.

At home also the spell worked. He had but to speak the word, to
name the thing, and Nettie embodied his thought. He called her young,
and happy youth smiled from her clear eyes; beautiful, and a blushing
loveliness enveloped her; clever, and her ready mind leaped to match
with his in thought and study; dear, and love touched her with its
transforming fire and breathed of long-forgotten things.

If men only knew what they could make of the women who love them--but
they do not, as the plodding, faded matrons who sit and sew by their
household fires testify to us daily.

Happy indeed is he who can create a paradise by naming it!

[Illustration: FIGURE I.--APPARATUS USED BY PROFESSOR W.F. MAGIE IN
TAKING A SKIAGRAPH OF A HAND.

The Ruhmkorff coil in the background; the Crookes tube in front
of it; under the hand is the photographic plate in its plate-holder.]

THE USE OF THE RÖNTGEN X RAYS IN SURGERY.

BY W.W. KEEN, M.D., LL.D.

The nineteenth century resembles the sixteenth in many ways. In or
about the sixteenth we have the extensive use of the mariner's compass
and of gunpowder, the discovery of printing, the discovery and
exploration of America, and the acquisition of territory in the
New World by various European states.

In the nineteenth century we have the exploration of Africa and the
acquisition of territory in its interior, in which the various nations
of Europe vie with each other again as three centuries before; the
discovery of steam, and its ever-growing application to the transportation
of goods and passengers on sea and land; of the spectroscope, and through
it of many new elements, including helium in the sun, and, later, on the
earth; of argon in the earth's atmosphere; of anæsthetics and of
the antiseptic methods in surgery, and, lastly, the enormous recent
strides in electrical science.

Not only has electricity been applied to transportation and the
development of light and power; but the latest discovery by Professor
Röntgen of the X rays seems destined, possibly, not only to
revolutionize our ideas of radiation in all its forms on the
scientific side, but also on the practical side to be of use in the
domain of medicine.

It is, therefore, with great pleasure that I accede to the request of
the editor of this Magazine to state briefly what has been achieved
in the department of medicine up to the present time.

The method of investigating the body by means of the X rays is very simple,
as is shown in Figure 1. The Crookes tube, actuated from a storage
battery or other source of electricity through a Ruhmkorff coil,
is placed on one side of the body.

If need be, instead of using the entire tube, the rays from the most
effective portion of it only are allowed to impinge upon the part of the
body to be investigated, through an opening in a disk of lead interposed
between the Crookes tube and the body. On the other side of the part to
be investigated is placed a quick photographic plate shut up in
its plate-holder, and is exposed to the rays emanating from the
tube for a greater or less length of time.

The parts of the plate not protected by the body are acted upon by the
rays, through the lid of the plate-holder (to which the rays are
pervious), while the tissues of the body act, feebly or strongly, as
the case may be, as obstacles to the rays. Hence, the part of the
plate thus protected is less acted upon than the rest, and a shadow
is produced upon the plate.

The soft tissues of the body form but a very slight obstacle to the
passage of the rays, and, hence, throw very faint shadows on the
plate.

The more dense portions, presenting a greater obstacle to the passage of
the rays, throw deeper shadows; hence the bones are seen as dark
shadows, the soft parts as lighter ones. That the flesh or soft parts
are not wholly permeable to the rays is well shown in the skiagraph--i.e.,
a "shadow picture"--of a foot. (Figure 2.) Where two toes overlap, it
will be observed that there is a deeper shadow, like the section of a
biconvex lens.

[Illustration: FIGURE 2.--SKIAGRAPH OF A FOOT, SHOWING AN EXTRA BONE IN
THE GREAT TOE, WHICH WAS REMOVED BY PROFESSOR MOSETIG.

(From the "British Medical Journal.")]

When we attempt to skiagraph the thicker portions of the body, for example,
the shoulder, the thigh, or the trunk, even the parts consisting only
of flesh obstruct the rays to such an extent, by reason of their
thickness, that the shadows of the still more dense tissues, like
the thigh bone, the arm bone, or the bones of the trunk, cannot be
distinguished from the shadows of the thicker soft parts.

Tesla ("Electrical Review," March 11, 1896) has to some extent overcome
these difficulties by his improved apparatus, and has skiagraphed,
though rather obscurely, the shoulder and trunk, and Rowland has
been able to do the same.

Doubtless when we are able to devise apparatus of greater penetration,
and to control the effect of the rays, we shall be able to skiagraph
clearly even through the entire thickness of the body.

It might be supposed that clothing or surgical dressings would prove
an obstacle to this new photography, but all our preconceived notions
derived from the ordinary photograph must be thrown aside.

The bones of the forearm or the hand can be as readily skiagraphed
through a voluminous surgical dressing or through the ordinary clothing,
as when the parts are entirely divested of any covering. Even
bed-ridden patients can be skiagraphed through the bed-clothes, and,
therefore, without danger from exposure.

[Illustration: FIGURE 3.--SKETCH OF A BABY'S FOOT AS SEEN THROUGH THE
SKIASCOPE.

(From the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March, 1896.)]

[Illustration: FIGURE 4.--SKETCH OF A BABY'S KNEE AS SEEN THROUGH THE
SKIASCOPE.

(From the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March, 1896.)]
One of the principal difficulties of the method at present is the
time ordinarily required to obtain a good picture. Usually this time
may be stated at in the neighborhood of an hour, though many good
skiagraphs have been taken in a half hour or twenty minutes.

It is stated that Messrs. McLeennan, Wright, and Keele of Toronto have
reduced the necessary time to one second, and that Mr. Edison has taken
even instantaneous pictures; but I am not aware of the publication of
any pictures showing how perfect these results are. Undoubtedly, as a
result of the labors of so many scores of physicists and physicians
as are now working at the problem, before long we shall be able to
skiagraph at least the thinner parts of the body in a very brief
interval.

The brevity of the exposure will also better the pictures in another
way. At present, if the attempt is made to skiagraph the shoulder or
parts of the trunk, we have to deal with organs which cannot be kept
motionless, since the movements incident to breathing produce a
constant to and fro movement of the shoulder, the lungs, the heart,
the stomach, the liver, and other organs which, hereafter, may be
made accessible to this process.

There is no serious discomfort excepting the somewhat irksome
necessity of remaining absolutely still.

Another method of seeing the denser tissues of the body is by direct
observation.

A means of seeing through the thinner parts of the body, such as the
fingers or the toes, has been devised simultaneously by Salvioni of
Italy, and Professor Magie of Princeton.

Their instruments are practically identical, consisting of a hollow
cylinder a few inches long, one end of which is applied to the
eye, the other end, instead of having a lens, being covered by a
piece of paper smeared with a phosphorescent salt, the double cyanide
of platinum and barium.

When the hand is held before a Crookes tube, and is looked at through
the cylinder, we can see the bones of the hand or foot almost as
clearly as is shown in Figure 2.

It has not yet, I believe, been applied to thicker parts of the body.
Figures 3 and 4 show a baby's foot and knee as seen through this tube.
The partial development of the bones accounts for the peculiar
appearance.

There is no bony knee-pan, or patella, at birth, and the bones of the
toes consist only of cartilage, which is translucent, and therefore not
seen. The name given by Professor Salvioni to this sort of "spy-glass"--if
one may apply this term to an instrument which has no glass--is that
of "cryptoscope" (seeing that which is hidden). The name suggested
by Professor Magie is "skiascope" (seeing a shadow.)
This leads me to say a word in reference to the nomenclature. The
very unfortunate name "shadowgraph" has been suggested and largely used
in the newspapers, and even in medical journals.

It has only the merit of clearness as to its meaning to English-speaking
persons. It is, however, an abominable linguistic crime, being an
unnatural compound of English and Greek. "Radiograph" and its derivatives
are equally objectionable as compounds of Latin and Greek. The
Greek word for shadow is "skia," and the proper rendering, therefore,
of shadowgraph is "skiagraph," corresponding to photograph.

The first question that meets us in the use of the method in medicine is
what normal constituents of the body are permeable or impermeable
to the X rays. It may be stated, in a general way, that all of the
fleshy parts of the body are partially permeable to the rays in a
relatively short time; and if the exposure is long enough, they become
entirely permeable, so that no shadow is cast.

Even the bones, on _prolonged_ exposure, do not present a sufficient
obstacle to the passage of the rays, and the shadow originally
cast becomes obliterated.

Hence, skiagraphs of the same object exposed to the rays for varying times
may be of value in showing the different tissues.

The most permeable of the normal tissues are cartilage or gristle,
and fat. A kidney (out of the body) is stated by Dr. Reid of Dundee
to show the difference between the rind, or secreting portion, which
is more transparent, and the central portion, consisting chiefly of
conducting tubes, which is less transparent. On the contrary, in
the brain the gray cortex, or rind, is less transparent than the
white nerve tubules in the centre.

The denser fibrous tissues, such as the ligaments of joints and the
tendons or sinews of muscles, cast very perceptible shadows, so that
when we come to a thick tendon like the tendo Achillis, the shadow
approaches even the density of the shadow cast by bone. I presume
that it is for the same reason (the dense fibrous envelope, or
sclerotic coat) that the eye-ball is not translucent to the rays,
as is seen in Figure 5, of a bullock's eye.

[Illustration: FIGURE 5.--SKIAGRAPH OF A BULLOCK'S EYE.

(From the "American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March 1896.)]
Mr. Arthur H. Lea has ingeniously suggested that the translucency of
the soft parts of the living and of those of the dead body might
show a difference, and that, if such were the case, it might be
used as a definite test of death.

Unfortunately Figure 6, of a dead hand, when contrasted with Figure
11, of a living hand, shows virtually no difference, and the method
cannot be used as a positive proof of death.

That we are not able at present to skiagraph the soft parts of the
body, does not imply that we shall not be able to do it hereafter;
and should this be possible, especially with our increasing ability
to penetrate thick masses of tissue, it is evident, without entering
into details, that the use of the X rays may be of immense importance
in obstetrics.

The bones, however, as is seen in nearly all of the skiagraphs illustrating
this paper, cast well-defined shadows. This is at once an advantage and
a hindrance.

To illustrate the latter first, even one thickness of bone is difficult
to penetrate, so that the attempt to skiagraph the opening which had
been made in a skull of a living person by a trephine entirely failed,
since the bone upon the opposite side of the skull formed so dense
an obstacle that not the slightest indication of the trephine opening
appeared. To take, therefore, a skiagraph of a brain through two
thicknesses of skull, with our present methods, is an impossibility.

Even should the difficulty be overcome, it is very doubtful whether
there would be any possibility of discovering diseases of the
brain, since diseased tissues, such as cancer, sarcoma, etc., are
probably as permeable to the X rays as the normal tissues. Thus Reid
("British Medical Journal," February 15, 1896) states that a cancerous
liver showed no difference in permeability to the rays through its
cancerous and its normal portions.

Foreign bodies, such as bullets, etc., in the brain may be discovered
when our processes have become perfected. Figure 7 shows two buck-shot
skiagraphed inside of a baby's skull, and therefore through two
thicknesses of bone.

It must be remembered, however, that not only are the bones of a baby's
skull much less thick than those of an adult's skull, but they are
much less densely ossified, and so throw far less of a shadow.

The dense shadows cast by bone are, at least at present, an insuperable
obstacle to skiagraphing the soft translucent organs of the body which
are enclosed within a more or less complete bony case, as the
rays will be intercepted by the bones. Efforts, therefore, to skiagraph
the heart, the lungs, the liver, and stomach, and all the pelvic
organs, probably will be fruitless to a greater or less extent until
our methods are improved.

While a stone in a bladder outside the body would undoubtedly be
perceptible, in the body the bones of the pelvis prevent any
successful picture being taken.

[Illustration: FIGURE 6.--SKIAGRAPH OF A DEAD HAND AND WRIST, SHOWING
TWO BUCK-SHOT AND A NEEDLE EMBEDDED IN THE FLESH.

("American Journal of the Medical Sciences," March, 1896.)]
To turn from the hindrances to the advantages of the application of the
method to the bones, one of the most important uses will be in diseases
and injuries of bones. In many cases it is very difficult to determine,
even under ether, by the most careful manipulations, whether there
is a fracture or a dislocation, or both combined.

When any time has elapsed after the accident, the great swelling which
often quickly follows such injuries still further obscures the diagnosis
by manipulation.

The X rays, however, are oblivious, or nearly so, of all swelling, and
the bones can be skiagraphed in the thinner parts of the body at present,
say up to the elbow and the ankle, with very great accuracy. Thus, Figure
8 shows the deformity from an old fracture of the ulna (one of the bones
of the forearm) very clearly.

By this means we shall be able to distinguish between fracture and
dislocation in obscure cases. Thus Mr. Gray ("British Medical Journal,"
March 7, 1896), in a case of injury to an elbow, was enabled to
diagnosticate and successfully to replace a very rare dislocation,
which could not be made out by manipulation, but was clearly shown
by the X rays.

We may also possibly be able to determine when the bones are properly
adjusted after a fracture; and all the better, since the skiagraph can
be taken through the dressings, even if wooden splints have been employed.
If plaster of Paris is used (and it is often the best "splint") this
is impermeable to the rays.

That this method will come into general use, however, is very unlikely,
since the expense, the time, and the trouble will be so great that
it will be impracticable to use it in every case, especially in
hospitals or dispensaries, where crowds of patients have to be
attended to in a relatively brief time.

In the surgical dispensary alone of the Jefferson Medical College
Hospital, about one hundred patients are in attendance between
twelve and two o'clock every day, and all the time of a large number of
assistants is occupied with dressing the cases. It would be manifestly
an utter impossibility to skiagraph the many fractures which are seen
there daily, considering that it would take from half an hour to an hour
of the time of not less than two or three assistants skilled not
only in surgery, but also in electricity, to skiagraph a single
fracture.

But do you think it's safe to have that terror around?  The
girls won't want to come down out of the tree while he's in camp."

"You're mistaken there," said Bessie, as she dropped beside him; "I'm
not at all afraid of dogs when they're natural; and besides, I know
this fine fellow quite well.  He belongs to a neighbor of my uncle, and
he used to come to me as though he rather liked me; didn't you, Bose?"

At mention of his name the ferocious looking bulldog with the bowed
legs actually wagged his crooked stub of a tail, and gave the girl a
look.  As he was now through feeding, and seemed to be in a contented
frame of mind, Bessie continued to talk to him in a wheedling way; and
presently was able to slip a hand upon his head, though it gave Steve a
cold chill to see her do it.

Max had meanwhile dragged the other dog out of sight in the bushes,
though Toby had to help him, such was the size of the wretched mastiff
that had been brought to a bad end through his hunger, and a
determination to raid the camp of the flood fugitives.

The balance of the pack had apparently been taught a severe lesson, and
would not return again.  Their barking continued to be heard at
intervals throughout the night, but always at a considerable distance.

As it was so very uncomfortable up in the tree, and the bulldog seemed
to have made up his mind to be friendly with those who had kindly
attended to his wants, Mazie, the lame girl, and Mrs. Jacobus finally
consented to be helped down.  They kept suspicious eyes on the
four-legged visitor however, and insisted that Bose be rigorously
excluded from the rustic shelter under which they soon purposed seeking
their rest.

Max finally managed to rig up a collar, which was attached to the rope,
and Bessie secured this around the dog's neck, after which Bose was
anchored to another tree.

He must have been accustomed to this sort of treatment, for he speedily
lay down and went to sleep, as though satisfied to stay with these new
friends.  Floods as well as politics, often make strange bed-fellows.

Having brought his party safely through this crisis Max was again
busying himself making plane looking toward their future.  He knew that
the country was so disturbed by the inundation of the river, with its
consequent damage to many homes, that they must depend to a great
extent on their own efforts in order to reach Carson again.  Still it
seemed necessary in the start that one of their number should start out
to seek help in the way of some conveyance by means of which the girls
and Mrs. Jacobus might be taken to Carson, because he and his chums
were well able to walk that distance.

On talking this over with the rest, and Shack was invited to join them,
much to the secret satisfaction of the "black sheep" of Carson, Max
found that they were all opposed to his being the one to go forth.
They claimed that he would be needed right along in order to continue
the management of affairs.

Of course Shack could not go, because his former bad reputation would
serve to set people against him, for the whole country knew of the
doings of the gang to which he had belonged; Toby was debarred from
serving on account of his infirmity in the line of speech, and so it
must lie between Bandy-legs and Steve.

"I'm the one to go, Max," declared the latter, so resolutely that while
Bandy-legs had just been about to volunteer, the words died on his
lips; for he knew that when Steve really wanted a thing he must have
it, or there would be trouble in the camp; so that Bandy-legs, being a
wise youth, shrugged his shoulders and yielded the palm.

Once more Max talked it all over with them.  They knew next to nothing
about the lay of the land around that section, but in a general way
that could be figured out; and Steve was cautioned what to avoid in
looking for a habitation where he might manage to hire a rig of some
sort.

Max even made him a rough map, showing some features of the river bank
as it was now constituted, so that the messenger would know where to
return if he was fortunate enough to secure help.

"If we're gone from here," said Max, in conclusion, "we'll manage to
leave such a plain trail after us that you can follow as easy as
anything."

So Steve went around solemnly shaking hands with every one, though he
lingered longest when it came to Bessie; and she must have said
something pleasant, for he was smiling broadly as though satisfied when
he waved them good-bye, and stick in hand, vanished amidst the trees of
the forest.


CHAPTER XIV

UNWELCOME GUESTS

After Steve had been gone for some little time those who had been left
in the camp under the forest trees prepared to spend the night as best
the conditions allowed.

Fortunately there were enough of the blankets and covers to go around,
so that each one would have some protection against the chill of the
night.  Max had been wise enough to look out for this when skirmishing
around in that abandoned cabin belonging to Mrs. Jacobus.

"Will we have to keep any sort of watch, d'ye think, Max?" Bandy-legs
asked, after the girls had crawled beneath the rustic shelter, and amid
more or less laughter made themselves fairly comfortable.

Max smiled.

"Yes, but that doesn't necessarily mean any of us will have to stay
awake," he went on to say, which remark caused the other to look
puzzled until he saw Max nod his head over toward the spot where the
ferocious bulldog calmly reposed, with his square head lying between
his two forepaws.

"Oh!  I see now what you mean," Bandy-legs announced; "and that's where
your head was level, Max, though for that matter it always is.  Sure
he'll be the best sentinel agoing.  But then there isn't one chance in
a thousand we'll be bothered with visitors, unless of the hungry dog
kind."

"That's so," agreed Max, "but you never can tell; and while the roads
are all more or less flooded, and even the railroad blocked, tramps are
apt to bob up in places where they've never been known before.  We'll
be keeping our fire going all night, you know, and that would be a
signal to any one passing."

The four boys fixed themselves so that they really surrounded the
shelter; constructed of boards and branches, in which the girls were
snugly settled down.  Max had told Mazie they meant to do this, for he
felt that the fact would add more or less to the peace of mind of those
whom they were protecting.

"Better get settled, you fellows," Max told the others, "and after that
I'll attend to the fire so it'll keep burning a long time.  Shack,
what's that rag around your finger for?  I hope now you didn't get
bitten by one of the dogs when we had our row, because that might turn
out to be a bad job."

"Oh! shucks, that ain't nawthin' much," Shack replied, with scorn; "I
on'y knocked me fin against a tree when I was smackin' that setter a
whack.  He ducked too quick for me, yuh see, an' I lost him, worse
luck; but second time I gives him a poke that made him howl like fits."

It apparently pleased Shack considerably to have Max notice that he had
his finger bound up in part of a much soiled handkerchief.  And by now
even Bandy-legs seemed to have accepted the other as a companion in
arms, whom the fortunes of war had thrown into their society.

Max took a look around before finally lying down.  He saw that clouds
still obscured the sky, but at least it was not raining, and there
seemed a fair chance that the anticipated renewal of the storm would
not materialize.

There must have been thousands of anxious eyes besides those of Max
Hastings surveying that overcast sky on this particular night, because
so much depended on whether the sun shone on the morrow, or another
dripping day were ushered in, to add to the floods, and increase the
discomfort and money loss.

He knew that the girls must all be dreadfully worried because messages
could not be sent to their respective homes, so as to notify their
loved ones of their safety; but it could not be helped.  When morning
came they would do everything in their power to get in touch with
civilization, and if the wires were in working order perhaps they might
be able to let their people know how wonderfully they had come out of
the turmoil and peril.

When Max told the others there was always a possibility that the light
of their fire would draw attention to the camp, he hardly dreamed how
true his words would prove; yet such was the case.

He had managed to get to sleep himself, having found a fairly
comfortable position where he could lie wrapped in his blanket, when
the growling of the tied bulldog aroused him.  As he sat up he saw that
Bose was on his bowed feet, and continuing to growl savagely.

"Keep quiet there, you ugly sinner!" grumbled a voice close to Max, and
which he recognized as belonging to Bandy-legs; "ain't you meanin' to
let a feller have any sleep at all to-night?  Whatever do you want to
growl that way?  Wait till breakfast time and you'll get another feed."

"There's somebody coming!" said Max, quietly, "and the dog has sensed
them."

"Gee whiz! then he's an all right sentry after all, ain't he?"
exclaimed Bandy-legs, immediately sitting up.

Toby had also been aroused, as was also Shack; and the four boys gained
their feet at almost the same time.

"Wonder who it is?" Bandy-legs was speculating, even as he leaned over
so as to pick up his war club.

"B-b-bet you it's Steve c-c-coming back!" ventured Toby, and he voiced
what was in the mind of Max just then.

"There's two on 'em!" declared Shack Beggs joining in with the talk;
"yuh c'n see 'em over there aheadin' this way!"

Max was glad that he had not thought to return the little weapon
entrusted to his care by Mrs. Jacobus.  He allowed his hand to pass
back to the rear pocket in which it reposed, and the very feel of the
steel seemed to give him a sense of security.

All of them could easily see the advancing figures now.  The closer
they came to the circle of firelight the stronger did the convictions
of Max become that the campers were in for another unpleasant
experience.

First it had been half-starved dogs hunting in a pack, having gone back
to the primeval habits of their wolfish ancestors; and now it looked as
though they were about to suffer from an invasion of tramps.

The two men who came boldly forward certainly had a hobo look.  Their
clothes were tattered and torn, as though they might only be fit for
scarecrows in the newly planted corn field; while their faces were
unkempt with beards of a week's growth; which helped to make them look
uglier than might otherwise have been the case.

"Whew! they look hungry enough to eat us out of house and home,"
Bandy-legs was muttering, as he saw the pair pushing forward; and
seemingly sniffing the air after the manner of those who have not
broken their fast for many hours.

If Max could feel sorry for a dog that needed food he certainly would
not think of allowing human beings to go without refreshments as long
as they had enough and to spare.  So that already his mind was made up
not to refuse should the tramps put in a pitiful plea for assistance.

Of course their coming would make it necessary for the boys to give up
thoughts of finding any further rest; because it would hardly be wise
to allow the camp to remain unguarded with such tough looking customers
around.

The men were scrutinizing the campers closely as they came up.  Max saw
one of them turn to the other and say something; just what it was he
did not know; but he rather fancied it might have been along the order
of calling his attention to the fact that they had only "kids" to deal
with.

"Hello! boys!" the foremost of the men called out as he strode into the
circle of light; "seen your fire when we was makin' our way through
these here old woods, and allowed that p'raps we might get a bite to
eat if we came over.  Hain't had nawthin' since mornin', and we're nigh
famished, that's straight goods; ain't it, Bill?"

"I'm that near gone I could chaw on a dog biscuit and like it!"
grumbled the shorter man.

"This flood's knocked honest laborers out of their jobs right along,
boys," the taller hobo continued, unable to repress a slight grin as he
spoke, for he must have been pretty positive that he had not deceived
the young fellows by such an absurd suggestion; "and we're trying to
git acrost country so's to find work in another quarry.  If now youse
could only let us have a snack it'd be doin' a real kindness, and we'd
thank you straight; wouldn't we, Bill?"

"Sure thing, Pepper, we would; got to have somethin', or we'll cave in;
and like enough you wouldn't want our spooks to come back and ha'nt ye
allers, kids.  So here's hopin' ye'll give us a hand-out without more
parleyin'."

Max did not fancy the manner of the two men.  It smacked of a demand
rather than a request for assistance; as though they would not take no
for an answer, but might be expected to make trouble if refused.

While something within him rebelled against being compelled to accede,
at the same time Max was ready to make allowances.  He fancied that
when men were really very hungry they might be excused for showing an
irritable disposition.  On that account then he repressed his desire to
speak sharply.

"You've struck a party of flood sufferers, and we're not overly well
supplied with grub," Max went on to say; "but I guess we can spare you
something to keep the wolf from the door.  Just sit down there, and
we'll cook you a little supper, though you might call it breakfast,
because it must be long after midnight."

The men exchanged low words, and then sat down.  Max noticed that they
seemed to choose their places as with some motive in view, and he did
not like it at all.  He even saw them glance toward the shelter shack,
as if wondering what might be inside, for the girls were awake, and low
whispering could be heard within.

The food had been taken from the shack and hung from the limb of a
tree, where it would be safe from any prowling animal; so that Max did
not have to disturb the inmates of the rude shelter when he wished to
cut some more of the ham, and get the coffee in the pot.

It was a strange experience, this cooking a supper at such an hour of
the night for a pair of ugly-looking trampish customers; but Max was so
thankful over the wonderful run of good luck that had followed himself
and chums that he felt willing to put himself to considerable trouble
in order to assist any other sufferer.  .

* * * * *

TAKING A SIGHT AT THE FIRE.

A man bearing the very inapplicable name of _Virtue_ was brought
up at Lambeth-street last week, on the charge of having stolen a
telescope from the Ordnance-office in the Tower on the morning of
the fire.

The prisoner pleaded that, being short-sighted, he took the glass to have
a sight of the fire.

The magistrate, however, _saw through_ this excuse very clearly; and as
it was apparent that _Virtue_ had taken a _glass_ too much on the
occasion, he was fully committed

.

* * * * *

JOE HUME'S FORTHCOMING WORK.

We have received the following note from an old and esteemed correspondent,
who, we are rejoiced to find, has returned from a tour in Switzerland,
where he has been engaged in a prodigious work connected with the
statistics of that country.

_Reform Club-house_.

DEAR PUNCH,
Knowing the interest you take in anything relating to the advancement
of science, I beg to apprise you that I am about publishing a
statistical work, in which I have made it perfectly clear that an
immense saving in the article of ice alone might be made in England
by importing that which lies waste upon Mont Blanc.

I have also calculated to a fraction the number of pints of milk
produced in the canton of Berne, distinguishing the quantity used
in the making of cheese from that which has been consumed in the manufacture
of butter--and specifying in every instance whether the milk has been
yielded by cows or goats.

There will be also a valuable appendix to the work, containing a
correct list of all the inns on the road between Frankfort and
Geneva, with a copy of the bill of fare at each, and the prices
charged; together with the colour of the postilion's jacket, the
age of the landlord and the weight of his wife, and the height in
inches of the cook and chambermaid.

To which will be added, "Ten Minutes' Advice" upon making one
shilling go as far as two.

If you can give me a three-halfpenny puff in your admired publication,
you will confer a favour on 
Your sincere friend, 
JOE HUME

.

* * * * *

THE ROMANCE OF A TEACUP.

SIP THE FIRST.

In England one man's mated to one woman, To spend their days in holy
matrimony-- In fact, I _have_ heard from one or two men, That one
wife in a house is one too many-- But, be this as it may, in China no
man Who can afford it shuts himself to any Fix'd number, but is variously
encumber'd With better halves, from twenty to a hundred.

These to provide for in a pleasant way, And, maybe, to avoid their
chat and worry, He shuts up in a harem night and day-- With them
contriving all his cares to bury-- A point of policy which, I should
say, Sweetens the dose to men about to marry; For, though a wife's
a charming thing enough, Yet, like all other blessings, _quantum
suff_.

So to my tale: Te-pott the Multifarious Was, once upon a time, a
mandarin-- In personal appearance but precarious, Being incorrigibly
bald and thin-- But then so rich, through jobs and pensions various,
Obtain'd by voting with the party "in," That he maintain'd, in grace
and honour too, Sixty-five years, and spouses fifty-two.

Fifty-two wives! and still he went about Peering below the maiden ladies'
veils-- Indeed, it _was_ said (but there hangs a doubt Of scandal on
such gossip-whisper'd tales), He had a good one still to single out--
For all his wives had tongues, and _some_ had nails-- And still he
hoped, though fifty-twice deferr'd, To find an angel in his
fifty-third.

"Jailbirds, I sure reckons they be!" was what Shack said.

"What makes you think so?" asked Max.

"Both got on ole cloes took from scarecrows in the medders; and then if
yuh looks right sharp at the left wrist o' ther short coon yuh kin see
he's awearin' a steel bracelet.  Been handcuffed tuh a sheriff, likely,
an' broke away.  They'll like as not try tuh run the camp arter they
gits filled up.  Yuh wanter keep shy o' lettin' 'em git hold o' yuh,
Max.  They'll be a reg'lar mixup hereabouts if they tries that same on."

And this information from Shack, who must know what he was talking
about, was enough to make Max draw his breath uneasily.


CHAPTER XV

BOSE PAYS FOR HIS BOARD

When he had set the supper on the ground, and then backed away, Max was
simply taking precautions.  Doubtless the men noticed what he did, and
knew from this that he did not trust their professions of friendliness;
for they exchanged further talk in low words that were not intelligible
to any of the boys.

The girls, unable to longer restrain their natural curiosity, had
thrust their heads from the shelter to see what it all meant; and the
men must have seen them, though they were savagely attacking the food
that had been placed before them.

It was astonishing how quickly they cleared their pannikins of the
cooked ham and potatoes, as well as gobbled what crackers Max had been
able to spare.  Each swallowed two cups of scalding coffee without a
wink.

When the entire amount of food had been made to vanish as though struck
by a cyclone, Max expected there would be something doing.  which Mr. P.
Green, in most obliging manner, has allowed to appear.

William Paul took a walk yesterday as far as Houndsditch, in company
with Jeremiah Donovan. A pair of left-off unmentionables is
confidently reported to be the cause of their visit in the "far
East."Shack and Toby sat close
together.  They had their hands clasped around their knee but were
prepared to bound to their feet like a flash; and close beside them lay
their war clubs "ready for business at the old stand," as Toby would
have said had he been given the chance to express his opinion.

The men were now very close to the end of their meal.  It had been a
fairly bountiful spread, considering the conditions, but from the
rapidity with which those two unwelcome guests caused it to vanish it
looked as though they might still be far from satisfied.

The taller one began to crane his neck after the manner of a diner in a
restaurant looking to see whether the next course was on the way or not.

"Hopes as how that ain't all you means to hand out, younker?" he went
on to say, with a little menace in his manner that did not seem to be
just the right thing for one to display who had been treated so well.

"As our stock of food isn't so very large, and we don't know just how
long we may have to camp out, it's all we can spare just now," replied
Max, in as amiable a tone as he could command.

After all it was a mistake to suppose that men like these desperate
rascals would allow themselves to feel anything like gratitude.  Their
instincts were brutal to the core, and they only knew the law of force.
These boys and girls had plenty to eat, and they were far from
satisfied.  If further food was not forthcoming through voluntary
means, they would just have to take things as they pleased.  They could
have nothing to fear from interruptions, in this lonely neighborhood;
and as for these four half-grown boys putting up a successful fight
against two such hardened characters as they were, was an absurdity
that they did not allow to make any impression on them.

Still the taller man did not want to rush things too fast.  There was
something about the cool manner of Max Hastings that warned him the
conquest might not be the easy task they thought, he may have sensed
the fact that the young leader of the camping party was not an ordinary
boy; and then too Shack Beggs had a husky sort of look, as though he
knew pretty well how to take care of himself.

The bulldog had kept so quiet all this time that the men did not pay
much attention to him, lying there peacefully.  They probably
calculated that if things came down to an actual show of hands it would
mean two boys apiece; and surely they should be equal to overcoming
such opposition.

"Hain't that same kinder rough on us, young feller?" demanded the hobo
or escaped jailbird, whichever the taller man might be.  "Wot yer gives
us only makes us hungrier'n 'ever.  Wisht you'd look 'round an' see if
yer cain't skeer up somethin' more in the line o' grub.  Then we'll
stretch out here nigh yer fire, an' git some sleep, 'cause we needs the
same right bad."

"You've had all we can let go," said Max; "and as your room is better
than your company, perhaps you'll feel like moving on somewhere else
for the night.  

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
of receipt of the work

.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution
of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.

If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this
agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael Hart, the owner
of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.

Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm collection.

Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, and the
medium on which they may be stored, may contain "Defects," such
as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data,
transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property
infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer
virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your
equipment.

1.F.2.

LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right of
Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.

YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN
PARAGRAPH F3.

YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR
UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU
GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

1.F.3.

LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect
in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written
explanation to the person you received the work from. If you received
the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.

The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect
to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund.
Supposin' we takes a notion this here
is comfy enough fur two ducks that'd like to stay to breakfast, and
share yer stock o' grub?  What'd ye do 'bout that, younker?"

He took another forward step, and from his aggressive manner it was
plain to be seen that he meant to attack them speedily.  Max waited no
longer.  He did not want matters to work along until they reached the
breaking point, for that would mean a nasty fight; and while he and his
chums would undoubtedly come out of this first-best there must be some
bruises received, and perhaps blood might have to be shed.  So he
concluded to stop things where they were.

Accordingly he brought his hand to the front and made so as to let them
see he was armed.  As the hobo did not advance any further it looked as
though he may have taken warning; the sight of that up-to-date weapon
was enough to make any one pause when about to precipitate trouble, for
it could be fired as fast as Max was able to press the trigger.

"Bandy-legs!" snapped Max.

"Here!" answered the one addressed.

"Have you got your knife laid on the rope?" continued the leader of the
camp.

"You just bet I have, and when you say the word he's goin' to jump for
that biggest feller's throat like a cyclone; ain't you, Bose?" turning
toward the dog.

The ugly looking bulldog gave a yawp that may have been intended for an
affirmative answer; and his appearance was so very fierce that it
helped the hobo make up his mind he did not care for any closer
acquaintance with such an affectionate beast.

"Hold on there, don't you be in too big a hurry 'bout slittin' that
same rope, kid!" he called out, shrinking back a step now, and half
raising his hands as if to be in readiness to protect his neck against
those shining teeth.

"Then you've changed your mind about wanting to sleep here in this
camp, have you?" asked Max, quietly.  "We'll allow you to do it on one
condition, which is that you let us tie you both up, and hold you here
until the sheriff comes to-morrow."

From these words it became apparent to the men that the fact of one of
them was wearing a broken handcuff must have been discovered by the
boys.  They looked as black as a thunder cloud, but realized that they
were up against a blank wall.

"Excuse us 'bout that same, kid," the taller man said, bitterly; "we'd
rather take the matches an' go to make a camp somewhere else, where we
won't bother youse any.  But p'raps ye'll be sorry fur actin' like that
by us, won't he, Bill?"

"He will, if ever I has anythin' tuh say 'bout it," growled the shorter
rascal, shaking his bullet-shaped head, which the boys now saw had been
closely shaven, which would indicate that he must in truth be some
escaped convict.

"We're waiting for you to move along," remarked Max.  "Don't bother
thanking us for the little food we had to spare you.  It may keep you
from starvation, anyway.  And see here, if so much as a single stone
comes into this camp after you've gone I give you my word we'll cut
that rope, and start the dog after you.  Now just suit yourselves about
that!"

The men gave one last uneasy look at the bulldog, and as though he knew
he was in the spotlight just then Bose growled more fearfully than
ever, and showed still more of his spotted throat, and red distended
jaws, with their attendant white, cruel looking fangs.

It was enough.  The taller man shook his head dismally as though,
knowing that neither of them possessed the first weapon, he judged it
would be something bordering on suicide to provoke that fierce beast to
extreme measures.

"There'll be no stone throwin', make yer mind easy on that score,
younker," he told Max, between his teeth; "but if ever we should happen
to meet up with you er any o' yer crowd agin, look out, that's all!
Section 3.

Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit 501(c)(3)
educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of
Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue
Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number
is 64-6221541.

Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at http://pglaf.org/fundraising.
Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S. federal laws
and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.

Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City,
UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email business@pglaf.org. Email contact links
and up to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's
web site and official page at http://pglaf.org
For additional contact information:
Dr.

Gregory B.

Newby Chief Executive and Director gbnewby@pglaf.org 
Section 4.

Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can
be freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the
widest array of equipment including outdated equipment.

Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to
maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities
and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States.

Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable
effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these
requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations where we have
not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND DONATIONS
or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit
http://pglaf.org
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states
who approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation methods
and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways
including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.

To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.

For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks
with only a loose network of volunteer support.

are filed in directories based on their release date. If you want to
download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regular
search system you may utilize the following addresses and just
download by the etext year.

http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06
(Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99, 98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92,
91 or 90)
EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, are
filed in a different way. The year of a release date is no longer part
of the directory path. The path is based on the etext number (which is
identical to the filename).

The path to the file is made up of single digits corresponding to all
but the last digit in the filename. For example an eBook of filename
10234 would be found at:

http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234

or filename 24689 would be found at:
http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689
An alternative method of locating eBooks:
http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL
That's because we all felt such confidence in our guardians.
Now, don't get conceited, and believe we think you're perfect, because
boys have lots of faults, the same as girls."

"I wonder what became of those two poor fellows?" mused Bessie, who
still believed that the men were just ordinary, lazy, good-for-nothing
hoboes, with a dislike for hard work, and resting under the conviction
that the world owed them a living; for the boys had decided that there
was no use telling them about the broken handcuff they had noticed on
the wrist of the smaller scamp.

"I wouldn't be surprised if they were miles away from here by now,"
said Max, with a knowing wink toward Toby, who chanced to be standing
near.

"Then they're more active than most tramps I've seen appeared to be,"
remarked Bessie; "but I do hope we meet Steve coming with some sort of
conveyance, because twenty miles over poor roads fills me with horror,
though I'll try the best I know how to keep up with the rest of you.
Think of poor little Mabel, though; she would be tired before we had
gone three miles."

"Never fear but what we'll get hold of some sort of vehicle, sooner or
later," Max assured her; "when we strike the road we are bound to run
across farms occasionally; and surely they will not all have been
deserted.  Some of them must be on high land, and safe from the floods."

It was in this spirit that they said good-bye to the pleasant camp, and
turned their backs upon the modest but serviceable shack.

"I honestly believe it would shed rain like the back of a duck,"
Bandy-legs declared, proudly, as though satisfied to know that he had
had a hand in building the shelter.

"But we're all glad it wasn't put to the test," Mazie observed, as she
looked up at the clear sky with the greatest of pleasure.

It may not have mattered so much to the boys whether or not the rains
had stopped for good, but they could understand that there were hosts
of people who would be mighty thankful the morning had broken so
promising, for if clear weather prevailed the floods would of course
have a chance to go down.

Max had laid out his plans as well as he could, on the preceding night,
so that he was prepared to move right along the line of least
resistance; that is, from the conformation of the country, as marked
upon the little map he had drawn of the neighboring region, he meant to
select a route that would keep them away from the lowlands, now flooded.

They did not find any great difficulty in making fair progress,
although the little lame girl had to be assisted often.  She was very
brave, however, and anxious to prove that she must not be looked on as
helpless.

Inside of an hour they had come upon a road, just as Max had figured
would be the case.  So far nothing had been seen of Steve, though
according to promise they were careful to leave a broad trail behind
them, so that if he should visit the camp after their departure he
would find no difficulty about following in their wake.

If Steve had faithfully carried out the directions given him, Max knew
that he certainly must have reached this same road, and possibly not
far from the point at which they too struck it.  You can't expect even a
bishop to be genial and effusive at a time like this. Consider the
survivors."
"He sees me!"

whispered my brother.

"Sees you; yes, not being blind he couldn't help it. Everybody in
the Cathedral sees you; and they very naturally resent the sight.
Come away; you're making the Bishop nervous."
It really was most annoying.

There he stood, so close that we could almost touch him, and yet separated
from us by a gulf only to be bridged by the end of his burial service.

The Doctor became illogical and childish about it. When I had dragged
him away from these last sad rites, he gave it as his opinion that any
other bishop would have stopped, just for a moment at least, and
been friendly and enthusiastic, if only in an undertone.

"He may get thousands of opportunities to bury people, but he will never
have a chance of seeing you again," said my brother. Then he added, as
an afterthought, "And very probably you will never get another opportunity
of talking to an Irish bishop."
[Illustration: "WE MET PODBURY."]

After that he sneered at the local medical practitioner, and said
that likely enough the deceased would not have died at all in proper
hands.

Then a thought struck me, the horror of which reduced my brother to
absolute despair. I said:

"Perhaps the Bishop is interring Podbury. In that case everybody you
know on this island will be busy, and we shan't get any hospitality,
or punch, or anything."

"Just my luck if he is," answered the Doctor gloomily. He then kept
absolute silence for half-an-hour, during which time we walked to
the Roseau River and beheld many black laundresses out in mid-stream
washing clothes.

Turning from this spectacle, he spoke again and said:

"Our present state of suspense is destroying me. I've a terrible
presentiment that they _were_ burying Podbury.

If so, we're done all round. I'm going right away to Podbury's now. I
shall see in a moment by the blinds if the worst has happened."
We sought out Podbury's desolate home, and the Doctor asked bitterly
why Providence should have snatched away one whose skill in the
matter of rum punch was a household word.

I said:

"Try and feel hopeful. We cannot yet be absolutely certain that he has
gone."
And then we met Podbury in the Market Place. He was thoroughly alive,
and apparently in good health.

"Ah, Doctor!"

he exclaimed, "back again. Glad to see you. How are the boys on the
'Rhine?' Who's your friend?"
I was made known to Podbury, and explained how the sight of him had turned
our mourning into joy, and how I had come out from England as much
to taste his celebrated rum punch as anything else.

He appeared gratified at this, and led the way to his house.

[Illustration: "'MAGNIFICENT!'"]
We asked him who the Bishop was burying, and he did not even know.

He said:

"A nigger, for certain. Can't be anybody of much account or I should have
heard tell of it."
Then we reached his home, and while he brewed cold punch, we talked
to his wife and daughters and some aunts that he had, on his father's
side.

The Treasure dropped in too. He knew Podbury well, and Podbury
regarded him as an authority on punch. The liquid was presently placed
before us.
Podbury showed pleasure when I said what I thought about it; but he did
not feel quite contented until he had expert's opinion.

"Magnificent!"

the Treasure presently declared; "why it's equal to the 1890 brew--you
remember."
Podbury's eye brightened at this allusion to one of his greatest
past triumphs. He tasted the punch himself, and admitted that it
certainly seemed "about right."
With a desire to be entertaining, I volunteered a fact or two
concerning punch generally. I said:
"Our word 'punch,' as you are doubtless aware, is derived from the
Hindustani '_panch_' or Sanskrit '_panchan_'; which mean simply
'five.' Punch is a mixture of five ingredients, hence the name."

Everybody was rather impressed with this apposite remark, excepting
Podbury. He answered:
"Yes, that's so. I've known it years and years. You bet what I don't
know about punch isn't worth knowing."Mabel did not feel so
happy, because she could not forget how her own beloved home had been
carried away in the flood; though there was little doubt but that Asa
French was able to build him a far better house, and stock his farm
afresh, for he had plenty of money out at interest.

The day was over, but the light still remained as the hay-rick, with
that little company of boys and girls aboard, reached the streets of
Carson.  Shouts attested to the interest their coming aroused; for
every one knew about the fall of the bridge, and how Max and his
comrades were carried away with it.  No word having come from them
since, of course their families were almost distracted; and it can
easily be understood that the warmest kind of welcome awaited all of
the castaways on their arrival home.

Carson was already beginning to recover from the shock occasioned by
the rising waters.  All sorts of "hard luck" stories kept coming to
town from neighboring farmers, who were so unfortunate as to live in
the lowlands, where the soil's richness had tempted them to make their
homes.  It seems to always be the case that where danger lurks in the
way of floods or volcanic eruptions, there the wonderful productiveness
of the soil serves as a lure to tempt people to accept risks.  As a
rule these folks are able to laugh at their neighbors on the higher
lands; but sooner or later there comes a time when things do not look
so rosy, and perhaps they lose all their accumulation of years.

Already plans were being discussed to take advantage of the misfortunes
that had come upon the community so as to build better.  The new bridge
would be a beauty, and so staunch that no flood could ever dislodge it.
Houses that had been swept away, or ruined in other ways were to be
replaced by more commodious and up-to-date buildings, and the new barns
would also far outclass those that had gone.

It was perhaps a much needed lesson, and Carson inside of a few years
was bound to profit by what at the time had seemed to be the greatest
calamity that had ever visited the community.

Max Hastings and his chums would never forget their strange
experiences.  They had to relate the story many times to the good
people of Carson, as well as their schoolmates.  That cruise on a
floating bridge would go down in the annals of the town as one of the
most remarkable events that had ever happened.

Of course Mabel found a chance to communicate with her almost
distracted parents and assure them of her safety.  None of the three
girls suffered in the least as the result of their exposure and
privations.  They always declared that it had in many ways been the
most delightful experience in their lives; and whenever this was said
in the presence of Steve or Max of course those boys smiled
contentedly, because they took it as a compliment that Mazie and Bessie
considered camping in their company, under such discouraging
conditions, as a genuine picnic.

It was perhaps a rather remarkable fact that some of Steve's pictures
did actually turn out fairly well.  He had tried the best he knew how
to keep the little camera from being submerged in the water; and while
outwardly the leather case had suffered, the films were very little
injured.

They were more than glad of this, because it gave them something
tangible as a reminder of the eventful trip, and the strange adventures
that followed their being kidnapped by the runaway bridge.

Later on that summer, when they had a chance to make a day's tour in an
automobile, Max, Steve, Bandy-legs, and Toby invited both Mazie Dunkirk
and Bessie French to accompany them; and in fine style they visited
along the route of their homeward journey after leaving the camp under
the forest trees.

Nothing would satisfy the two girls but that they must leave the car
somewhere and foot it through the well remembered aisles of the dense
woods until finally they came upon the dear shack where they had spent
that never-to-be-forgotten night.

There they cooked dinner, and enjoyed a real picnic.  Every little
event of that delightful past was gone over again with exactness; and
all of them pronounced the day one of the happiest of the calendar.
The shack was still in serviceable condition, and the girls were
pleased to pretend that they might still have need of a shelter
whenever a cloud as big as a boy's pocket appeared in the sky.

Max never learned what became of the two men who had invaded their
camp.  Doubtless the annals of some penitentiary might disclose the
fact that they had escaped from its walls; but whether they were
recaptured or not none of the boys ever knew.

Delays in enterprise restructuring and failure to develop a well-functioning
capital market played major roles in Czech economic troubles, which
culminated in a currency crisis in May.
The currency was forced out of its fluctuation band as investors worried
that the current account deficit, which reached nearly 8% of GDP in
1996, would become unsustainable. After expending $3 billion in vain
to support the currency, the central bank let it float. The growing
current account imbalance reflected a surge in domestic demand and poor
export performance, as wage increases outpaced productivity.
The government was forced to introduce two austerity packages later
in the spring which cut government spending by 2.5% of GDP..