And yet, in the perversity and the clairvoyance of his mood, Bob thought
to see in Baker's life something of that same emptiness of final
achievement he faced in his own. This was absurd, but the feeling of it
persisted. Thorne, with his miserable eighteen hundred a year, and his
glowing enthusiasm and quick interest seemed to him more worth while.
Why? It was absurd; but this feeling, too, persisted.

Bob was a healthy young fellow, a man of action rather than of
introspection, but now the hereditary twist of his character drove him
to attempt analysis. He arrived at nothing. Both Baker and Thorne seemed
to stand on one ground--each was satisfied, neither felt that lack of
the fulfilling content Bob was so keenly experiencing. But the streak of
feminine divination Bob had inherited from his mother made him
understand--or made him think to understand--that Baker's satisfaction
was taken because he did not see, while Thorne was working with his eyes
open and a full sense of values. This vague glimpse Bob gained only
partially and at length. It rather opened to him new vistas of spiritual
perplexity than offered to him any solution.

He paced rapidly down the length of the lake--whereon the battered but
efficient towing launch lay idle for Sunday--to the Lake Meadow. This
was, as usual, surrounded by hundreds of campers of all classes. I have
got an engagement.

Mrs. Denham.

I congratulate you.

Denham.

But what is it? You have never told us what you have been working at in
secret.

Mrs. Tremaine.

No. It might have come to nothing. I am to sing three songs at a
private concert.

Denham.

A good house?

Mrs. Tremaine.

Capital--and good people to hear me. I may choose my own songs, Italian,
German, or English. I have a fortnight to prepare, and I am to
be _paid_!

Denham.

Brava!

Mrs. Denham.

You are not going just yet?

Mrs. Tremaine.

No, not immediately. (_Crosses to "throne" and sits again. Denham follows
her._)
Mrs. Denham.

We shall meet again then. Good-bye!

Mrs. Tremaine.

(_as Denham arranges her skirt_) _A bientôt!_
(_Exit Mrs. Denham. Denham begins to paint._)
Denham.

Well, you mysterious creature, I think you have chosen your profession
well.

Your voice is lovely, and your style--well, not bad in these days of
execrable singing.

Mrs. Tremaine.

Do you know, it was your praise that made me think seriously of
this?

Denham.
(_absorbed in painting_) Really? But why would you never sing to
me since that evening?

Mrs. Tremaine.
I have been working so hard; I wanted to surprise you.

Denham.
And now you will?

Mrs. Tremaine.
Perhaps--some time. (_A pause, Denham painting in silence._)
Denham.
Come down and look at this thing now. I can do no more to it.
Mrs. Tremaine.
(_comes over to the easel, Denham puts down brush and palette_) But
this is splendid!

Denham.
(_taking pipe_) Better, isn't it? (_Crosses L, to table, and strikes
a match._) 
Mrs. Tremaine.
Oh _yes_! But how you _have_ flattered me! I shall be reduced to a
proper humility when I look in the glass. (_Turns and glances at
mirror, then again at picture._) 
Denham.
Never mind the glass. That's how I see you.

Mrs. Tremaine.
(_crosses C and drops him a curtsey_) Thank you, sir. An uncynical
compliment at last!

Denham.
(_bowing_) 'Tis but your due, madam, I protest. Come, sit down, and
let us be lazy. (_Pushes armchair round for Mrs. Tremaine, takes
chair from "throne" and sits near her._) We have worked very hard.
Do you ever go to the theatre?

Mrs. Tremaine.

Sometimes.

Denham.
Does it amuse you?

Mrs. Tremaine.
Oh yes! I like a good three act farce.

Denham.
So do I. But our serious plays are amusing in a deeper way--now
that we have begun timidly to scratch the surface of things. I
wonder, if you and I were put on the stage, what they would say of
us?

Mrs. Tremaine.
But there is nothing to make a play about in _us_.

Denham.
They would certainly say there was "no situation," though perhaps--
Mrs. Tremaine.

What _is_ a situation?

Denham.
Oh, you know--something threadbare, the outraged husband driving
his erring wife about the stage--all that sort of thing.
Mrs. Tremaine.
I love an outraged husband; they are so magnificently
moral!

Denham.
Unfortunately I am on no such pinnacle. (_Rises._) I can only humbly
ask you, when will you sit again?

Mrs. Tremaine.
Oh, now that you have painted that masterpiece, I must resign the
privilege of being your model.

Denham.
That is unkind of you, Blanche. But why? (_Puts his pipe down._)
Mrs. Tremaine.

You can't go on painting _me_ for ever.

Denham.
I _shall_ go on painting you for ever. But you will surely give me
an occasional sitting?

Mrs. Tremaine.
No; I must be stern. (_Rises and crosses C._) I must work seriously
now.

Denham.
At least you'll come and see us? You'll come and sing the savageness
out of this bear?

Mrs. Tremaine.
No; I must go back into the desert.

Denham.

Seriously?
Mrs. Tremaine. Yes.

Denham.
I knew it must come to an end, Blanche. (_Crosses C._) Well, we
have had a good time.

Mrs. Tremaine.
Yes. It has been pleasant here.More were coming from all directions. In a short
time a crowd of several hundred had collected, and stood, evidently in
expectation. Then, and only then, did the small man with the pointed
beard seem to become aware of the presence of any one besides his
companion. He leaned across to exchange a few words with the latter,
after which he laid aside his hat, arose and advanced to the rope
barrier on which he rested the tips of his fingers.

"My friends," he began in a nasal but penetrating voice, that carried
without effort to every hearer. "I am not a regularly ordained minister
of the gospel. I find, however, that there is none such among us, so I
have gathered you here together this morning to hear a few words
appropriate to the day. It has pleased Providence to call me to a public
position wherein my person has become well known to you all; but that is
an accident of the great profession to which I have been called, and I
bow my heart in humility with the least and most lowly. I am going to
tell you about myself this morning, not because I consider myself of
importance, but because it seems to me from my case a great lesson may
be drawn."

He paused to let his eye run over the concourse. Bob felt the gaze,
impersonal, impassive, scrutinizing, cold, rest on him the barest
appreciable flicker of a moment, and then pass on. He experienced a
faint shock, as though his defences had been tapped against.

"My father," went on the nasal voice, "came to this country in the
'sixties. It was a new country in the hands of a lazy people. It needed
development, so my father was happy felling the trees, damming the
streams, building the roads, getting possession of the land. That was
his job in life, and he did it well, because the country needed it. He
didn't bother his head with why he was doing it; he just thought he was
making money. As a matter of fact, he didn't make money; he died nearly
bankrupt."

The orator bowed his head for a moment.

"I might have done the same thing. It's all legitimate business. But I
couldn't. The country is being developed by its inhabitants: work of
that kind couldn't satisfy me. Why, friends? _Because now it would be
selfish work_. My father didn't know it, but the reason he was happy was
because the work he was doing for himself was also work for other
people. You can see that. He didn't know it, but he was helping develop
the country. But it wouldn't have been quite so with me. The country is
developed in that way. If I did that kind of work, I'd be working for
myself and nobody else at all. That turns out all right for most people,
because they don't see it: they do their duty as citizens and good
business men and fathers and husbands, and that ends it. But I saw it. I
felt I had to do a work that would support me in the world--but it must
be a work that helped humanity too. That is why, friends, I am what I
am. That a certain prominence is inevitable to my position is incidental
rather than gratifying.

"So, I think, the lesson to be drawn is that each of us should make his
life help humanity, should conduct his business in such a way as to help
humanity. Then he'll be happy."

He stood for a moment, then turned away. The tall, ungainly man with the
outstanding ears and the buffoon's face stepped forward and whispered
eagerly in his ear. He listened gravely, but shook his head. The tall
man whispered yet more vehemently, at great length. Finally the orator
stepped back to his place.

"We are here for a complete rest after exhausting labours," he stated.
"We have looked forward for months to undisturbed repose amongst these
giant pines. No thought of care was to intrude. But my colleague's great
and tender heart has smitten him, and, I am ashamed to say against my
first inclination, he urges me to a course which I'd have liked to
avoid; but which, when he shows me the way, I realize is the only decent
thing. We find ourselves in the midst of a community of some hundreds of
people. It may be some of these people are suffering, far from medical
or surgical help. If there are any such, and the case is really
pressing, you understand, we will be willing, just for common humanity,
to do our best to relieve them. And friends," the speaker stepped
forward until his body touched the rope, and he was leaning
confidentially forth, "it would be poor humanity that would cause you
pain or give you inferior treatments. I am happy to say we came to this
great virgin wilderness direct with our baggage from White Oaks where we
had been giving a two weeks' course of treatments--mainly charitable. We
have our instruments and our medicines with us in their packin' cases.
If need arises--which I trust it will not--we will not hesitate to go to
any trouble for you. It is against our principles to give anything but
our best. You will suffer no pain. But it must be understood," he warned
impressively. "This is just for you, our neighbours! We don't want this
news spread to the lumber camps and over the countryside. We are here
for a rest. But we cannot be true to our high calling and neglect the
relieving of pain."

The man bowed slightly, and rejoined his companion to whom he conversed
low-voiced with absolute unconsciousness of the audience he had just
been addressing so intimately. The latter hesitated, then slowly
dispersed. Bob stood, his brows knit, trying to recall. There was
something hauntingly familiar about the whole performance. Especially a
strange nasal emphasis on the word "pain" struck sharply a chord in his
recollection. He looked up in sudden enlightenment.

"Painless Porter!" he cried aloud.

The man looked up at the mention of his name.

"That's my name," said he. "What can I do for you?"

"I just remembered where I'd seen you," explained Bob.

"I'm fairly well known."

Bob approached eagerly. Mrs. Tremaine.

Well?

Denham.

Do you know I was a fool, to say you were not beautiful?
Mrs. Tremaine.

You only spoke the truth.

Denham.
It is a higher truth to say you are; and you seem to have grown
_more_ beautiful this last month.

Mrs.But his attempts at conversation met with a cold reception. Painless
Porter was too old a bird ever to lower his guard. He met the youth on
the high plane of professionalism, refused to utter other than the
platitudinous counters demanded by the occasion. He held the young man
at spear's length, and showed plainly by the ominous glitter of his eye
that he did not intend to be trifled with.

Then Baker's jolly voice broke in.

"Well! well! well!" he cried. "If here aren't my old friends, Painless
Porter and the Wiz! Simple life for yours, eh? Back to beans! What's the
general outline of _this_ graft?"

"We have come camping for a complete rest," stated Waller gravely, his
comical face cast in lines of reprobation and warning.

"Whatever it is, you'll get it," jibed Baker. "But I'll bet you a
toothpick it isn't a rest. What's exhausted you fellows, anyway?
Counting the easy money?"

"Our professional labours have been very heavy lately," spoke up the
painless one.

"What's biting you fellows?" demanded Baker. "There's nobody here."

Waller indicated Bob by a barely perceptible jerk of the head. Baker
threw back his head and laughed.

"Thought you knew him," said he. "You were all having such a love feast
gab-fest when I blew in. This is Mr. Orde, who bosses this place--and
most of the country around here. If you want to do good to humanity on
this meadow you'd better begin by being good to him. He controls it.
He's humanity with a capital H."

Ten minutes later the four men, cigars alight, a bottle within reach,
were sprawling about the interior of one of the larger tents. Bob was
enjoying himself hugely. It was the first time he had ever been behind
the scenes at this sort of game.

"But that was a good talk, just the same," he interrupted a cynical bit
of bragging.

"Say, wasn't it!" cried Porter. "I got that out of a shoutin'
evangelist. The minute I heard it I saw where it was hot stuff for my
spiel. I'm that way: I got that kind of good eye. I'll be going along
the street and some little thing'll happen that won't amount to nothin'
at all really. Another man wouldn't think twice about it. But like a
flash it comes to me how it would fit in to a spiel. It's like an artist
that way finding things to put in a picture. You'd never spot a dago
apple peddler as good for nothing but to work a little graft on mebbe;
but an artist comes along and slaps him in a picture and he's the
fanciest-looking dope in the art collection. That's me. I got some of my
best spiels from the funniest places! That one this morning is a wonder,
because it don't _listen_ like a spiel. I followed that evangelist yap
around for a week getting his dope down fine. You got to get the
language just right on these things, or they don't carry over."

"Which one is it, Painful?" asked Baker.

"You know; the make-your-work-a-good-to-humanity bluff."

"And all about papa in the 'sixties?"

"That's it."

"'And just don't you _dare_ tell the neighbours?'"

"Correct."

"The whole mountains will know all about it by to-morrow," Baker told
Bob, "and they'll flock up here in droves. It's easy money."

"Half these country yaps have bum teeth, anyway," said Porter.

"And the rest of them think they're sick," stated Wizard Waller.

"It beats a free show for results and expense," said Painless Porter.
"All you got to have is the tents and the Japs and the
Willie-off-the-yacht togs." He sighed. "There ought to be _some_
advantages," he concluded, "to drag a man so far from the street
lights."

"Then this isn't much of a pleasure trip?" asked Bob with some
amusement.

"Pleasure, hell!" snorted Painless, helping himself to a drink. "Say,
honest, how do you fellows that have business up here stick it out? It
gives me the willies!"

One of the Japanese peered into the tent and made a sign.

Painless Porter dropped his voice.

"A dope already," said he. He put on his air, and went out. As Bob and
Baker crossed the enclosed space, they saw him in conversation with a
gawky farm lad from the plains.

"I shore do hate to trouble you, doctor," the boy was saying, "and hit
Sunday, too. But I got a tooth back here--"

Painless Porter was listening with an air of the deepest and gravest
attention.


VII


The charlatan had babbled; but without knowing it he had given Bob what
he sought. He saw all the reasons for what had heretofore been obscure.

Why had he been dissatisfied with business opportunities and successes
beyond the hopes of most young men?

How could he dare criticize the ultimate value of such successes without
criticizing the life work of such men as Welton, as his own father?

What right had he to condemn as insufficient nine-tenths of those in the
industrial world; and yet what else but condemnation did his attitude of
mind imply?

All these doubts and questionings were dissipated like fog. Quite simply
it all resolved itself. He was dissatisfied because this was not his
work. The other honest and sincere men--such as his father and
Welton--had been satisfied because this was their work. The old
generation, the one that was passing, needed just that kind of service
but the need too was passing. Bob belonged to the new generation. He saw
that new things were to be demanded. The old order was changing. The
modern young men of energy and force and strong ability had a different
task from that which their fathers had accomplished. The wilderness was
subdued; the pioneer work of industry was finished; the hard brute
struggle to shape things to efficiency was over. It had been necessary
to get things done. Now it was becoming necessary to perfect the means
and methods of doing. Lumber must still be cut, streams must still be
dammed, railroads must still be built; but now that the pioneers, the
men of fire, had blazed the way others could follow. Methods were
established. It was all a business, like the selling of groceries. The
industrial rank and file could attend to details. The men who thought
and struggled and carried the torch--they must go beyond what their
fathers had accomplished.

Now Bob understood Amy Thorne's pride in the Service. He saw the true
basis of his feeling toward the Supervisor as opposed to his feeling
toward Baker. Thorne was in the current. With his pitiful eighteen
hundred a year he was nevertheless swimming strongly in new waters. His
business went that little necessary step beyond. It not only earned him
his living in the world, but it helped the race movement of his people.
At present the living was small, just as at first the pioneer opening
the country had wrested but a scanty livelihood from the stubborn
wilderness; nevertheless, he could feel--whether he stopped to think it
out or not--that his efforts had that coördination with the trend of
humanity which makes subtly for satisfaction and happiness. Bob looked
about the mill yard with an understanding eye. "Well, what under the sun,
moon, and stars did he send me out to Kingston Heights for!"

cried Cyrus aloud. He caught the next train, thinking longingly of his
broken engagement with Harold Dunning, and of certain plans for the
afternoon which he was beginning to fear might be thwarted if this
seemingly endless and aimless excursion continued. He looked at the packet
of unopened envelopes.

"It would be easy to break open the whole outfit, and see what this
game is," he thought. "Never knew father to do a thing like this
before. If it's a joke,"--his fingers felt the seal of envelope No.
4,--"I might as well find it out at once.

Still, father never would joke with a fellow's promise the way he
asked it of me.

'My word of honor'--that's putting it pretty strong. I'll see it
through, of course. My, but I'm getting hungry! It must be near luncheon-time."

It was not; but by the time Cyrus had been ordered twice across the
city and once up a sixteen-story building in which the elevator
service was out of order, it was past noon, and he was in a condition
to find envelope No.
7 a very satisfactory one:--
"Go to Cafe Reynaud on Westchester Square.

Take a seat at table in left alcove. Ask waiter for card of Cornelius
Woodbridge, Junior. Before ordering luncheon read envelope No. 8."

The boy lost no time in obeying this command, and sank into his
chair in the designated alcove with a sigh of relief.

He mopped his brow, and drank a glass of ice-water at a gulp.
It was a warm October day, and the sixteen flights had been somewhat
trying. He asked for his father's card, and then sat studying the
attractive menu.

"I think I'll have--" He mused for a moment, then said, with a
laugh, "Well, I'm about hungry enough to eat the whole thing.

Bring me the--"
Then he recollected, paused, and reluctantly pulled out envelope No. 8,
and broke the seal. "Just a minute," he murmured to the waiter. Then
his face turned scarlet, and he stammered, under his breath,
"Why--why--this can't be--"
Envelope No. 8 ought to have been bordered with black, judging by
the dismay its order to a lecture hall to hear a famous electrician,
caused.

But the Woodbridge blood was up now, and it was with an expression
resembling that of his grandfather Cornelius under strong indignation
that Cyrus stalked out of that charming place to proceed grimly to
the lecture hall.

"Who wants to hear a lecture on an empty stomach?" he groaned. "I suppose
I'll be ordered out, anyway, the minute I sit down and stretch my
legs.
Wonder if father can be exactly right in his mind.

He doesn't believe in wasting time, but I'm wasting it today by the
bucketful.

Suppose he's doing this to size me up some way; he isn't going to tire
me out so quick as he thinks. I'll keep going till I drop."
Nevertheless, when, just as he was getting interested, he was ordered to
go three miles to a football field, and then ordered away again
without a sight of the game he had planned for a week to see, his
disgust was intense.

All through that long, warm afternoon he raced about the city and
suburbs, growing wearier and more empty with every step.

The worst of it was, the orders were beginning to assume the form of a
schedule, and commanded that he be here at 3:15, and there at 4:05;
and so on, which forbade loitering, had he been inclined to loiter.
In it all he could see no purpose, except the possible one of trying
his physical endurance. He was a strong boy, or he would have been
quite exhausted long before he reached envelope No. 17, which was the
last but three of the packet.

This read:--
"Reach home at 6:20 P.M.

Before entering house, read No. 18."

Leaning against one of the big white stone pillars of the porch of his
home, Cyrus wearily tore open envelope No. 18, and the words fairly
swam before his eyes. He had to rub them hard to make sure that he was
not mistaken:--
"Go again to Kingston Heights, corner West and Dwight Streets,
reaching there by 6:50.

Read No. 19."
The boy looked up at the windows, desperately angry at last.

If his pride and his sense of the meaning of that phrase, "My word
of honor," as the men of the Woodbridge family were in the habit
of teaching their sons, had not both been of the strongest sort,
he would have rebelled, and gone defiantly and stormily in.

As it was, he stood for one long minute with his hands clenched and
his teeth set; then he turned and walked down the steps away from
the longed-for dinner, and out toward L Street and the car for
Kingston Heights.

We can't expect
everybody to turn right in and sacrifice themselves to be
philanthropists because the spirit of the age tells them they ought to
be. We've got to make it so easy to do things right that anybody at all
decent will be ashamed not to. Then we've got to wait for the spirit of
the people to grow to new things. It's coming, but it's not here yet."

California John, who had listened with the closest attention, slapped
his knee.

"Good sense," said he.

"But you can educate people, can't you?" asked Amy, a trifle subdued and
puzzled by these practical considerations.

"Some people can," agreed Thorne, speaking up, "and they're doing it.
But Mr. Orde is right; it's only the spirit of the people that can bring
about new things. We think we have leaders, but we have only
interpreters. When the time is ripe to change things, then the spirit of
the people rises to forbid old practices."

"That's it," said Bob; "I just couldn't get at it. Well, the way I feel
about it is that when all these new methods and principles have become
well known, then we can call a halt with some authority. You can't
condemn a man for doing his best, can you?"

The girl, at a loss, flushed, and almost crying, looked at them all
helplessly.

"But----" she cried.

"I believe it will all come about in time," said Thorne. "There's sure
to come a time when it will not be too much off balance to _require_
private firms to do things according to our methods. Then it will pay to
log the government forests on an extensive scale; and private forests
will have to come to our way of doing things."

"What's the use of all our fights and strivings?" asked Amy; "what's the
use of our preaching decent woods work if it can't be carried out?"

"It's educational," explained Thorne. "It starts people thinking, so
that when the time comes they'll be ready."

"Furthermore," put in Bob, "it fixes it so these young fellows who will
then be in charge of private operations will have no earthly excuse to
look at it wrong, or do it wrong."

"It will then be the difference between their acting according to
general ideas or against them," agreed Thorne.

"Never lick a pup for chasin' rabbits until yore ready to teach him to
chase deer," put in California John.


VIII


Bob found it much more difficult to approach Welton. When he did, he had
to contend with the older man's absolute disbelief in what he was
saying. Welton sat down on a stump and considered Bob with a humorous
twinkle.

"Want to quit the lumber business!" he echoed Bob's first statement.
"What for?"

"I don't think I'm cut out for it."

"No? Well, then, I never saw anybody that was. You don't happen to need
no more money?"

"Lord, no!"

"Of course, you know you'll have pretty good prospects here----" stated
Welton tentatively.

As he did so, inside the house, on the other side of the curtains,
from behind which he had been anxiously peering, Cornelius Woodbridge,
Senior, turned about and struck his hands together, rubbing them
in a satisfied way.

"He's come--and gone," he cried, softly, "and he's on time to the
minute!"
Cornelius, Junior, did not so much as lift his eyes from the evening
paper, as he quietly answered, "Is he?"

But the corners of his mouth slightly relaxed.

The car seemed to crawl out to Kingston Heights.
"No," Bob laughed quite wholeheartedly. "It isn't that."

"You haven't got a better job, have you?" Welton joked.

Bob considered. "Yes; I believe I have," he said at last; "at least I'm
hoping to get it."

Welton looked at him closely; saw that he was in earnest.

"What is it?" he asked curtly.

Bob, suddenly smitten with a sense of the futility of trying to argue
out his point of view here in the woods, drew back.

"Can't tell just yet," said he.

Denham.

So do I--as a dream.
Mrs. Tremaine.

Ah! You are the pessimist now.

Denham.
Why make mad efforts to realise it?

Mrs. Tremaine.
A necessity of our nature, I suppose.

Denham.
What does the modern woman desire or expect from a man?"You've always treated me better than I ever deserved," said Bob
earnestly, "and I'll stay all summer, or all next winter--until you feel
that you do not need me longer; but I'm sure that I must go."

For two days Welton disbelieved the reality of his intention. For two
days further he clung to a notion that in some way Bob must be
dissatisfied with something tangible in his treatment. Then, convinced
at last, he took alarm, and dropped his facetious attitude.

