All the savour of life was connected for him with that box.  His mind
ran over the constant excitements of the many small loans he had made
from it to his relations and friends.  A shilling in the pound
interest--he had never taken less and he had never asked more.  He had
only lent to people he knew well, people in the village whom he could
look after, and seldom for a term longer than three months, for to be
parted from his money at all gave him physical pain.  He had once
suffered great anxiety over a loan to his eldest brother of thirty
pounds.  But in the end James had paid it all back.  He could still
feel tingling through him the passionate joy with which he had counted
out the recovered sovereigns, with the extra three half-sovereigns of
interest.

Muster Drew indeed!  John fell into an angry inward argument against
his suggestion of the savings bank.  It was an argument he had often
rehearsed, often declaimed, and at bottom it all came to this--without
that box under his bed, his life would have sunk to dulness and
decrepitude; he would have been merely a pitiful and lonely old man.
He had neither wife nor children, all for the hoard's sake; but while
the hoard was there, to be handled any hour, he regretted nothing.
Besides, there was the peasant's rooted distrust of offices, and paper
transactions, of any routine that checks his free will and frightens
his inexperience.  He was still eagerly thinking when the light began
to flood into his room, and before he could compose himself to sleep
the women called him.

But he shed no more tears.  He saw Eliza die, his companion of forty
years, and hardly felt it.  What troubled him all through the last
scene was the thought that now he should never know why she was so set
against "Bessie's 'avin' it."


SCENE II

It was, indeed, the general opinion in Clinton Magna that John
Bolderfield--or "Borrofull," as the village pronounced it, took his
sister-in-law's death too lightly.  The women especially pronounced him
a hard heart.  Here was "poor Eliza" gone, Eliza who had kept him
decent and comfortable for forty years, ever since he was a lad, and he
could go about whistling, and--to talk to him--as gay as a lark!  Yet
John contributed handsomely to the burial expenses--Eliza having
already, through her burial club, provided herself with a more than
regulation interment; and he gave Jim's Louisa her mourning.
Nevertheless, these things did not avail.  It was felt instinctively
that he was not beaten down as he ought to have been, and Mrs.
Saunders, the smith's wife, was applauded when she said to her
neighbours that "you couldn't expeck a man with John Bolderfield's
money to have as many feelin's as other people."  Whence it would seem
that the capitalist is no more truly popular in small societies than in
large.

John, however, did not trouble himself about these things.  He was hard
at work harvesting for Muster Hill's widow, and puzzling his head day
and night as to what to do with his box.

When the last field had been carried and the harvest supper was over,
he came home late, and wearied out.  His working life at Clinton Magna
was done; and the family he had worked for so long was broken up in
distress and poverty.  Yet he felt only a secret exultation.  Such toil
and effort behind--such a dreamland in front!

Next day he set to work to wind up his affairs.  The furniture of the
cottage was left to Eliza's son Jim, and the daughter had arranged for
the carting of it to the house twelve miles off where her parents
lived.  She was to go with it on the morrow, and John would give up the
cottage and walk over to Frampton, where he had already secured a
lodging.

Only twenty-four hours!--and he had not yet decided.  Which was it to
be--Saunders, after all--or the savings bank--or Bessie?

He was cording up his various possessions--a medley lot--in different
parcels and bundles when Bessie Costrell knocked at the door.  She had
already offered to stow away anything he might like to leave with her.

"Well, I thought you'd be busy," she said as she walked in, "an' I came
up to lend a hand.  Is them the things you're goin' to leave me to take
care on?"

John nodded.

"Field's cart, as takes Louisa's things to-morrer, is a-goin' to
deliver these at your place first.  They're more nor I thought they
would be.  But you can put 'em anywheres."

"Oh, I'll see to them."

She sat down and watched him tie the knots of the last parcel.

"There's some people as is real ill-natured," she said presently, in an
angry voice.

"Aye?" said John, looking up sharply.  "What are they sayin' now?"

"It's Muster Saunders.  'Ee's allus sayin' nassty things about other
folks.  And there'd be plenty of fault to be found with 'im, if onybody
was to try.  An' Sally Saunders eggs him on dreadful."

Saunders was the village smith, a tall, brawny man, of great size and
corresponding wisdom, who had been the village arbiter and general
councillor for a generation.  There was not a will made in Clinton
Magna that he did not advise upon; not a bit of contentious business
that he had not a share in; not a family history that he did not know.
His probity was undisputed; his ability was regarded with awe; but as
he had a sharp tongue and was no respecter of persons, there was of
course an opposition.

John took a seat on the wooden box he had just been cording, and mopped
his brow.  His full cheeks were crimson, partly with exertion, partly
with sudden annoyance.

"What's 'ee been sayin' now?  Though it doan't matter a brass farthin'
to me what 'ee says."

"He says you 'aven't got no proper feelin's about poor Eliza, an' you'd
ought to have done a great deal more for Louisa.  But 'ee says you
allus were a mean one with your money--an' you knew that _'ee_ knew
it--for 'ee'd stopped you takin' an unfair advantage more nor once.
An' 'ee didn't believe as your money would come to any good; for now
Eliza was gone you wouldn't know how to take care on it."

John's eyes flamed.

"Oh! 'ee says that, do 'ee?  Well, Saunders wor allus a beast--an' a
beast 'ee'll be."

He sat with his chin on his large dirty hands, ruminating furiously.

It was quite true that Saunders had thwarted him more than once.  There
was old Mrs. Moulsey at the shop, when she wanted to buy those cottages
in Potter's Row--and there was Sam Field the higgler--both of them
would have borrowed from him if Saunders hadn't cooled them off.
Saunders said it was a Jew's interest he was asking--because there was
security--but he wasn't going to accept a farthing less than his
shilling a pound for three months--not he!  So they might take it or
leave it.  And Mrs. Moulsey got hers from the Building Society, and Sam
Field made shift to go without.  And John Bolderfield was three pounds
poorer that quarter than he need have been--all along of Saunders.  And
now Saunders was talking "agen him" like this--blast him!

"Oh, an' then he went on," pursued Bessie with gusto, "about your bein'
too ignorant to put it in the post-office.  'Ee said you'd think
Edwards would go an' spend it" (Edwards was the post-master), "an' then
he laughed fit to split 'imself.  Yer couldn't see more nor the length
of your own nose, he said--it was edication _you_ wanted.  As for 'im,
'ee said, 'ee'd have kep' it for you if you'd asked him, but you'd been
like a bear with a sore 'ead, 'ee said, ever since Mrs. Moulsey's
affair--so 'ee didn't suppose you would."

"Well, 'ee's about right there," said John, grimly; "ee's talkin' sense
for onst when 'ee says that.  I'd dig a hole in the hill and bury it
sooner nor I'd trust it to 'im--I would, by----" he swore vigorously.
"A thieving set of magpies is all them Saunders--cadgin' 'ere and
cadgin' there."

