Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Sandra Brown and the DP Team


THE PORTENT AND OTHER STORIES


By George MacDonald


THE PORTENT


A STORY OF THE INNER VISION OF THE HIGHLANDERS,
COMMONLY CALLED
_THE SECOND SIGHT_


DEDICATION.


MY DEAR SIR, KENSINGTON, _May, 1864._

Allow me, with the honour due to my father's friend, to inscribe this
little volume with your name. The name of one friend is better than
those of all the Muses.

And permit me to say a few words about the story.--It is a Romance. I am
well aware that, with many readers, this epithet will be enough to
ensure condemnation. But there ought to be a place for any story, which,
although founded in the marvellous, is true to human nature and to
itself. CREAM OF CELERY SOUP.

MRS. ERNEST F. WURTELE.

One quart chicken or veal broth; one quart milk; one half cupful rice;
one teaspoonful salt; one head celery; seasoning. Use for this soup a
quart of chicken or veal broth and about a quart of milk; pick
over and wash the rice, rinse it well in cold water, and put it in
a thick saucepan over the fire with a pint of milk and a teaspoonful
of salt; wash a head of celery and grate the white stalks, letting
the grated celery fall into milk enough to cover it; put the grated
celery with the rice and gently simmer them together until the rice
is tender enough to rub through a sieve with a potato masher, adding
more milk if the rice absorbs what has first been put with it.

After the rice has been rubbed through the sieve, return it to the saucepan,
place it again over the fire, and gradually stir with it the quart
of stock or broth; if this quantity of stock does not dilute the soup to
a creamy consistency, add a little milk; let the soup get scalding
hot, season it with salt, white pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg,
and serve at once.

CELERY SOUP.

MRS. STOCKING.

Four large potatoes, three large onions, six or eight stalks of celery.

Chop all the vegetables very fine, and place in an earthern kettle
and cover with boiling water, stir often till cooked, then add one
quart of milk and let boil; add butter, pepper and salt to taste. This
receipt will serve six persons.

CHICKEN CREAM SOUP.

MRS. DUNCAN LAURIE.

Take the carcase of a roast chicken or turkey, break the bones, and
cover with a quart of cold water and simmer for two hours adding
boiling water, to keep the original quantity.

Strain and return to kettle, add one chopped onion, two grated raw
potatoes, one half small turnip grated, and one half cup rice.

Boil until rice is very soft.

Strain again, and return to kettle and let boil, and add one pint
milk, one teaspoon cornstarch rubbed smooth in a tablespoon butter
and a little salt and pepper, serve hot.

CONSOMME À LA TOLEDO--CLEAR SOUP.

MISS STEVENSON.

One quart stock, two eggs, two gherkins, a little red and green
colouring, two tablespoonfuls cream, whites and shells of two eggs,
one wine glass of sherry, and a little nutmeg.

Beat the two whole eggs, pour over them the cream (hot.)

Season the custard with pepper, salt and nutmeg, colour half red
and half green, pour both parts into buttered tins, poach in hot
water until firm.

Beat the whites and shells of eggs with a little cold water, add
them to the stock, pour it into a saucepan and whisk over the fire till
boiling; draw on one side and simmer ten minutes. Cut the custard in
shapes, rinse then in warm water, shred the gherkins, strain the
soup, add the wine and garnishing just before serving.

CAULIFLOWER SOUP.

One cauliflower, two yolks of egg, one half pint of cream, one quart
chicken stock. Boil together the stock and cauliflower, for twenty minutes,
take out the cauliflower, put aside some of the best parts, pass
remainder through a sieve, mix together the yolks and cream, add them
to the soup, put all in a saucepan and stir over the fire until it
begins to thicken, put the pieces of cauliflower into a tureen and
pour the soup over them; the stock used in this soup is better without
any other vegetables.

FISH SOUP.

Two pounds of raw fish, one tablespoonful parsley, one and one half
ounces butter, one ounce flour of rice, one half pint milk, one quart
of water, pepper, and salt. Boil together the bones and skin of fish
for half an hour.

Strain, melt butter in a saucepan, stir into it the flour, add strained
water from the pan. Cut up the fish into small pieces, add it,
also salt and pepper, boil slowly ten minutes, add parsley at last
minute.

GIBLET SOUP.

MISS BEEMER.

Giblets from two or three fowls; two quarts of water; one of stock;
two tablespoons of butter, ditto of flour; salt, pepper, and onion
if desired. Put giblets on to boil in the water and boil gently
till reduced to one quart (about two hours); take out the giblets,
cut off tough parts and chop fine the remainder. Return to the
liquor and add stock. Cook butter and flour together until a rich
brown, and add to the soup; season, cook gently half an hour; stir
in half a cup of bread crumbs and in a few minutes serve hot.
KIDNEY SOUP.

MISS STEVENSON.
One ox kidney, one quart second stock or water, one tablespoon Hardy
sauce, one tablespoon mushroom ketchup, one ounce butter, one ounce
rice flour, pepper, salt and cayenne.This was my refuge, my home within a
home, my study--and, in the hot noons, often my sleeping chamber, and my
house of dreams. If the wind blew cold on the hillside, a hollow of
lulling warmth was there, scooped as it were out of the body of the
blast, which, sweeping around, whistled keen and thin through the cracks
and crannies of the rocky chaos that lay all about; in which confusion
of rocks the wind plunged, and flowed, and eddied, and withdrew, as the
sea-waves on the cliffy shores or the unknown rugged bottoms. Here I
would often lie, as the sun went down, and watch the silent growth of
another sea, which the stormy ocean of the wind could not disturb--the
sea of the darkness. First it would begin to gather in the bottom of
hollow places. Deep valleys, and all little pits on the hill-sides, were
well-springs where it gathered, and whence it seemed to overflow, till
it had buried the earth beneath its mass, and, rising high into the
heavens, swept over the faces of the stars, washed the blinding day from
them, and let them shine, down through the waters of the dark, to the
eyes of men below. I would lie till nothing but the stars and the dim
outlines of hills against the sky was to be seen, and then rise and go
home, as sure of my path as if I had been descending a dark staircase in
my father's house.

On the opposite side the valley, another hill lay parallel to mine; and
behind it, at some miles' distance, a great mountain. As often as, in my
hermit's cave, I lifted my eyes from the volume I was reading, I saw
this mountain before me. Very different was its character from that of
the hill on which I was seated. It was a mighty thing, a chieftain of
the race, seamed and scarred, featured with chasms and precipices and
over-leaning rocks, themselves huge as hills; here blackened with shade,
there overspread with glory; interlaced with the silvery lines of
falling streams, which, hurrying from heaven to earth, cared not how
they went, so it were downwards. Fearful stories were told of the gulfs,
sullen waters, and dizzy heights upon that terror-haunted mountain. In
storms the wind roared like thunder in its caverns and along the jagged
sides of its cliffs, but at other times that uplifted land-uplifted, yet
secret and full of dismay--lay silent as a cloud on the horizon.

I had a certain peculiarity of constitution, which I have some reason to
believe I inherit. It seems to have its root in an unusual delicacy of
hearing, which often conveys to me sounds inaudible to those about me.
This I have had many opportunities of proving. It has likewise, however,
brought me sounds which I could never trace back to their origin; though
they may have arisen from some natural operation which I had not
perseverance or mental acuteness sufficient to discover. From this, or,
it may be, from some deeper cause with which this is connected, arose a
certain kind of fearfulness associated with the sense of hearing, of
which I have never heard a corresponding instance. Full as my mind was
of the wild and sometimes fearful tales of a Highland nursery, fear
never entered my mind by the eyes, nor, when I brooded over tales of
terror, and fancied new and yet more frightful embodiments of horror,
did I shudder at any imaginable spectacle, or tremble lest the fancy
should become fact, and from behind the whin-bush or the elder-hedge
should glide forth the tall swaying form of the Boneless. When alone in
bed, I used to lie awake, and look out into the room, peopling it with
the forms of all the persons who had died within the scope of my memory
and acquaintance. These fancied forms were vividly present to my
imagination. I pictured them pale, with dark circles around their hollow
eyes, visible by a light which glimmered within them; not the light of
life, but a pale, greenish phosphorescence, generated by the decay of
the brain inside. Their garments were white and trailing, but torn and
soiled, as by trying often in vain to get up out of the buried coffin.
But so far from being terrified by these imaginings, I used to delight
in them; and in the long winter evenings, when I did not happen to have
any book that interested me sufficiently, I used even to look forward
with expectation to the hour when, laying myself straight upon my back,
as if my bed were my coffin, I could call up from underground all who
had passed away, and see how they fared, yea, what progress they had
made towards final dissolution of form--but all the time, with my
fingers pushed hard into my ears, lest the faintest sound should invade
the silent citadel of my soul. If inadvertently I removed one of my
fingers, the agony of terror I instantly experienced is indescribable. I
can compare it to nothing but the rushing in upon my brain of a whole
churchyard of spectres. The very possibility of hearing a sound, in such
a mood, and at such a time, was almost enough to paralyse me. So I could
scare myself in broad daylight, on the open hillside, by imagining
unintelligible sounds; and my imagination was both original and fertile
in the invention of such. But my mind was too active to be often
subjected to such influences. Indeed life would have been hardly
endurable had these moods been of more than occasional occurrence. As I
grew older, I almost outgrew them. Yet sometimes one awful dread would
seize me--that, perhaps, the prophetic power manifest in the gift of
second sight, which, according to the testimony of my old nurse, had
belonged to several of my ancestors, had been in my case transformed in
kind without losing its nature, transferring its abode from the sight to
the hearing, whence resulted its keenness, and my fear and suffering.


Chapter II


_The Second Hearing_.

One summer evening, I had lingered longer than usual in my rocky
retreat: I had lain half dreaming in the mouth of my cave, till the
shadows of evening had fallen, and the gloaming had deepened half-way
towards the night. But the night had no more terrors for me than the
day. Indeed, in such regions there is a solitariness for which there
seems a peculiar sense, and upon which the shadows of night sink with a
strange relief, hiding from the eye the wide space which yet they throw
more open to the imagination. When I lifted my head, only a star here
and there caught my eye; but, looking intently into the depths of
blue-grey, I saw that they were crowded with twinkles. The mountain rose
before me, a huge mass of gloom; but its several peaks stood out against
the sky with a clear, pure, sharp outline, and looked nearer to me than
the bulk from which they rose heaven-wards. One star trembled and
throbbed upon the very tip of the loftiest, the central peak, which
seemed the spire of a mighty temple where the light was
worshipped--crowned, therefore, in the darkness, with the emblem of the
day. I was lying, as I have said, with this fancy still in my thought,
when suddenly I heard, clear, though faint and far away, the sound as of
the iron-shod hoofs of a horse, in furious gallop along an uneven rocky
surface. It was more like a distant echo than an original sound. It
seemed to come from the face of the mountain, where no horse, I knew,
could go at that speed, even if its rider courted certain destruction.
There was a peculiarity, too, in the sound--a certain tinkle, or clank,
which I fancied myself able, by auricular analysis, to distinguish from
the body of the sound. Supposing the sound to be caused by the feet of a
horse, the peculiarity was just such as would result from one of the
shoes being loose. A terror--strange even to my experience--seized me,
and I hastened home. The sounds gradually died away as I descended the
hill. Could they have been an echo from some precipice of the mountain?
I knew of no road lying so that, if a horse were galloping upon it, the
sounds would be reflected from the mountain to me.

The next day, in one of my rambles, I found myself near the cottage of
my old foster-mother, who was distantly related to us, and was a trusted
servant in the family at the time I was born. On the death of my mother,
which took place almost immediately after my birth, she had taken the
entire charge of me, and had brought me up, though with difficulty; for
she used to tell me, I should never be either _folk_ or _fairy_. For
some years she had lived alone in a cottage, at the bottom of a deep
green circular hollow, upon which, in walking over a healthy table-land,
one came with a sudden surprise. I was her frequent visitor. She was a
tall, thin, aged woman, with eager eyes, and well-defined clear-cut
features. Her voice was harsh, but with an undertone of great
tenderness. She was scrupulously careful in her attire, which was rather
above her station. Altogether, she had much the bearing of a
gentle-woman. Her devotion to me was quite motherly. Never having had
any family of her own, although she had been the wife of one of my
father's shepherds, she expended the whole maternity of her nature upon
me. She was always my first resource in any perplexity, for I was sure
of all the help she could give me. And as she had much influence with my
father, who was rather severe in his notions, I had had occasion to beg
her interference. No necessity of this sort, however, had led to my
visit on the present occasion.

I ran down the side of the basin, and entered the little cottage. Nurse
was seated on a chair by the wall, with her usual knitting, a stocking,
in one hand; but her hands were motionless, and her eyes wide open and
fixed. I knew that the neighbours stood rather in awe of her, on the
ground that she had the second sight; but, although she often told us
frightful enough stories, she had never alluded to such a gift as being
in her possession. Now I concluded at once that she was _seeing_. I was
confirmed in this conclusion when, seeming to come to herself suddenly,
she covered her head with her plaid, and sobbed audibly, in spite of her
efforts to command herself. But I did not dare to ask her any questions,
nor did she attempt any excuse for her behaviour. After a few moments,
she unveiled herself, rose, and welcomed me with her usual kindness;
then got me some refreshment, and began to question me about matters at
home. After a pause, she said suddenly: "When are you going to get your
commission, Duncan, do you know?" I replied that I had heard nothing of
it; that I did not think my father had influence or money enough to
procure me one, and that I feared I should have no such good chance of
distinguishing myself. She did not answer, but nodded her head three
times, slowly and with compressed lips--apparently as much as to say, "I
know better."

Just as I was leaving her, it occurred to me to mention that I had heard
an odd sound the night before. She turned towards me, and looked at me
fixedly. "What was it like, Duncan, my dear?"

"Like a horse galloping with a loose shoe," I replied.

"Duncan, Duncan, my darling!" she said, in a low, trembling voice, but
with passionate earnestness, "you did not hear it? Tell me that you did
not hear it! You only want to frighten poor old nurse: some one has been
telling you the story!"

It was my turn to be frightened now; for the matter became at once
associated with my fears as to the possible nature of my auricular
peculiarities. I assured her that nothing was farther from my intention
than to frighten her; that, on the contrary, she had rather alarmed me;
and I begged her to explain. But she sat down white and trembling, and
did not speak. Presently, however, she rose again, and saying, "I have
known it happen sometimes without anything very bad following," began to
put away the basin and plate I had been using, as if she would compel
herself to be calm before me. I renewed my entreaties for an
explanation, but without avail. She begged me to be content for a few
days, as she was quite unable to tell the story at present. She
promised, however, of her own accord, that before I left home she would
tell me all she knew.

The next day a letter arrived announcing the death of a distant
relation, through whose influence my father had had a lingering hope of
obtaining an appointment for me. There was nothing left but to look out
for a situation as tutor.


CHAPTER III


_My Old Nurses Story_.

I was now almost nineteen. I had completed the usual curriculum of study
at one of the Scotch universities; and, possessed of a fair knowledge of
mathematics and physics, and what I considered rather more than a good
foundation for classical and metaphysical acquirement, I resolved to
apply for the first suitable situation that offered. But I was spared
the trouble. A certain Lord Hilton, an English nobleman, residing in one
of the midland counties, having heard that one of my father's sons was
desirous of such a situation, wrote to him, offering me the post of
tutor to his two boys, of the ages of ten and twelve. He had been partly
educated at a Scotch university; and this, it may be, had prejudiced him
in favour of a Scotch tutor; while an ancient alliance of the families
by marriage was supposed by my nurse to be the reason of his offering me
the situation. Of this connection, however, my father said nothing to
me, and it went for nothing in my anticipations. I was to receive a
hundred pounds a year, and to hold in the family the position of a
gentleman, which might mean anything or nothing, according to the
disposition of the heads of the family. Preparations for my departure
were immediately commenced. I set out one evening for the cottage of my
old nurse, to bid her good-bye for many months, probably years. I was to
leave the next day for Edinburgh, on my way to London, whence I had to
repair by coach to my new abode--almost to me like the land beyond the
grave, so little did I know about it, and so wide was the separation
between it and my home. The evening was sultry when I began my walk, and
before I arrived at its end, the clouds rising from all quarters of the
horizon, and especially gathering around the peaks of the mountain,
betokened the near approach of a thunderstorm. This was a great delight
to me. Gladly would I take leave of my home with the memory of a last
night of tumultuous magnificence; followed, probably, by a day of
weeping rain, well suited to the mood of my own heart in bidding
farewell to the best of parents and the dearest of homes. Besides, in
common with most Scotchmen who are young and hardy enough to be unable
to realise the existence of coughs and rheumatic fevers, it was a
positive pleasure to me to be out in rain, hail, or snow.

"I am come to bid you good-bye, Margaret; and to hear the story which
you promised to tell me before I left home: I go to-morrow."

"Do you go so soon, my darling? Well, it will be an awful night to tell
it in; but, as I promised, I suppose I must."

At the moment, two or three great drops of rain, the first of the storm,
fell down the wide chimney, exploding in the clear turf-fire.

"Yes, indeed you must," I replied.

After a short pause, she commenced. Of course she spoke in Gaelic; and I
translate from my recollection of the Gaelic; but rather from the
impression left upon my mind, than from any recollection of the words.
She drew her chair near the fire, which we had reason to fear would soon
be put out by the falling rain, and began.

"How old the story is, I do not know. It has come down through many
generations. My grandmother told it to me as I tell it to you; and her
mother and my mother sat beside, never interrupting, but nodding their
heads at every turn. Almost it ought to begin like the fairy tales,
_Once upon a time,_--it took place so long ago; but it is too dreadful
and too true to tell like a fairy tale.--There were two brothers, sons
of the chief of our clan, but as different in appearance and disposition
as two men could be. The elder was fair-haired and strong, much given to
hunting and fishing; fighting too, upon occasion, I dare say, when they
made a foray upon the Saxon, to get back a mouthful of their own. But he
was gentleness itself to every one about him, and the very soul of
honour in all his doings. The younger was very dark in complexion, and
tall and slender compared to his brother. He was very fond of
book-learning, which, they say, was an uncommon taste in those times. He
did not care for any sports or bodily exercises but one; and that, too,
was unusual in these parts. It was horsemanship. He was a fierce rider,
and as much at home in the saddle as in his study-chair. You may think
that, so long ago, there was not much fit room for riding hereabouts;
but, fit or not fit, he rode. From his reading and riding, the
neighbours looked doubtfully upon him, and whispered about the black
art. He usually bestrode a great powerful black horse, without a white
hair on him; and people said it was either the devil himself, or a
demon-horse from the devil's own stud. What favoured this notion was,
that, in or out of the stable, the brute would let no other than his
master go near him. Indeed, no one would venture, after he had killed
two men, and grievously maimed a third, tearing him with his teeth and
hoofs like a wild beast. But to his master he was obedient as a hound,
and would even tremble in his presence sometimes.

"The youth's temper corresponded to his habits. He was both gloomy and
passionate. Prone to anger, he had never been known to forgive. Debarred
from anything on which he had set his heart, he would have gone mad with
longing if he had not gone mad with rage. His soul was like the night
around us now, dark, and sultry, and silent, but lighted up by the red
levin of wrath and torn by the bellowings of thunder-passion. He must
have his will: hell might have his soul. Imagine, then, the rage and
malice in his heart, when he suddenly became aware that an orphan girl,
distantly related to them, who had lived with them for nearly two years,
and whom he had loved for almost all that period, was loved by his elder
brother, and loved him in return. He flung his right hand above his
head, swore a terrible oath that if he might not, his brother should
not, rushed out of the house, and galloped off among the hills.

"The orphan was a beautiful girl, tall, pale, and slender, with
plentiful dark hair, which, when released from the snood, rippled down
below her knees. Her appearance formed a strong contrast with that of
her favoured lover, while there was some resemblance between her and the
younger brother. This fact seemed, to his fierce selfishness, ground for
a prior claim.

"It may appear strange that a man like him should not have had instant
recourse to his superior and hidden knowledge, by means of which he
might have got rid of his rival with far more of certainty and less of
risk; but I presume that, for the moment, his passion overwhelmed his
consciousness of skill. Yet I do not suppose that he foresaw the mode in
which his hatred was about to operate. At the moment when he learned
their mutual attachment, probably through a domestic, the lady was on
her way to meet her lover as he returned from the day's sport. The
appointed place was on the edge of a deep, rocky ravine, down in whose
dark bosom brawled and foamed a little mountain torrent. You know the
place, Duncan, my dear, I dare say."

(Here she gave me a minute description of the spot, with directions how
to find it.)

"Whether any one saw what I am about to relate, or whether it was put
together afterwards, I cannot tell. The story is like an old tree--so
old that it has lost the marks of its growth. But this is how my
grandmother told it to me.--An evil chance led him in the right
direction. The lovers, startled by the sound of the approaching horse,
parted in opposite directions along a narrow mountain-path on the edge
of the ravine. Into this path he struck at a point near where the lovers
had met, but to opposite sides of which they had now receded; so that he
was between them on the path. Turning his horse up the course of the
stream, he soon came in sight of his brother on the ledge before him.
With a suppressed scream of rage, he rode head-long at him, and ere he
had time to make the least defence, hurled him over the precipice. The
helplessness of the strong man was uttered in one single despairing cry
as he shot into the abyss. Then all was still. The sound of his fall
could not reach the edge of the gulf. Divining in a moment that the
lady, whose name was Elsie, must have fled in the opposite direction, he
reined his steed on his haunches. "Now s'y, 'Gor blimy, 'Arry, 'ow's the
missus?'"
I did.

"That's right! Oh, you'll soon get the swing of it."
There was much more instruction of the same nature. By the time I was
ready to leave the recruiting offices I felt that I had made great
progress in the vernacular. I said good-bye to the sergeant warmly.
As I was about to leave he made the most peculiar and amusing gesture
of a man drinking.

"A pint o' mild an' bitter," he said confidentially. "The boys always
gives me the price of a pint."
"Right you are, sergeant!" I used the expression like a born Englishman.

And with the liberality of a true soldier, I gave him my shilling, my
first day's wage as a British fighting man.

The remainder of the week I spent mingling with the crowds of enlisted
men at the Horse Guards Parade, watching the bulletin boards for the
appearance of my name which would mean that I was to report at the
regimental depot at Hounslow. My first impression of the men with whom I
was to live for three years, or the duration of the war, was anything
but favorable. The newspapers had been asserting that the new
army was being recruited from the flower of England's young manhood.
The throng at the Horse Guards Parade resembled an army of the unemployed,
and I thought it likely that most of them were misfits, out-of-works,
the kind of men who join the army because they can do nothing else. There
were, in fact, a good many of these. I soon learned, however, that the
general out-at-elbows appearance was due to another cause. A genial
Cockney gave me the hint.

"'Ave you joined up, matey?" he asked.

I told him that I had.

"Well, 'ere's a friendly tip for you.

Don't wear them good clo'es w'en you goes to the depot. You won't see
'em again likely, an' if you gets through the war you might be a-wantin'
of 'em. Wear the worst rags you got."
I profited by the advice, and when I fell in, with the other recruits for
the Royal Fusiliers, I felt much more at my ease.

CHAPTER II
ROOKIES

"A mob" is genuinely descriptive of the array of would-be soldiers
which crowded the long parade-ground at Hounslow Barracks during
that memorable last week in August.

We herded together like so many sheep. We had lost our individuality,
and it was to be months before we regained it in a new aspect, a collective
individuality of which we became increasingly proud.
We squeak-squawked across the barrack square in boots which felt large
enough for an entire family of feet. Our khaki service dress
uniforms were strange and uncomfortable. Our hands hung limply along the
seams of our pocketless trousers. Having no place in which to conceal
them, and nothing for them to do, we tried to ignore them. Many a Tommy,
in a moment of forgetfulness, would make a dive for the friendly pockets
which were no longer there. The look of sheepish disappointment, as
his hands slid limply down his trouser-legs, was most comical to
see. Before many days we learned the uses to which soldiers' hands
are put. But for the moment they seemed absurdly unnecessary.

We must have been unpromising material from the military point of view.
That was evidently the opinion of my own platoon sergeant. I remember,
word for word, his address of welcome, one of soldier-like brevity
and pointedness, delivered while we stood awkwardly at attention
on the barrack square.

"Lissen 'ere, you men! I've never saw such a raw, roun'-shouldered batch
o' rookies in fifteen years' service. Yer pasty-faced an' yer
thin-chested. Gawd 'elp 'Is Majesty if it ever lays with you to save
'im! 'Owever, we're 'ere to do wot we can with wot we got. Now, then,
upon the command, 'Form Fours,' I wanna see the even numbers tyke a pace
to the rear with the left foot, an' one to the right with the right
foot. Like so: 'One-one-two!' Platoon! Form Fours! Oh! Orful! Orful! As
y' were! As y' were!"
If there was doubt in the minds of any of us as to our rawness,
it was quickly dispelled by our platoon sergeants, regulars of
long standing, who had been left in England to assist in whipping
the new armies into shape.

Naturally, they were disgruntled at this, and we offered them such splendid
opportunities for working off overcharges of spleen.

We had come to Hounslow, believing that, within a few weeks' time, we
should be fighting in France, side by side with the men of the first
British expeditionary force. Lord Kitchener had said that six months
of training, at the least, was essential. This statement we regarded
as intentionally misleading. Lord Kitchener was too shrewd a soldier
to announce his plans; but England needed men badly, immediately.
After a week of training, we should be proficient in the use of our
rifles. In addition to this, all that was needed was the ability to form
fours and march, in column of route, to the station where we should
entrain for Folkestone or Southampton, and France.

As soon as the battalion was up to strength, we were given a day of
preliminary drill before proceeding to our future training area
in Essex.

It was a disillusioning experience. Equally disappointing was the
undignified display of our little skill, at Charing Cross Station,
where we performed before a large and amused London audience.

For my own part, I could scarcely wait until we were safely hidden within
the train.
During the journey to Colchester, a re-enlisted Boer War veteran, from the
inaccessible heights of South African experience, enfiladed us with a
fire of sarcastic comment.

"I'm a-go'n' to transfer out o' this 'ere mob, that's wot I'm a go'n'
to do! Soldiers! S'y! I'll bet a quid they ain't a one of you ever
saw a rifle before! Soldiers? Strike me pink! Wot's Lord Kitchener
a-doin' of, that's wot I want to know!"
The rest of us smoked in wrathful silence, until one of the boys
demonstrated to the Boer War veteran that he knew, at least, how
to use his fists.

There was some bloodshed, followed by reluctant apologies on the part
of the Boer warrior. It was one of innumerable differences of
opinion which I witnessed during the months that followed. And most of
them were settled in the same decisive way.

Although mine was a London regiment, we had men in the ranks from
all parts of the United Kingdom.

There were North-Countrymen, a few Welsh, Scotch, and Irish, men from the
Midlands and from the south of England.

But for the most part we were Cockneys, born within the sound of
Bow Bells.

I had planned to follow the friendly advice of the recruiting
sergeant.

"Talk like 'em," he had said. Therefore, I struggled bravely with the
peculiarities of the Cockney twang, recklessly dropped aitches when I
should have kept them, and prefixed them indiscriminately before every
convenient aspirate. But all my efforts were useless. The imposition
was apparent to my fellow Tommies immediately. I had only to begin
speaking, within the hearing of a genuine Cockney, when he would say,
"'Ello! w'ere do you come from? The Stites?" or, "I'll bet a tanner
you're a Yank!" I decided to make a confession, and I have been glad,
ever since, that I did. The boys gave me a warm and hearty welcome when
they learned that I was a sure-enough American. They called me "Jamie
the Yank." I was a piece of tangible evidence of the bond of sympathy
existing between the two great English-speaking nations. I told them of
the many Americans of German extraction, whose sympathies were honestly
and sincerely on the other side. But they would not have it so. I was
the personal representative of the American people. My presence in
the British army was proof positive of this.

Being an American, it was very hard, at first, to understand the
class distinctions of British army life.

And having understood them, it was more difficult yet to endure them. I
learned that a ranker, or private soldier, is a socially inferior
being from the officer's point of view.
The officer class and the ranker class are east and west, and never
the twain shall meet, except in their respective places upon the
parade-ground. This does not hold good, to the same extent, upon active
service. Hardships and dangers, shared in common, tend to break down
artificial barriers. But even then, although there was good-will and
friendliness between officers and men, I saw nothing of genuine
comradeship. This seemed to me a great pity. It was a loss for the
officers fully as much as it was for the men.

I had to accept, for convenience sake, the fact of my social
inferiority.
Centuries of army tradition demanded it; and I discovered that it is
absolutely futile for one inconsequential American to rebel
against the unshakable fortress of English tradition. Nearly all of my
comrades were used to clear-cut class distinctions in civilian life. It
made little difference to them that some of our officers were
recruits as raw as were we ourselves. They had money enough and education
enough and influence enough to secure the king's commission; and that
fact was proof enough for Tommy that they were gentlemen, and, therefore,
too good for the likes of him to be associating with.

"Look 'ere! Ain't a gentleman a gentleman? I'm arskin' you, ain't 'e?"

I saw the futility of discussing this question with Tommy. And later, I
realized how important for British army discipline such distinctions
are.

So great is the force of prevailing opinion that I sometimes found myself
accepting Tommy's point of view. I wondered if I was, for some eugenic
reason, the inferior of these men whom I had to "Sir" and salute whenever
I dared speak. Such lapses were only occasional. But I understood, for
the first time, how important a part circumstance and environment play
in shaping one's mental attitude. How I longed, at times, to chat with
colonels and to joke with captains on terms of equality! Whenever I
confided these aspirations to Tommy he gazed at me in awe.

"Don't be a bloomin' ijut!

They could jolly well 'ang you fer that!"

CHAPTER III
THE MOB IN TRAINING

The Nth Service Battalion, Royal Fusiliers, on the march was a sight
not easily to be forgotten.

To the inhabitants of Colchester, Folkestone, Shorncliffe, Aldershot,
and other towns and villages throughout the south of England, we were
well known. We displayed ourselves with what must have seemed to them
a shameless disregard for appearances. Our approach was announced by a
discordant tumult of fifes and drums, for our band, of which later, we
became justly proud, was a newly fledged and still imperfect organization.
Windows were flung up and doors thrown open along our line of march;
but alas, we were greeted with no welcome glances of kindly approval,
no waving of handkerchiefs, no clapping of hands. Nursemaids, who are
said to have a nice and discriminating eye for soldiery, gazed in amused
and contemptuous silence as we passed.
Children looked at us in wide-eyed wonder. Only the dumb beasts were
demonstrative, and they in a manner which was not at all to our
liking.

Dogs barked, and sedate old family horses, which would stand placidly at
the curbing while fire engines thundered past with bells clanging and
sirens shrieking, pricked up their ears at our approach, and, after one
startled glance, galloped madly away and disappeared in clouds of
dust far in the distance.

We knew why the nursemaids were cool, and why family horses developed
hysteria with such startling suddenness. But in our pride we did not see
that which we did not wish to see. Therefore we marched, or, to be more
truthful, shambled on, shouting lusty choruses with an air of
boisterous gayety which was anything but genuine.

"You do as I do and you'll do right, Fall in and follow me!"
was a favorite with number 12 platoon. Their enthusiasm might have carried
conviction had it not been for their personal appearance, which
certainly did not.

Number 15 platoon would strive manfully for a hearing with
"Steadily, shoulder to shoulder, Steadily, blade by blade; Marching
along, Sturdy and strong, Like the boys of the old brigade."
As a strictly accurate historian I must confess that none of these
assertions were quite true. We marched neither steadily, nor shoulder
to shoulder, nor blade by blade. We straggled all over the road, and
kept step only when the sergeant major doubled forward, warning
us, with threats of extra drills, to keep in our fours or to "pick it
up!" In fact, "the boys of the old brigade," whoever they may have
been, would have scornfully repudiated the suggestion that we resembled
them in any respect.

They would have been justified in doing so had any of them seen us at
the end of six weeks of training. For, however reluctantly, we were forced
to admit that Sergeant Harris was right when he called us "a raw batch
o' rookies." Unpromising we were not. There was good stuff in the ranks,
the material from which real soldiers are made, and were made; but it
had not yet been rounded into shape. We were still nothing more than a
homogeneous assembly of individuals.

We declined to accept the responsibility for the seeming slowness of our
progress. We threw it unhesitatingly upon the War Office, which had not
equipped us in a manner befitting our new station in life.

Although we were recruited immediately after the outbreak of war, less
than half of our number had been provided with uniforms. Many still wore
their old civilian clothing. Others were dressed in canvas fatigue
suits, or the worn-out uniforms of policemen and tramcar conductors.
Every old-clothes shop on Petticoat Lane must have contributed its
allotment of cast-off apparel.

Our arms and equipment were of an equally nondescript character. We might
easily have been mistaken for a mob of vagrants which had pillaged a
seventeenth-century arsenal. With a few slight changes in costuming for
the sake of historical fidelity, we would have served as a citizen army
for a realistic motion-picture drama depicting an episode in the French
Revolution.

We derived what comfort we could from the knowledge that we were
but one of many battalions of Kitchener's first hundred thousand
equipped in this same makeshift fashion. We did not need the repeated
assurances of cabinet ministers that England was not prepared for
war. We were in a position to know that she was not. Otherwise,
there had been an unpardonable lack of foresight in high places.
Supplies came in driblets. Each night, when parades for the day
were over, there was a rush for the orderly room bulletin board,
which was scanned eagerly for news of an early issue of clothing.
As likely as not we were disappointed, but occasionally jaded hopes
revived.
"Number 15 platoon will parade at 4 P.M. on Thursday, the 24th, for
boots, puttees, braces, and service dress caps."
Number 15 is our platoon. Promptly at the hour set we halt and
right-turn in front of the Quartermaster Stores marquee. The
quartermaster is there with pencil and notebook, and immediately
takes charge of the proceedings.
"All men needing boots, one pace step forward, March!"
The platoon, sixty-five strong, steps forward as one man.
"All men needing braces, one pace step back, March!"
Again we move as a unit. The quartermaster hesitates for a moment;
but he is a resourceful man and has been through this many times
before. We all need boots, quite right! But the question is, Who
need them most?
Undoubtedly those whose feet are most in evidence through worn soles
and tattered uppers. Adopting this sight test, he eliminates more
than half the platoon, whereupon, by a further process of elimination,
due to the fact that he has only sizes 7 and 8, he selects the
fortunate twelve who are to walk dry shod.
The same method of procedure is carried out in selecting the
braces.
Private Reynolds, whose trousers are held in place by a wonderful
mechanism composed of shoe-laces and bits of string, receives a
pair; likewise, Private Stenebras, who, with the aid of safety pins,
has fashioned coat and trousers into an ingenious one-piece garment.
Caps and puttees are distributed with like impartiality, and we
dismiss, the unfortunate ones growling and grumbling in discreet
undertones until the platoon commander is out of hearing, whereupon
the murmurs of discontent become loudly articulate.The light fell nowhere but on her face. A stranger to her habits would
have thought she was dead; but she had so much of the appearance she had
had on a former occasion, that I concluded at once she was in one of her
trances. But having often heard that persons in such a condition ought
not to be disturbed, and feeling quite sure she knew best how to manage
herself, I turned, though reluctantly, and left the lone cottage behind
me in the night, with the death-like woman lying motionless in the midst
of it.

I found my way home without any further difficulty, and went to bed,
where I soon fell asleep, thoroughly wearied, more by the mental
excitement I had been experiencing than by the amount of bodily exercise
I had gone through.

My sleep was tormented with awful dreams; yet, strange to say, I awoke
in the morning refreshed and fearless. The sun was shining through the
chinks in my shutters, which had been closed because of the storm, and
was making streaks and bands of golden brilliancy upon the wall. I had
dressed and completed my preparations long before I heard the steps of
the servant who came to call me.

What a wonderful thing waking is! The time of the ghostly moonshine
passes by, and the great positive sunlight comes. A man who dreams, and
knows that he is dreaming, thinks he knows what waking is; but knows it
so little, that he mistakes, one after another, many a vague and dim
change in his dream for an awaking. When the true waking comes at last,
he is filled and overflowed with the power of its reality. So, likewise,
one who, in the darkness, lies waiting for the light about to be struck,
and trying to conceive, with all the force of his imagination, what the
light will be like, is yet, when the reality flames up before him,
seized as by a new and unexpected thing, different from and beyond all
his imagining. He feels as if the darkness were cast to an infinite
distance behind him. So shall it be with us when we wake from this dream
of life into the truer life beyond, and find all our present notions of
being, thrown back as into a dim, vapoury region of dreamland, where yet
we thought we knew, and whence we looked forward into the present. This
must be what Novalis means when he says: "Our life is not a dream; but
it may become a dream, and perhaps ought to become one."

And so I looked back upon the strange history of my past; sometimes
asking myself,--"Can it be that all this realty happened to the same
_me_, who am now thinking about it in doubt and wonder?"


CHAPTER IV


_Hilton Hall_.

As my father accompanied me to the door, where the gig, which was to
carry me over the first stage of my journey, was in waiting, a large
target of hide, well studded with brass nails, which had hung in the
hall for time unknown--to me, at least--fell on the floor with a dull
bang. My father started, but said nothing; and, as it seemed to me,
rather pressed my departure than otherwise. I would have replaced the
old piece of armour before I went, but he would not allow me to touch
it, saying, with a grim smile,--

"Take that for an omen, my boy, that your armour must be worn over the
conscience, and not over the body. Be a man, Duncan, my boy. Fear
nothing, and do your duty."

A grasp of the hand was all the good-bye I could make; and I was soon
rattling away to meet the coach _for Edinburgh and London. Seated on the
top, I_ was soon buried in a reverie, from which I was suddenly startled
by the sound of tinkling iron. Could it be that my adversary was riding
unseen alongside of the coach? Was that the clank of the ominous shoe?
But I soon discovered the cause of the sound, and laughed at my own
apprehensiveness. For I observed that the sound was repeated every time
that we passed any trees by the wayside, and that it was the peculiar
echo they gave of the loose chain and steel work about the harness. The
sound was quite different from that thrown back by the houses on the
road. I became perfectly familiar with it before the day was over.

I reached London in safety, and slept at the house of an old friend of
my father, who treated me with great kindness, and seemed altogether to
take a liking to me. Before I left he held out a hope of being able,
some day or other, to procure for me what I so much desired--a
commission in the army.

After spending a day or two with him, and seeing something of London, I
climbed once more on the roof of a coach; and, late in the afternoon,
was set down at the great gate of Hilton Hall. I walked up the broad
avenue, through the final arch of which, as through a huge Gothic
window, I saw the hall in the distance. Everything about me looked
strange, rich, and lovely. Accustomed to the scanty flowers and
diminutive wood of my own country, what I now saw gave me a feeling of
majestic plenty, which I can recall at will, but which I have never
experienced again. Behind the trees which formed the avenue, I saw a
shrubbery, composed entirely of flowering plants, almost all unknown to
me. Issuing from the avenue, I found myself amid open, wide, lawny
spaces, in which the flower-beds lay like islands of colour. A statue on
a pedestal, the only white thing in the surrounding green, caught my
eye. I had seen scarcely any sculpture; and this, attracting my
attention by a favourite contrast of colour, retained it by its own
beauty. It was a Dryad, or some nymph of the woods, who had just glided
from the solitude of the trees behind, and had sprung upon the pedestal
to look wonderingly around her. A few large brown leaves lay at her
feet, borne thither by some eddying wind from the trees behind. As I
gazed, filled with a new pleasure, a drop of rain upon my face made me
look up. From a grey, fleecy cloud, with sun-whitened border, a light,
gracious, plentiful rain was falling. A rainbow sprang across the sky,
and the statue stood within the rainbow. At the same moment, from the
base of the pedestal rose a figure in white, graceful as the Dryad
above, and neither running, nor appearing to walk quickly, yet fleet as
a ghost, glided past me at a few paces, distance, and, keeping in a
straight line for the main entrance of the hall, entered by it and
vanished.

I followed in the direction of the mansion, which was large, and of
several styles and ages. One wing appeared especially ancient. It was
neglected and out of repair, and had in consequence a desolate, almost
sepulchral look, an expression heightened by the number of large
cypresses which grew along its line. I went up to the central door and
knocked. It was opened by a grave, elderly butler. I passed under its
flat arch, as if into the midst of the waiting events of my story. For,
as I glanced around the hall, my consciousness was suddenly saturated,
if I may be allowed the expression, with the strange feeling--known to
everyone, and yet so strange--that I had seen it before; that, in fact,
I knew it perfectly. But what was yet more strange, and far more
uncommon, was, that, although the feeling with regard to the hall faded
and vanished instantly, and although I could not in the least surmise
the appearance of any of the regions into which I was about to be
ushered, I yet followed the butler with a kind of indefinable
expectation of seeing something which I had seen before; and every room
or passage in that mansion affected me, on entering it for the first
time, with the same sensation of previous acquaintance which I had
experienced with regard to the hall. This sensation, in every case, died
away at once, leaving that portion such as it might be expected to look
to one who had never before entered the place.

I was received by the housekeeper, a little, prim, benevolent old lady,
with colourless face and antique head-dress, who led me to the room
prepared for me. To my surprise, I found a large wood-fire burning on
the hearth; but the feeling of the place revealed at once the necessity
for it; and I scarcely needed to be informed that the room, which was
upon the ground floor, and looked out upon a little solitary grass-grown
and ivy-mantled court, had not been used for years, and therefore
required to be thus prepared for an inmate. My bedroom was a few paces
down a passage to the right.

Left alone, I proceeded to make a more critical survey of my room. Its
look of ancient mystery was to me incomparably more attractive than any
show of elegance or comfort could have been. It was large and low,
panelled throughout in oak, black with age, and worm-eaten in many
parts--otherwise entire. Both the windows looked into the little court
or yard before mentioned. All the heavier furniture of the room was
likewise of black oak, but the chairs and couches were covered with
faded tapestry and tarnished gilding, apparently the superannuated
members of the general household of seats. I could give an individual
description of each, for every atom in that room, large enough for
discernable shape or colour, seems branded into my brain. If I happen to
have the least feverishness on me, the moment I fall asleep, I am in
that room.


CHAPTER V


_Lady Alice_.

When the bell rang for dinner, I managed to find my way to the
drawing-room, where were assembled Lady Hilton, her only daughter, a
girl of about thirteen, and the two boys, my pupils. Lady Hilton would
have been pleasant, could she have been as natural as she wished to
appear. She received me with some degree of kindness; but the
half-cordiality of her manner towards me was evidently founded on the
impassableness of the gulf between us. I knew at once that we should
never be friends; that she would never come down from the lofty
table-land upon which she walked; and that if, after being years in the
house, I should happen to be dying, she would send the housekeeper to
me. All right, no doubt; I only say that it was so. She introduced to me
my pupils; fine, open-eyed, manly English boys, with something a little
overbearing in their manner, which speedily disappeared in relation to
me. Lord Hilton was not at home. Lady Hilton led the way to the
dining-room; the elder boy gave his arm to his sister, and I was about
to follow with the younger, when from one of the deep bay windows glided
out, still in white, the same figure which had passed me upon the lawn.
I started, and drew back. With a slight bow, she preceded me, and
followed the others down the great staircase. Seated at table, I had
leisure to make my observations upon them all; but most of my glances
found their way to the lady who, twice that day, had affected me like an
apparition. What is time, but the airy ocean in which ghosts come and
go!

She was about twenty years of age; rather above the middle height, and
rather slight in form; her complexion white rather than pale, her face
being only less white than the deep marbly whiteness of her arms. Her
eyes were large, and full of liquid night--a night throbbing with the
light of invisible stars. Her hair seemed raven-black, and in quantity
profuse. The expression of her face, however, generally partook more of
vagueness than any other characteristic. Lady Hilton called her Lady
Alice; and she never addressed Lady Hilton but in the same ceremonious
style.

I afterwards learned from the old house-keeper, that Lady Alice's
position in the family was a very peculiar one. Distantly connected with
Lord Hilton's family on the mother's side, she was the daughter of the
late Lord Glendarroch, and step-daughter to Lady Hilton, who had become
Lady Hilton within a year after Lord Glendarroch's death. Lady Alice,
then quite a child, had accompanied her stepmother, to whom she was
moderately attached, and who had been allowed to retain undisputed
possession of her. She had no near relatives, else the fortune I
afterwards found to be at her disposal would have aroused contending
claims to the right of guardianship.

Although she was in many respects kindly treated by her stepmother,
certain peculiarities tended to her isolation from the family pursuits
and pleasures. Lady Alice had no accomplishments. She could neither
spell her own language, nor even read it aloud. Yet she delighted in
reading to herself, though, for the most part, books which Mrs. Wilson
characterised as very odd. Her voice, when she spoke, had a quite
indescribable music in it; yet she neither sang nor played. Her habitual
motion was more like a rhythmical gliding than an ordinary walk, yet she
could not dance. Mrs. Wilson hinted at other and more serious
peculiarities, which she either could not, or would not describe; always
shaking her head gravely and sadly, and becoming quite silent, when I
pressed for further explanation; so that, at last, I gave up all
attempts to arrive at an understanding of the mystery by her means. Not
the less, however, I speculated on the subject.

One thing soon became evident to me: that she was considered not merely
deficient as to the power of intellectual acquirement, but in a quite
abnormal intellectual condition. Of this, however, I could myself see no
sign. The peculiarity, almost oddity, of some of her remarks, was
evidently not only misunderstood, but, with relation to her mental
state, misinterpreted. Such remarks Lady Hilton generally answered only
by an elongation of the lips intended to represent a smile. To me, they
appeared to indicate a nature closely allied to genius, if not identical
with it-a power of regarding things from an original point of view,
which perhaps was the more unfettered in its operation from the fact
that she was incapable of looking at them in the ordinary common-place
way. It seemed to me, sometimes, as if her point of observation was
outside of the sphere within which the thing observed took place; and as
if what she said, had a relation, occasionally, to things and thoughts
and mental conditions familiar to her, but at which not even a definite
guess could be made by me. I am compelled to acknowledge, however, that
with such utterances as these mingled now and then others, silly enough
for any drawing-room young lady; which seemed again to be accepted by
the family as proofs that she was not _altogether_ out of her right
mind. She was gentle and kind to the children, as they were still
called; and they seemed reasonably fond of her.

There was something to me exceedingly touching in the solitariness of
this girl; for no one spoke to her as if she were like other people, or
as if any heartiness were possible between them. Perhaps no one could
have felt quite at home with her but a mother, whose heart had been one
with hers from a season long anterior to the development of any
repulsive oddity. But her position was one of peculiar isolation, for no
one really approached her individual being; and that she should be
unaware of this loneliness, seemed to me saddest of all. I soon found,
however, that the most distant attempt on my part to show her attention,
was either received with absolute indifference, or coldly repelled
without the slightest acknowledgment.

But I return to the first night of my sojourn at Hilton Hall.


CHAPTER VI


_My Quarters._

After making arrangements for commencing work in the morning, I took my
leave, and retired to my own room, intent upon carrying out with more
minuteness the survey I had already commenced: several cupboards in the
wall, and one or two doors, apparently of closets, had especially
attracted my attention. Strange was its look as I entered--as of a room
hollowed out of the past, for a memorial of dead times. The fire had
sunk low, and lay smouldering beneath the white ashes, like the life of
the world beneath the snow, or the heart of a man beneath cold and grey
thoughts. I lighted the candles which stood upon the table, but the
room, instead of being brightened looked blacker than before, for the
light revealed its essential blackness.

As I cast my eyes around me, standing with my back to the hearth (on
which, for mere companionship's sake, I had just heaped fresh wood), a
thrill ran suddenly throughout my frame. I felt as if, did it last a
moment longer, I should become aware of another presence in the room;
but, happily for me, it ceased before it had reached that point; and I,
recovering my courage, remained ignorant of the cause of my fear, if
there were any, other than the nature of the room itself. With a candle
in my hand, I proceeded to open the various cupboards and closets. At
first I found nothing remarkable about any of them. The latter were
quite empty, except the last I came to, which had a piece of very old
elaborate tapestry hanging at the back of it. Lifting this up, I saw
what seemed at first to be panels, corresponding to those which formed
the room; but on looking more closely, I discovered that this back of
the closet was, or had been, a door. There was nothing unusual in this,
especially in such an old house; but the discovery roused in me a strong
desire to know what lay behind the old door. I found that it was secured
only by an ordinary bolt, from which the handle had been removed.
Soothing my conscience with the reflection that I had a right to know
what sort of place had communication with my room, I succeeded, by the
help of my deer-knife, in forcing back the rusty bolt; and though, from
the stiffness of the hinges, I dreaded a crack, they yielded at last
with only a creak.

The opening door revealed a large hall, empty utterly, save of dust and
cobwebs, which festooned it in all quarters, and gave it an appearance
of unutterable desolation. The now familiar feeling, that I had seen the
place before, filled my mind the first moment, and passed away the next.
A broad, right-angled staircase, with massive banisters, rose from the
middle of the hall. This staircase could not have originally belonged to
the ancient wing which I had observed on my first approach, being much
more modern; but I was convinced, from the observations I had made as to
the situation of my room, that I was bordering upon, if not within, the
oldest portion of the pile. In sudden horror, lest I should hear a light
footfall upon the awful stair, I withdrew hurriedly, and having secured
both the doors, betook myself to my bedroom; in whose dingy four-post
bed, with its carving and plumes reminding me of a hearse, I was soon
ensconced amidst the snowiest linen, with the sweet and clean odour of
lavender. In spite of novelty, antiquity, speculation, and dread, I was
soon fast asleep; becoming thereby a fitter inhabitant of such regions,
than when I moved about with restless and disturbing curiosity, through
their ancient and death-like repose.

I made no use of my discovered door, although I always intended doing
so; especially after, in talking about the building with Lady Hilton, I
found that I was at perfect liberty to make what excursions I pleased
into the deserted portions.

My pupils turned out to be teachable, and therefore my occupation was
pleasant. Their sister frequently came to me for help, as there happened
to be just then an interregnum of governesses: soon she settled into a
regular pupil.

After a few weeks Lord Hilton returned. Though my room was so far from
the great hall, I heard the clank of his spurs on its pavement. I
trembled; for it sounded like the broken shoe. But I shook off the
influence in a moment, heartily ashamed of its power over me. Soon I
became familiar enough both with the sound and its cause; for his
lordship rarely went anywhere except on horseback, and was booted and
spurred from morning till night.

He received me with some appearance of interest, which immediately
stiffened and froze. Beginning to shake hands with me as if he meant it,
he instantly dropped my hand, as if it had stung him.

His nobility was of that sort which stands in constant need of repair.
Lastly, on settling, they would seize his women-kind and wed them; for
the women of their own race were not allowed on Viking ships, and
were probably less amenable and less charming to boot. But the Pictish
women thus seized had their revenge. The darker race prevailed, and,
the supply of fathers of pure Norse blood being renewed only at intervals,
the children of such unions soon came to be mainly of Celtic strain, and
their mothers doubtless taught them to speak the Gaelic, which had
then for at least a century superseded the Pictish tongue. The result was
a mixed race of Gall-gaels or Gaelic strangers, far more Celtic
than Norse, who soon spoke chiefly Gaelic, save in north-east Ness.

Their Gaelic, too, like the English of Shetland at the present time,
would not only be full of old Norse words, especially for things relating
to the sea, but be spoken with a slight foreign accent.

How numerous those foreign words still are in Sutherland Gaelic,
the late Mr.

George Henderson has ably and elaborately proved in his scholarly
book on "Norse Influence on Celtic Scotland."

We find traces of Norse words and the Norse accent and inflexions also
on the Moray seaboard, on which the Norse gained a hold. The same would
be true of the people on the western lands and islands of the Hebrides.

As time went on, the Gaelic strain predominated more and more, especially
on the mainland of Scotland, over the Gall, or foreign, strain, which
was not maintained. Mr. A.W. Johnston, in his "_Orkney and Shetland
Folk--850 to 1350_,"[14] has worked out the quarterings of the Norse
jarls, of whom only the first three were pure Norsemen, and he has
thus shown conclusively how very Celtic they had become long before
their male line failed. The same process was at work, probably to a greater
extent, among those of lower rank, who could not find or import
Norse wives, if they would, as the jarls frequently did.

One or two other introductory points remain to be noted and borne
in mind throughout.

We must beware of thinking that all the land in an earldom such as Cat
was the absolute property of the chief, as in the nineteenth century,
or the latter half of it, was practically true in the modern county of
Sutherland.

The fact was very much otherwise. The Maormor and afterwards the earl
doubtless had demesne lands, but he was in early times, _ex officio_,
mainly a superior and receiver of dues for his king;[15] and this possibly
shows why very early Scottish earldoms, as for instance that of Sutherland,
in the absence of male heirs, often descended to females, unless the
grant or custom excluded them. It was quite different with later feudal
baronies or tenancies, where military service, which only males could
render, was due, and which with rare exceptions it was, after about 1130,
the policy of the Scottish kings to create; and in the case of
baronies or lordships the land itself was often described and given to
the grantee and his heirs by metes and bounds, in return for specified
military service, and his heirs male were exhausted before any
female could inherit.

In Ness and in the rest of Cat there were many Norse and native
holders of land within the earldom, and much tribal ownership.

Duncan of Duncansby or Dungall of Dungallsby, as he is variously called,
allowed part at least of his dominions to pass by marriage to
the Norse jarls; but both Moddan and Earl Ottar, whose heir was Earl
Erlend Haraldson, who left no heir, owned land extensively in Ness
and elsewhere, while Moddan "in Dale" had daughters also owning land,
one of whom, Frakark, widow of Liot Nidingr, had many homesteads
in upper Kildonan in Sudrland and elsewhere, and possibly it is her sister
Helga's name that lingers in a place-name lower down that strath near
Helmsdale, at Helgarie.

What is worthy of notice is that it is clear from the place-names that
after the Norse conquest the Norse held and named most of the lower or
seaward parts of the valleys and nearly all the coast lands of Cat and
Ross as far south as the Beauly Firth, and the Picts occupied and
were never dispossessed of the upper parts of the valleys or the hills
all through the Norse occupation. In other words, as conquerors coming
from the sea, the Norsemen seized and held the better Pictish lands
near the coast, which had been cultivated for centuries, and on which
crops would ripen with regularity and certainty year after year.
But as time went on the Pictish Maormor pressed the Norse Jarl more and
more outwards and eastwards in Cat.

We must also remember the enormous power of the Scottish Crown through its
right of granting wardships, especially in the case of a female heir.
Under such grants the grantee, usually some very powerful noble, took
over during minority the title of his ward and all his revenues absolutely,
in return for a payment, correspondingly large, to the Crown. If the
ward was a female, the grantee disposed of her hand in marriage as
well.

After these preliminary notes, we may now again glance at the Scots,
who were destined, from small beginnings, by a series of strange
turns of fortune and superior state-craft, in time to conquer and
dominate all modern Scotland north of the Forth, then known as
Alban.

The Scots, as already stated, had come over from Ulster and settled
in Cantyre about the end of the fifth century, and for long they had
only the small Dalriadic territory of Argyll, and even this they all
but lost more than once. At the same time, after 563, they had a
most valuable asset in Columba, their soldier missionary prince, and
his _milites Christi_, or soldiers of Christ, who gradually carried their
Christianity and Irish culture even up to Orkney itself, with many a
school of the Erse or Gaelic tongue, and thus paved the way for the
consolidation of the whole of Alban into one political unit by providing
its people with a common language.

But in order to live the Scots had been forced to defeat many foes, such
as the Britons of Strathclyde, whose capital was at Alcluyd or
Dunbarton,[16] the Northumbrians on the south, and the Picts of Atholl,
Forfar, Fife and Kincardine, which comprised most of the fertile land
south of the Grampians. The great Pictish province of Moray on the
north of the Grampians, however, remained unsubdued, and it took
the Scots several centuries more to reduce it.

It was when the Scottish conquests above referred to were thus far completed
that the new factor, with which we are mainly concerned, was
introduced into the problem.

This factor was, as stated, _the Northmen_.

CHAPTER III.

_The Early Norse Jarls._

It was in the reign of Constantine I, son of the great Pictish king,
Angus MacFergus, that the new and disturbing influence mentioned
above appeared in force in Alban.

Favoured in their voyages to and fro by the prevailing winds,
which then, as now, blew from the east in the spring and from the west
later in the year, the Northmen, both Norsemen and Danes, neither being
Christians, had, like their predecessors the Saxons and Angles and
Frisians, for some time made trading voyages and desultory piratical
attacks in summer-time on the coasts of Britain and Ireland, and probably
many a short-lived settlement as well. But as these attacks and settlements
are unrecorded in Cat, no account of them can be given.

In 793 it is on record that the Vikings first sacked Iona, originally the
centre of Columban Christianity but then Romanised, and they repeated
these raids on its shrine again and again within the next fifteen
years. Constantine thereupon removed its clergy to Dunkeld, "and there
set up in his own kingdom an ecclesiastical capital for Scots and Picts
alike,"[1] as a step towards the political union of his realm, which
Norse sea-power had completely severed from the original home of the
Scots in Ulster.

The Northmen now began the systematic maritime invasions of our eastern
and northern and western coasts and islands, which history has
recorded. North Scotland was attacked almost exclusively by Norsemen,
and Norsemen and Danes invaded Ireland. The Danes seized the south of
Scotland, and the north of England, of which latter country, early in
the eleventh century in the time of King Knut, they were destined to
dominate two-thirds, while Old Norse became the _lingua franca_ of
his English kingdom, and enriched its language with hundreds of
Norse words, and gave us many new place and personal names.

In 844, Kenneth, king of the Scots, the small North Irish sept which, as
stated above, had crossed over from Erin and held the Dalriadic kingdom
of Argyll with its capital at Dunadd near the modern Crinan Canal, succeeded
in making good his title, on his mother's side, to the Pictish crown by
a successful attack from the west on the southern Picts[2] at the same
time as their territory was being invaded from the east coast by the
Danes. Thereafter, these Picts and the Scots gradually became and ever
afterwards remained one nation, a course which suited both peoples
as a safeguard not only against their foreign foes the Northmen, but
also against the Berenicians of Lothian on the south. With the
object of ensuring the union of the two peoples Kenneth is said to have
transferred some of the relics of Columba, who had become the patron
saint of both, from Iona to Dunkeld, which thus definitely remained not
only the ecclesiastical capital of the united Picts and Scots, but
the common centre of their religious sentiment and veneration. Incidentally,
too, the Pictish language gradually became disused, as that people
were absorbed in the Scots; and unfortunately, through the fact that
no written literature survived to preserve it, that language has almost
entirely disappeared. The better opinion is that it was more closely
akin to Welsh and Breton than to Erse or Gaelic, the Welsh and the Picts
being termed "P" Celts, and the other races "Q" Celts, because in words
of the same meaning the Welsh used "P" where the Gaelic speaking Celt
used the hard "C". For instance, "Pen" and "Map" in Welsh became "Ken"
(or Ceann) and "Mac" in Gaelic.[3]
In the reign of Constantine II, Kenneth's son and next successor
but one, further incursions by the Northmen took place under King
Olaf the White of Dublin in 867 and 871; while in 875 his son
Thorstein the Red, by Aud "the deeply-wealthy" or "deeply-wise,"
landed on the north coast, and, we are told, seized "Caithness and
Sutherland and Moray and more than half Scotland,"[4] being killed,
however, by treachery within the year.

His mother Aud thereupon built a ship in Caithness, and sailed for the
Faroes and Iceland with her retinue and possessions, marrying off two
grand-daughters on the way, one, called Groa, to Duncan, Maormor of
Duncansby in Caithness, the most ancient Pictish chief of whom we hear
in that district, and probably ancestor of the Moldan, or Moddan,
line in Cat.

Two years later, in 877, King Constantine was defeated by a force of Danes
at Dollar, and slain by them at Forgan in Fife.[5]
After the great decisive battle of Hafrsfjord in Norway in 872, because
Orkney and Shetland and the Hebrides had become refuges for the Norse
Vikings, who had been expelled from their country or had left it on the
introduction of feudalism with its payment of dues to the king, but
were raiding its shores, Harald Harfagr,[6] king of Norway, along
with Jarl Ragnvald of Maeri attacked and extirpated the pirate
Vikings in their island lairs; and, as compensation to the jarl for
the loss of his son Ivar in battle, Harald transferred his conquests
with the title of Jarl of Orkney and Shetland to Ragnvald, who, in his
turn, with the king's consent, soon made over his new territories and
title to his brother Sigurd.

This new jarl, the second founder of the line of Orkney jarls,
conquered Caithness and Sutherland as far south as Ekkjals-bakki,[7]
which is believed by some to be in Moray, and by others, with more
truth, to be the ranges of hills in Sutherland and Ross lying to
the north and to the south of the River Oykel and its estuary, the
Dornoch Firth; and the second part of the name still happens to
survive in the place-name of Backies in Dunrobin Glen and elsewhere
in Cat where the Norse settled.

About the year 890,[8] after challenging Malbrigde of the Buck-tooth
to a fight with forty a side, to which he himself perfidiously
brought eighty men, Sigurd outflanked and defeated his adversary,
and cut off his head and suspended it from his saddle; but the
buck-tooth, by chafing his leg as he rode away from the field,
caused inflammation and death, and Jarl Sigurd's body was laid in
howe on Oykel's Bank at Sigurthar-haugr, or Sigurds-haugr, the
Siwards-hoch of early charters now on modern maps corruptly written
Sidera or Cyderhall, near Dornoch, which, when translated, is
Sigurd's Howe.[9] "Thenceforward," as Professor Hume Brown tells
us, "the mainland was never secure from the attacks of successive
jarls, who for long periods held firm possession of what is now
Caithness and Sutherland.

As things now went, this was in truth in the interest of the kings of
Scots themselves. To the north of the Grampians they exercised little
or no authority; and the people of that district were as often their
enemies as their friends. Through the action of the Orkney jarls,
therefore, the Scottish kings were at comparative liberty to extend their
territory towards the south; and the day came when they found themselves
able to crush every hostile element even in the north.[10]
It is this process of consolidation in the north which it is proposed to
describe so far as Sutherland and Caithness are concerned, using
both Norse and Scottish records, and piecing them together as best
we can, and, be it confessed, in many cases filling up great gaps
by necessary guess-work when records fail.

In the reign of the great king Constantine III, between the years
900 and 942, the Danes again gave trouble.

In 903 the Irish Danes ravaged Alban,[11] as Scotland north of the
Forth was then called, for a whole year; in 918 Constantine and his
ally, Eldred of Lothian, were defeated by another expedition of
these invaders; and in 934 Athelstan and his Saxons burst into
Strathclyde and Forfar, the heart of Constantine's kingdom, and the
Saxon fleet was sent up even to the shores of Caithness, as a naval
demonstration intended to brave the Norse, who had joined Constantine,
on their own element.

Lastly, in 937 Athelstan and Constantine met at Brunanburg, probably
Birrenswark near Ecclefechan, and Constantine and his Norse allies
were completely defeated.[12]
Meantime, since 875, a succession of jarls had endeavoured to hold,
for the kings of Norway, Orkney and Shetland, as well as Cat, which
then included Ness, Strathnavern, and Sudrland.[13] The history of
these early jarls is not told in detail in any surviving contemporary
record, for the Sagas of the jarls as individuals have perished;
but there is a brief account of them in the beginning of the
_Orkneyinga Saga_, another in chapters 99 and 100 of the _St.

Olaf's Saga_, and a fuller one in chapters 179 to 187 of the _Saga
of Olaf Tryggvi's Son_, contained in the _Flatey Book_.[14] From
these the following story may be gathered.

After Jarl Sigurd's death, his son Guthorm ruled for one winter,
and died without issue, so that Sigurd's line came to an end.

When Jarl Ragnvald of Maeri heard of his nephew's death, he sent
his son Hallad over from Norway to Hrossey, as the mainland of
Orkney was then called, and King Harald gave him the title of jarl.

Failing in his efforts to put down the piracy of the Vikings, who
continued their slayings and plunderings, Hallad, the last of the
purely Norse jarls, resigned his jarldom, and returned ignominiously
to Norway.

In the absence at war of Hrolf the Ganger, who became Duke of
Normandy and was an ancestor of the kings of England, two others
of Ragnvald's sons, Thorir and Hrollaug, were summoned to meet their
father.

At this meeting it was decided that neither of these should go to
Orkney, Thorir's prospects in Norway being good, and Hrollaug's
future lying in Iceland, where, it was said, he was to found a great
family.

Then Einar, the Jarl's youngest son by a thrall or slave woman, and thus
not of pure Norse lineage, asked whether he might go, offering as
an inducement to his father that, if he went, he would thus never
be seen by him again.

He was told that the sooner he went, and the longer he stayed away, the
better his father would be pleased.

A galley, well equipped, was given to him, and about the year 891
King Harald Harfagr conferred on him the title of Jarl of Orkney
and Shetland, for which he sailed.

On his arrival there, he attacked Kalf Skurfa and Thorir Treskegg,[15]
the pirate Viking leaders, and defeated and slew them both.

He then took possession of the lands of the jarldom; and, from having
taught the people of Turfness in Moray the use of turf or peat
for fuel, was known thenceforward as Torf-Einar.

He is said to have been "a tall man, ugly, with one eye, but very
keen-sighted,"[16] a faculty which he was soon to use.

When Jarl Ragnvald of Maeri, the first of the Orkney jarls, was killed
in Norway by two of Harald Harfagr's sons, one of them, Halfdan
Halegg or Long-shanks fled from their father's vengeance to Orkney.

When Halfdan landed, Torf-Einar took refuge in Scotland, but returned
in force, and after defeating Halfdan--who had usurped the jarldom--in
North Ronaldsay Firth, spied him as a fugitive, in hiding, far off
on Rinarsey or Rinansey (Ninian's Island) now North Ronaldsay, and
seized him, cut a blood-eagle on his back, severed his ribs and
pulled out his lungs, and, after offering him as a victim to Odin,
buried his body there.[17]
Incensed at the shameful slaughter of his son, Harald Harfagr came
over from Norway about the year 900 to avenge him, but, as was then
not unusual, accepted as a wergeld or atonement for his son's death
a fine of sixty marks of gold, which it fell to the islanders to pay.

On their failure to find the money, Torf-Einar paid it himself, taking in
return from the people their odal lands,[18] which were lost to their
families until Jarl Sigurd Hlodverson temporarily restored them
as a recompense for their assistance in the battle fought by him
between 969 and 995 against Finleac MacRuari, Maormor of North
Moray, at Skidamyre in Caithness.

Whether it was the Orkney jarls or their superiors, the kings of
Norway, who owned them in the meantime, the odal lands were finally
sold back to those entitled to them by descent by Jarl Ragnvald
Kol's son about 1137, in order to raise money for the completion
of Kirkwall Cathedral.

Odal tenure in Orkney was thus in abeyance for over two centuries,
save for a short time, and in any case its inherent principle of
subdivision would have killed it, and after its renewal, in spite
of its many safeguards against alienation to strangers, it gradually
died out under feudalism and Scottish law and lawyers.[19] In Cat
it never seems to have taken root.

After holding the jarldom for a long term, Torf-Einar died in his bed,
as the Saga contemptuously tells us, probably in or after the year
920, leaving three sons, Arnkell, Erlend, and Thorfinn Hausa-kliufr or
Skull-splitter, of whom the two first, Arnkell and Erlend, fell
with Eric Bloody-axe, king of Norway, in England.

The third son, Thorfinn Hausa-kliufr or Skull-splitter, himself about
three-quarters Norse by blood, married Grelaud, daughter of Dungadr,
or Duncan, the Gaelic Maormor of Caithness by Groa, daughter of
Thorfinn the Red, thus further Gaelicising the strain of the Norse
Jarls of Orkney,[20] but adding greatly to their mainland
territories.

Jarl Thorfinn Hausa-kliufr, who flourished between 920 and 963, is
described as a great chief and fighter; but he, like his father,
died a peaceful death, and was buried at Hoxa, Haugs-eithi or
Mound's-isthmus, which covers the site of a Pictish broch, near the
north-west end of South Ronaldshay.[21]
When Eric Bloody-axe had been defeated and killed, his sons came
to Orkney and seized the jarldom, and his widow, the notoriously
wicked Gunnhild and her daughter Ragnhild settled there for a time.

Thorfinn Hausa-kliufr had five sons, Arnfinn, Havard, Hlodver, Ljotr and
Skuli. Three of these, Arnfinn.

Havard and Ljotr, successively married Ragnhild, and Ragnhild rivalled
her mother in wickedness. Arnfinn she killed at Murkle in Caithness
with her own hand; Havard she induced Einar Oily-tongue, his nephew,
to slay, on her promise to marry him, which she broke; and finally
she married Jarl Ljotr instead. Skuli, the only other surviving son
save Hlodver, went to the king of Scots, who is said to have lightly
given away what did not belong to him, and to have created him Earl
of Caithness, which then included Sudrland.[22] Skuli then raised
a force in his new earldom, no doubt to carry out Scottish policy,
and, crossing to Orkney, fought a battle there with his brother
Ljotr, was defeated, and fled to Caithness.

Collecting another army in Scotland, Skuli fought a second battle at Dalar
or Dalr, probably Dale in the upper valley of the Thurso River in Caithness,
and was there defeated and killed by Ljotr, who took possession
of his dominions.

Then followed a battle between Ljotr and a Scottish earl called Magbiod
or Macbeth, at Skida Myre or Skitten Moor in Watten in Caithness, which
Ljotr won, but died of his wounds shortly after, and is said to
have been buried at Stenhouse in Watten.[23] Thus the first Scottish
attempt at consolidation of the north failed.

During the last half of the tenth century there was constant war by the
kings of Alban against the Northmen who had seized the coast of
Moray, and Malcolm I was killed at Ulern near Kinloss, about the
year 954, and his successor Indulf fell in the hour of his victory
over the invaders at Cullen in Banff.[24] But on the whole probably
the Scots had succeeded for a time in driving out the Norse from
the laigh of Moray, which the latter needed for its supplies of
grain.

Hlodver or Lewis, (963-980), the only surviving son of Thorfinn Hausa-kliufr,
succeeded Ljotr in the jarldom; and by Audna or Edna, daughter of Kiarval,
king of the Hy Ivar of Dublin and Limerick, Hlodver had a son, the famous
Sigurd the Stout, or Sigurd Hlodverson.

In this concurrence of idleness, distraction, and vehement desire, I
found all at once, without any foregone resolution, that I was
concentrating and intensifying within me, until it rose almost to a
command, the operative volition that Lady Alice should come to me. In a
moment more I trembled at the sense of a new power which sprang into
conscious being within me. I had had no prevision of its existence, when
I gave way to such extravagant and apparently helpless wishes. I now
actually awaited the fulfilment of my desire; but in a condition
ill-fitted to receive it, for the effort had already exhausted me to
such a degree, that every nerve was in a conscious tremor. Nor had I
long to wait.

I heard no sound of approach: the closet-door folded back, and in
glided, open-eyed, but sightless pale as death, and clad in white,
ghostly-pure and saint-like, the Lady Alice. I shuddered from head to
foot at what I had done. She was more terrible to me in that moment than
any pale-eyed ghost could have been. For had I not exercised a kind of
necromantic art, and roused without awaking the slumbering dead? She
passed me, walking round the table at which I was seated, went to the
couch, laid herself down with a maidenly care, turned a little on one
side, with her face towards me, and gradually closed her eyes. In
something deeper than sleep she lay, and yet not in death. I rose, and
once more knelt beside her, but dared not touch her. In what far realms
of life might the lovely soul be straying! What mysterious modes of
being might now be the homely surroundings of her second life! Thoughts
unutterable rose in me, culminated, and sank, like the stars of heaven,
as I gazed on the present symbol of an absent life--a life that I loved
by means of the symbol; a symbol that I loved because of the life. How
long she lay thus, how long I gazed upon her thus, I do not know.
Gradually, but without my being able to distinguish the gradations, her
countenance altered to that of one who sleeps. But the change did not
end there. A colour, faint as the blush in the centre of a white rose,
tinged her lips, and deepened; then her cheek began to share in the hue,
then her brow and her neck. The colour was that of the cloud which, the
farthest from the sunset, yet acknowledges the rosy atmosphere. I
watched, as it were, the dawn of a soul on the horizon of the visible.
The first approaches of its far-off flight were manifest; and as I
watched, I saw it come nearer and nearer, till its great, silent,
speeding pinions were folded, and it looked forth, a calm, beautiful,
infinite woman, from the face and form sleeping before me.

I knew that she was awake, some moments before she opened her eyes. When
at last those depths of darkness disclosed themselves, slowly uplifting
their white cloudy portals, the same consternation she had formerly
manifested, accompanied by yet greater anger, followed.

"Yet again! Am I your slave, because I am weak?" She rose in the majesty
of wrath, and moved towards the door.

"Lady Alice, I have not touched you. I am to blame, but not as you
think. Could I help longing to see you? And if the longing passed, ere I
was aware, into a will that you should come, and you obeyed it, forgive
me."

I hid my face in my hands, overcome by conflicting emotions. A kind of
stupor came over me. When I lifted my head, she was standing by the
closet-door.

"I have waited," she said, "to make a request of you."

"Do not utter it, Lady Alice. I know what it is. I give you my word--my
solemn promise, if you like--that I will never do it again." She thanked
me, with a smile, and vanished.

Much to my surprise, she appeared at dinner next day. No notice was
taken of her, except by the younger of my pupils, who called out,--

"Hallo, Alice! Are you down?"

She smiled and nodded, but did not speak. Everything went on as usual.
There was no change in her behaviour, except in one point. I ventured
the experiment of paying her some ordinary enough attention. She thanked
me, without a trace of the scornful expression I all but expected to see
upon her beautiful face. But when I addressed her about the weather, or
something equally interesting, she made no reply; and Lady Hilton gave
me a stare, as much as to say, "Don't you know it's of no use to talk to
her?" Alice saw the look, and colouring to the eyes, rose, and left the
room. When she had gone, Lady Hilton said to me,--

"Don't speak to her, Mr. Campbell--it distresses her. She is very
peculiar, you know."

She could not hide the scorn and dislike with which she spoke; and I
could not help saying to myself, "What a different thing scorn looks on
_your_ face, Lady Hilton!" for it made her positively and hatefully ugly
for the moment--to my eyes, at least.

After this, Alice sat down with us at all our meals, and seemed
tolerably well. But, in some indescribable way, she was quite a
different person from the Lady Alice who had twice awaked in my
presence. To use a phrase common in describing one of weak
intellect--she never seemed to be all there. There was something
automatical in her movements; and a sort of frozen indifference was the
prevailing expression of her countenance. When she smiled, a sweet light
shone in her eyes, and she looked for the moment like the Lady Alice of
my nightly dreams. But, altogether, the Lady Alice of the night, and the
Lady Alice of the day, were two distinct persons. I believed that the
former was the real one.

What nights I had now, watching and striving lest unawares I should fall
into the exercise of my new power! I allowed myself to think of her as
much as I pleased in the daytime, or at least as much as I dared; for
when occupied with my pupils, I dreaded lest any abstraction should even
hint that I had a thought to conceal. I knew that I could not hurt her
then; for that only in the night did she enter that state of existence
in which my will could exercise authority over her. But at night--at
night--when I knew she lay there, and might be lying here; when but a
thought would bring her, and that thought was fluttering its wings,
ready to spring awake out of the dreams of my heart--then the struggle
was fearful. And what added force to the temptation was, that to call
her to me in the night, seemed like calling the real immortal Alice
forth from the tomb in which she wandered about all day. It was as
painful to me to see her such in the day, as it was entracing to
remember her such as I had seen her in the night. What matter if her
true self came forth in anger against me? What was I? It was enough for
my life, I said, to look on her, such as she really was. "Bring her yet
once, and tell her all--tell her how madly, hopelessly you love her. She
will forgive you at least," said a voice within me. But I heard it as
the voice of the tempter, and kept down the thought which might have
grown to the will.


CHAPTER XI


_A New Pupil_.

One day, exactly three weeks after her last visit to my room, as I was
sitting with my three pupils in the schoolroom, Lady Alice entered, and
began to look on the bookshelves as if she wanted some volume. After a
few moments, she turned, and, approaching the table, said to me, in an
abrupt, yet hesitating way.

"Mr. Campbell, I cannot spell. How am I to learn?"

I thought for a moment, and replied: "Copy a passage every day, Lady
Alice, from some favourite book. Then, if you allow me, I shall be most
happy to point out any mistakes you may have made."

"Thank you, Mr. Campbell, I will; but I am afraid you will despise me,
when you find how badly I spell."

"There is no fear of that," I rejoined. "It is a mere peculiarity. So
long as one can _think_ well, spelling is altogether secondary."

"Thank you; I will try," she said, and left the room. Next day, she
brought me an old ballad, written tolerably, but in a school-girl's
hand. She had copied the antique spelling, letter for letter.

"This is quite correct," I said; "but to copy such as this will not
teach you properly; for it is very old, and consequently old-fashioned."

"Is it old? Don't we spell like that now? You see I do not know anything
about it. You must set me a task, then."

This I undertook with more pleasure than I dared to show. Every day she
brought me the appointed exercise, written with a steadily improving
hand. To my surprise, I never found a single error in the spelling. Of
course, when, advancing a step in the process, I made her write from my
dictation, she did make blunders, but not so many as I had expected; and
she seldom repeated one after correction.

This new association gave me many opportunities of doing more for her
than merely teaching her to spell. We talked about what she copied; and
I had to explain. I also told her about the writers. Soon she expressed
a desire to know something of figures. We commenced arithmetic. I
proposed geometry along with it, and found the latter especially fitted
to her powers. One by one we included several other necessary branches;
and ere long I had four around the schoolroom table--equally my pupils.
Whether the attempts previously made to instruct her had been
insufficient or misdirected, or whether her intellectual powers had
commenced a fresh growth, I could not tell; but I leaned to the latter
conclusion, especially after I began to observe that her peculiar
remarks had become modified in form, though without losing any of their
originality. The unearthliness of her beauty likewise disappeared, a
slight colour displacing the almost marbly whiteness of her cheek.

Long before Lady Alice had made this progress, my nightly struggles
began to diminish in violence. They had now entirely ceased. The
temptation had left me. I felt certain that for weeks she had never
walked in her sleep. She was beyond my power, and I was glad of it.

I was, of course, most careful of my behaviour during all this period. I
strove to pay Lady Alice no more attention than I paid to the rest of my
pupils; and I cannot help thinking that I succeeded. But now and then,
in the midst of some instruction I was giving Lady Alice, I caught the
eye of Lady Lucy, a sharp, common-minded girl, fixed upon one or the
other of us, with an inquisitive vulgar expression, which I did not
like. This made me more careful still. I watched my tones, to keep them
even, and free from any expression of the feeling of which my heart was
full. Sometimes, however, I could not help revealing the gratification I
felt when she made some marvellous remark--marvellous, I mean, in
relation to her other attainments; such a remark as a child will
sometimes make, showing that he has already mastered, through his
earnest simplicity, some question that has for ages perplexed the wise
and the prudent. On one of these occasions, I found the cat eyes of Lady
Lucy glittering on me. I turned away; not, I fear, without showing some
displeasure.

Whether it was from Lady Lucy's evil report, or that the change in Lady
Alice's habits and appearance had attracted the attention of Lady
Hilton, I cannot tell; but one morning she appeared at the door of the
study, and called her. Lady Alice rose and went, with a slight gesture
of impatience. In a few minutes she returned, looking angry and
determined, and resumed her seat. But whatever it was that had passed
between them, it had destroyed that quiet flow of the feelings which was
necessary to the working of her thoughts. In vain she tried: she could
do nothing correctly. At last she burst into tears and left the room. I
was almost beside myself with distress and apprehension. She did not
return that day.

Next morning she entered at the usual hour, looking composed, but paler
than of late, and showing signs of recent weeping. When we were all
seated, and had just commenced our work, I happened to look up, and
caught her eyes intently fixed on me. They dropped instantly, but
without any appearance of confusion. She went on with her arithmetic,
and succeeded tolerably. But this respite was to be of short duration.
Lady Hilton again entered, and called her. She rose angrily, and my
quick ear caught the half-uttered words, "That woman will make an idiot
of me again!" She did not return; and never from that hour resumed her
place in the schoolroom.

The time passed heavily. At dinner she looked proud and constrained; and
spoke only in monosyllables.

For two days I scarcely saw her. But the third day, as I was busy in the
library alone, she entered.

"Can I help you, Mr. Campbell?" she said.

I glanced involuntarily towards the door.

"Lady Hilton is not at home," she replied to my look, while a curl of
indignation contended with a sweet tremor of shame for the possession of
her lip.--"Let me help you."

"You will help me best if you sing that ballad I heard you singing just
before you came in. I never heard you sing before."

"Didn't you? I don't think I ever did sing before."

"Sing it again, will you, please?"

"It is only two verses. My old Scotch nurse used to sing it when I was a
little girl-oh, so long ago! I didn't know I could sing it."

She began without more ado, standing in the middle of the room, with her
back towards the door.

  Annie was dowie, an' Willie was wae:
  What can be the matter wi' siccan a twae?
  For Annie was bonnie's the first o' the day,
  And Willie was strang an' honest an' gay.

  Oh! the tane had a daddy was poor an' was proud;
  An' the tither a minnie that cared for the gowd.
  They lo'ed are anither, an' said their say--
  But the daddy an' minnie hae pairtit the twae.

Just as she finished the song, I saw the sharp eyes of Lady Lucy peeping
in at the door.

"Lady Lucy is watching at the door, Lady Alice," I said.

"I don't care," she answered; but turned with a flush on her face, and
stepped noiselessly to the door.

"There is no one there," she said, returning.

"There was, though," I answered.

"They want to drive me mad," she cried, and hurried from the room.

The next day but one, she came again with the same request. But she had
not been a minute in the library before Lady Hilton came to the door and
called her in angry tones.

"Presently," replied Alice, and remained where she was.

"Do go, Lady Alice," I said. "They will send me away if you refuse."

She blushed scarlet, and went without another word.

She came no more to the library.


CHAPTER XII


_Confession_.

Day followed day, the one the child of the other. Alice's old paleness
and unearthly look began to reappear; and, strange to tell, my midnight
temptation revived. After a time she ceased to dine with us again, and
for days I never saw her. It was the old story of suffering with me,
only more intense than before. The day was dreary, and the night stormy.
"Call her," said my heart; but my conscience resisted.

I was lying on the floor of my room one midnight, with my face to the
ground, when suddenly I heard a low, sweet, strange voice singing
somewhere. The moment I became aware that I heard it I felt as if I had
been listening to it unconsciously for some minutes past. I lay still,
either charmed to stillness, or fearful of breaking the spell. As I lay,
I was lapt in the folds of a waking dream.

I was in bed in a castle, on the seashore; the wind came from the sea in
chill _eerie soughs_, and the waves fell with a threatful tone upon the
beach, muttering many maledictions as they rushed up, and whispering
cruel portents as they drew back, hissing and gurgling, through the
million narrow ways of the pebbly ramparts; and I knew that a maiden in
white was standing in the cold wind, by the angry sea, singing. I had a
kind of dreamy belief in my dream; but, overpowered by the spell of the
music, I still lay and listened. Keener and stronger, under the impulses
of my will, grew the power of my hearing. At last I could distinguish
the words. The ballad was _Annie of Lochroyan;_ and Lady Alice was
singing it. The words I heard were these:--

  Oh, gin I had a bonnie ship,
  And men to sail wi' me,
  It's I wad gang to my true love,
  Sin' he winna come to me.

  Lang stood she at her true love's door,
  And lang tirled at the pin;
  At length up gat his fause mother,
  Says, "Wha's that wad be in?"

         *       *       *       *       *

  Love Gregory started frae his sleep,
  And to his mother did say:
  "I dreamed a dream this night, mither,
  That maks my heart right wae.

  "I dreamed that Annie of Lochroyan,
  The flower of a' her kin,
  Was standing mournin' at my door,
  But nane wad let her in."

I sprang to my feet, and opened the hidden door. There she stood, white,
asleep, with closed eyes, singing like a bird, only with a heartful of
sad meaning in every tone. I stepped aside, without speaking, and she
passed me into the room. I closed the door, and followed her. She lay
already upon the couch, still and restful--already covered with my
plaid. I sat down beside her, waiting; and gazed upon her in wonderment.
That she was possessed of very superior intellectual powers, whatever
might be the cause of their having lain dormant so long, I had already
fully convinced myself; but I was not prepared to find art as well as
intellect. I had already heard her sing the little song of two verses,
which she had learned from her nurse. But here was a song, of her own
making as to the music, so true and so potent, that, before I knew
anything of the words, it had surrounded me with a dream of the place in
which the scene of the ballad was laid. It did not then occur to me
that, perhaps, our idiosyncrasies were such as not to require even the
music of the ballad for the production of _rapport_ between our minds,
the brain of the one generating in the brain of the other the vision
present to itself.

I sat and thought:--Some obstruction in the gateways, outward, prevented
her, in her waking hours, from uttering herself at all. This
obstruction, damming back upon their sources the out-goings of life,
threw her into this abnormal sleep. In it the impulse to utterance,
still unsatisfied, so wrought within her unable, yet compliant form,
that she could not rest, but rose and walked. And now, a fresh surge
from the sea of her unknown being, unrepressed by the _hitherto_ of the
objects of sense, had burst the gates and bars, swept the obstructions
from its channel, and poured from her in melodious song.

The first green lobes, at least, of these thoughts, appeared above the
soil of my mind, while I sat and gazed on the sleeping girl. And now I
had once more the delight of watching a spirit-dawn, a soul-rise, in
that lovely form. The light flushing of its pallid sky was, as before,
the first sign. I dreaded the flash of lovely flame, and the outburst of
regnant anger, ere I should have time to say that I was not to blame.
But when, at length, the full dawn, the slow sunrise came, it was with
all the gentleness of a cloudy summer morn. Never did a more celestial
rosy red hang about the skirts of the level sun, than deepened and
glowed upon her face, when, opening her eyes, she saw me beside her. She
covered her face with her hands; and instead of the words of indignant
reproach which I dreaded to hear, she murmured behind the snowy screen:
"I am glad you have broken your promise."

My heart gave a bound and was still. I grew faint with delight. "No," I
said; "I have not broken my promise, Lady Alice; I have struggled nearly
to madness to keep it--and I have kept it."

"I have come then of myself. Worse and worse! But it is their fault."

Tears now found their way through the repressing fingers. I could not
endure to see her weep. I knelt beside her, and, while she still covered
her face with her hands, I said--I do not know what I said. They were
wild, and, doubtless, foolish words in themselves, but they must have
been wise and true in their meaning. When I ceased, I knew that I had
ceased only by the great silence around me. I was still looking at her
hands. Slowly she withdrew them. It was as when the sun breaks forth on
a cloudy day. The winter was over and gone; the time of the singing of
birds had come. She smiled on me through her tears, and heart met heart
in the light of that smile.

She rose to go at once, and I begged for no delay. I only stood with
clasped hands, gazing at her. She turned at the door, and said;

"I daresay I shall come again; I am afraid I cannot help it; only mind
you do not wake me."

Before I could reply, I was alone; and I felt that I must not follow
her.


CHAPTER XIII


_Questioning_.

I laid myself on the couch she had left, but not to sleep. A new pulse
of life, stronger than I could bear, was throbbing within me. I dreaded
a fever, lest I should talk in it, and drop the clue to my secret
treasure. But the light of the morning stilled me, and a bath in
ice-cold water made me strong again. Yet I felt all that day as if I
were dying a delicious death, and going to a yet more exquisite life. As
far as I might, however, I repressed all indications of my delight; and
endeavoured, for the sake both of duty and of prudence, to be as
attentive to my pupils and their studies as it was possible for man to
be. This helped to keep me in my right mind. But, more than all my
efforts at composure, the pain which, as far as my experience goes,
invariably accompanies, and sometimes even usurps, the place of the
pleasure which gave it birth, was efficacious in keeping me sane.

Night came, but brought no Lady Alice. It was a week before I saw her
again. Her heart had been stilled, and she was able to sleep aright.

But seven nights after, she did come. I waited her awaking, possessed
with one painful thought, which I longed to impart to her. She awoke
with a smile, covered her face for a moment, but only for a moment, and
then sat up. I stood before her; and the first words I spoke were:

"Lady Alice, ought I not to go?"

"No," she replied at once. "I can claim some compensation from them for
the wrong they have been doing me. Do you know in what relation I stand
to Lord and Lady Hilton? They are but my stepmother and her husband."

"I know that."

"Well, I have a fortune of my own, about which I never thought or
cared--till--till--within the last few weeks. Lord Hilton is my
guardian. Whether they made me the stupid creature I _was,_ I do not
know; but I believe they have represented me as far worse than I was, to
keep people from making my acquaintance. They prevented my going on with
my lessons, because they saw I was getting to understand things, and
grow like other people; and that would not suit their purposes. It would
be false delicacy in you to leave me to them, when you can make up to me
for their injustice. Their behaviour to me takes away any right they had
over me, and frees you from any obligation, because I am yours.--Am I
not?"

Once more she covered her face with her hands. I could answer only by
withdrawing one of them, which I _was_ now emboldened to keep in my own.

I was very willingly persuaded to what was so much my own desire. But
whether the reasoning was quite just or not, I am not yet sure. Perhaps
it might be so for her, and yet not for me: I do not know; I am a poor
casuist.

She resumed, laying her other hand upon mine:--

"It would be to tell the soul which you have called forth, to go back
into its dark moaning cavern, and never more come out to the light of
day."

How could I resist this?

A long pause ensued.

"It is strange," she said, at length, "to feel, when I lie down at
night, that I may awake in your presence, without knowing how. It is
strange, too, that, although I should be utterly ashamed to come
wittingly, I feel no confusion when I find myself here. When I feel
myself coming awake, I lie for a little while with my eyes closed,
wondering and hoping, and afraid to open them, lest I should find myself
only in my own chamber; shrinking a little, too--just a little--from the
first glance into your face."

"But when you awake, do you know nothing of what has taken place in your
sleep?"

"Nothing whatever."

"Have you no vague sensations, no haunting shadows, no dim ghostly
moods, seeming to belong to that condition, left?"

"None whatever."

She rose, said "Good-night," and left me.


Chapter XIV


_Jealousy._

Again seven days passed before she revisited me. Indeed, her visits had
always an interval of seven days, or a multiple of seven, between.

Since the last, a maddening jealousy had seized me. For, returning from
those unknown regions into which her soul had wandered away, and where
she had stayed for hours, did she not sometimes awake with a smile? How
could I be sure that she did not lead two distinct existences?--that she
had not some loving spirit, or man, who, like her, had for a time left
the body behind--who was all in all to her in that region, and whom she
forgot when she forsook it, as she forgot me when she entered it? It was
a thought I could not brook. But I put aside its persistency as well as
I could, till she should come again. For this I waited. I could not now
endure the thought of compelling the attendance of her unconscious form;
of making her body, like a living cage, transport to my presence the
unresisting soul. I shrank from it as a true man would shrink from
kissing the lips of a sleeping woman whom he loved, not knowing that she
loved him in return.

It may well be said that to follow such a doubt was to inquire too
curiously; but once the thought had begun, and grown, and been born, how
was I to slay the monster, and be free of its hated presence? Was its
truth not a possibility?--Yet how could even she help me, for she knew
nothing of the matter? How could she vouch for the unknown? What news
can the serene face of the moon, ever the same to us, give of the hidden
half of herself turned ever towards what seems to us but the blind
abysmal darkness, which yet has its own light and its own life? All I
could hope for was to see her, to tell her, to be comforted at least by
her smile.

My saving angel glided blind into my room, lay down upon her bier, and
awaited the resurrection. I sat and awaited mine, panting to untwine
from my heart the cold death-worm that twisted around it, yet picturing
to myself the glow of love on the averted face of the beautiful
spirit--averted from me, and bending on a radiant companion all the
light withdrawn from the lovely form beside me. That light began to
return. "She is coming, she is coming," I said within me. "Back from its
glowing south travels the sun of my spring, the glory of my summer."
Floating slowly up from the infinite depths of her being, came the
conscious woman; up--up from the realms of stillness lying deeper than
the plummet of self-knowledge can sound; up from the formless, up into
the known, up into the material, up to the windows that look forth on
the embodied mysteries around. Her eyelids rose. One look of love all
but slew my fear. When I told her my grief, she answered with a smile of
pity, yet half of disdain at the thought.

"If ever I find it so, I will kill myself there, that I may go to my
Hades with you. But if I am dreaming of another, how is it that I always
rise in my vision and come to you? You will go crazy if you fancy such
foolish things," she added, with a smile of reproof.

The spectral thought vanished, and I was free.

"Shall I tell you," she resumed, covering her face with her hands, "why
I behaved so proudly to you, from the very first day you entered the
house? It was because, when I passed you on the lawn, before ever you
entered the house, I felt a strange, undefinable attraction towards you,
which continued, although I could not account for it and would not yield
to it. I was heartily annoyed at it. But you see it was of no use--here
I am. That was what made me so fierce, too, when I first found myself in
your room."

It was indeed long before she came to my room again.


CHAPTER XV


_The Chamber of Ghosts_.

But now she returned once more into the usual routine of the family. I
fear I was unable to repress all signs of agitation when, next day, she
entered the dining-room, after we were seated, and took her customary
place at the table. Her behaviour was much the same as before; but her
face was very different. There was light in it now, and signs of mental
movement. The smooth forehead would be occasionally wrinkled, and she
would fall into moods which were evidently not of inanity, but of
abstracted thought. She took especial care that our eyes should not
meet. If by chance they did, instead of sinking hers, she kept them
steady, and opened them wider, as if she was fixing them on nothing at
all, or she raised them still higher, as if she was looking at something
above me, before she allowed them to fall. But the change in her
altogether was such that it must have attracted the notice and roused
the speculation of Lady Hilton at least. For me, so well did she act her
part, that I was thrown into perplexity by it. And when day after day
passed, and the longing to speak to her grew, and remained unsatisfied,
new doubts arose. Perhaps she was tired of me. Perhaps her new studies
filled her mind with the clear, gladsome morning light of the pure
intellect, which always throws doubt and distrust and a kind of negation
upon the moonlight of passion, mysterious, and mingled ever with faint
shadows of pain. I walked as in an unresting sleep. Utterly as I loved
her, I was yet alarmed and distressed to find how entirely my being had
grown dependent upon her love; how little of individual, self-existing,
self-upholding life, I seemed to have left; how little I cared for
anything, save as I could associate it with her.

I was sitting late one night in my room. I had all but given up hope of
her coming. I had, perhaps, deprived her of the somnambulic power. I was
brooding over this possibility, when all at once I felt as if I were
looking into the haunted room. It seemed to be lighted by the moon,
shining through the stained windows. The feeling came and went suddenly,
as such visions of places generally do; but this had an indescribable
something about it more clear and real than such resurrections of the
past, whether willed or unwilled, commonly possess; and a great longing
seized me to look into the room once more. I rose with a sense of
yielding to the irresistible, left the room, groped my way through the
hall and up the oak staircase--I had never thought of taking a light
with me--and entered the corridor. No sooner had I entered it, than the
thought sprang up in my mind--"What if she should be there!" My heart
stood still for a moment, like a wounded deer, and then bounded on, with
a pang in every bound. The corridor was night itself, with a dim,
bluish-grey light from the windows, sufficing to mark their own spaces.
I stole through it, and, without erring once, went straight to the
haunted chamber. The door stood half open. I entered, and was bewildered
by the dim, mysterious, dreamy loveliness upon which I gazed. The moon
shone full upon the windows, and a thousand coloured lights and shadows
crossed and intertwined upon the walls and floor, all so soft, and
mingling, and undefined, that the brain was filled as with a flickering
dance of ghostly rainbows. But I had little time to think of these; for
out of the only dark corner in the room came a white figure, flitting
across the chaos of lights, bedewed, besprinkled, bespattered, as she
passed, with their multitudinous colours. I was speechless, motionless,
with something far beyond joy. With a low moan of delight, Lady Alice
sank into my arms. Then, looking up, with a light laugh--"The scales are
turned, dear," she said. "You are in my power now; I brought you here. I
thought I could, and I tried, for I wanted so much to see you--and you
are come." She led me across the room to the place where she had been
seated, and we sat side by side.

"I thought you had forgotten me," I said, "or had grown tired of me."

"Did you? That was unkind. You have made my heart so still, that, body
and soul, I sleep at night."

"Then shall I never see you more?"

"We can meet here. This is the best place. No one dares come near the
haunted room at night. We might even venture in the evening. Look, now,
from where we are sitting, across the air, between the windows and the
shadows on the floor. Do you see nothing moving?"

I looked, but could see nothing. She resumed:--

"I almost fancy, sometimes, that what old stories say about this room
may be true. I could fancy now that I see dim transparent forms in
ancient armour, and in strange antique dresses, men and women, moving
about, meeting, speaking, embracing, parting, coming and going. But I
was never afraid of such beings. I am sure these would not, could not
hurt us."

If the room was not really what it was well fitted to be--a rendezvous
for the ghosts of the past--then either my imagination, becoming more
active as she spoke, began to operate upon my brain, or her fancies were
mysteriously communicated to me; for I was persuaded that I saw such dim
undefined forms as she described, of a substance only denser than the
moonlight, flitting, and floating about, between the windows and the
illuminated floor. Could they have been coloured shadows thrown from the
stained glass upon the fine dust with which the slightest motion in such
an old and neglected room must fill its atmosphere? I did not think of
that then, however.

"I could persuade myself that I, too, see them," I replied. "I cannot
say that I am afraid of such beings any more than you--if only they will
not speak."

"Ah!" she replied, with a lengthened, meaning utterance, expressing
sympathy with what I said; "I know what you mean. I, too, am afraid of
hearing things. And that reminds me, I have never yet asked you about
the galloping horse. I too hear sometimes the sound of a loose
horse-shoe. It always betokens some evil to me; but I do not know what
it means. Do you?"

"Do you know," I rejoined, "that there is a connection between your
family and mine, somewhere far back in their histories?"

"No! Is there? How glad I am! Then perhaps you and I are related, and
that is how we are so much alike, and have power over each other, and
hear the same things."

"Yes. I suppose that is how."

"But can you account for that sound which we both hear?"

"I will tell you what my old foster-mother told me," I replied. And I
began by narrating when and where I had first heard the sound; and then
gave her, as nearly as I could, the legend which nurse had recounted to
me. I did not tell her its association with the events of my birth, for
I feared exciting her imagination too much. She listened to it very
quietly, however, and when I came to a close, only said:

"Of course, we cannot tell how much of it is true, but there may be
something in it. I have never heard anything of the sort, and I, too,
have an old nurse. She is with me still. You shall see her some day."

She rose to go.

"Will you meet me here again soon?" I said.

"As soon as you wish," she answered.

"Then to-morrow, at midnight?"

"Yes."

And we parted at the door of the haunted chamber. I watched the
flickering with which her whiteness just set the darkness in motion, and
nothing more, seeming to see it long after I knew she must have turned
aside and descended the steps leading towards her own room. Then I
turned and groped my way back to mine.

We often met after this in the haunted room. Indeed my spirit haunted it
all day and all night long. And when we met amid the shadows, we were
wrapped in the mantle of love, and from its folds looked out fearless on
the ghostly world about us. Ghosts or none, they never annoyed us. Our
love was a talisman, yea, an elixir of life, which made us equal to the
twice-born,--the disembodied dead. And they were as a wall of fear about
us, to keep far off the unfriendly foot and the prying eye.

In the griefs that followed, I often thought with myself that I would
gladly die for a thousand years, might I then awake for one night in the
haunted chamber, a ghost, among the ghosts who crowded its stained
moonbeams, and see my dead Alice smiling across the glimmering rays, and
beckoning me to the old nook, she, too, having come awake out of the
sleep of death, in the dream of the haunted chamber. "Might we but sit
there," I said, "through the night, as of old, and love and comfort each
other, till the moon go down, and the pale dawn, which is the night of
the ghosts, begin to arise, then gladly would I go to sleep for another
thousand years, in the hope that when I next became conscious of life,
it might be in another such ghostly night, in the chamber of the
ghosts."


Chapter XVI


_The Clanking Shoe_.

Time passed. We began to feel very secure in that room, watched as it
was by the sleepless sentry, Fear. One night I ventured to take a light
with me.

"How nice to have a candle!" she said as I entered. "I hope they are all
in bed, though. It will drive some of them into fits if they see the
light."

"I wanted to show you something I found in the library to-day."

"What is it?"

I opened a book, and showed her a paper inside it, with some verses
written on it.

"Whose writing is that?" I asked.

"Yours, of course. As if I did not know your writing!"

"Will you look at the date?"

"_Seventeen hundred and ninety-three.'_ You are making game of me,
Duncan. But the paper does look yellow and old."

"I found it as you see it, in that book. It belonged to Lord Hilton's
brother. The verses are a translation of part of the poem beside which
they lie--one by Von Salis, who died shortly before that date at the
bottom. I will read them to you, and then show you something else that
is strange about them. The poem is called _Psyche's Sorrow._ Psyche
means the soul, Alice."

"I remember. You told me about her before, you know."

  "Psyche's sighing all her prison darkens;
  She is moaning for the far-off stars;
  Fearing, hoping, every sound she hearkens--
  Fate may now be breaking at her bars.

  Bound, fast bound, are Psyche's airy pinions:
  High her heart, her mourning soft and low--
  Knowing that in sultry pain's dominions
  Grow the palms that crown the victor's brow;

  That the empty hand the wreath encloses;
  Earth's cold winds but make the spirit brave;
  Knowing that the briars bear the roses,
  Golden flowers the waste deserted grave.

  In the cypress-shade her myrtle groweth;
  Much she loves, because she much hath borne;
  Love-led, through the darksome way she goeth--
  On to meet him in the breaking morn.

  She can bear--"

"Here the translation ceases, you see; and then follows the date, with
the words in German underneath it--'How weary I am!' Now what is
strange, Alice, is, that this date is the very month and year in which I
was born."

She did not reply to this with anything beyond a mere assent. Her mind
was fixed on the poem itself. She began to talk about it, and I was
surprised to find how thoroughly she entered into it and understood it.
She seemed to have crowded the growth of a lifetime into the last few
months. At length I told her how unhappy I had felt for some time, at
remaining in Lord Hilton's house, as matters now were.

"Then you must go," she said, quite quietly.

This troubled me.

"You do not mind it?"

"No. I shall be very glad."

"Will you go with me?" I asked, perplexed.

"Of course I will."

I did not know what to say to this, for I had no money, and of course I
should have none of my salary. She divined at once the cause of my
hesitation.

"I have a diamond bracelet in my room," she said, with a smile, "and a
few guineas besides."

"How shall we get away?"

"Nothing is easier. My old nurse, whom I mentioned to you before, lives
at the lodge gate."

"Oh! I know her very well," I interrupted. "But she's not Scotch?"

"Indeed she is. But she has been with our family almost all her life. I
often go to see her, and sometimes stay all night with her. You can get
a carriage ready in the village, and neither of us will be missed before
morning."

I looked at her in renewed surprise at the decision of her invention.
She covered her face, as she seldom did now, but went on:

"We can go to London, where you will easily find something to do. Men
always can there. And when I come of age--"

"Alice, how old are you?" I interrupted.

"Nineteen", she answered. "By the way," she resumed, "when I think of
it--how odd!--that"--pointing to the date on the paper--"is the very
month in which I too was born."

I was too much surprised to interrupt her, and she continued:

"I never think of my age without recalling one thing about my birth,
which nurse often refers to. She was going up the stair to my mother's
room, when she happened to notice a bright star, not far from the new
moon. As she crossed the room with me in her arms, just after I was
born, she saw the same star almost on the tip of the opposite horn. My
mother died a week after. Who knows how different I might have been if
she had lived!"

It was long before I spoke. The awful and mysterious thoughts roused in
my mind by the revelations of the day held me silent. At length I said,
half thinking aloud:

"Then you and I, Alice, were born the same hour, and our mothers died
together."

Receiving no answer, I looked at her. She was fast asleep, and breathing
gentle, full breaths. She had been sitting for some time with her head
lying on my shoulder and my arm around her. I could not bear to wake
her.

We had been in this position perhaps for half an hour, when suddenly a
cold shiver ran through me, and all at once I became aware of the
far-off gallop of a horse. It drew nearer. On and on it came--nearer and
nearer. Then came the clank of the broken shoe!

At the same moment, Alice started from her sleep and, springing to her
feet, stood an instant listening. Then crying out, in an agonised
whisper,--"The horse with the clanking shoe!" she flung her arms around
me. Her face was white as the spectral moon which, the moment I put the
candle out, looked in through a clear pane beside us; and she gazed
fearfully, yet wildly-defiant, towards the door. We clung to each other.
We heard the sound come nearer and nearer, till it thundered right up to
the very door of the room, terribly loud. It ceased. But the door was
flung open, and Lord Hilton entered, followed by servants with lights.

I have but a very confused remembrance of what followed. I heard a vile
word from the lips of Lord Hilton; I felt my fingers on his throat; I
received a blow on the head; and I seem to remember a cry of agony from
Alice as I fell. What happened next I do not know.

When I came to myself, I was lying on a wide moor, with the night wind
blowing about me. I presume that I had wandered thither in a state of
unconsciousness, after being turned out of the Hall, and that I had at
last fainted from loss of blood. I was unable to move for a long time.
At length the morning broke, and I found myself not far from the Hall. I
crept back, a mile or two, to the gates, and having succeeded in rousing
Alice's old nurse, was taken in with many lamentations, and put to bed
in the lodge. I had a violent fever; and it was all the poor woman could
do to keep my presence a secret from the family at the Hall.

When I began to mend, my first question was about Alice. I learned,
though with some difficulty--for my kind attendant was evidently
unwilling to tell me all the truth--that Alice, too, had been very ill;
and that, a week before, they had removed her. But she either would not
or could not tell me where they had taken her. I believe she could not.
Nor do I know for certain to this day.

Mrs. Blakesley offered me the loan of some of her savings to get me to
London. I received it with gratitude, and as soon as I was fit to
travel, made my way thither. Afraid for my reason, if I had no
employment to keep my thoughts from brooding on my helplessness, and so
increasing my despair, and determined likewise that my failure should
not make me burdensome to any one else, I enlisted in the Scotch Greys,
before letting any of my friends know where I was. Through the help of
one already mentioned in my story, I soon obtained a commission. From
the field of Waterloo, I rode into Brussels with a broken arm and a
sabre-cut in the head.

As we passed along one of the streets, through all the clang of
iron-shod hoofs on the stones around me, I heard the ominous clank. At
the same moment, I heard a cry. It was the voice of my Alice. I looked
up. At a barred window I saw her face; but it was terribly changed. I
dropped from my horse. As soon as I was able to move from the hospital,
I went to the place, and found it was a lunatic asylum. I was permitted
to see the inmates, but discovered no one resembling her. I do not now
believe that she was ever there. But I may be wrong. Nor will I trouble
my reader with the theories on which I sought to account for the vision.
They will occur to himself readily enough.

For years and years I know not whether she was alive or dead. I sought
her far and near. I wandered over England, France, and Germany,
hopelessly searching; listening at _tables-d'hôte_; lurking about
mad-houses; haunting theatres and churches; often, in wild regions,
begging my way from house to house; I did not find her.

Once I visited Hilton Hall. I found it all but deserted. I learned that
Mrs. Wilson was dead, and that there were only two or three servants in
the place. I managed to get into the house unseen, and made my way to
the haunted chamber. My feelings were not so keen as I had anticipated,
for they had been dulled by long suffering. But again I saw the moon
shine through those windows of stained glass. Again her beams were
crowded with ghosts. She was not amongst them. "My lost love!" I cried;
and then, rebuking myself, "No; she is not lost. They say that Time and
Space exist not, save in our thoughts. If so, then that which has been,
is, and the Past can never cease. She is mine, and I shall find
her--what matters it where, or when, or how? Till then, my soul is but a
moon-lighted chamber of ghosts; and I sit within, the dreariest of them
all. When she enters, it will be a home of love. And I wait--I wait."

I sat and brooded over the Past, till I fell asleep in the
phantom-peopled night. And all the night long they were about me--the
men and women of the long past. And I was one of them. I wandered in my
dreams over the whole house, habited in a long old-fashioned gown,
searching for one who was Alice, and yet would be some one else. From
room to room I wandered till weary, and could not find her. At last, I
gave up the search, and, retreating to the library, shut myself in.
There, taking down from the shelf the volume of Von Salis, I tried hard
to go on with the translation of _Pysche's Sorrow_, from the point where
the student had left it, thinking it, all the time, my own unfinished
work.

When I woke in the morning, the chamber of ghosts, in which I had fallen
asleep, had vanished. The sun shone in through the windows of the
library; and on its dusty table lay Von Salis, open at _Pysche's
Trauer_. The sheet of paper with the translation on it, was not there. I
hastened to leave the house, and effected my escape before the servants
were astir.

Sometimes I condensed my whole being into a single intensity of
will--that she should come to me; and sustained it, until I fainted with
the effort. She did not come. I desisted altogether at last, for I
bethought me that, whether dead or alive, it must cause her torture not
to be able to obey it.

Sometimes I questioned my own sanity. But the thought of the loss of my
reason did not in itself trouble me much. What tortured me almost to the
madness it supposed was the possible fact, which a return to my right
mind might reveal--that there never had been a Lady Alice. What if I
died, and awoke from my madness, and found a clear blue air of life, a
joyous world of sunshine, a divine wealth of delight around and in
me--but no Lady Alice--she having vanished with all the other phantoms
of a sick brain! "Rather let me be mad still," I said, "if mad I am; and
so dream on that I have been blessed. Were I to wake to such a heaven, I
would pray God to let me go and live the life I had but dreamed, with
all its sorrows, and all its despair, and all its madness, that when I
died again, I might know that such things had been, and could never be
awaked from, and left behind with the dream." But I was not mad, any
more than Hamlet; though, like him, despair sometimes led me far along
the way at the end of which madness lies.


CHAPTER XVII


_The Physician._

I was now Captain Campbell, of the Scotch Greys, contriving to live on
my half pay, and thinking far more about the past than the present or
the future. My father was dead. My only brother was also gone, and the
property had passed into other hands. I had no fixed place of abode, but
went from one spot to another, as the whim seized me--sometimes
remaining months, sometimes removing next day, but generally choosing
retired villages about which I knew nothing.

I had spent a week in a small town on the borders of Wales, and intended
remaining a fortnight longer, when I was suddenly seized with a violent
illness, in which I lay insensible for three weeks. When I recovered
consciousness, I found that my head had been shaved, and that the
cicatrice of my old wound was occasionally very painful. Of late I have
suspected that I had some operation performed upon my skull during my
illness; but Dr. Ruthwell never dropped a hint to that effect. This was
the friend whom, when first I opened my seeing eyes, I beheld sitting by
my bedside, watching the effect of his last prescription. He was one of
the few in the profession, whose love of science and love of their
fellows combined, would be enough to chain them to the art of healing,
irrespective of its emoluments. He was one of the few, also, who see the
marvellous in all science, and, therefore, reject nothing merely because
the marvellous may seem to predominate in it. Yet neither would he
accept anything of the sort as fact, without the strictest use of every
experiment within his power, even then remaining often in doubt. This
man conferred honour by his friendship; and I am happy to think that
before many days of recovery had passed, we were friends indeed. But I
lay for months under his care before I was able to leave my bed.

He attributed my illness to the consequences of the sabre-cut, and my
recovery to the potency of the drugs he had exhibited. I attributed my
illness in great measure to the constant contemplation of my early
history, no longer checked by any regular employment; and my recovery in
equal measure to the power of his kindness and sympathy, helping from
within what could never have been reached from without.

He told me that he had often been greatly perplexed with my symptoms,
which would suddenly change in the most unaccountable manner, exhibiting
phases which did not, as far as his knowledge went, belong to any
variety of the suffering which gave the prevailing character to my
ailment; and after I had so far recovered as to render it safe to turn
my regard more particularly upon my own case, he said to me one day,

"You would laugh at me, Campbell, were I to confess some of the bother
this illness of yours has occasioned me; enough, indeed, to overthrow
any conceit I ever had in my own diagnosis."

"Go on," I answered; "I promise not to laugh."

He little knew how far I should be from laughing. "In your case," he
continued, "the _pathognomonic,_ if you will excuse medical slang, was
every now and then broken by the intrusion of altogether foreign
symptoms."

I listened with breathless attention.

"Indeed, on several occasions, when, after meditating on your case till
I was worn out, I had fallen half asleep by your bedside, I came to
myself with the strangest conviction that I was watching by the bedside
of a woman."

"Thank Heaven!" I exclaimed, starting up, "She lives still."

I need not describe the doctor's look of amazement, almost
consternation; for he thought a fresh access of fever was upon me, and I
had already begun to rave. For his reassurance, however, I promised to
account fully for my apparently senseless excitement; and that evening I
commenced the narrative which forms the preceeding part of this story.
Long before I reached its close, my exultation had vanished, and, as I
wrote it for him, it ended with the expressed conviction that she must
be dead. Ere long, however, the hope once more revived. While, however,
the narrative was in progress, I gave him a summary, which amounted to
this:--

I had loved a lady--loved her still. I did not know where she was, and
had reason to fear that her mind had given way under the suffering of
our separation. Between us there existed, as well, the bond of a distant
blood relationship; so distant, that but for its probable share in the
production of another relationship of a very marvellous nature, it would
scarcely have been worth alluding to. This was a kind of psychological
attraction, which, when justified and strengthened by the spiritual
energies of love, rendered the immediate communication of certain
feelings, both mental and bodily, so rapid, that almost the
consciousness of the one existed for the time in the mental
circumstances of the other. Nay, so complete at times was the
communication, that I even doubted her testimony as to some strange
correspondence in our past history on this very ground, suspecting that,
my memory being open to her retrospection, she saw my story, and took it
for her own. It was, therefore, easy for me to account for Dr.
Ruthwell's scientific bewilderment at the symptoms I manifested.

As my health revived, my hope and longing increased. But although I
loved Lady Alice with more entireness than even during the latest period
of our intercourse, a certain calm endurance had supervened, which
rendered the relief of fierce action no longer necessary to the
continuance of a sane existence. It was as if the concentrated orb of
love had diffused itself in a genial warmth through the whole orb of
life, imparting fresh vitality to many roots which had remained leafless
in my being. For years the field of battle was the only field that had
borne the flower of delight; now nature began to live again for me.

One day, the first on which I ventured to walk into the fields alone, I
was delighted with the multitude of the daisies peeping from the grass
everywhere--the first attempts of the earth, become conscious of
blindness, to open eyes, and see what was about and above her.
Everything is wonderful after the resurrection from illness. It is a
resurrection of all nature. But somehow or other I was not satisfied
with the daisies. They did not seem to me so lovely as the daisies I
used to see when I was a child. I thought with myself, "This is the
cloud that gathers with life, the dimness that passion and suffering
cast over the eyes of the mind." That moment my gaze fell upon a single,
solitary, red-tipped daisy. My reasoning vanished, and my melancholy
with it, slain by the red tips of the lonely beauty. This was the kind
of daisy I had loved as a child; and with the sight of it, a whole field
of them rushed back into my mind; a field of my father's where,
throughout the multitude, you could not have found a white one. My
father was dead; the fields had passed into other hands; but perhaps the
red-tipped _gowans_ were left. I must go and see. At all events, the
hill that overlooked the field would still be there, and no change would
have passed upon _it._ It would receive me with the same familiar look
as of old, still fronting the great mountain from whose sides I had
first heard the sound of that clanking horseshoe, which, whatever might
be said to account for it, had certainly had a fearful connection with
my joys and sorrows both. Did the ghostly rider still haunt the place?
or, if he did, should I hear again that sound of coming woe? Whether or
not, I defied him. I would not be turned from my desire to see the old
place by any fear of a ghostly marauder, whom I should be only too glad
to encounter, if there were the smallest chance of coming off with the
victory.

As soon as my friend would permit me, I set out for Scotland.


CHAPTER XVIII


_Old Friends._

I made the journey by easy stages, chiefly on the back of a favourite
black horse, which had carried me well in several fights, and had come
out of them scarred, like his master, but sound in wind and limb. It was
night when I reached the village lying nearest to my birth place.

When I woke in the morning, I found the whole region filled with a white
mist, hiding the mountains around. Now and then a peak looked through,
and again retired into the cloudy folds. In the wide, straggling street,
below the window at which I had made them place my breakfast-table, a
periodical fair was being held; and I sat looking down on the gathering
crowd, trying to discover some face known to my childhood, and still to
be recognized through the veil which years must have woven across the
features. When I had finished my breakfast, I went down and wandered
about among the people. Groups of elderly men were talking earnestly;
and young men and maidens who had come to be _fee'd_, were joking and
laughing. They stared at the Sassenach gentleman, and, little thinking
that he understood every word they uttered, made their remarks upon him
in no very subdued tones. I approached a stall where a brown old woman
was selling gingerbread and apples. She was talking to a man with long,
white locks. Near them was a group of young people. One of them must
have said something about me; for the old woman, who had been taking
stolen glances at me, turned rather sharply towards them, and rebuked
them for rudeness.

"The gentleman is no Sassenach," she said. "He understands everything
you are saying."

This was spoken in Gaelic, of course. I turned and looked at her with
more observance. She made me a courtesy, and said, in the same language:

"Your honour will be a Campbell, I'm thinking."

"I am a Campbell," I answered, and waited.

"Your honour's Christian name wouldn't be Duncan, sir?"

"It is Duncan," I answered; "but there are many Duncan Campbells."

"Only one to me, your honour; and that's yourself. But you will not
remember me?"

I did not remember her. Before long, however, urged by her anxiety to
associate her Present with my Past, she enabled me to recall in her
time-worn features those of a servant in my father's house when I was a
child.

"But how could you recollect me?" I said.

"I have often seen you since I left your father's, sir. But it was
really, I believe, that I hear more about you than anything else, every
day of my life."

"I do not understand you."

"From old Margaret, I mean."

"Dear old Margaret! Is she alive?"

"Alive and hearty, though quite bedridden. Why, sir, she must be within
near sight of a hundred."

"Where does she live?"

"In the old cottage, sir. Nothing will make her leave it. The new laird
wanted to turn her out; but Margaret muttered something at which he grew
as white as his shirt, and he has never ventured across her threshold
again."

"How do you see so much of her, though?"

"I never leave her, sir. She can't wait on herself, poor old lady. And
she's like a mother to me. Bless her! But your honour will come and see
her?"

"Of course I will. Tell her so when you go home."

"Will you honour me by sleeping at my house, sir?" said the old man to
whom she had been talking. "My farm is just over the brow of the hill,
you know."

I had by this time recognised him, and I accepted his offer at once.

"When may we look for you, sir?" he asked.

"When shall you be home?" I rejoined.

"This afternoon, sir. I have done my business already."

"Then I shall be with you in the evening, for I have nothing to keep me
here."

"Will you take a seat in my gig?"

"No, thank you. I have my own horse with me. You can take him in too, I
dare say?"

"With pleasure, sir."

We parted for the meantime. I rambled about the neighbourhood till it
was time for an early dinner.


Chapter XIX


_Old Constancy._

The fog cleared off; and, as the hills began to throw long, lazy
shadows, their only embraces across the wide valleys, I mounted and set
out on the ride of a few miles which should bring me to my old
acquaintance's dwelling.

I lingered on the way. All the old places demanded my notice. They
seemed to say, "Here we are--waiting for you." Many a tuft of harebells
drew me towards the roadside, to look at them and their children, the
blue butterflies, hovering over them; and I stopped to gaze at many a
wild rosebush, with a sunset of its own roses. The sun had set to me,
before I had completed half the distance. But there was a long twilight,
and I knew the road well.

My horse was an excellent walker, and I let him walk on, with the reins
on his neck; while I, lost in a dream of the past, was singing a song of
my own making, with which I often comforted my longing by giving it
voice.

  The autumn winds are sighing
  Over land and sea;
  The autumn woods are dying
  Over hill and lea;
  And my heart is sighing, dying,
  Maiden, for thee.

  The autumn clouds are flying
  Homeless over me;
  The homeless birds are crying
  In the naked tree;
  And my heart is flying, crying,
  Maiden, to thee.

  My cries may turn to gladness,
  And my flying flee;
  My sighs may lose the sadness,
  Yet sigh on in me;
  All my sadness, all my gladness,
  Maiden, lost in thee.

I was roused by a heavy drop of rain upon my face. I looked up. A cool
wave of wind flowed against me. Clouds had gathered; and over the peak
of a hill to the left, the sky was very black. Old Constancy threw his
head up, as if he wanted me to take the reins, and let him step out. I
remembered that there used to be an awkward piece of road somewhere not
far in front, where the path, with a bank on the left side, sloped to a
deep descent on the right. If the road was as bad there as it used to
be, it would be better to pass it before it grew quite dark. So I took
the reins, and away went old Constancy. We had just reached the spot,
when a keen flash of lightning broke from the cloud overhead, and my
horse instantly stood stock-still, as if paralysed, with his nostrils
turned up towards the peak of the mountain. I sat as still as he, to
give him time to recover himself. But all at once, his whole frame was
convulsed, as if by an agony of terror. He gave a great plunge, and then
I felt his muscles swelling and knotting under me, as he rose on his
hind legs, and went backwards, with the scaur behind him. I leaned
forward on his neck to bring him down, but he reared higher and higher,
till he stood bolt upright, and it was time to slip off, lest he should
fall upon me. I did so; but my foot alighted upon no support. He had
backed to the edge of the shelving ground, and I fell, and went to the
bottom. The last thing I was aware of, was the thundering fall of my
horse beside me.

When I came to myself, it was dark. I felt stupid and aching all over;
but I soon satisfied myself that no bones were broken. A mass of
something lay near me. It was poor Constancy. I crawled to him, laid my
hand on his neck, and called him by his name. But he made no answer in
that gentle, joyful speech--for it was speech in old Constancy--with
which he always greeted me, if only after an hour's absence. I felt for
his heart. There was just a flutter there. He tried to lift his head,
and gave a little kick with one of his hind legs. In doing so, he struck
a bit of rock, and the clank of the iron made my flesh creep. I got hold
of his leg in the dark, and felt the shoe. _It was loose_. I felt his
heart again. The motion had ceased. I needed all my manhood to keep from
crying like a child; for my charger was my friend. How long I lay beside
him, I do not know; but, at length, I heard the sound of wheels coming
along the road. I tried to shout, and, in some measure, succeeded; for a
voice, which I recognised as that of my farmer-friend, answered
cheerily. He was shocked to discover that his expected guest was in such
evil plight. It was still dark, for the rain was falling heavily; but,
with his directions, I was soon able to take my seat beside him in the
gig. He had been unexpectedly detained, and was now hastening home with
the hope of being yet in time to welcome me.

said Shorty; "now, sit down 'ere w'ile I'm goin' over me shirt, an' arsk
me anything yer a mind to." I began immediately by asking him what he
meant by "going over" his shirt.

"Blimy!

You are new to this game, mate!

You mean to s'y you ain't got any graybacks!"
I confessed shamefacedly that I had not. He stripped to the waist,
turned his shirt wrong side out, and laid it upon his knee.

"'Ave a look," he said proudly.

The less said about my discoveries the better for the fastidiously minded.
Suffice it to say that I made my first acquaintance with members of a
British Expeditionary Force which is not mentioned in official
_communiqués_.

"Trench pets," said Shorty. Then he told me that they were not all graybacks.
There is a great variety of species, but they all belong to the same
parasitical family, and wage a non-discriminating warfare upon the
soldiery on both sides of No-man's-Land.

Germans, British, French, Belgians alike were their victims.

"You'll soon 'ave plenty," he said reassuringly; "I give you about a
week to get covered with 'em. Now, wot you want to do is this:
always 'ave an extra shirt in yer pack.

Don't be a bloomin' ass an' sell it fer a packet o' fags like I did!

An' the next time you writes to England, get some one to send you
out some Keatings"--he displayed a box of grayish-colored powder.

"It won't kill 'em, mind you! They ain't nothin' but fire that'll kill
'em. But Keatings tykes all the ginger out o' 'em. They ain't near so
lively arter you strafe 'em with this 'ere powder."

I remembered Shorty's advice later when I became a reluctant host to a
prolific colony of graybacks. For nearly six months I was never without
a box of Keatings, and I was never without the need for it.

Barbed wire had a new and terrible significance for me from the
first day which we spent in the trenches.

I could more readily understand why there had been so long a deadlock
on the western front.

The entanglements in front of the first line of trenches were from
fifteen to twenty yards wide, the wires being twisted from post to
post in such a hopeless jumble that no man could possibly get through
them under fire.

The posts were set firmly in the ground, but there were movable segments,
every fifty or sixty yards, which could be put to one side in
case an attack was to be launched against the German lines.

At certain positions there were what appeared to be openings through the
wire, but these were nothing less than man-traps which have been found
serviceable in case of an enemy attack. In an assault men follow the
line of least resistance when they reach the barbed wire. These
apparent openings are V-shaped, with the open end toward the enemy.

The attacking troops think they see a clear passageway. They rush into the
trap, and when it is filled with struggling men, machine guns are
turned upon them, and, as Shorty said, "You got 'em cold."
That, at least, was the presumption. Practically, man-traps were not
always a success. The intensive bombardments which precede infantry attacks
play havoc with entanglements, but there is always a chance of the
destruction being incomplete, as upon one occasion farther north,
where, Shorty told me, a man-trap caught a whole platoon of Germans
"dead to rights."

"But this is wot gives you the pip," he said. "'Ere we got three lines
of trenches, all of 'em wired up so that a rat couldn't get through
without scratchin' hisself to death. Fritzie's got better wire than wot
we 'ave, an' more of it. An' 'e's got more machine guns, more
artill'ry, more shells. They ain't any little old man-killer ever
invented wot they 'aven't got more of than we 'ave.

An' at 'ome they're a-s'yin', 'W'y don't they get on with it? W'y don't
they smash through?' Let some of 'em come out 'ere an' 'ave
a try! That's all I got to s'y."
I didn't tell Shorty that I had been, not exactly an armchair critic,
but at least a barrack-room critic in England.

I had wondered why British and French troops had failed to smash through.
A few weeks in the trenches gave me a new viewpoint. I could only
wonder at the magnificent fighting qualities of soldiers who had
held their own so effectively against armies equipped and armed and
munitioned as the Germans were.

After he had finished drugging his trench pets, Shorty and I made a
tour of the trenches. I was much surprised at seeing how clean and
comfortable they can be kept in pleasant summer weather. Men were busily
at work sweeping up the walks, collecting the rubbish, which was
put into sandbags hung on pegs at intervals along the fire trench.

At night the refuse was taken back of the trenches and buried.
Most of this work devolved upon the pioneers whose business it was to
keep the trenches sanitary.

The fire trench was built in much the same way as those which we had made
during our training in England. In pattern it was something like a
tesselated border. For the space of five yards it ran straight,
then it turned at right angles around a traverse of solid earth six feet
square, then straight again for another five yards, then around
another traverse, and so throughout the length of the line. Each five-yard
segment, which is called a "bay," offered firing room for five men.
The traverses, of course, were for the purpose of preventing enfilade
fire.

They also limited the execution which might be done by one shell.
Even so they were not an unmixed blessing, for they were always in the
way when you wanted to get anywhere in a hurry.

"An' you _are_ in a 'urry w'en you sees a Minnie [_Minnenwerfer_]
comin' your w'y.

But you gets trench legs arter a w'ile. It'll be a funny sight to see
blokes walkin' along the street in Lunnon w'en the war's over.

They'll be so used to dodgin' in an' out o' traverses they won't be able
to go in a straight line."
As we walked through the firing-line trenches, I could quite understand
the possibility of one's acquiring trench legs.

Five paces forward, two to the right, two to the left, two to the
left again, then five to the right, and so on to Switzerland.

Shorty was of the opinion that one could enter the trenches on the Channel
coast and walk through to the Alps without once coming out on top of
the ground.

I am not in a position either to affirm or to question this statement.

My own experience was confined to that part of the British front
which lies between Messines in Belgium and Loos in France.

There, certainly, one could walk for miles, through an intricate
maze of continuous underground passages.

But the firing-line trench was neither a traffic route nor a
promenade.

The great bulk of inter-trench business passed through the traveling
trench, about fifteen yards in rear of the fire trench and running
parallel to it.

The two were connected by many passageways, the chief difference between
them being that the fire trench was the business district, while the
traveling trench was primarily residential. Along the latter were built
most of the dugouts, lavatories, and trench kitchens.
The sleeping quarters for the men were not very elaborate. Recesses were
made in the wall of the trench about two feet above the floor. They were
not more than three feet high, so that one had to crawl in head
first when going to bed.

They were partitioned in the middle, and were supposed to offer
accommodation for four men, two on each side.

But, as Shorty said, everything depended on the ration allowance.

Two men who had eaten to repletion could not hope to occupy the
same apartment.

One had a choice of going to bed hungry or of eating heartily and
sleeping outside on the firing-bench.

"'Ere's a funny thing," he said.

"W'y do you suppose they makes the dugouts open at one end?"
I had no explanation to offer.

"Crawl inside an' I'll show you."

I stood my rifle against the side of the trench and crept in.

"Now, yer supposed to be asleep," said Shorty, and with that he gave
me a whack on the soles of my boots with his entrenching tool
handle.

I can still feel the pain of the blow.

"Stand to! Wyke up 'ere! Stand to!" he shouted, and gave me another
resounding wallop.

I backed out in all haste.

"Get the idea?

That's 'ow they wykes you up at stand-to, or w'en your turn comes fer
sentry. Not bad, wot?"
I said that it all depended on whether one was doing the waking or the
sleeping, and that, for my part, when sleeping, I would lie with
my head out.

"You wouldn't if you belonged to our lot. They'd give it to you on the
napper just as quick as 'it you on the feet. You ain't on to the game,
that's all. Let me show you suthin'."
He crept inside and drew his knees up to his chest so that his feet
were well out of reach. At his suggestion I tried to use the active
service alarm clock on him, but there was not room enough in which
to wield it.
My feet were tingling from the effect of his blows, and I felt that the
reputation for resourcefulness of Kitchener's Mob was at stake. In a
moment of inspiration I seized my rifle, gave him a dig in the
shins with the butt, and shouted, "Stand to, Shorty!"

He came out rubbing his leg ruefully.

"You got the idea, mate," he said. "That's just wot they does w'en you
tries to double-cross 'em by pullin' yer feet in. I ain't sure w'ere
I likes it best, on the shins or on the feet."
This explanation of the reason for building three-sided dugouts,
while not, of course, the true one, was none the less interesting.
And certainly, the task of arousing sleeping men for sentry duty was
greatly facilitated with rows of protruding boot soles "simply arskin'
to be 'it," as Shorty put it.

All of the dugouts for privates and N.C.O.s were of equal size and
built on the same model, the reason being that the walls and floors,
which were made of wood, and the roofs, which were of corrugated iron,
were put together in sections at the headquarters of the Royal Engineers,
who superintended all the work of trench construction. The material was
brought up at night ready to be fitted into excavations. Furthermore,
with thousands of men to house within a very limited area, space was a
most important consideration. There was no room for indulging individual
tastes in dugout architecture. The roofs were covered with from three
to four feet of earth, which made them proof against shrapnel or shell
splinters.

In case of a heavy bombardment with high explosives, the men took
shelter in deep and narrow "slip trenches." These were blind alleyways
leading off from the traveling trench, with room for from ten to fifteen
men in each. At this part of the line there were none of the very deep
shell-proof shelters, from fifteen to twenty feet below the surface
of the ground, of which I had read. Most of the men seemed to be glad
of this. They preferred taking their chances in an open trench during
heavy shell fire.

Realists and Romanticists lived side by side in the traveling trench. "My
Little Gray Home in the West" was the modest legend over one apartment.

The "Ritz Carlton" was next door to "The Rats' Retreat," with "Vermin
Villa" next door but one. "The Suicide Club" was the suburban residence
of some members of the bombing squad. I remarked that the bombers seemed
to take rather a pessimistic view of their profession, whereupon Shorty
told me that if there were any men slated for the Order of the Wooden
Cross, the bombers were those unfortunate ones.

In an assault they were first at the enemy's position. They had dangerous
work to do even on the quietest of days. But theirs was a post of
honor, and no one of them but was proud of his membership in the
Suicide Club.

The officers' quarters were on a much more generous and elaborate scale
than those of the men. This I gathered from Shorty's description of
them, for I saw only the exteriors as we passed along the trench. Those
for platoon and company commanders were built along the traveling
trench.

The colonel, major, and adjutant lived in a luxurious palace, about
fifty yards down a communication trench.

Near it was the officers' mess, a café
de luxe with glass panels in the door, a cooking stove, a long
wooden table, chairs,--everything, in fact, but hot and cold running
water.

"You know," said Shorty, "the officers thinks they 'as to rough it,
but they got it soft, I'm tellin' you!

Wooden bunks to sleep in, batmen to bring 'em 'ot water fer shavin'
in the mornin', all the fags they wants,--Blimy, I wonder wot they
calls livin' 'igh?"

I agreed that in so far as living quarters are concerned, they were
roughing it under very pleasant circumstances.

However, they were not always so fortunate, as later experience
proved. Here there had been little serious fighting for months and the
trenches were at their best.

Elsewhere the officers' dugouts were often but little better than those
of the men.

The first-line trenches were connected with two lines of support
or reserve trenches built in precisely the same fashion, and each heavily
wired. The communication trenches which joined them were from seven
to eight feet deep and wide enough to permit the convenient passage of
incoming and outgoing troops, and the transport of the wounded back
to the field dressing stations. From the last reserve line they wound
on backward through the fields until troops might leave them well out
of range of rifle fire. Under Shorty's guidance I saw the field dressing
stations, the dugouts for the reserve ammunition supply and the stores
of bombs and hand grenades, battalion and brigade trench headquarters.

We wandered from one part of the line to another through trenches, all of
which were kept amazingly neat and clean. The walls were stayed with
fine-mesh wire to hold the earth in place. The floors were covered
with board walks carefully laid over the drains, which ran along the
center of the trench and emptied into deep wells, built in recesses
in the walls.

I felt very much encouraged when I saw the careful provisions for sanitation
and drainage. On a fine June morning it seemed probable that living in
ditches was not to be so unpleasant as I had imagined it.
Shorty listened to my comments with a smile.

"Don't pat yerself on the back yet a w'ile, mate," he said. "They looks
right enough now, but wite till you've seen 'em arter a 'eavy rain."

I had this opportunity many times during the summer and autumn. A more
wretched existence than that of soldiering in wet weather could
hardly be imagined. The walls of the trenches caved in in great
masses. The drains filled to overflowing, and the trench walks were
covered deep in mud.

After a few hours of rain, dry and comfortable trenches became a
quagmire, and we were kept busy for days afterward repairing the
damage.

As a machine gunner I was particularly interested in the construction of
the machine-gun emplacements. The covered battle positions were very
solidly built. The roofs were supported with immense logs or steel
girders covered over with many layers of sandbags. There were two carefully
concealed loopholes looking out to a flank, but none for frontal
fire, as this dangerous little weapon best enjoys catching troops in
enfilade owing to the rapidity and the narrow cone of its fire.

Its own front is protected by the guns on its right and left.

At each emplacement there was a range chart giving the ranges to all
parts of the enemy's trenches, and to every prominent object both in
front of and behind them, within its field of fire. When not in use the
gun was kept mounted and ready for action in the battle position.

But I did succeed in
getting one glimpse of her. She was fast asleep. She seemed to have
suffered much, for her face was very thin, and as patient as it was
pale."

"But where was she?"

"I must leave you to find out that, if you can, from my description.
But, alas! it is only the places immediately about the persons that I
can see. Where they are, or how far I have gone to get there, I cannot
tell."

She then gave me a rather minute description of the chamber in which the
lady was lying. Though most of the particulars were unknown to me, the
conviction, or hope at least, gradually dawned upon me, that I knew the
room. Once or twice I had peeped into the sanctuary of Lady Alice's
chamber, when I knew she was not there; and some points in the
description Margaret gave set my heart in a tremor with the bare
suggestion that she might now be at Hilton Hall.

"Tell me, Margaret," I said, almost panting for utterance, "was there a
mirror over the fireplace, with a broad gilt frame, carved into huge
representations of crabs and lobsters, and all crawling sea-creatures
with shells on them--very ugly, and very strange?"

She would have interrupted me before, but I would not be stopped.

"I must tell you, my dear Duncan," she answered, "that in none of these
trances, or whatever you please to call them, did I ever see a mirror.
It has struck me before as a curious thing, that a mirror is then an
absolute blank to me--I see nothing on which I could put a name. It does
not even seem a vacant space to me. A mirror must have nothing in common
with the state I am then in, for I feel a kind of repulsion from it; and
indeed it would be rather an awful thing to look at, for of course I
should see no reflection of myself in it."

(Here I beg once more to remind the reader, that Margaret spoke in
Gaelic, and that my translation into ordinary English does not in the
least represent the extreme simplicity of the forms of her speculations,
any more than of the language which conveyed them.)

"But," she continued, "I have a vague recollection of seeing some broad,
big, gilded thing with figures on it. It might be something else,
though, altogether."

"I will go in hope," I answered, rising at once.

"Not already, Duncan?"

"Why should I stay longer?"

"Stay over to-night."

"What is the use? I cannot."

"For my sake, Duncan!"

"Yes, dear Margaret; for your sake. Yes, surely."

"Thank you," she answered. "I will not keep you longer now. But if I
send Janet to you, come at once. And, Duncan, wear this for my sake."

She put into my hand an ancient gold cross, much worn. To my amazement I
recognised the counterpart of one Lady Alice had always worn. I pressed
it to my heart.

"I am a Catholic; you are a Protestant, Duncan; but never mind: that's
the same sign to both of us. You won't part with it. It has been in our
family for many long years."

"Not while I live," I answered, and went out, half wild with hope, into
the keen mountain air. How deliciously it breathed upon me!

I passed the afternoon in attempting to form some plan of action at
Hilton Hall, whither I intended to proceed as soon as Margaret set me at
liberty. That liberty came sooner than I expected; and yet I did not go
at once. Janet came for me towards sundown. I thought she looked
troubled. I rose at once and followed her, but asked no questions. As I
entered the cottage, the sun was casting the shadow of the edge of the
hollow in which the cottage stood just at my feet; that is, the sun was
more than half set to one who stood at the cottage door. I entered.

Margaret sat, propped with pillows. I saw some change had passed upon
her. She held out her hand to me. I took it. She smiled feebly, closed
her eyes, and went with the sun, down the hill of night. But down the
hill of night is up the hill of morning in other lands, and no doubt
Margaret soon found that she was more at home there than here.

I sat holding the dead hand, as if therein lay some communion still with
the departed. Perhaps she who saw more than others while yet alive,
could see when dead that I held her cold hand in my warm grasp. Had I
not good cause to love her? She had exhausted the last remnants of her
life in that effort to find for me my lost Alice. Whether she had
succeeded I had yet to discover. Perhaps she knew now.

I hastened the funeral a little, that I might follow my quest. I had her
grave dug amidst her own people and mine; for they lay side by side. The
whole neighbourhood for twenty miles round followed Margaret to the
grave. Such was her character and reputation, that the belief in her
supernatural powers had only heightened the notion of her venerableness.

When I had seen the last sod placed on her grave, I turned and went,
with a desolate but hopeful heart. I had a kind of feeling that her
death had sealed the truth of her last vision. I mounted old Constancy
at the churchyard gate, and set out for Hilton Hall.


CHAPTER XXI


_Hilton._

It was a dark, drizzling night when I arrived at the little village of
Hilton, within a mile of the Hall. I knew a respectable second-rate inn
on the side next the Hall, to which the gardener and other servants had
been in the habit of repairing of an evening; and I thought I might
there stumble upon some information, especially as the old-fashioned
place had a large kitchen in which all sorts of guests met. When I
reflected on the utter change which time, weather, and a great scar must
have made upon me, I feared no recognition. But what was my surprise
when, by one of those coincidences which have so often happened to me, I
found in the ostler one of my own troop at Waterloo! His countenance and
salute convinced me that he recognised me. I said to him:

"I know you perfectly, Wood; but you must not know me. I will go with
you to the stable."

He led the way instantly.

"Wood," I said, when we had reached the shelter of the stable, "I don't
want to be known here, for reasons which I will explain to you another
time."

"Very well, sir. You may depend on me, sir."

"I know I may, and I shall. Do you know anybody about the Hall?"

"Yes, sir. The gardener comes here sometimes, sir. I believe he's in the
house now. Shall I ask him to step this way, sir?"

"No. All I want is to learn who is at the Hall now. Will you get him
talking? I shall be by, having something to drink."

"Yes, sir. As soon as I have rubbed down the old horse, sir--bless him!"

"You'll find me there."

I went in, and, with my condition for an excuse, ordered something hot
by the kitchen-fire. Several country people were sitting about it. They
made room for me, and I took my place at a table on one side. I soon
discovered the gardener, although time had done what he could to
disguise him. Wood came in presently, and, loitering about, began to
talk to him.

"What's the last news at the Hall, William?" he said.

"News!" answered the old man, somewhat querulously. "There's never
nothing but news up there, and very new-fangled news, too. What do you
think, now, John? They do talk of turning all them greenhouses into
hothouses; for, to be sure, there's nothing the new missus cares about
but just the finest grapes in the country; and the flowers, purty
creatures, may go to the devil for her. There's a lady for ye!"

"But you'll be glad to have her home, and see what she's like, won't
you? It's rather dull up there now, isn't it?"

"I don't know what you call dull," replied the old man, as if half
offended at the suggestion. "I don't believe a soul missed his lordship
when he died; and there's always Mrs. Blakesley and me, as is the best
friends in the world, besides the three maids and the stableman, who
helps me in the garden, now there's no horses. And then there's Jacob
and--"

"But you don't mean," said Wood, interrupting him, "that there's _none_
o' the family at home now?"

"No. Who should there be? Least ways, only the poor lady. And she hardly
counts now--bless her sweet face!"

"Do you ever see her?" interposed one of the by-sitters.

"Sometimes."

"Is she quite crazy?"

"Al-to-gether; but that quiet _and_ gentle, you would think she was an
angel instead of a mad woman. But not a notion has she in _her_ head, no
more than the babe unborn."

It was a dreadful shock to me. Was this to be the end of all? Were it
not better she had died? For me, life was worthless now. And there were
no wars, with the chance of losing it honestly.

I rose, and went to my own room. As I sat in dull misery by the fire, it
struck me that it might not have been Lady Alice after all that the old
man spoke about. That moment a tap came to my door, and Wood entered.
After a few words, I asked him who was the lady the gardener had said
was crazy.

"Lady Alice," he answered, and added: "A love story, that came to a bad
end up at the Hall years ago. A tutor was in it, they say. But I don't
know the rights of it."

When he left me, I sat in a cold stupor, in which the thoughts--if
thoughts they could be called--came and went of themselves. Overcome by
the appearances of things--as what man the strongest may not sometimes
be?--I felt as if I had lost her utterly, as if there was no Lady Alice
anywhere, and as if, to add to the vacant horror of the world without
her, a shadow of her, a goblin _simulacrum_, soul-less, unreal, yet
awfully like her, went wandering about the place which had once been
glorified by her presence--as to the eyes of seers the phantoms of
events which have happened years before are still visible, clinging to
the room in which they have indeed _taken place_. But, in a little
while, something warm began to throb and flow in my being; and I thought
that if she were dead, I should love her still; that now she was not
worse than dead; it was only that her soul was out of sight. Who could
tell but it might be wandering in worlds of too noble shapes and too
high a speech, to permit of representation in the language of the world
in which her bodily presentation remained, and therefore her speech and
behaviour seemed to men to be mad? Nay, was it not in some sense better
for me that it should be so? To see once the pictured likeness of her of
whom I had no such memorial, would I not give years of my
poverty-stricken life? And here was such a statue of her, as that of his
wife which the widowed king was bending before, when he said:--

  "What fine chisel
  Could ever yet cut breath?"

This statue I might see, "looking like an angel," as the gardener had
said. And, while the bond of visibility remained, must not the soul be,
somehow, nearer to the earth, than if the form lay decaying beneath it?
Was there not some possibility that the love for whose sake the reason
had departed, might be able to recall that reason once more to the
windows of sense,--make it look forth at those eyes, and lie listening
in the recesses of those ears? In her somnambulic sleeps, the present
body was the sign that the soul was within reach: so it might be still.

Mrs. Blakesley was still at the lodge, then: I would call upon her
to-morrow. I went to bed, and dreamed all night that Alice was sitting
somewhere in a land "full of dark mountains," and that I was wandering
about in the darkness, alternately calling and listening; sometimes
fancying I heard a faint reply, which might be her voice or an echo of
my own; but never finding her. I woke in an outburst of despairing
tears, and my despair was not comforted by my waking.


CHAPTER XXII


_The Sleeper._

It was a lovely morning in autumn. I walked to the Hall. I entered at
the same gate by which I had entered first, so many years before. But it
was not Mrs. Blakesley that opened it. I inquired after her, and the
woman told me that she lived at the Hall now, and took care of Lady
Alice. So far, this was hopeful news.

I went up the same avenue, through the same wide grassy places, saw the
same statue from whose base had arisen the lovely form which soon became
a part of my existence. Then everything looked rich, because I had come
from a poor, grand country. In all my wanderings I had seen nothing so
rich; yet now it seemed poverty-stricken. That it was autumn could not
account for this; for I had always found that the sadness of autumn
vivified the poetic sense; and that the colours of decay had a pathetic
glory more beautiful than the glory of the most gorgeous summer with all
its flowers. It was winter within me--that was the reason; and I could
feel no autumn around me, because I saw no spring beyond me. It had
fared with my mind as with the garden in the _Sensitive Plant,_ when the
lady was dead. I was amazed and troubled at the stolidity with which I
walked up to the door, and, having rung the bell, waited. No sweet
memories of the past arose in my mind; not one of the well-known objects
around looked at me as claiming a recognition. Yet, when the door was
opened, my heart beat so violently at the thought that I might see her,
that I could hardly stammer out my inquiry after Mrs. Blakesley.

I was shown to a room. None of the sensations I had had on first
crossing the threshold were revived. I remembered them all; I felt none
of them. Mrs. Blakesley came. She did not recognise me. I told her who I
was. She stared at me for a moment, seemed to see the same face she had
known still glimmering through all the changes that had crowded upon it,
held out both her hands, and burst into tears.

"Mr. Campbell," she said, "you _are_ changed! But not like her. She's
the same to look at; but, oh dear!"

We were both silent for some time. At length she resumed:--

"Come to my room; I have been mistress here for some time now."

I followed her to the room Mrs. Wilson used to occupy. She put wine on
the table. I told her my story. My labours, and my wounds, and my
illness, slightly touched as I trust they were in the course of the
tale, yet moved all her womanly sympathies.

"What can I do for you, Mr. Campbell?" she said.

"Let me see her," I replied.

She hesitated for a moment.

"I dare not, sir. I don't know what it might do to her. It might send
her raving; and she is so quiet."

"Has she ever raved?"

"Not often since the first week or two. Now and then occasionally, for
an hour or so, she would be wild, wanting to get out. But she gave that
over altogether; and she has had her liberty now for a long time. But,
Heaven bless her! at the worst she was always a lady."

"And am I to go away without even seeing her?"

Pour on water to cover the artichokes and stew gently till soft.

Rub them through a sieve, mix the liquor they were boiled in with
them, make the soup hot and add boiling milk until it is as thick
as double cream.

Add pepper and salt to taste. Just before serving, mix with the
soup a quarter of a pint of hot cream.

This addition will be a valuable one, but may be dispensed with.

PUREE DE PETIT POIS.

MISS STEVENSON.

One pint green peas, two yolks of egg, one gill cream, one and one
half pints stock, salt and pepper.

Strain the liquid from the peas, put them with the stock in a saucepan
and simmer twenty minutes; pass them through a sieve, pour back to
the pan, add yolks, cream, pepper and salt, and stir over the fire
until it begins to thicken; do not allow it to boil.

A spray of mint boiled with the peas is a great improvement.

PUREE DE VEAU.

Four ounces pounded veal, one pint stock, one ounce butter, one
ounce flour, yolks of two eggs, few drops of lemon juice, one half
pint whipped cream.

Mix veal and butter together in a saucepan, add flour, then by degrees
the stock (hot) just boil up.

Mix yolks and add little by little the cream, a few drops of cochineal,
salt and pepper, pour over this the contents of the saucepan
very carefully.

TOMATO SOUP.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

One pint of stewed tomatoes, add a pinch of soda, stir till it ceases
foaming, then add one pint boiling water and one pint of milk, strain and
put on the stove and when near boiling, add a tablespoonful of cornstarch,
wet it with a little cold milk, one tablespoon butter, a little pepper
and salt to taste.

TOMATO SOUP.

MISS EDITH HENRY.

Take a tin of tomatoes and add half a pint of water. Let this
boil for half an hour till the tomatoes are well broken. Add a tablespoonful
of cornstarch, dissolved in a little cold water and mix well. Flavor
with salt and pepper to taste, and half a small onion. Then add a quart
of milk.

Let this boil and stir well, so that it will mix, and be careful
that it does not burn on the bottom of the pan.

TURKISH SOUP.

MRS. W. COOK.

One quart of white stock, one half teacupful of rice, yolks of two
eggs, one tablespoon cream, salt and pepper. In preparing this soup boil
first the rice in the stock for twenty minutes. Then pass the whole
through a wire sieve, rubbing through such of the rice as may stick
with a spoon, then stir it thoroughly to beat out such lumps as the
rice may have formed and return all to the saucepan.

The yolk of egg, cream, pepper and salt, must now be well beaten together
and added to the stock and rice, the whole stirred over the fire
for two minutes, care being taken to prevent boiling after the eggs
are put in, or they will curdle.

This soup should be served very hot and is excellent.

TURTLE BEAN SOUP.

MISS FRASER.

One pint of black beans, boil in two quarts of water, one onion,
two carrots, small teaspoon of allspice, five or six cloves, a small
bit of bacon or ham. A good bone of roast beef or mutton, let all
boil till quite tender perhaps two hours. Then turn into a colander, take
out the bone and rub all the rest with a wooden spoon through the
colander, if this is too thick add some stock or water. Some meat balls
can be added.

FISH AND OYSTERS.

"Now good digestion wait on appetite, And health on both."

--MACBETH.

RULE FOR SELECTING FISH.

If the gills are red, the eyes full, and the whole fish firm and
stiff, they are fresh and good; if on the contrary, the gills are
pale, the eyes sunken, the flesh flabby, they are stale.

BAKED CODFISH.

MRS. DAVID BELL.

Choose a good sized fresh codfish, prepare it for cooking without beheading
it, fill the inside with a dressing of bread crumbs, a finely chopped
onion, a little chopped suet, pepper and salt and moisten all with an
egg. Sew up the fish and bake, basting with butter or dripping.

If butter, beware of too much salt.

BAKED CODFISH.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.

Pick very fine one cup of codfish; soak several hours in cold water;
have ready two cups of mashed potatoes and mix well with one egg, a cup
of milk, one half cup of butter, little salt and pepper; put this in a
baking dish and cover the top with bread crumbs; moisten with milk; bake
one-half hour.

CURRIED FISH.

MRS. W. COOK.

One pound cooked white fish, one apple, two ounces of butter, one onion,
one pint of fish stock, one tablespoon curry-powder, one tablespoon
flour, one teaspoon lemon juice or vinegar, salt and pepper, six
ounces of rice. Slice the apple and onion, and brown them in a pan with
a little butter, stir in them the flour and curry powder, add
the stock by degrees; skim when boiling and simmer slowly one half hour,
stir in them the lemon juice, also a very small teaspoon sugar;
strain and return to the saucepan, cut up the fish into neat pieces,
and put them into the saucepan also, when quite hot dish with a border
of rice.

FISH CREAM.

MRS. J. G. SCOTT.

One can of salmon, one quart of milk, one cup of flour, one cup of
butter, three eggs, one cupful of bread crumbs, one half cupful
grated cheese, one onion, one bunch of parsley, two bay leaves.

Take the canned salmon, or boil a fish, and when cool take out the bones
and break the fish in small pieces. Put on to boil one quart of milk,
an onion, a bunch of parsley, and two bay leaves; after boiling
strain through a colander, then add a cup of flour mixed smooth
with cold milk and a cup of butter; beat up three eggs and pour into the
mixture. Put in a baking dish alternate layers of fish and cream until
the dish is full, putting cream top and bottom. Place on top
one cup of bread crumbs and one half cup of grated cheese. Salt to
taste, and cayenne pepper. Bake twenty minutes.

FISH MOULD.

MRS. A. COOK.

Boil a fresh haddock, remove the bones and pick it in pieces, soak
some bread in milk; put the fish, bread, a small piece of butter, one
or two eggs, pepper and salt together in a bowl and beat them well
together.
Put the mixture in a mould and steam, turn out, and garnish with parsley.
Tomato sauce is nice poured round the mould when turned out.

The fish should be about twice the quantity of the bread.

TOMATO SAUCE.

Six tomatoes, two ounces butter, one half ounce flour, one half
pint stock, one teaspoon of salt, one fourth teaspoon of pepper.

Place the tomatoes in a pan and pour over them the stock, add salt and
pepper.
Place the pan over the fire and cook all slowly for half an hour. Place
a wire sieve over a basin and rub the tomatoes and stock through the
sieve.

Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour stir well together, pour
over the tomatoes and stock and stir all over the fire till boiling,
when the sauce is ready for use.

Tinned tomatoes do not take so long to boil.

FISH SCALLOP.

MISS RUTH SCOTT.

Remains of cold fish of any sort, one half pint of cream, one half
tablespoonful anchovy sauce, one half teaspoonful made mustard, one
half teaspoonful walnut ketchup, pepper and salt, bread crumbs.

Put all the ingredients into a stew pan, carefully picking the fish
from the bones; set it on the fire, let it remain till nearly hot,
and stir occasionally.

Then put in a deep dish, with bread and small bits of butter on top; put
in the oven till nearly browned. Serve hot.

FISH PIE.

MRS. ANDREW THOMSON.

Boil one haddock, take the best part of the fish, one pint of milk
and a piece of butter as large as an egg, half a cup of flour, two
yolks of eggs, stir together, and then mix well with the fish.

Put in a pudding dish, and take a half cup of bread crumbs, half a cup
of grated cheese, put in the oven for ten minutes, salt and pepper
to taste.

POTTED HERRINGS.

MRS.

DAVID BELL.

Scale and clean fresh herrings, then taking the fish by the tail
you can easily remove the backbone drawing it towards the head.

The smaller bones will melt in the vinegar; remove the heads and roll
each fish up, tail end inside, and wind a thread round each roll,
lay them in the vessel they are to remain in till used, a stone
earthernware crock is best.

Make scalding hot with spices as much vinegar as will cover them, pour it
over the fish and keep them hot about the stove for about an hour, when
they will be well cooked through; do not let them boil or they will
break. Keep in a cool place. Spices: whole white pepper, whole allspice,
and a blade of mace if it is liked.

LOBSTER CUTLETS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

Mince the lobster fine, and season with pepper and salt, make
good and thick with drawn butter.

Mix with the lobster enough to make it stick together. Shape with the
hands into cutlets, roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot lard.

_The Sauce:_--Make rather a thin custard, season with pepper, salt and
a little nutmeg and chopped parsley, place over the cutlets.

LOBSTER STEW.

MRS. ERNEST F.

WURTELE.

Take a boiled lobster and split it open, cut the meat into small pieces
and put into a saucepan with one pint of milk; when boiling add two
tablespoons of flour dissolved in a little water, and boil ten
minutes.

Season with salt, pepper and a small piece of butter. Just before
serving pour in a wineglassful of sherry. Canned lobster may be used with
very good results.

OYSTER PIE.--FAMOUS.

One cup melted butter is put in a lined saucepan, and three tablespoons
of flour which are rubbed well into the butter, one half teaspoon of
mace, a little pepper and salt. The juice of the oysters is put into
this to make it thin, and little by little one quart of boiling milk
to one quart of oysters. Last the oysters are put in very carefully
and given a very short boil. The whole is pretty thick and is then put
into a pie dish with pie crust over; one cup of cream is put in just
before the oysters are emptied into the pie dish.

OYSTER PIE OR PATTIES.

MISS M. A. RITCHIE.

Crust:--One pound of butter, one pound of flour, one half cup of
water.
Sauce:--One tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, one
cup of cream or milk, one pint of oysters.

ESCALOPED OYSTERS.

MADAME J. T.
Butter the dish; cover the bottom of the dish with bread crumbs,
add a layer of oysters, season with pepper and salt, then bread
crumbs and oysters until you have three layers. Finish with crumbs,
cover the top with small pieces of butter, bake half an hour.
CREAMED OYSTERS ON TOAST.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.
One quart of milk, two tablespoons flour three tablespoons butter,
pepper and salt. Put milk in double boiler, mix butter and flour
thoroughly, adding a little cold milk before stirring into the hot
milk; cook: One pint of oysters, let simmer in their liquor for
about five minutes, then skim out, drop into the cream sauce. Prepare
thin slices of crisp toast, lay on heated platter; pour over creamed
oysters, serve at once. Delicious.

OYSTER CROQUETTES.
MISS STEVENSON.
Twenty-five oysters, one dessertspoonful chopped parsley, three
ounces butter, one and one half ounces flour, one gill milk or
cream, one teaspoon lemon juice, one egg, three tablespoons bread
crumbs, salt and pepper. Boil the oysters in their own liquor five
minutes, cut them in rough pieces, melt the butter in a saucepan,
stir in the flour, add cream by degrees, also oyster liquor, boil
two minutes, add then the parsley, pepper, and salt, put in the
oysters and allow the mixture to cool. Form it then into croquettes
on a slightly floured board. Roll in the beaten egg and bread crumbs
and fry in hot fat two minutes.

MOULDED SALMON.
MISS MARION STOWELL POPE.
One tin of salmon chopped, one cup fine bread crumbs, four eggs
broken in four tablespoons melted butter, one teaspoon chopped
parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Put into a plain buttered mould
and sprinkle with flour, cover and steam one hour.
_Sauce for the above:_--One teaspoon cornstarch, a little butter,
one and one half cups of milk, pepper, salt and nutmeg to taste. A
little tomato ketchup or anchovy sauce added. When it comes to the
boil, add one well beaten egg; pour round the mould and serve
hot.

CREAMED SALMON.

MISS H. BARCLAY.
One can salmon minced fine, draw off the liquor. For the dressing,
boil one pint milk, two tablespoons butter, salt and pepper to
taste. Have ready one pint of bread crumbs, place a layer in the
bottom of the dish, then a layer of fish, then a layer of dressing,
and so on, leaving crumbs for the last layer, and bake till
brown.

MEATS.

MEATS.

MRS. DAVID BELL.
To make beefsteak tender, rub a pinch of baking soda on each side
of the steak about an hour before cooking and roll it up on itself
in the meantime. A very small pinch of brown sugar used in the same
way is good, but the soda is thought preferable.

MEAT BALLS.
MRS. WADDLE.
Mash finely some potatoes, pass through a sieve, stir in the yolks
of two eggs, one ounce of butter, pepper and salt. Mince finely
some beef or tongue. Mix all well together, add a little parsley,
roll into balls, cover with egg and bread crumbs, fry in hot lard.
Let them dry before the fire on paper. Very good.

SPICED BEEF.
Rub well into a round weighing forty pounds, three ounces saltpetre,
let stand six or eight hours, pound three ounces allspice, one pound
black pepper, two pounds salt, and seven ounces brown sugar; rub
the beef well with the salt and spices. Let it remain fourteen days
turning it every day and rub with the pickle, then wash off the
spices and put in a deep pan, cut small six pounds of suet, put
some in the bottom of the pan, the greater part on the top, cover
with coarse paste and bake eight hours; when cold take off the paste
pour off the gravy, it will keep six months.

SPICED BEEF.
MISS J. E. FRASER.
Two pounds of raw steak from the round, free from bone, fat or
sinew, chopped very fine, six soda biscuits rolled fine, one cup
of milk, two eggs beaten in one tablespoon salt, one dessertspoon
of pepper, and add a little spice if you like. Butter an earthenware
jar as large round the top as the bottom and press the mixture in
very lightly. Cover with butter one half inch thick. Cover the jar
with a plate and bake in an oven for two hours. Serve whole or cut
in slices. Nicer cold.

BEEF À LA MODE.

MRS. I. T. SMYTHE.
One half pound of meat, cut up into four inch squares and two or
three inches thick, add onion chopped fine, one teaspoon salt, and
one half teaspoon pepper, cover with boiling water and place in jar
and cook in oven for two hours.

BEEF OLIVES.
MRS. GEORGE M. CRAIG.
Thin slices of steak cut into squares about the size of hand; make
a dressing similar to chicken, bake, then put on the steak and roll,
put in the saucepan with some onion and butter in a little water,
let it simmer for an hour and a half to two hours.
COLD MEAT CUTLETS.

MRS. A. COOK.
Half pound cold meat or chicken, one ounce butter, one ounce of
flour, one gill white stock, one teaspoon chopped parsley, one half
saltspoon grated nutmeg, small teaspoon of salt, saltspoon of pepper,
grated rind of half a small lemon.I secured the door of the room, struck a light, lighted a remnant
of taper which I found on the table, threw myself on the couch, and said
to my Alice--"Come."

And she came. I rose. She laid herself down. I pulled off my coat--it
was all I could find--and laid it over her. The night was chilly. She
revived with the same sweet smile, but, giving a little shiver, said:

"Why have you no fire, Duncan? I must give orders about it. That's some
trick of old Clankshoe."

"Dear Alice, do not breath a word about me to any one. I have quarrelled
with Lord Hilton. He has turned me away, and I have no business to be in
the house."

"Oh!" she replied, with a kind of faint recollecting hesitation. "That
must be why you never come to the haunted chamber now. I go there every
night, as soon as the sun is down."

"Yes, that is it, Alice."

"Ah! that must be what makes the day so strange to me too."

She looked very bewildered for a moment, and then resumed:

"Do you know, Duncan, I feel very strange all day--as if I was walking
about in a dull dream that would never come to an end? But it is very
different at night--is it not, dear?"

She had not yet discovered any distinction between my presence to her
dreams and my presence to her waking sight. I hardly knew what reply to
make; but she went on:

"They won't let me come to you now, I suppose. I shall forget my Euclid
and everything. I feel as if I had forgotten it all already. But you
won't be vexed with your poor Alice, will you? She's only a beggar-girl,
you know."

I could answer only by a caress.

"I had a strange dream the other night. I thought I was sitting on a
stone in the dark. And I heard your voice calling me. And it went all
round about me, and came nearer, and went farther off, but I could not
move to go to you. I tried to answer you, but I could only make a queer
sound, not like my own voice at all."

"I dreamed it too, Alice."

"The same dream?"

"Yes, the very same."

"I am so glad. But I didn't like the dream. Duncan, my head feels so
strange sometimes. And I am so sleepy. Duncan, dearest--am _I_ dreaming
now? Oh! tell me that I am awake and that I hold you; for to-morrow,
when I wake, I shall fancy that I have lost you. They've spoiled my poor
brain, somehow. I am all right, I know, but I cannot get at it. The red
is withered, somehow."

"You are wide awake, my Alice. I know all about it. I will help you to
understand it all, only you must do exactly as I tell you."

"Yes, yes."

"Then go to bed now, and sleep as much as you can; else I will not let
you come to me at night."

"That would be too cruel, when it is all I have."

"Then go, dearest, and sleep."

"I will."

She rose and went. I, too, went, making all close behind me. The moon
was going down. Her light looked to me strange, and almost malignant. I
feared that when she came to the full she would hurt my darling's brain,
and I longed to climb the sky, and cut her in pieces. Was I too going
mad? I needed rest, that was all.

Next morning, I called again upon Mrs. Blakesley, to inquire after Lady
Alice, anxious to know how yesterday had passed.

"Just the same," answered the old lady. "You need not look for any
change. Yesterday I did see her smile once, though."

And was that nothing?

In her case there was a reversal of the usual facts of nature--(_I say
facts_, not _laws_): the dreams of most people are more or less insane;
those of Lady Alice were sound; thus, with her, restoring the balance of
sane life. That smile was the sign of the dream-life beginning to leaven
the waking and false life.

"Have you heard of young Lord Hilton's marriage?" asked Mrs. Blakesley.

"I have only heard some rumours about it," I answered. "Who is the new
countess?"

"The daughter of a rich merchant somewhere. They say she isn't the best
of tempers. They're coming here in about a month. I am just terrified to
think how it may fare with my lamb now. They won't let her go wandering
about wherever she pleases, I doubt. And if they shut her up, she will
die."

I vowed inwardly that she should be free, if I carried her off, madness
and all.


CHAPTER XXV


_New Entrenchments._

But this way of breaking into the house every night did not afford me
the facility I wished. For I wanted to see Lady Alice during the day, or
at least in the evening before she went to sleep; as otherwise I could
not thoroughly judge of her condition. So I got Wood to pack up a small
stock of provisions for me in his haversack, which I took with me; and
when I entered the house that night, I bolted the door of the court
behind me, and made all fast.

I waited till the usual time for her appearance had passed; and, always
apprehensive now, as was very natural, I had begun to grow uneasy, when
I heard her voice, as I had heard it once before, singing. Fearful of
disturbing her, I listened for a moment. Whether the song was her own or
not, I cannot be certain. When I questioned her afterwards, she knew
nothing about it. It was this,--

      Days of old,
  Ye are not dead, though gone from me;
        Ye are not cold,
  But like the summer-birds gone o'er the sea.
  The sun brings back the swallows fast,
        O'er the sea:
  When thou comest at the last,
  The days of old come back to me.

She ceased singing. Still she did not enter. I went into the closet, and
found that the door was bolted. When I opened it, she entered, as usual;
and, when she came to herself, seemed still better than before.

"Duncan," she said, "I don't know how it is, but I believe I must have
forgotten everything I ever knew. I feel as if I had. I don't think I
can even read. Will you teach me my letters?"

She had a book in her hand. I hailed this as another sign that her
waking and sleeping thoughts bordered on each other; for she must have
taken the book during her somnambulic condition. I did as she desired.
She seemed to know nothing till I told her. But the moment I told her
anything, she knew it perfectly. Before she left me that night she was
reading tolerably, with many pauses of laughter that she should ever
have forgotten how. The moment she shared the light of my mind, all was
plain; where that had not shone, all was dark. The fact was, she was
living still in the shadow of that shock which her nervous constitution
had received from our discovery and my ejection.

As she was leaving me, I said,

"Shall you be in the haunted room at sunset tomorrow, Alice?"

"Of course I shall," she answered.

"You will find me there then," I rejoined--"that is, if you think there
is no danger of being seen."

"Not the least," she answered. "No one follows me there; not even Mrs.
Blakesley, good soul! They are all afraid, as usual."

"And you won't be frightened to see me there?"

"Frightened? No. Why? Oh! you think me queer too, do you?"

She looked vexed, but tried to smile.

"I? I would trust you with my life," I said. "That's not much,
though--with my soul, whatever that means, Alice."

"Then don't talk nonsense," she rejoined coaxingly, "about my being
frightened to see you."

When she had gone, I followed into the old hall, taking my sack with me;
for, after having found the door in the closet bolted, I was determined
not to spend one night more in my old quarters, and never to allow Lady
Alice to go there again, if I could prevent her. And I had good hopes
that, if we met in the day, the same consequences would follow as had
followed long ago--namely, that she would sleep at night.

It was just such a night as that on which I had first peeped into the
hall. The moon shone through one of the high windows, scarcely more dim
than before, and showed all the dreariness of the place. I went up the
great old staircase, hoping I trod in the very footsteps of Lady Alice,
and reached the old gallery in which I had found her on that night when
our strangely-knit intimacy began. My object was to choose one of the
deserted rooms in which I might establish myself without chance of
discovery. I had not turned many corners, or gone through many passages,
before I found one exactly to my mind. I will not trouble my reader with
a description of its odd position and shape. All I wanted was
concealment, and that it provided plentifully. I lay down on the floor,
and was soon fast asleep.

Next morning, having breakfasted from the contents of my bag, I
proceeded to make myself thoroughly acquainted with the bearings, etc.,
of this portion of the house. Before evening, I knew it all thoroughly.

But I found it very difficult to wait for the evening. By the windows of
one of the rooms looking westward, I sat watching the down-going of the
sun. When he set, my moon would rise. As he touched the horizon, I went
the old, well-known way to the haunted chamber. What a night had passed
for me since I left Alice in that charmed room! I had a vague feeling,
however, notwithstanding the misfortune that had befallen us there, that
the old phantoms that haunted it were friendly to Alice and me. But I
waited her arrival in fear. Would she come? Would she be as in the
night? Or should I find her but half awake to life, and perhaps asleep
to me?

One moment longer, and a light hand was laid on the door. It opened
gently, and Alice, entering, flitted across the room straight to my
arms. How beautiful she was! her old-fashioned dress bringing her into
harmony with the room and its old consecrated twilight! For this room
looked eastward, and there was only twilight here. She brought me some
water, at my request; and then we read, and laughed over our reading.
Every moment she not only knew something fresh, but knew that she had
known it before. The dust of the years had to be swept away; but it was
only dust, and flew at a breath. The light soon failed us in that dusky
chamber; and we sat and whispered, till only when we kissed could we see
each other's eyes. At length Lady Alice said:

"They are looking for me; I had better go. Shall I come at night?"

"No," I answered. "Sleep, and do not move."

"Very well, I will."

She went, and I returned to my den. There I lay and thought. Had she
ever been insane at all? I doubted it. A kind of mental sleep or stupor
had come upon her--nothing more. True it might be allied to madness; but
is there a strong emotion that man or woman experiences that is not
_allied_ to madness? Still her mind was not clear enough to reflect the
past. But if she never recalled that entirely, not the less were her
love and tenderness--all womanliness--entire in her.

Next evening we met again, and the next, and many evenings. Every time I
was more convinced than before that she was thoroughly sane in every
practical sense, and that she would recall everything as soon as I
reminded her. But this I forbore to do, fearing a reaction.

Meantime, after a marvellous fashion, I was living over again the old
lovely time that had gone by twelve years ago; living it over again,
partly in virtue of the oblivion that had invaded the companion and
source of the blessedness of the time. She had never ceased to live it;
but had renewed it in dreams, unknown as such, from which she awoke to
forgetfulness and quiet, while I awoke from my troubled fancies to tears
and battles.

It was strange, indeed, to live the past over again thus.


CHAPTER XXVI


Escape.

It was time, however, to lay some plan, and make some preparations, for
our departure. The first thing to be secured was a convenient exit from
the house. I searched in all directions, but could discover none better
than that by which I had entered. Leaving the house one evening, as soon
as Lady Alice had retired, I communicated my situation to Wood, who
entered with all his heart into my projects. Most fortunately, through
all her so-called madness, Lady Alice had retained and cherished the
feeling that there was something sacred about the diamond-ring and the
little money which had been intended for our flight before; and she had
kept them carefully concealed, where she could find them in a moment. I
had sent the ring to a friend in London, to sell it for me; and it
produced more than I expected. I had then commissioned Wood to go to the
county town and buy a light gig for me; and in this he had been very
fortunate. My dear old Constancy had the accomplishment, not at all
common to chargers, of going admirably in harness; and I had from the
first enjoined upon Wood to get him into as good condition as possible.
I now fixed a certain hour at which Wood was to be at a certain spot on
one of the roads skirting the park, where I had found a crazy door in
the plank-fence--with Constancy in the dogcart, and plenty of wraps for
Alice.

"And for Heaven's sake, Wood," I concluded, "look to his shoes."

It may seem strange that I should have been able to go and come thus
without detection; but it must be remembered that I had made myself more
familiar with the place than any of its inhabitants, and that there were
only a very few domestics in the establishment. The gardener and
stableman slept in the house, for its protection; but I knew their
windows perfectly, and most of their movements. I could watch them all
day long, if I liked, from some loophole or other of my quarter; where,
indeed, I sometimes found that the only occupation I could think of.

The next evening I said, "Alice, I must leave the house: will you go
with me?"

"Of course I will, Duncan. When?"

"The night after to-morrow, as soon as every one is in bed and the house
quiet. If you have anything you value very much, take it; but the
lighter we go the better."

"I have nothing, Duncan. I will take a little bag--that will do for me."

"But dress as warmly as you can. It will be cold."

"Oh, yes; I won't forget that. Good night."

She took it as quietly as going to church.

I had not seen Mrs. Blakesley since she had told me that the young earl
and countess were expected in about a month; else I might have learned
one fact which it was very important I should have known, namely, that
their arrival had been hastened by eight or ten days. The very morning
of our intended departure, I was looking into the court through a little
round hole I had cleared for observation in the dust of one of the
windows, believing I had observed signs of unusual preparation on the
part of the household, when a carriage drove up, followed by two others,
and Lord and Lady Hilton descended and entered, with an attendance of
some eight or ten.

There was a great bustle in the house all day. Of course I felt uneasy,
for if anything should interfere with our flight, the presence of so
many would increase whatever difficulty might occur. I was also uneasy
about the treatment my Alice might receive from the new-comers. Indeed,
it might be put out of her power to meet me at all. It had been arranged
between us that she should not come to the haunted chamber at the usual
hour, but towards midnight.

I was there waiting for her. The hour arrived; the house seemed quiet;
but she did not come. I began to grow very uneasy. I waited half an hour
more, and then, unable to endure it longer, crept to her door. I tried
to open it, but found it fast. At the same moment I heard a light sob
inside. I put my lips to the keyhole, and called "_Alice_." She answered
in a moment:--

"They have locked me in."

The key was gone. There was no time to be lost. Who could tell what they
might do to-morrow, if already they were taking precautions against her
madness? I would try the key of a neighbouring door, and if that would
not fit, I would burst the door open, and take the chance. As it was,
the key fitted the lock, and the door opened. We locked it again on the
outside, restored the key, and in another moment were in the haunted
chamber. Alice was dressed, ready for flight. To me, it was very
pathetic to see her in the shapes of years gone by. She looked faded and
ancient, notwithstanding that this was the dress in which I had seen her
so often of old. Her stream had been standing still, while mine had
flowed on. She was a portrait of my own young Alice, a picture of her
own former self.

One or two lights glancing about below detained us for a little while.
We were standing near the window, feeling now very anxious to be clear
of the house; Alice was holding me and leaning on me with the essence of
trust; when, all at once, she dropped my arm, covered her face with her
hands, and called out: "The horse with the clanking shoe!" At the same
moment, the heavy door which communicated with this part of the house
flew open with a crash, and footsteps came hurrying along the passage. A
light gleamed into the room, and by it I saw that Lady Alice, who was
standing close to me still, was gazing, with flashing eyes, at the door.
She whispered hurriedly:

"I remember it all now, Duncan. My brain is all right. It is come again.
But they shall not part us this time. You follow me for once."

As she spoke, I saw something glitter in her hand. She had caught up an
old Malay creese that lay in a corner, and was now making for the door,
at which half a dozen domestics were by this time gathered. They, too,
saw the glitter, and made way. I followed close, ready to fell the first
who offered to lay hands on her. But she walked through them unmenaced,
and, once clear, sped like a bird into the recesses of the old house.
One fellow started to follow. I tripped him up. I was collared by
another. The same instant he lay by his companion, and I followed Alice.
She knew the route well enough, and I overtook her in the great hall. We
heard pursuing feet rattling down the echoing stair. To enter my room
and bolt the door behind us was a moment's work; and a few moments more
took us into the alley of the kitchen-garden. With speedy, noiseless
steps, we made our way to the park, and across it to the door in the
fence, where Wood was waiting for us, old Constancy pawing the ground
with impatience for a good run.

He had had enough of it before twelve hours were over.

Was I not well recompensed for my long years of despair? The cold stars
were sparkling overhead; a wind blew keen against us--the wind of our
own flight; Constancy stepped out with a will; and I urged him on, for
he bore my beloved and me into the future life. Close beside me she sat,
wrapped warm from the cold, rejoicing in her deliverance, and now and
then looking up with tear-bright eyes into my face. Once and again I
felt her sob, but I knew it was a sob of joy, and not of grief. "'Ow's
that one, Fritzie boy?"
"Gooten morgen, you Proosian sausage-wallopers!"
"Tyke a bit o' that there 'ome to yer missus!"
But Fritzie could be depended upon to keep up his end of the game.

He gave us just as good as we sent, and often he added something for full
measure. His surprises were sausage-shaped missiles which came wobbling
toward us, slowly, almost awkwardly; but they dropped with lightning
speed, and alas, for any poor Tommy who misjudged the place of its
fall!

However, every one had a chance.

Trench-mortar projectiles are so large that one can see them coming,
and they describe so leisurely an arc before they fall that men
have time to run.

I have always admired Tommy Atkins for his sense of fair play. He enjoyed
giving Fritz "a little bit of all-right," but he never resented it
when Fritz had his own fun at our expense. In the far-off days of
peace, I used to lament the fact that we had fallen upon evil times. I
read of old wars with a feeling of regret that men had lost their
old primal love for dangerous sport, their naïve ignorance of fear.

All the brave, heroic things of life were said and done. But on those
trench-mortaring days, when I watched boys playing with death with
right good zest, heard them shouting and laughing as they tumbled over
one another in their eagerness to escape it, I was convinced of my error.
Daily I saw men going through the test of fire triumphantly, and,
at the last, what a severe test it was!

And how splendidly they met it! During six months continuously in the
firing-line, I met less than a dozen natural-born cowards; and my
experience was largely with plumbers, drapers' assistants, clerks, men
who had no fighting traditions to back them up, make them heroic in spite
of themselves.

The better I knew Tommy, the better I liked him.

He hasn't a shred of sentimentality in his make-up. There is plenty of
sentiment, sincere feeling, but it is admirably concealed.
We felt that love was the gate to an unseen world infinitely
beyond that region of the psychological in which we had hitherto moved;
for this love was teaching us to love all men, and live for all men. In
fact, we are now, I am glad to say, very much like other people; and
wonder, sometimes, how much of the story of our lives might be accounted
for on the supposition that unusual coincidences had fallen in with
psychological peculiarities. Dr. Ruthwell, who is sometimes our most
welcome guest, has occasionally hinted at the sabre-cut as the key to
all the mysteries of the story, seeing nothing of it was at least
recorded before I came under his charge. But I have only to remind him
of one or two circumstances, to elicit from his honesty and immediate
confession of bewilderment, followed by silence; although he evidently
still clings to the notion that in that sabre-cut lies the solution of
much of the marvel. At all events, he considers me sane enough now, else
he would hardly honour me with so much of his confidence as he does.
Having examined into Lady Alice's affairs, I claimed the fortune which
she had inherited. Lord Hilton, my former pupil, at once acknowledged
the justice of the claim, and was considerably astonished to find how
much more might have been demanded of him, which had been spent over the
allowance made from her income for her maintenance. But we had enough
without claiming that.

My wife purchased for me the possession of my forefathers, and there we
live in peace and hope. To her I owe the delight which I feel every day
of my life in looking upon the haunts of my childhood as still mine.
They help me to keep young. And so does my Alice's hair; for although
much grey now mingles with mine, hers is as dark as ever. For her heart,
I know that cannot grow old; and while the heart is young, man may laugh
old Time in the face, and dare him to do his worst.


THE CRUEL PAINTER


Among the young men assembled at the University of Prague, in the year
159--, was one called Karl von Wolkenlicht. A somewhat careless student,
he yet held a fair position in the estimation of both professors and
men, because he could hardly look at a proposition without understanding
it. Where such proposition, however, had to do with anything relating to
the deeper insights of the nature, he was quite content that, for him,
it should remain a proposition; which, however, he laid up in one of his
mental cabinets, and was ready to reproduce at a moment's notice. This
mental agility was more than matched by the corresponding corporeal
excellence, and both aided in producing results in which his remarkable
strength was equally apparent. In all games depending upon the
combination of muscle and skill, he had scarce rivalry enough to keep
him in practice. His strength, however, was embodied in such a softness
of muscular outline, such a rare Greek-like style of beauty, and
associated with such a gentleness of manner and behaviour, that, partly
from the truth of the resemblance, partly from the absurdity of the
contrast, he was known throughout the university by the diminutive of
the feminine form of his name, and was always called Lottchen.

"I say, Lottchen," said one of his fellow-students, called Richter,
across the table in a wine-cellar they were in the habit of frequenting,
"do you know, Heinrich Höllenrachen here says that he saw this morning,
with mortal eyes, whom do you think?--Lilith."

"Adam's first wife?" asked Lottchen, with an attempt at carelessness,
while his face flushed like a maiden's.

"None of your chaff!" said Richter. "Your face is honester than your
tongue, and confesses what you cannot deny, that you would give your
chance of salvation--a small one to be sure, but all you've got--for one
peep at Lilith. Wouldn't you now, Lottchen?"

"Go to the devil!" was all Lottchen's answer to his tormentor; but he
turned to Heinrich, to whom the students had given the surname above
mentioned, because of the enormous width of his jaws, and said with
eagerness and envy, disguising them as well as he could, under the
appearance of curiosity--

"You don't mean it, Heinrich? You've been taking the beggar in! Confess
now."

"Not I. I saw her with my two eyes."

"Notwithstanding the different planes of their orbits," suggested
Richter.

"Yes, notwithstanding the fact that I can get a parallax to any of the
fixed stars in a moment, with only the breadth of my nose for the base,"
answered Heinrich, responding at once to the fun, and careless of the
personal defect insinuated. "She was near enough for even me to see her
perfectly."

"When? Where? How?" asked Lottchen.

"Two hours ago. In the churchyard of St. Stephen's. By a lucky chance.
Any more little questions, my child?" answered Höllenrachen.

"What could have taken her there, who is seen nowhere?" said Richter.

"She was seated on a grave. After she left, I went to the place; but it
was a new-made grave. There was no stone up. I asked the sexton about
her. He said he supposed she was the daughter of the woman buried there
last Thursday week. I knew it was Lilith."

"Her mother dead!" said Lottchen, musingly. Then he thought with
himself--"She will be going there again, then!" But he took care that
this ghost-thought should wander unembodied. "But how did you know her,
Heinrich? You never saw her before."

"How do you come to be over head and ears in love with her, Lottchen,
and you haven't seen her at all?" interposed Richter.

"Will you or will you not go to the devil?" rejoined Lottchen, with a
comic crescendo; to which the other replied with a laugh.

Cicero, who often heard him, and was not a favorable judge, said
that there was a pregnancy in his sentences and a dignity in his
manner which no orator in Rome could approach.

But he never spoke to court popularity; his aim from first to last
was better government, the prevention of bribery and extortion, and
the distribution among deserving citizens of some portion of the
public land which the rich were stealing.

The Julian laws, which excited the indignation of the aristocracy,
had no other objects than these; and had they been observed they
would have saved the Constitution.

The obstinacy of faction and the civil war which grew out of it obliged
him to extend his horizon, to contemplate more radical reforms--a large
extension of the privileges of citizenship, with the introduction of
the provincial nobility into the Senate, and the transfer of the
administration from the Senate and annually elected magistrates
to the permanent chief of the army.

But his objects throughout were purely practical. The purpose of
government he conceived to be the execution of justice; and a
constitutional liberty under which justice was made impossible did not
appear to him to be liberty at all.

The practicality which showed itself in his general aims appeared also in
his mode of working. Caesar, it was observed, when anything was to be
done, selected the man who was best able to do it, not caring
particularly who or what he might be in other respects. To this faculty
of discerning and choosing fit persons to execute his orders may be
ascribed the extraordinary success of his own provincial administration,
the enthusiasm which was felt for him in the North of Italy, and the
perfect quiet of Gaul after the completion of the conquest. Caesar did
not crush the Gauls under the weight of Italy.

He took the best of them into the Roman service, promoted them, led
them to associate the interests of the Empire with their personal
advancement and the prosperity of their own people. No act of Caesar's
showed more sagacity then the introduction of Gallic nobles into the
Senate; none was more bitter to the Scipios and Metelli, who were compelled
to share their august privileges with these despised barbarians.

It was by accident that Caesar took up the profession of a soldier;
yet perhaps no commander who ever lived showed greater military genius.
The conquest of Gaul was effected by a force numerically insignificant,
which was worked with the precision of a machine.

The variety of uses to which it was capable of being turned implied, in
the first place, extraordinary forethought in the selection of
materials.

Men whose nominal duty was merely to fight were engineers, architects,
mechanics of the highest order.

In a few hours they could extemporize an impregnable fortress on
an open hillside.

They bridged the Rhine in a week.

They built a fleet in a month.

The legions at Alesia held twice their number pinned within their
works, while they kept at bay the whole force of insurgent Gaul,
entirely by scientific superiority. The machine, which was thus perfect,
was composed of human beings who required supplies of tools, and arms,
and clothes, and food, and shelter, and for all these it depended
on the forethought of its commander.

How then could she be the most celebrated beauty of Prague? How then was
it that Heinrich Höllenrachen knew her the moment he saw her? Above all,
how was it that Karl Wolkenlicht had, in fact, fallen in love with her
before ever he saw her? It was thus--

Her father was a painter. Belonging thus to the public, it had taken the
liberty of re-naming him. Every one called him Teufelsbürst, or
Devilsbrush. It was a name with which, to judge from the nature of his
representations, he could hardly fail to be pleased. For, not as a
nightmare dream, which may alternate with the loveliest visions, but as
his ordinary everyday work, he delighted to represent human suffering.

Not an aspect of human woe or torture, as expressed in countenance or
limb, came before his willing imagination, but he bore it straightway to
his easel. In the moments that precede sleep, when the black space
before the eyes of the poet teems with lovely faces, or dawns into a
spirit-landscape, face after face of suffering, in all varieties of
expression, would crowd, as if compelled by the accompanying fiends, to
present themselves, in awful levee, before the inner eye of the
expectant master. Then he would rise, light his lamp, and, with rapid
hand, make notes of his visions; recording, with swift successive sweeps
of his pencil, every individual face which had rejoiced his evil fancy.
Then he would return to his couch, and, well satisfied, fall asleep to
dream yet further embodiments of human ill.

What wrong could man or mankind have done him, to be thus fearfully
pursued by the vengeance of the artist's hate?

Another characteristic of the faces and form which he drew was, that
they were all beautiful in the original idea. The lines of each face,
however distorted by pain, would have been, in rest, absolutely
beautiful; and the whole of the execution bore witness to the fact that
upon this original beauty the painter had directed the artillery of
anguish to bring down the sky-soaring heights of its divinity to the
level of a hated existence. To do this, he worked in perfect accordance
with artistic law, falsifying no line of the original forms. It was the
suffering, rather than his pencil, that wrought the change. The latter
was the willing instrument to record what the imagination conceived with
a cruelty composed enough to be correct.

To enhance the beauty he had thus distorted, and so to enhance yet
further the suffering that produced the distortion, he would often
represent attendant demons, whom he made as ugly as his imagination
could compass; avoiding, however, all grotesqueness beyond what was
sufficient to indicate that they were demons, and not men. Their
ugliness rose from hate, envy, and all evil passions; amongst which he
especially delighted to represent a gloating exultation over human
distress. And often in the midst of his clouds of demon faces, would
some one who knew him recognise the painter's own likeness, such as the
mirror might have presented it to him when he was busiest over the
incarnation of some exquisite torture.

But apparently with the wish to avoid being supposed to choose such
representations for their own sakes, he always found a story, often in
the histories of the church, whose name he gave to the painting, and
which he pretended to have inspired the pictorial conception. No one,
however, who looked upon his suffering martyrs, could suppose for a
moment that he honoured their martyrdom. They were but the vehicles for
his hate of humanity. He was the torturer, and not Diocletian or Nero.

But, stranger yet to tell, there was no picture, whatever its subject,
into which he did not introduce one form of placid and harmonious
loveliness. In this, however, his fierceness was only more fully
displayed. For in no case did this form manifest any relation either to
the actors or the endurers in the picture. Hence its very loveliness
became almost hateful to those who beheld it. Not a shade crossed the
still sky of that brow, not a ripple disturbed the still sea of that
cheek. She did not hate, she did not love the sufferers: the painter
would not have her hate, for that would be to the injury of her
loveliness: would not have her love, for he hated. Sometimes she floated
above, as a still, unobservant angel, her gaze turned upward, dreaming
along, careless as a white summer cloud, across the blue. If she looked
down on the scene below, it was only that the beholder might see that
she saw and did not care--that not a feather of her outspread pinions
would quiver at the sight. Sometimes she would stand in the crowd, as if
she had been copied there from another picture, and had nothing to do
with this one, nor any right to be in it at all. Or when the red blood
was trickling drop by drop from the crushed limb, she might be seen
standing nearest, smiling over a primrose or the bloom on a peach. Some
had said that she was the painter's wife; that she had been false to
him; that he had killed her; and, finding that that was no sufficing
revenge, thus half in love, and half in deepest hate, immortalised his
vengeance. But it was now universally understood that it was his
daughter, of whose loveliness extravagant reports went abroad; though
all said, doubtless reading this from her father's pictures, that she
was a beauty without a heart. Strange theories of something else
supplying its place were rife among the anatomical students. With the
girl in the pictures, the wild imagination of Lottchen, probably in part
from her apparently absolute unattainableness and her undisputed
heartlessness, had fallen in love, as far as the mere imagination can
fall in love.

But again, how was he to see her? He haunted the house night after
night. Those blue eyes never met his. No step responsive to his came
from that door. It seemed to have been so long unopened that it had
grown as fixed and hard as the stones that held its bolts in their
passive clasp. He dared not watch in the daytime, and with all his
watching at night, he never saw father or daughter or domestic cross the
threshold. Little he thought that, from a shot-window near the door, a
pair of blue eyes, like Lilith's, but paler and colder, were watching
him just as a spider watches the fly that is likely ere long to fall
into his toils. And into those toils Karl soon fell. For her form
darkened the page; her form stood on the threshold of sleep; and when,
overcome with watching, he did enter its precincts, her form entered
with him, and walked by his side. He must find her; or the world might
go to the bottomless pit for him. But how?

Yes. He would be a painter. Teufelsbürst would receive him as a humble
apprentice. He would grind his colours, and Teufelsbürst would teach him
the mysteries of the science which is the handmaiden of art. Then he
might see her, and that was all his ambition.

In the clear morning light of a day in autumn, when the leaves were
beginning to fall seared from the hand of that Death which has his dance
in the chapels of nature as well as in the cathedral aisles of men--he
walked up and knocked at the dingy door. The spider painter opened it
himself. He was a little man, meagre and pallid, with those faded blue
eyes, a low nose in three distinct divisions, and thin, curveless, cruel
lips. He wore no hair on his face; but long grey locks, long as a
woman's, were scattered over his shoulders, and hung down on his breast.
When Wolkenlicht had explained his errand, he smiled a smile in which
hypocrisy could not hide the cunning, and, after many difficulties,
consented to receive him as a pupil, on condition that he would become
an inmate of his house. Wolkenlicht's heart bounded with delight, which
he tried to hide: the second smile of Teufelsbürst might have shown him
that he had ill succeeded. The fact that he was not a native of Prague,
but coming from a distant part of the country, was entirely his own
master in the city, rendered this condition perfectly easy to fulfil;
and that very afternoon he entered the studio of Teufelsbürst as his
scholar and servant.

It was a great room, filled with the appliances and results of art. Many
pictures, festooned with cobwebs, were hung carelessly on the dirty
walls. Others, half finished, leaned against them, on the floor.
Several, in different stages of progress, stood upon easels. But all
spoke the cruel bent of the artist's genius. In one corner a lay figure
was extended on a couch, covered with a pall of black velvet. Through
its folds, the form beneath was easily discernible; and one hand and
forearm protruded from beneath it, at right angles to the rest of the
frame. Lottchen could not help shuddering when he saw it. Although he
overcame the feeling in a moment, he felt a great repugnance to seating
himself with his back towards it, as the arrangement of an easel, at
which Teufelsbürst wished him to draw, rendered necessary. He contrived
to edge himself round, so that when he lifted his eyes he should see the
figure, and be sure that it could not rise without his being aware of
it. But his master saw and understood his altered position; and under
some pretence about the light, compelled him to resume the position in
which he had placed him at first; after which he sat watching, over the
top of his picture, the expression of his countenance as he tried to
draw; reading in it the horrid fancy that the figure under the pall had
risen, and was stealthily approaching to look over his shoulder. But
Lottchen resisted the feeling, and, being already no contemptible
draughtsman, was soon interested enough to forget it. And then, any
moment _she_ might enter.

Now began a system of slow torture, for the chance of which the painter
had been long on the watch--especially since he had first seen Karl
lingering about the house. His opportunities of seeing physical
suffering were nearly enough even for the diseased necessities of his
art; but now he had one in his power, on whom, his own will fettering
him, he could try any experiments he pleased for the production of a
kind of suffering, in the observation of which he did not consider that
he had yet sufficient experience. He would hold the very heart of the
youth in his hand, and wring it and torture it to his own content. And
lest Karl should be strong enough to prevent those expressions of pain
for which he lay on the watch, he would make use of further means, known
to himself, and known to few besides.

All that day Karl saw nothing of Lilith; but he heard her voice
once--and that was enough for one day. The next, she was sitting to her
father the greater part of the day, and he could see her as often as he
dared glance up from his drawing. She had looked at him when she
entered, but had shown no sign of recognition; and all day long she took
no further notice of him. He hoped, at first, that this came of the
intelligence of love; but he soon began to doubt it. For he saw that,
with the holy shadow of sorrow, all that distinguished the expression of
her countenance from that which the painter so constantly reproduced,
had vanished likewise. It was the very face of the unheeding angel whom,
as often as he lifted his eyes higher than hers, he saw on the wall
above her, playing on a psaltery in the smoke of the torment ascending
for ever from burning Babylon.--The power of the painter had not merely
wrought for the representation of the woman of his imagination; it had
had scope as well in realising her.

Karl soon began to see that communication, other than of the eyes, was
all but hopeless; and to any attempt in that way she seemed altogether
indisposed to respond. Nor if she had wished it, would it have been
safe; for as often as he glanced towards her, instead of hers, he met
the blue eyes of the painter gleaming upon him like winter lightning.
His tones, his gestures, his words, seemed kind: his glance and his
smile refused to be disguised.

The first day he dined alone in the studio, waited upon by an old woman;
the next he was admitted to the family table, with Teufelsbürst and
Lilith. The room offered a strange contrast to the study. As far as
handicraft, directed by a sumptuous taste, could construct a
house-paradise, this was one. But it seemed rather a paradise of demons;
for the walls were covered with Teufelsbürst's paintings. During the
dinner, Lilith's gaze scarcely met that of Wolkenlicht; and once or
twice, when their eyes did meet, her glance was so perfectly
unconcerned, that Karl wished he might look at her for ever without the
fear of her looking at him again. She seemed like one whose love had
rushed out glowing with seraphic fire, to be frozen to death in a more
than wintry cold: she now walked lonely without her love. In the
evenings, he was expected to continue his drawing by lamplight; and at
night he was conducted by Teufelsbürst to his chamber. Not once did he
allow him to proceed thither alone, and not once did he leave him there
without locking and bolting the door on the outside. But he felt nothing
except the coldness of Lilith.

Day after day she sat to her father, in every variety of costume that
could best show the variety of her beauty. How much greater that beauty
might be, if it ever blossomed into a beauty of soul, Wolkenlicht never
imagined; for he soon loved her enough to attribute to her all the
possibilities of her face as actual possessions of her being. To account
for everything that seemed to contradict this perfection, his brain was
prolific in inventions; till he was compelled at last to see that she
was in the condition of a rose-bud, which, on the point of blossoming,
had been chilled into a changeless bud by the cold of an untimely frost.
For one day, after the father and daughter had become a little more
accustomed to his silent presence, a conversation began between them,
which went on until he saw that Teufelsbürst believed in nothing except
his art. How much of his feeling for that could be dignified by the name
of belief, seeing its objects were such as they were, might have been
questioned. It seemed to Wolkenlicht to amount only to this: that,
amidst a thousand distastes, it was a pleasant thing to reproduce on the
canvas the forms he beheld around him, modifying them to express the
prevailing feelings of his own mind.

A more desolate communication between souls than that which then passed
between father and daughter could hardly be imagined. The father spoke
of humanity and all its experiences in a tone of the bitterest scorn. He
despised men, and himself amongst them; and rejoiced to think that the
generations rose and vanished, brood after brood, as the crops of corn
grew and disappeared. Lilith, who listened to it all unmoved, taking
only an intellectual interest in the question, remarked that even the
corn had more life than that; for, after its death, it rose again in the
new crop. Whether she meant that the corn was therefore superior to man,
forgetting that the superior can produce being without losing its own,
or only advanced an objection to her father's argument, Wolkenlicht
could not tell. But Teufelsbürst laughed like the sound of a saw, and
said: "Follow out the analogy, my Lilith, and you will see that man is
like the corn that springs again after it is buried; but unfortunately
the only result we know of is a vampire."

Wolkenlicht looked up, and saw a shudder pass through the frame, and
over the pale thin face of the painter. This he could not account for.
But Teufelsbürst could have explained it, for there were strange
whispers abroad, and they had reached his ear; and his philosophy was
not quite enough for them. But the laugh with which Lilith met this
frightful attempt at wit, grated dreadfully on Wolkenlicht's feeling.
With her, too, however, a reaction seemed to follow. For, turning round
a moment after, and looking at the picture on which her father was
working, the tears rose in her eyes, and she said: "Oh! father, how like
my mother you have made me this time!" "Child!" retorted the painter
with a cold fierceness, "you have no mother. That which is gone out is
gone out. Put no name in my hearing on that which is not. Where no
substance is, how can there be a name?"

Lilith rose and left the room. Wolkenlicht now understood that Lilith
was a frozen bud, and could not blossom into a rose. But pure love lives
by faith. It loves the vaguely beheld and unrealised ideal. It dares
believe that the loved is not all that she ever seemed. It is in virtue
of this that love loves on. And it was in virtue of this, that
Wolkenlicht loved Lilith yet more after he discovered what a grave of
misery her unbelief was digging for her within her own soul. For her
sake he would bear anything--bear even with calmness the torments of his
own love; he would stay on, hoping and hoping.--The text, that we know
not what a day may bring forth, is just as true of good things as of
evil things; and out of Time's womb the facts must come.

But with the birth of this resolution to endure, his suffering abated;
his face grew more calm; his love, no less earnest, was less imperious;
and he did not look up so often from his work when Lilith was present.
The master could see that his pupil was more at ease, and that he was
making rapid progress in his art. This did not suit his designs, and he
would betake himself to his further schemes.

For this purpose he proceeded first to simulate a friendship for
Wolkenlicht, the manifestations of which he gradually increased, until,
after a day or two, he asked him to drink wine with him in the evening.
Karl readily agreed. The painter produced some of his best; but took
care not to allow Lilith to taste it; for he had cunningly prepared and
mingled with it a decoction of certain herbs and other ingredients,
exercising specific actions upon the brain, and tending to the
inordinate excitement of those portions of it which are principally
under the rule of the imagination. By the reaction of the brain during
the operation of these stimulants, the imagination is filled with
suggestions and images. The nature of these is determined by the
prevailing mood of the time. They are such as the imagination would
produce of itself, but increased in number and intensity. Teufelsbürst,
without philosophising about it, called his preparation simply a
love-philtre, a concoction well known by name, but the composition of
which was the secret of only a few. Wolkenlicht had, of course, not the
least suspicion of the treatment to which he was subjected.

Teufelsbürst was, however, doomed to fresh disappointment. Not that his
potion failed in the anticipated effect, for now Karl's real sufferings
began; but that such was the strength of Karl's will, and his fear of
doing anything that might give a pretext for banishing him from the
presence of Lilith, that he was able to conceal his feelings far too
successfully for the satisfaction of Teufelsbürst's art. Yet he had to
fetter himself with all the restraints that self-exhortation could load
him with, to refrain from falling at the feet of Lilith and kissing the
hem of her garment. For that, as the lowliest part of all that
surrounded her, itself kissing the earth, seemed to come nearest within
the reach of his ambition, and therefore to draw him the most.

No doubt the painter had experience and penetration enough to perceive
that he was suffering intensely; but he wanted to see the suffering
embodied in outward signs, bringing it within the region over which his
pencil held sway. He kept on, therefore, trying one thing after another,
and rousing the poor youth to agony; till to his other sufferings were
added, at length, those of failing health; a fact which notified itself
evidently enough even for Teufelsbürst, though its signs were not of the
sort he chiefly desired. But Karl endured all bravely.

Meantime, for various reasons, he scarcely ever left the house.

I must now interrupt the course of my story to introduce another
element.

A few years before the period of my tale, a certain shoemaker of the
city had died under circumstances more than suggestive of suicide. He
was buried, however, with such precautions, that six weeks elapsed
before the rumour of the facts broke out; upon which rumour, not before,
the most fearful reports began to be circulated, supported by what
seemed to the people of Prague incontestable evidence.--A _spectrum_ of
the deceased appeared to multitudes of persons, playing horrible pranks,
and occasioning indescribable consternation throughout the whole town.
This went on till at last, about eight months after his burial, the
magistrates caused his body to be dug up; when it was found in just the
condition of the bodies of those who in the eastern countries of Europe
are called _vampires_. They buried the corpse under the gallows; but
neither the digging up nor the reburying were of avail to banish the
spectre. Again the spade and pick-axe were set to work, and the dead man
being found considerably improved in _condition_ since his last
interment, was, with various horrible indignities, burnt to ashes,
"after which the _spectrum_ was never seen more."

And a second epidemic of the same nature had broken out a little before
the period to which I have brought my story.

About midnight, after a calm frosty day, for it was now winter, a
terrible storm of wind and snow came on. The tempest howled frightfully
about the house of the painter, and Wolkenlicht found some solace in
listening to the uproar, for his troubled thoughts would not allow him
to sleep. It raged on all the next three days, till about noon on the
fourth day, when it suddenly fell, and all was calm. The following
night, Wolkenlicht, lying awake, heard unaccountable noises in the next
house, as of things thrown about, of kicking and fighting horses, and of
opening and shutting gates. Flinging wide his lattice and looking out,
the noise of howling dogs came to him from every quarter of the town.
The moon was bright and the air was still. In a little while he heard
the sounds of a horse going at full gallop round the house, so that it
shook as if it would fall; and flashes of light shone into his room. How
much of this may have been owing to the effect of the drugs on poor
Lottchen's brain, I leave my readers to determine. But when the family
met at breakfast in the morning, Teufelsbürst, who had been already out
of doors, reported that he had found the marks of strange feet in the
snow, all about the house and through the garden at the back; stating,
as his belief, that the tracks must be continued over the roofs, for
there was no passage otherwise. There was a wicked gleam in his eye as
he spoke; and Lilith believed that he was only trying an experiment on
Karl's nerves. He persisted that he had never seen any footprints of the
sort before. Karl informed him of his experiences during the night; upon
which Teufelsbürst looked a little graver still, and proceeded to tell
them that the storm, whose snow was still covering the ground, had
arisen the very moment that their next door neighbour died, and had
ceased as suddenly the moment he was buried, though it had raved
furiously all the time of the funeral, so that "it made men's bodies
quake and their teeth chatter in their heads." Karl had heard that the
man, whose name was John Kuntz, was dead and buried. He knew that he had
been a very wealthy, and therefore most respectable, alderman of the
town; that he had been very fond of horses; and that he had died in
consequence of a kick received from one of his own, as he was looking at
his hoof. But he had not heard that, just before he died, a black cat
"opened the casement with her nails, ran to his bed, and violently
scratched his face and the bolster, as if she endeavoured by force to
remove him out of the place where he lay. But the cat afterwards was
suddenly gone, and she was no sooner gone, but he breathed his last."

So said Teufelsbürst, as the reporter of the town talk. Lilith looked
very pale and terrified; and it was perhaps owing to this that the
painter brought no more tales home with him. There were plenty to bring,
but he heard them all and said nothing. The fact was that the
philosopher himself could not resist the infection of the fear that was
literally raging in the city; and perhaps the reports that he himself
had sold himself to the devil had sufficient response from his own evil
conscience to add to the influence of the epidemic upon him. The whole
place was infested with the presence of the dead Kuntz, till scarce a
man or woman would dare to be alone. He _openly_ asks for ships and
sails in them, and thus is expected to land on the coast. But after
a purposely devious course, which has puzzled inquirers into the
locality of Ekkjals-bakki, he came overland by Oykel and Lairg and
Strathnaver or Strathskinsdale, whence he was not looked for.

Thorbiorn Klerk next has his revenges.

First he burnt Earl Waltheof (who had slain his father) in Moray,
and next he killed two of Sweyn's men who had assisted in the
burning of Thorbiorn's relative, Frakok, or Frakark, in Kildonan. Jarl
Ragnvald with difficulty reconciles Thorbiorn and Sweyn, and they start
for a joint raid. Soon, however, they squabble over the spoils, and
Thorbiorn puts his wife Ingirid, Sweyn's sister, away, a deed that
reopened their feud.[21]
For a series of robberies in Caithness, Sweyn is besieged by Jarl
Ragnvald in Lambaborg, now known as Freswick Castle, but escapes by
swimming in his armour under the cliffs and landing in Caithness, whence
he passed southwards through Sutherland to Scotland and Edinburgh,
where King David I received him with honour, and reconciled him with
Jarl Ragnvald.[22]
In 1148, Ragnvald decided to visit King Ingi in Norway, taking Harold
Maddadson, then a boy of fifteen, with him.[23] There he meets Eindridi,
who had been long in Micklegarth, as Constantinople was then called by
the Norse, probably in the Emperor's service as one of the Varangian
Guard; and ships are built for a voyage to the East. But both he
and Harold are wrecked in "The Help" and "The Arrow," at Gulberwick,
south of Lerwick, on the Shetland coast, all on board, however, being
saved, and Ragnvald, as usual, making verses and fun of it all, and
of many other things.

At last in 1150 Ragnvald's and Eindridi's ships are "boun"[24] for their
eastern cruise, Eindridi, however, being wrecked off Shetland.
But he gets another ship, and, in 1151, they set sail for the East,
William, the bishop of Orkney, commanding one vessel. Passing down the
east coast of England and through the Channel to France, they
reach Bilbao[25] in Spain, where Ragnvald lands, and refuses to marry
Queen Ermengarde. Afterwards he rounds Galicia, where Eindridi's
treachery robs them of spoil in taking Godfrey's castle, beats through
Niorfa Sound (the Straits of Gibraltar); is deserted by Eindridi, sails
along Sarkland (Barbary), captures the Saracen ship Dromund, and burns
her, sells the prisoners in Barbary, but releases their prince, coasts
along Crete, lands at Acre, and bathes in Jordan on St. Lawrence's Day,
the 10th of August 1152. After a visit to Jerusalem they come at last
to Constantinople, where the Varangian Guard heartily welcome them,
although Eindridi, who has arrived there before him, tries to set
everyone against them; and Ragnvald finally returns to Bulgaria and
Apulia and Rome, and thence overland to Denmark and Norway.[26]

When Ragnvald reached Norway in 1153, he heard what had been going
on at home during his absence in the east.

King Eystein of Norway, King Harald Gilli's son, had seized Jarl Harold
Maddadson, then a young man of twenty, at Thurso, and made him swear
allegiance to himself, letting him go on his paying three marks of gold
as his ransom. Then Maddad, his father, Earl of Athole, died; and the
widowed Margret, Harold's mother, came north to Orkney, still dangerous,
still beautiful and attractive, especially to Gunni, Sweyn's brother,
by whom she had a child, for which Gunni was outlawed, a punishment which
alienated his brother Sweyn from Harold Maddadson.[27]
Erlend, only son of Harald Slettmali, and really entitled to the
whole earldom, obtained from his relative[28] King Malcolm, then
a boy of under twelve, through his powerful kin, a grant of half of the
earldom of Caithness jointly with Harold Maddadson, who objected to give
him half the Orkney jarldom unless King Eystein confirmed the grant.
Erlend then went to Norway to get it confirmed. Meantime Sweyn seized
a ship of Harold's; but, to help Erlend, tried to reconcile Harold to
him, as King Eystein (said Erlend) had given him half of Orkney. And
the half given to him was, he added, Harold's half.[29]
Sweyn and Erlend then force Harold, who had then just come of age, to
agree to give up this half, under duress, in order to secure his own
liberty, and the Orkney folk agree that Erlend shall have this half,
Ragnvald having the other. This, Sweyn knew, Harold would not stand,
and, as he drank at a feast with his house-carles in his castle
in Gairsay,[30] the wily Viking said, slily rubbing his nose, "I
think Harold is now on his voyage to the isles," a shrewd surmise
which proved correct in spite of the midwinter storm then prevailing.

Harold's expedition, however, failed, and he went back to Caithness
to raise a force to kill a man called Erlend the Young who had
seized his mother Margret and taken her by force to Shetland, where
he fortified Mousa Broch[31] and held her prisoner there.

After a siege, Harold, who had followed them, at last allowed their
marriage, Erlend the Young becoming his ally, and going that summer
with his wife and Harold to Norway.

When that was heard in the Orkneys, Sweyn and Earl Erlend went raiding
off the east coast of Scotland and afterwards a-viking to North
Berwick, and got much plunder, and Harold returned in the autumn to
Orkney. In the winter Jarl Ragnvald came back from the east to Turfness
(Burghead), whence he went about Yule 1153 to Orkney, to find that
the Orkney-men want himself and Erlend, not himself and Harold, as
joint jarls over them.

Harold had then to fight for his own hand; and, finding that Earl Erlend
and Sweyn were in Shetland, he sought them out but missed them, and
afterwards, though he hated Jarl Ragnvald, tried to get him on his side.

We come to another Sutherland event, historically of the first
importance to us, in 1154.[32] "Jarl Ragnvald was then up the country
in Sutherland, and sat there at a wedding at which he gave his only
daughter and child Ingirid or Ingigerd, to Eric Stagbrellir," who, as we
have seen, as Audhild's son, had been brought up in Kildonan.
"News came to him at once that Earl Harold was come into Thurso.
Jarl Ragnvald, rode down with a great company to Thurso from the bridal.[33]
Eric was Harold's kinsman and tried to reconcile the earls."
There was a fight in Thurso between their followers, Thorbiorn Klerk
instigating it, no doubt because after Eric's marriage with
Ingigerd, Ragnvald's daughter, he knew he could not hope to force Eric
to give up the Moddan lands in Strathnavern and in the upper valleys and
hills of Sudrland and Caithness, to which he had a claim. Thirteen of
Ragnvald's men fell in the fray, and he himself was wounded in the face.
Ultimately, the earls were reconciled on the 25th of September 1154, and
about 1156 joined forces and went to Orkney against Sweyn and Erlend,
who pretended they were sailing for the Hebrides, but put their
ships about at Store[34] Point in Assynt, and after all but seizing
Jarl Ragnvald at Orphir in Orkney, captured his ships, though he and
Harold escaped, each in a small boat, across the Pentland Firth to
Caithness.[35] Returning thence, in Sweyn's absence for the night they
attacked Erlend, who had disregarded all Sweyn's warnings and advice
to keep a good look-out, off Damsey, near Finstown. In this fight
Jarl Erlend, the last descendant in the male line of Thorfinn
then alive, was slain, while drunk, his body being found next day
transfixed by a spear, and he left no issue to inherit his title of
earl or the other Moddan lands, left to him by Earl Ottar, which
probably devolved on Eric Stagbrellir in 1156, as he could hold them
against Thorbiorn Klerk.

All Erlend's success, if we are to believe the Saga, this portion of which
is written largely to glorify Sweyn, probably by his relative Bishop
Bjarni, had been arranged by Sweyn's really marvellous cunning;
and Ragnvald, no doubt feeling how dangerous an enemy Sweyn was,
and that he was backed by the Scottish king, immediately sent for
him in order to reconcile him to Harold.

But Harold, soon afterwards, robbed Sweyn's house in Gairsay; and Sweyn,
in his turn, attacked the house where Harold was, and nearly succeeded
in burning him alive. Later on Harold all but caught Sweyn off Kirkwall,
but Sweyn gave him the slip, by running his ship into a tidal cave
in Ellarholm, off Elwick in Shapinsay, in 1155, and disappearing till
the coast was clear, when he got away in a small boat.

Afterwards Sweyn and Earl Harold were reconciled, and Sweyn and Thorbiorn
Klerk and Eric Stagbrellir went on a viking cruise to the Hebrides, and,
after a great victory at the Scilly Isles, returned with much booty
to Orkney.[36]
In the year 1157 or 1158, Sweyn defeated Gilli Odran, steward of Earl
Ragnvald's lands in Caithness, who had fled to the west and was
caught in Murkfjord (possibly Loch Glendhu at Kylestrome in
Eddrachilles) and was slain there with fifty of his men by Sweyn.[37]

In 1158, Ragnvald and Harold went, as they did every year, to hunt
red deer and reindeer[38] in Caithness, their hunting ground being
probably near the Ben-y-griams, which lay on the way to Kildonan,
or Strathnaver, where Eric probably lived; and some think there are
still remains of walls used as a pen for driven deer on Ben-y-griam
Beg, though these are more probably the ancient ramparts of a
hill-fort.[39] When they landed at Thurso, they heard that Thorbiorn
Klerk was hiding and lying in wait in Thorsdale[40] in order to
make an onslaught on Ragnvald, if he got a chance.

After riding with a band of a hundred men, twenty of them mounted, they
spent the night at a place where there was what the Celts call
an "erg" (_airigh_) but the Norse call "setr," the modern sheiling.
Next day, as they rode up along Calfdale, Ragnvald was in advance of the
party, and, at a homestead called Force,[41] Halvard hailed him loudly
by name.
Thorbiorn was inside the house, and burst out through an old
doorway, and dealt Ragnvald a great wound, and the jarl fell, his
foot sticking in his stirrup, when Stephen, an accomplice, gave him a
spear thrust; whereupon Thorbiorn, after dealing him another wound, and
receiving a spear thrust in the thigh himself, fled to the moor.

Earl Harold at first would not interfere; and though Magnus son of
Havard Gunni's son insisted, Earl Harold again declined to pursue Thorbiorn
to the death, but left Magnus to besiege him at Asgrim's Ergin or
Shielings,[42] now Assary, near Loch Calder, where, by setting fire to
the hut in which he was, his pursuers succeeded in smoking him out
and killing him.
They then brought the jarl's body from Force to Thurso, and thence took
it over to Orkney, to be buried in the choir of St. Magnus' Cathedral,
which he had founded and built in his uncle's honour.

"Jarl Ragnvald's death was a very great grief, for he was very much
beloved there in the Isles, and far and wide elsewhere." It took place
on the 20th August 1158.

"He had been a very great helper," the Saga adds, "to many men, bountiful
of money, gentle, and a steadfast friend; a great man for feats of
strength, and a good skald" or poet. In 1192 he was canonised as St.
Ragnvald[43] with, it is said, full Papal sanction. Save during Harold
Maddadson's minority he was never Earl of Caithness, and then had the
title only as guardian of his ward Harold.

Ragnvald left a daughter, his only surviving child, Ingirid or Ingigerd,
whom as we have seen, Audhild's son, Eric Stagbrellir had married four
years before her father's death; and their children, who come into the
story afterwards, were three sons, Harald Ungi or Harald the Young,
Magnus nick-named Mangi, and Ragnvald, and three daughters, Ingibiorg,
Elin[44] and Ragnhild, all of whom, so far as the Saga relates,
died childless save Ragnhild, whose son by her second husband Gunni,
was Snaekoll Gunni's son, who about 1230 claimed the Ragnvald lands
in Orkney from Earl John, son of Earl Harold Maddadson,[45] and
complained that Earl John was keeping him out of his rights in
Caithness to Ragnvald's share of the earldom lands there.

After Thorbiorn Klerk's death, Olvir Rosta being "out of the story,"
Eric's children, who were mainly Norse in blood, were the only heirs
left in Caithness not only for Jarl Ragnvald's lands, but also for
the upper parts of the river valleys of Strathnavern and Ness,
which the Moddan family had held through the whole Norse occupation
of Caithness and Sutherland, along with the hill country in Halkirk and
Latheron and Strathnavern and probably also in Sutherland, lands on
which few Norse place-names are found, and which came to Eric through
Audhild his mother on the deaths of Earls Ottar and Erlend Haraldson
without issue. These lands would of right descend to Eric's eldest
son, Harald Ungi, and on his death without issue, to his brothers if
alive, and, failing them, to his sisters and their heirs, as happened
in the case of Ragnhild and her son Snaekoll Gunni's son, neither
Ingibiorg nor Elin receiving any share of this property, for reasons
now undiscoverable, but which we shall endeavour to explain later, by
presuming that one of them had died unmarried, or had married abroad,
while the other and her descendants were amply provided for otherwise
by marriage with Gilchrist, Earl of Angus.

CHAPTER VII.

_Harold Maddadson and the Freskyns._

After the death of Jarl Ragnvald in 1158, Harold Maddadson at the age
of twenty-five "took all the isles under his rule, and became sole
chief over them."[1] Ever since 1139 he had been sole Earl of Cat
save for Erlend Haraldson's grant,[2] though Jarl Ragnvald seems to
have had a share of its lands and managed the Earldom of Caithness for
Harold during his minority, bearing the title of his ward till the
latter attained his majority in 1154.

Harold had married Afreka, daughter of Duncan, Earl of Fife, one of the
most loyal supporters of the Scottish kings, and their children were
two sons, Henry, who afterwards claimed Ross, and of whom we hear no
more, and Hakon, Sweyn Asleifarson's foster-child, and two
daughters, Helena and Margret, of whom we hear nothing save their
names. Hakon, from boyhood, went with Sweyn on all his spring and
autumn "vikings" or piratical cruises, undertaken every year to the
Hebrides, Man, and Ireland, in one of which Sweyn took two English ships
near Dublin, and returned to Orkney laden with broadcloth, wine,
and English mead.[3] Sweyn's life is thus described in c. 114 of
the _Orkneyinga Saga_.

"He sat through the winter at home in Gairsay, and there he kept always
about him eighty men at his beck. He had so great a drinking-hall
that there was not another as great in all the Orkneys. Sweyn had in the
spring hard work, and made them lay down very much seed, and looked
much after it himself. But when that toil was ended, he fared away every
spring on a Viking-voyage, and harried about among the southern isles and
Ireland, and came home after midsummer. That he called spring-viking.
Then he was at home until the cornfields were reaped down, and the grain
seen to and stored. Then he fared away on a viking-voyage, and then
he did not come home till the winter was one month spent, and that he
called his autumn-viking." At last, in a cruise to Dublin, which he
captured, Sweyn was killed by stratagem on landing to receive payment of
its ransom from the town, and the boy Hakon probably fell there with
him in 1171. "And," the Saga adds, "it is the common saying of Sweyn
that he was the most masterful man in the western lands, both of yore
and now-a-days, among those men who had no higher rank than himself."
Sweyn was, in fact the greatest man of his time. For he robbed whom
he pleased, made and undid jarls and earls as he chose, and was the friend
or tool of more than one Scottish king.

Earl Harold had put his wife Afreka away, and probably after Sweyn's
death formed a union, at a date which it seems impossible to fix,
with Hvarflod or Gormflaith, daughter of Malcolm MacHeth of Moray,
who was in rebellion in 1134, and was imprisoned in Roxburgh Castle
until 1157, when he was released and created Earl of Ross, so that
Gormflaith, who could hardly have been born during her father's
imprisonment, must have been born either before 1135 or after 1157.

Harold and Gormflaith's children were Thorfinn, who predeceased him, and
also David and John, both afterwards in succession earls of Caithness and
jarls of Orkney, and three daughters, Gunnhilda, Herborga, and Langlif;
and of the daughters the Saga-writers tell us nothing, except that the
Icelander Sæmund, Magnus Barelegs' grandson, wished to marry Langlif but
did not do so;[4] and her son Jon Langlifson, according to the Saga of
Hakon was in 1263 a spy on the Norse side.

Here the _Orkneyinga Saga_ ends.

But additions to its generally received text are found in the _Flatey
Book_,[5] and the additions are by no means so trustworthy as the Saga
proper. From these we learn that of Eric Stagbrellir and
Ingigerd's children, who were settled in Sutherland, the sons, Harald
Ungi, Magnus, and Ragnvald Eric's son, fared east to Norway to King
Magnus Erling's son, where young Magnus Eric's son fell with that king
in the battle of Norafjord in Sogn in 1184.[6] Probably some of them
were, on Eric Stagbrellir's death, subjected to exactions in respect of
their lands by Harold Maddadson.

Having arrived, under the guidance of the _Orkneyinga_, at the closing
years of the 12th century, so far as the affairs of Orkney and Shetland
and Sutherland and Caithness are concerned, it remains for us to
turn and observe the tide of civilisation and order which under our
Scottish kings was now setting strongly northwards and ever further north
in each successive reign, the Catholic Church and the feudal baron
being the chosen instruments of national organisation and discipline,
and the charter being the method of establishing them in the land.

What added to the consternation of all who heard of it, was
the sickening conviction that the extreme measures which they had
resorted to in order to free the city from the ghoul, beyond which
nothing could be done, had been utterly unavailing, successful as they
had proved in every other known case of the kind. For, urged as well by
various horrid signs about his grave, which not even its close proximity
to the altar could render a place of repose, they had opened it, had
found in the body every peculiarity belonging to a vampire, had pulled
it out with the greatest difficulty on account of a quite supernatural
ponderosity; which rendered the horse which had killed him--a strong
animal--all but unable to drag it along, and had at last, after cutting
it in pieces, and expending on the fire two hundred and sixteen great
billets, succeeded in conquering its incombustibleness, and reducing it
to ashes. Such, at least, was the story which had reached the painter's
household, and was believed by many; and if all this did not compel the
perturbed corpse to rest, what more could be done?

When Karl had reached his room, and was dressing himself, the thought
struck him that something might be made of the report of the extreme
weight of the body of old Kuntz, to favour the continuance of the
delusion of Teufelsbürst, although he hardly knew yet to what use he
could turn this delusion. He was convinced that he would have made no
progress however long he might have remained in his house; and that he
would have more chance of favour with Lilith if he were to meet her in
any other circumstances whatever than those in which he invariably saw
her--namely, surrounded by her father's influences, and watched by her
father's cold blue eyes.

As soon as he was dressed, he crept down to the studio, which was now
quiet enough, the storm being over, and the moon filling it with her
steady shine. In the corner lay in all directions the fragments of the
mould which his own body had formed and filled. The bag of plaster and
the bucket of water which the painter had been using stood beside.
Lottchen gathered all the pieces together, and then making his way to an
outhouse where he had seen various odds and ends of rubbish lying, chose
from the heap as many pieces of old iron and other metal as he could
find. To these he added a few large stones from the garden. When he had
got all into the studio, he locked the door, and proceeded to fit
together the parts of the mould, filling up the hollow as he went on
with the heaviest things he could get into it, and solidifying the whole
by pouring in plaster; till, having at length completed it, and
obliterated, as much as possible, the marks of joining, he left it to
harden, with the conviction that now it would make a considerable
impression on Teufelsbürst's imagination, as well as on his muscular
sense. He then left everything else as nearly undisturbed as he could;
and, knowing all the ways of the house, was soon in the street, without
leaving any signs of his exit.

Karl soon found himself before the house in which his friend
Höllenrachen resided. Knowing his studious habits, he had hoped to see
his light still burning, nor was he disappointed. He contrived to bring
him to his window, and a moment after, the door was cautiously opened.

"Why, Lottchen, where do you come from?"

"From the grave, Heinrich, or next door to it."

"Come in, and tell me all about it. We thought the old painter had made
a model of you, and tortured you to death."

"Perhaps you were not far wrong. But get me a horn of ale, for even a
vampire is thirsty, you know."

"A vampire!" exclaimed Heinrich, retreating a pace, and involuntarily
putting himself upon his guard.

Karl laughed.

"My hand was warm, was it not, old fellow?" he said. "Vampires are cold,
all but the blood."

"What a fool I am!" rejoined Heinrich. "But you know we have been
hearing such horrors lately that a fellow may be excused for shuddering
a little when a pale-faced apparition tells him at two o'clock in the
morning that he is a vampire, and thirsty, too."

Karl told him the whole story; and the mental process of regarding it
for the sake of telling it, revealed to him pretty clearly some of the
treatment of which he had been unconscious at the time. Heinrich was
quite sure that his suspicions were correct. And now the question was,
what was to be done next?

"At all events," said Heinrich, "we must keep you out of the way for
some time. I will represent to my landlady that you are in hiding from
enemies, and her heart will rule her tongue. She can let you have a
garret-room, I know; and I will do as well as I can to bear you company.
We shall have time then to invent some plan of operation."

To this proposal Karl agreed with hearty thanks, and soon all was
arranged. The only conclusion they could yet arrive at was, that somehow
or other the old demon-painter must be tamed.

Meantime, how fared it with Lilith? She too had no doubt that she had
seen the body-ghost of poor Karl, and that the vampire had, according to
rule, paid her the first visit because he loved her best. This was
horrible enough if the vampire were not really the person he
represented; but if in any sense it were Karl himself, at least it gave
some expectation of a more prolonged existence than her father had
taught her to look for; and if love anything like her mother's still
lasted, even along with the habits of a vampire, there was something to
hope for in the future. And then, though he had visited her, he had not,
as far as she was aware, deprived her of a drop of blood. She could not
be certain that he had not bitten her, for she had been in such a
strange condition of mind that she might not have felt it, but she
believed that he had restrained the impulses of his vampire nature, and
had left her, lest he should yet yield to them. She fell fast asleep;
and, when morning came, there was not, as far as she could judge, one of
those triangular leech-like perforations to be found upon her whole
body. Will it be believed that the moment she was satisfied of this, she
was seized by a terrible jealousy, lest Karl should have gone and bitten
some one else? Most people will wonder that she should not have gone out
of her senses at once; but there was all the difference between a visit
from a real vampire and a visit from a man she had begun to love, even
although she took him for a vampire. All the difference does _not_ lie
in a name. They were very different causes, and the effects must be very
different.

When Teufelsbürst came down in the morning, he crept into the studio
like a murderer. There lay the awful white block, seeming to his eyes
just the same as he had left it. What was to be done with it? He dared
not open it. Mould and model must go together. But whither? If inquiry
should be made after Wolkenlicht, and this were discovered anywhere on
his premises, would it not be enough to bring him at once to the
gallows? Therefore it would be dangerous to bury it in the garden, or in
the cellar.

"Besides," thought he, with a shudder, "that would be to fix the vampire
as a guest for ever."--And the horrors of the past night rushed back
upon his imagination with renewed intensity. What would it be to have
the dead Karl crawling about his house for ever, now inside, now out,
now sitting on the stairs, now staring in at the windows?

He would have dragged it to the bottom of his garden, past which the
Moldau flowed, and plunged it into the stream; but then, should the
spectre continue to prove troublesome, it would be almost impossible to
reach the body so as to destroy it by fire; besides which, he could not
do it without assistance, and the probability of discovery. If, however,
the apparition should turn out to be no vampire, but only a respectable
ghost, they might manage to endure its presence, till it should be weary
of haunting them.

He resolved at last to convey the body for the meantime into a concealed
cellar in the house, seeing something must be done before his daughter
came down. Proceeding to remove it, his consternation as greatly
increased when he discovered how the body had grown in weight since he
had thus disposed of it, leaving on his mind scarcely a hope that it
could turn out not to be a vampire after all. He could scarcely stir it,
and there was but one whom he could call to his assistance--the old
woman who acted as his housekeeper and servant.

He went to her room, roused her, and told her the whole story. Devoted
to her master for many years, and not quite so sensitive to fearful
influences as when less experienced in horrors, she showed immediate
readiness to render him assistance. Utterly unable, however, to lift the
mass between them, they could only drag and push it along; and such a
slow toil was it that there was no time to remove the traces of its
track, before Lilith came down and saw a broad white line leading from
the door of the studio down the cellarstairs. She knew in a moment what
it meant; but not a word was uttered about the matter, and the name of
Karl Wolkenlicht seemed to be entirely forgotten.

But how could the affairs of a house go on all the same when every one
of the household knew that a dead body lay in the cellar?--nay more,
that, although it lay still and dead enough all day, it would come half
alive at nightfall, and, turning the whole house into a sepulchre by its
presence, go creeping about like a cat all over it in the dark--perhaps
with phosphorescent eyes? So it was not surprising that the painter
abandoned his studio early, and that the three found themselves together
in the gorgeous room formerly described, as soon as twilight began to
fall.

Already Teufelsbürst had begun to experience a kind of shrinking from
the horrid faces in his own pictures, and to feel disgusted at the
abortions of his own mind. But all that he and the old woman now felt
was an increasing fear as the night drew on, a kind of sickening and
paralysing terror. The thing down there would not lie quiet--at least
its phantom in the cellars of their imagination would not. As much as
possible, however, they avoided alarming Lilith, who, knowing all they
knew, was as silent as they. But her mind was in a strange state of
excitement, partly from the presence of a new sense of love, the
pleasure of which all the atmosphere of grief into which it grew could
not totally quench. It comforted her somehow, as a child may comfort
when his father is away.

Bedtime came, and no one made a move to go. Without a word spoken on the
subject, the three remained together all night; the elders nodding and
slumbering occasionally, and Lilith getting some share of repose on a
couch. All night the shape of death might be somewhere about the house;
but it did not disturb them. They heard no sound, saw no sight; and when
the morning dawned, they separated, chilled and stupid, and for the time
beyond fear, to seek repose in their private chambers. There they
remained equally undisturbed.

But when the painter approached his easel a few hours after, looking
more pale and haggard still than he was wont, from the fears of the
night, a new bewilderment took possession of him. He had been busy with
a fresh embodiment of his favourite subject, into which he had sketched
the form of the student as the sufferer. He had represented poor
Wolkenlicht as just beginning to recover from a trance, while a group of
surgeons, unaware of the signs of returning life, were absorbed in a
minute dissection of one of the limbs. At an open door he had painted
Lilith passing, with her face buried in a bunch of sweet peas. But when
he came to the picture, he found, to his astonishment and terror, that
the face of one of the group was now turned towards that of the victim,
regarding his revival with demoniac satisfaction, and taking pains to
prevent the others from discovering it. The face of this prince of
torturers was that of Teufelsbürst himself. Lilith had altogether
vanished, and in her place stood the dim vampire reiteration of the body
that lay extended on the table, staring greedily at the assembled
company. With trembling hands the painter removed the picture from the
easel, and turned its face to the wall.

Of course this was the work of Lottchen. When he left the house, he took
with him the key of a small private door, which was so seldom used that,
while it remained closed, the key would not be missed, perhaps for many
months. Watching the windows, he had chosen a safe time to enter, and
had been hard at work all night on these alterations. Teufelsbürst
attributed them to the vampire, and left the picture as he found it, not
daring to put brush to it again.

The next night was passed much after the same fashion. But the fear had
begun to die away a little in the hearts of the women, who did not know
what had taken place in the studio on the previous night. It burrowed,
however, with gathered force in the vitals of Teufelsbürst. But this
night likewise passed in peace; and before it was over, the old woman
had taken to speculating in her own mind as to the best way of disposing
of the body, seeing it was not at all likely to be troublesome. But when
the painter entered his studio in trepidation the next morning, he found
that the form of the lovely Lilith was painted out of every picture in
the room. This could not be concealed; and Lilith and the servant became
aware that the studio was the portion of the house in haunting which the
vampire left the rest in peace.

Karl recounted all the tricks he had played to his friend Heinrich, who
begged to be allowed to bear him company the following night. To this
Karl consented, thinking it would be considerably more agreeable to have
a companion. So they took a couple of bottles of wine and some
provisions with them, and before midnight found themselves snug in the
studio. They sat very quiet for some time, for they knew that if they
were seen, two vampires would not be so terrible as one, and might
occasion discovery. But at length Heinrich could bear it no longer.

"I say, Lottchen, let's go and look; for your dead body. What has the
old beggar done with it?"

"I think I know. Stop; let me peep out. All right! Come along."

With a lamp in his hand, he led the way to the cellars, and after
searching about a little they discovered it.

"It looks horrid enough," said Heinrich, "but think a drop or two of
wine would brighten it up a little."

So he took a bottle from his pocket, and after they had had a glass
apiece, he dropped a third in blots all over the plaster. Being red
wine, it had the effect Höllenrachen desired.

"When they visit it next, they will know that the vampire can find the
food he prefers," said he.

In a corner close by the plaster, they found the clothes Karl had worn.

"Hillo!" said Heinrich, "we'll make something of this find."

So he carried them with him to the studio. There he got hold of the
lay-figure.

"What are you about, Heinrich?"

"Going to make a scarecrow to keep the ravens off old Teufel's
pictures," answered Heinrich, as he went on dressing the lay-figure in
Karl's clothes. He next seated the creature at an easel with its back to
the door, so that it should be the first thing the painter should see
when he entered. Karl meant to remove this before he went, for it was
too comical to fall in with the rest of his proceedings. But the two sat
down to their supper, and by the time they had finished the wine, they
thought they should like to go to bed. So they got up and went home, and
Karl forgot the lay-figure, leaving it in busy motionlessness all night
before the easel. When Teufelsbürst saw it, he turned and fled with a
cry that brought his daughter to his help. He rushed past her, able only
to articulate:

"The vampire! The vampire! Painting!"

Far more courageous than he, because her conscience was more peaceful,
Lilith passed on to the studio. She too recoiled a step or two when she
saw the figure; but with the sight of the back of Karl, as she supposed
it to be, came the longing to see the face that was on the other side.
So she crept round and round by the wall, as far off as she could. The
figure remained motionless. It was a strange kind of shock that she
experienced when she saw the face, disgusting from its inanity. The
absurdity next struck her; and with the absurdity flashed into her mind
the conviction that this was not the doing of a vampire; for of all
creatures under the moon, he could not be expected to be a humorist. A
wild hope sprang up in her mind that Karl was not dead. Of this she soon
resolved to make herself sure.

She closed the door of the studio; in the strength of her new hope
undressed the figure, put it in its place, concealed the garments--all
the work of a few minutes; and then, finding her father just recovering
from the worst of his fear, told him there was nothing in the studio but
what ought to be there, and persuaded him to go and see. He not only saw
no one, but found that no further liberties had been taken with his
pictures. Reassured, he soon persuaded himself that the spectre in this
case had been the offspring of his own terror-haunted brain. But he had
no spirit for painting now. He wandered about the house, himself
haunting it like a restless ghost.

When night came, Lilith retired to her own room. The waters of fear had
begun to subside in the house; but the painter and his old attendant did
not yet follow her example.

As soon, however, as the house was quite still, Lilith glided
noiselessly down the stairs, went into the studio, where as yet there
assuredly was no vampire, and concealed herself in a corner.

As it would not do for an earnest student like Heinrich to be away from
his work very often, he had not asked to accompany Lottchen this time.
And indeed Karl himself, a little anxious about the result of the
scarecrow, greatly preferred going alone.

While she was waiting for what might happen, the conviction grew upon
Lilith, as she reviewed all the past of the story, that these phenomena
were the work of the real Karl, and of no vampire. In a few moments she
was still more sure of this. Behind the screen where she had taken
refuge, hung one of the pictures out of which her portrait had been
painted the night before last. She had taken a lamp with her into the
studio, with the intention of extinguishing it the moment she heard any
sign of approach; but as the vampire lingered, she began to occupy
herself with examining the picture beside her. She had not looked at it
long, before she wetted the tip of her forefinger, and began to rub away
at the obliteration. Her suspicions were instantly confirmed: the
substance employed was only a gummy wash over the paint. The delight she
experienced at the discovery threw her into a mischievous humour.

"I will see," she said to herself, "whether I cannot match Karl
Wolkenlicht at this game."

In a closet in the room hung a number of costumes, which Lilith had at
different times worn for her father. Among them was a large white
drapery, which she easily disposed as a shroud. With the help of some
chalk, she soon made herself ghastly enough, and then placing her lamp
on the floor behind the screen, and setting a chair over it, so that it
should throw no light in any direction, she waited once more for the
vampire. Nor had she much longer to wait. She soon heard a door move,
the sound of which she hardly knew, and then the studio door opened. Her
heart beat dreadfully, not with fear lest it should be a vampire after
all, but with hope that it was Karl. To see him once more was too great
joy. Would she not make up to him for all her coldness! But would he
care for her now? Perhaps he had been quite cured of his longing for a
hard heart like hers. She peeped. It was he sure enough, looking as
handsome as ever. He was holding his light to look at her last work, and
the expression of his face, even in regarding her handiwork, was enough
to let her know that he loved her still. If she had not seen this, she
dared not have shown herself from her hiding-place. Taking the lamp in
her hand, she got upon the chair, and looked over the screen, letting
the light shine from below upon her face. She then made a slight noise
to attract Karl's attention. He looked up, evidently rather startled,
and saw the face of Lilith in the air: He gave a stifled cry threw
himself on his knees with his arms stretched towards her, and moaned--

"I have killed her! I have killed her!"

Lilith descended, and approached him noiselessly. He did not move. She
came close to him and said--

"Are you Karl Wolkenlicht?"

His lips moved, but no sound came.

"If you are a vampire, and I am a ghost," she said--but a low happy
laugh alone concluded the sentence.

Karl sprang to his feet. Lilith's laugh changed into a burst of sobbing
and weeping, and in another moment the ghost was in the arms of the
vampire.

Lilith had no idea how far her father had wronged Karl, and though, from
thinking over the past, he had no doubt that the painter had drugged
him, he did not wish to pain her by imparting this conviction. But
Lilith was afraid of a reaction of rage and hatred in her father after
the terror was removed; and Karl saw that he might thus be deprived of
all further intercourse with Lilith, and all chance of softening the old
man's heart towards him; while Lilith would not hear of forsaking him
who had banished all the human race but herself. They managed at length
to agree upon a plan of operation.

The first thing they did was to go to the cellar where the plaster mass
lay, Karl carrying with him a great axe used for cleaving wood. Lilith
shuddered when she saw it, stained as it was with the wine Heinrich had
spilt over it, and almost believed herself the midnight companion of a
vampire after all, visiting with him the terrible corpse in which he
lived all day. But Karl soon reassured her; and a few good blows of the
axe revealed a very different core to that which Teufelsbürst supposed
to be in it. Karl broke it into pieces, and with Lilith's help, who
insisted on carrying her share, the whole was soon at the bottom of the
Moldau and every trace of its ever having existed removed. Before
morning, too, the form of Lilith had dawned anew in every picture. There
was no time to restore to its former condition the one Karl had first
altered; for in it the changes were all that they seemed; nor indeed was
he capable of restoring it in the master's style; but they put it quite
out of the way, and hoped that sufficient time might elapse before the
painter thought of it again.

When they had done, and Lilith, for all his entreaties, would remain
with him no longer, Karl took his former clothes with him, and having
spent the rest of the night in his old room, dressed in them in the
morning. When Teufelsbürst entered his studio next day, there sat Karl,
as if nothing had happened, finishing the drawing on which he had been
at work when the fit of insensibility came upon him. The painter
started, stared, rubbed his eyes, thought it was another spectral
illusion, and was on the point of yielding to his terror, when Karl
rose, and approached him with a smile. The healthy, sunshiny countenance
of Karl, let him be ghost or goblin, could not fail to produce somewhat
of a tranquillising effect on Teufelsbürst. He took his offered hand
mechanically, his countenance utterly vacant with idiotic bewilderment.
Karl said--

"I was not well, and thought it better to pay a visit to a friend for a
few days; but I shall soon make up for lost time, for I am all right
now."

He sat down at once, taking no notice of his master's behaviour, and
went on with his drawing. Teufelsbürst stood staring at him for some
minutes without moving, then suddenly turned and left the room. Karl
heard him hurrying down the cellar stairs. In a few moments he came up
again. Karl stole a glance at him. There he stood in the same spot, no
doubt more full of bewilderment than ever, but it was not possible that
his face should express more. At last he went to his easel, and sat down
with a long-drawn sigh as if of relief. But though he sat at his easel,
he painted none that day; and as often as Karl ventured a glance, he saw
him still staring at him. The discovery that his pictures were restored
to their former condition aided, no doubt, in leading him to the same
conclusion as the other facts, whatever that conclusion might
be--probably that he had been the sport of some evil power, and had been
for the greater part of a week utterly bewitched. Lilith had taken care
to instruct the old woman, with whom she was all-powerful; and as
neither of them showed the smallest traces of the astonishment which
seemed to be slowly vitrifying his own brain, he was at last perfectly
satisfied that things had been going on all right everywhere but in his
inner man; and in this conclusion he certainly was not far wrong, in
more senses than one. But when all was restored again to the old
routine, it became evident that the peculiar direction of his art in
which he had hitherto indulged had ceased to interest him. The shock had
acted chiefly upon that part of his mental being which had been so
absorbed. He would sit for hours without doing anything, apparently
plunged in meditation.--Several weeks elapsed without any change, and
both Lilith and Karl were getting dreadfully anxious about him. Karl
paid him every attention; and the old man, for he now looked much older
than before, submitted to receive his services as well as those of
Lilith. At length, one morning, he said in a slow thoughtful tone--

"Karl Wolkenlicht, I should like to paint you."

"Certainly, sir," answered Karl, jumping up, "where would you like me to
sit?"

So the ice of silence and inactivity was broken, and the painter drew
and painted; and the spring of his art flowed once more; and he made a
beautiful portrait of Karl--a portrait without evil or suffering. And as
soon as he had finished Karl, he began once more to paint Lilith; and
when he had painted her, he composed a picture for the very purpose of
introducing them together; and in this picture there was neither
ugliness nor torture, but human feeling and human hope instead. Then
Karl knew that he might speak to him of Lilith; and he spoke, and was
heard with a smile. But he did not dare to tell him the truth of the
vampire story till one day that Teufelsbürst was lying on the floor of a
room in Karl's ancestral castle, half smothered in grandchildren; when
the only answer it drew from the old man was a kind of shuddering laugh
and the words "Don't speak of it, Karl, my boy!"


THE CASTLE


On the top of a high cliff, forming part of the base of a great
mountain, stood a lofty castle. When or how it was built, no man knew;
nor could any one pretend to understand its architecture. Every one who
looked upon it felt that it was lordly and noble; and where one part
seemed not to agree with another, the wise and modest dared not to call
them incongruous, but presumed that the whole might be constructed on
some higher principle of architecture than they yet understood. What
helped them to this conclusion was, that no one had ever seen the whole
of the edifice; that, even of the portion best known, some part or other
was always wrapped in thick folds of mist from the mountain; and that,
when the sun shone upon this mist, the parts of the building that
appeared through the vaporous veil were strangely glorified in their
indistinctness, so that they seemed to belong to some aerial abode in
the land of the sunset; and the beholders could hardly tell whether they
had ever seen them before, or whether they were now for the first time
partially revealed.

Nor, although it was inhabited, could certain information be procured as
to its internal construction. Those who dwelt in it often discovered
rooms they had never entered before--yea, once or twice,--whole suites
of apartments, of which only dim legends had been handed down from
former times. Some of them expected to find, one day, secret places,
filled with treasures of wondrous jewels; amongst which they hoped to
light upon Solomon's ring, which had for ages disappeared from the
earth, but which had controlled the spirits, and the possession of which
made a man simply what a man should be, the king of the world. Now and
then, a narrow, winding stair, hitherto untrodden, would bring them
forth on a new turret, whence new prospects of the circumjacent country
were spread out before them. How many more of these there might be, or
how much loftier, no one could tell. Nor could the foundations of the
castle in the rock on which it was built be determined with the smallest
approach to precision. Those of the family who had given themselves to
exploring in that direction, found such a labyrinth of vaults and
passages, and endless successions of down-going stairs, out of one
underground space into a yet lower, that they came to the conclusion
that at least the whole mountain was perforated and honeycombed in this
fashion. They had a dim consciousness, too, of the presence, in those
awful regions, of beings whom they could not comprehend. Once they came
upon the brink of a great black gulf, in which the eye could see nothing
but darkness: they recoiled with horror; for the conviction flashed upon
them that that gulf went down into the very central spaces of the earth,
of which they had hitherto been wandering only in the upper crust; nay,
that the seething blackness before them had relations mysterious, and
beyond human comprehension, with the far-off voids of space, into which
the stars dare not enter.

At the foot of the cliff whereon the castle stood, lay a deep lake,
inaccessible save by a few avenues, being surrounded on all sides with
precipices which made the water look very black, although it was pure as
the nightsky. From a door in the castle, which was not to be otherwise
entered, a broad flight of steps, cut in the rock, went down to the
lake, and disappeared below its surface. Some thought the steps went to
the very bottom of the water.

Now in this castle there dwelt a large family of brothers and sisters.
They had never seen their father or mother. The younger had been
educated by the elder, and these by an unseen care and ministration,
about the sources of which they had, somehow or other, troubled
themselves very little--for what people are accustomed to, they regard
as coming from nobody; as if help and progress and joy and love were the
natural crops of Chaos or old Night. But Tradition said that one day--it
was utterly uncertain _when_--their father would come, and leave them no
more; for he was still alive, though where he lived nobody knew. In the
meantime all the rest had to obey their eldest brother, and listen to
his counsels.

But almost all the family was very fond of liberty, as they called it;
and liked to run up and down, hither and thither, roving about, with
neither law nor order, just as they pleased. So they could not endure
their brother's tyranny, as they called it. At one time they said that
he was only one of themselves, and therefore they would not obey him; at
another, that he was not like them, and could not understand them, and
_therefore_ they would not obey him. Yet, sometimes, when he came and
looked them full in the face, they were terrified, and dared not
disobey, for he was stately and stern and strong. Not one of them loved
him heartily, except the eldest sister, who was very beautiful and
silent, and whose eyes shone as if light lay somewhere deep behind them.
Even she, although she loved him, thought him very hard sometimes; for
when he had once said a thing plainly, he could not be persuaded to
think it over again. So even she forgot him sometimes, and went her own
ways, and enjoyed herself without him. Most of them regarded him as a
sort of watchman, whose business it was to keep them in order; and so
they were indignant and disliked him. Yet they all had a secret feeling
that they ought to be subject to him; and after any particular act of
disregard, none of them could think, with any peace, of the old story
about the return of their father to his house. But indeed they never
thought much about it, or about their father at all; for how could those
who cared so little for their brother, whom they saw every day, care for
their father whom they had never seen?--One chief cause of complaint
against him was that he interfered with their favourite studies and
pursuits; whereas he only sought to make them give up trifling with
earnest things, and seek for truth, and not for amusement, from the many
wonders around them. He did not want them to turn to other studies, or
to eschew pleasures; but, in those studies, to seek the highest things
most, and other things in proportion to their true worth and nobleness.
This could not fail to be distasteful to those who did not care for what
was higher than they. And so matters went on for a time. They thought
they could do better without their brother; and their brother knew they
could not do at all without him, and tried to fulfil the charge
committed into his hands.

At length, one day, for the thought seemed to strike them
simultaneously, they conferred together about giving a great
entertainment in their grandest rooms to any of their neighbours who
chose to come, or indeed to any inhabitants of the earth or air who
would visit them. They were too proud to reflect that some company might
defile even the dwellers in what was undoubtedly the finest palace on
the face of the earth. But what made the thing worse, was, that the old
tradition said that these rooms were to be kept entirely for the use of
the owner of the castle. And, indeed, whenever they entered them, such
was the effect of their loftiness and grandeur upon their minds, that
they always thought of the old story, and could not help believing it.
Nor would the brother permit them to forget it now; but, appearing
suddenly amongst them, when they had no expectation of being interrupted
by him, he rebuked them, both for the indiscriminate nature of their
invitation, and for the intention of introducing any one, not to speak
of some who would doubtless make their appearance on the evening in
question, into the rooms kept sacred for the use of the unknown father.
But by this time their talk with each other had so excited their
expectations of enjoyment, which had previously been strong enough, that
anger sprung up within them at the thought of being deprived of their
hopes, and they looked each other in the eyes; and the look said: "We
are many and he is one--let us get rid of him, for he is always finding
fault, and thwarting us in the most innocent pleasures;--as if we would
wish to do anything wrong!" So without a word spoken, they rushed upon
him; and although he was stronger than any of them, and struggled hard
at first, yet they overcame him at last. Indeed some of them thought he
yielded to their violence long before they had the mastery of him; and
this very submission terrified the more tender-hearted amongst them.
However, they bound him; carried him down many stairs, and, having
remembered an iron staple in the wall of a certain vault, with a thick
rusty chain attached to it, they bore him thither, and made the chain
fast around him. There they left him, shutting the great gnarring brazen
door of the vault, as they departed for the upper regions of the castle.

Now all was in a tumult of preparation. Every one was talking of the
coming festivity; but no one spoke of the deed they had done. A sudden
paleness overspread the face, now of one, and now of another; but it
passed away, and no one took any notice of it; they only plied the task
of the moment the more energetically. Messengers were sent far and near,
not to individuals or families, but publishing in all places of
concourse a general invitation to any who chose to come on a certain
day, and partake for certain succeeding days of the hospitality of the
dwellers in the castle. Many were the preparations immediately begun for
complying with the invitation. But the noblest of their neighbours
refused to appear; not from pride, but because of the unsuitableness and
carelessness of such a mode. With some of them it was an old condition
in the tenure of their estates, that they should go to no one's dwelling
except visited in person, and expressly solicited. Others, knowing what
sort of persons would be there, and that, from a certain physical
antipathy, they could scarcely breathe in their company, made up their
minds at once not to go. Yet multitudes, many of them beautiful and
innocent as well as gay, resolved to appear.

Meanwhile the great rooms of the castle were got in readiness--that is,
they proceeded to deface them with decorations; for there was a
solemnity and stateliness about them in their ordinary condition, which
was at once felt to be unsuitable for the light-hearted company so soon
to move about in them with the self-same carelessness with which men
walk abroad within the great heavens and hills and clouds. One day,
while the workmen were busy, the eldest sister, of whom I have already
spoken, happened to enter, she knew not why. Suddenly the great idea of
the mighty halls dawned upon her, and filled her soul. The so-called
decorations vanished from her view, and she felt as if she stood in her
father's presence. She was at one elevated and humbled. As suddenly the
idea faded and fled, and she beheld but the gaudy festoons and draperies
and paintings which disfigured the grandeur. She wept and sped away. Now
it was too late to interfere, and things must take their course. She
would have been but a Cassandra-prophetess to those who saw but the
pleasure before them. She had not been present when her brother was
imprisoned; and indeed for some days had been so wrapt in her own
business, that she had taken but little heed of anything that was going
on. But they all expected her to show herself when the company was
gathered; and they had applied to her for advice at various times during
their operations.

At length the expected hour arrived, and the company began to assemble.
It was a warm summer evening. The dark lake reflected the rose-coloured
clouds in the west, and through the flush rowed many gaily painted
boats, with various coloured flags, towards the massy rock on which the
castle stood. The trees and flowers seemed already asleep, and breathing
forth their sweet dream-breath. Laughter and low voices rose from the
breast of the lake to the ears of the youths and maidens looking forth
expectant from the lofty windows. They went down to the broad platform
at the top of the stairs in front of the door to receive their visitors.
By degrees the festivities of the evening commenced. The same smiles
flew forth both at eyes and lips, darting like beams through the
gathering crowd. Music, from unseen sources, now rolled in billows, now
crept in ripples through the sea of air that filled the lofty rooms. And
in the dancing halls, when hand took hand, and form and motion were
moulded and swayed by the indwelling music, it governed not these alone,
but, as the ruling spirit of the place, every new burst of music for a
new dance swept before it a new and accordant odour, and dyed the flames
that glowed in the lofty lamps with a new and accordant stain. The
floors bent beneath the feet of the time-keeping dancers. But twice in
the evening some of the inmates started, and the pallor occasionally
common to the household overspread their faces, for they felt underneath
them a counter-motion to the dance, as if the floor rose slightly to
answer their feet. And all the time their brother lay below in the
dungeon, like John the Baptist in the castle of Herod, when the lords
and captains sat around, and the daughter of Herodias danced before
them. Outside, all around the castle, brooded the dark night unheeded;
for the clouds had come up from all sides, and were crowding together
overhead. In the unfrequent pauses of the music, they might have heard,
now and then, the gusty rush of a lonely wind, coming and going no one
could know whence or whither, born and dying unexpected and unregarded.

But when the festivities were at their height, when the external and
passing confidence which is produced between superficial natures by a
common pleasure was at the full, a sudden crash of thunder quelled the
music, as the thunder quells the noise of the uplifted sea. The windows
were driven in, and torrents of rain, carried in the folds of a rushing
wind, poured into the halls. The lights were swept away; and the great
rooms, now dark within, were darkened yet more by the dazzling shoots of
flame from the vault of blackness overhead. Those that ventured to look
out of the windows saw, in the blue brilliancy of the quick-following
jets of lightning, the lake at the foot of the rock, ordinarily so still
and so dark, lighted up, not on the surface only, but down to half its
depth; so that, as it tossed in the wind, like a tortured sea of
writhing flames, or incandescent half-molten serpents of brass, they
could not tell whether a strong phosphorescence did not issue from the
transparent body of the waters, as if earth and sky lightened together,
one consenting source of flaming utterance.

Sad was the condition of the late plastic mass of living form that had
flowed into shape at the will and law of the music. Broken into
individuals, the common transfusing spirit withdrawn, they stood
drenched, cold, and benumbed, with clinging garments; light, order,
harmony, purpose departed, and chaos restored; the issuings of life
turned back on their sources, chilly and dead. And in every heart
reigned the falsest of despairing convictions, that this was the only
reality, and that was but a dream. The eldest sister stood with clasped
hands and down-bent head, shivering and speechless, as if waiting for
something to follow. Nor did she wait long. A terrible flash and
thunder-peal made the castle rock; and in the pausing silence that
followed, her quick sense heard the rattling of a chain far off, deep
down; and soon the sound of heavy footsteps, accompanied with the
clanking of iron, reached her ear. She felt that her brother was at
hand. Even in the darkness, and amidst the bellowing of another
deep-bosomed cloud-monster, she knew that he had entered the room. A
moment after, a continuous pulsation of angry blue light began, which,
lasting for some moments, revealed him standing amidst them, gaunt,
haggard, and motionless; his hair and beard untrimmed, his face ghastly,
his eyes large and hollow. The light seemed to gather around him as a
centre. Indeed some believed that it throbbed and radiated from his
person, and not from the stormy heavens above them. The lightning had
rent the wall of his prison, and released the iron staple of his chain,
which he had wound about him like a girdle. In his hand he carried an
iron fetter-bar, which he had found on the floor of the vault. More
terrified at his aspect than at all the violence of the storm, the
visitors, with many a shriek and cry, rushed out into the tempestuous
night. By degrees, the storm died away. Its last flash revealed the
forms of the brothers and sisters lying prostrate, with their faces on
the floor, and that fearful shape standing motionless amidst them still.

Morning dawned, and there they lay, and there he stood. But at a word
from him, they arose and went about their various duties, though
listlessly enough. The eldest sister was the last to rise; and when she
did, it was only by a terrible effort that she was able to reach her
room, where she fell again on the floor. There she remained lying for
days. The brother caused the doors of the great suite of rooms to be
closed, leaving them just as they were, with all the childish adornment
scattered about, and the rain still falling in through the shattered
windows. "Thus let them lie," said he, "till the rain and frost have
cleansed them of paint and drapery: no storm can hurt the pillars and
arches of these halls."

The hours of this day went heavily. The storm was gone, but the rain was
left; the passion had departed, but the tears remained behind. Dull and
dark the low misty clouds brooded over the castle and the lake, and shut
out all the neighbourhood. Even if they had climbed to the loftiest
known turret, they would have found it swathed in a garment of clinging
vapour, affording no refreshment to the eye, and no hope to the heart.
There was one lofty tower that rose sheer a hundred feet above the rest,
and from which the fog could have been seen lying in a grey mass
beneath; but that tower they had not yet discovered, nor another close
beside it, the top of which was never seen, nor could be, for the
highest clouds of heaven clustered continually around it. The rain fell
continuously, though not heavily, without; and within, too, there were
clouds from which dropped the tears which are the rain of the spirit.
All the good of life seemed for the time departed, and their souls lived
but as leafless trees that had forgotten the joy of the summer, and whom
no wind prophetic of spring had yet visited. They moved about
mechanically, and had not strength enough left to wish to die.

The next day the clouds were higher, and a little wind blew through such
loopholes in the turrets as the false improvements of the inmates had
not yet filled with glass, shutting out, as the storm, so the serene
visitings of the heavens. Throughout the day, the brother took various
opportunities of addressing a gentle command, now to one and now to
another of his family. It was obeyed in silence. The wind blew fresher
through the loopholes and the shattered windows of the great rooms, and
found its way, by unknown passages, to faces and eyes hot with weeping.
It cooled and blessed them.--When the sun arose the next day, it was in
a clear sky.

By degrees, everything fell into the regularity of subordination. With
the subordination came increase of freedom. The steps of the more
youthful of the family were heard on the stairs and in the corridors
more light and quick than ever before. Their brother had lost the
terrors of aspect produced by his confinement, and his commands were
issued more gently, and oftener with a smile, than in all their previous
history. By degrees his presence was universally felt through the house.
It was no surprise to any one at his studies, to see him by his side
when he lifted up his eyes, though he had not before known that he was
in the room. However, Tommy is a sensible man. He realized that England
had a big contract to fulfill, and that the first duty was to provide
for the armies in the field. France, Russia, Belgium, all were looking
to England for supplies. Kitchener's Mob must wait, trusting to the
genius for organization, the faculty for getting things done, of its
great and worthy chief, K. of K.

* * * * * *
Our housing accommodations, throughout the autumn and winter of 1914-15,
when England was in such urgent need of shelter for her rapidly increasing
armies, were also of the makeshift order. We slept in leaky tents or in
hastily constructed wooden shelters, many of which were afterward condemned
by the medical inspectors.

St. Martin's Plain, Shorncliffe, was an ideal camping-site for pleasant
summer weather. But when the autumnal rains set in, the green
pasture land became a quagmire.
Mud was the great reality of our lives, the malignant deity which we fell
down (in) and propitiated with profane rites. It was a thin, watery mud
or a thick, viscous mud, as the steady downpour increased or diminished.

Late in November we were moved to a city of wooden huts at Sandling
Junction, to make room for newly recruited units. The dwellings were but
half-finished, the drains were open ditches, and the rains descended and
the floods came as usual. We lived an amphibious and wretched existence
until January, when, to our great joy, we were transferred to billets
in the Metropole, one of Folkestone's most fashionable hotels. To be sure,
we slept on bare floors, but the roof was rainproof, which was the
essential thing. The æsthetically inclined could lie in their blankets
at night, gazing at richly gilded mirrors over the mantelpieces and
beautifully frescoed ceilings refurnishing our apartments in all their
former splendor. Private Henry Morgan was not of this type. Henry came
in one evening rather the worse for liquor and with clubbed musket
assaulted his unlovely reflection in an expensive mirror.

I believe he is still paying for his lack of restraint at the rate of a
sixpence per day, and will have canceled his obligation by January, 1921,
if the war continues until that time.

* * * * * *
Although we were poorly equipped and sometimes wretchedly housed, the
commissariat was excellent and on the most generous scale from the very
beginning. Indeed, there was nearly as much food wasted as
eaten.
Naturally, the men made no complaint, although they regretted seeing such
quantities of food thrown daily into the refuse barrels. I often felt
that something should be done about it. Many _exposés_ were, in fact,
written from all parts of England. It was irritating to read of
German efficiency in the presence of England's extravagant and
unbusinesslike methods.

Tommy would say, "Lor, lummy! Ain't we got no pigs in England?
That there food won't be wasted. We'll be eatin' it in sausages w'en
we goes acrost the Channel"; whereupon he dismissed the whole question
from his mind. This seemed to me then the typical Anglo-Saxon
attitude.
Everywhere there was waste, muddle-headedness, and apparently it was
nobody's business, nobody's concern. Camps were sited in the wrong
places and buildings erected only to be condemned.

Tons of food were purchased overseas, transported across thousands of
miles of ocean, only to be thrown into refuse barrels. The Government
was robbed by avaricious hotel-keepers who made and were granted absurd
claims for damages done to their property by billeted troops. But
with vast new armies, recruited overnight, it is not strange that
there should be mismanagement and friction at first. As the months
passed, there was a marked change for the better. British efficiency
asserted itself. This was made evident to us in scores of ways--the
distribution of supplies, the housing and equipping of troops, their
movements from one training area to another.
At the last, we could only marvel that a great and complicated
military machine had been so admirably and quickly perfected.

* * * * * *
Meanwhile our rigorous training continued from week to week in all
weathers, even the most inclement. Reveille sounded at daybreak. For an
hour before breakfast we did Swedish drill, a system of
gymnastics which brought every lazy and disused muscle into play. Two
hours daily were given to musketry practice. We were instructed in the
description and recognition of targets, the use of cover, but chiefly in
the use of our rifles. Through constant handling they became a part
of us, a third arm which we grew to use quite instinctively. We fired
the recruit's, and later, the trained soldier's course in musketry on
the rifle ranges at Hythe and Aldershot, gradually improving our
technique, until we were able to fire with some accuracy, fifteen rounds
per minute. When we had achieved this difficult feat, we ceased to be
recruits. We were skilled soldiers of the proud and illustrious order
known as "England's Mad-Minute Men."

After musketry practice, the remainder of the day was given to extended
order, company, and battalion drill. Twice weekly we route-marched
from ten to fifteen miles; and at night, after the parades for the
day were finished, boxing and wrestling contests, arranged and encouraged
by our officers, kept the red blood pounding through our bodies until
"lights out" sounded at nine o'clock.

The character of our training changed as we progressed. We were done with
squad, platoon, and company drill. Then came field maneuvers,
attacks in open formation upon intrenched positions, finishing always
with terrific bayonet charges. There were mimic battles, lasting all
day, with from ten to twenty thousand men on each side. Artillery,
infantry, cavalry, air craft--every branch of army service, in
fact--had a share in these exciting field days when we gained bloodless
victories or died painless and easy deaths at the command of red-capped
field judges. We rushed boldly to the charge, shouting lustily, each
man striving to be first at the enemy's position, only to be
intercepted by a staff officer on horseback, staying the tide of battle
with uplifted hand.

"March your men back, officer! You're out of action! My word! You've
made a beastly mess of it!

You're not on church parade, you know! You advanced across the open for
three quarters of a mile in close column of platoons!
Three batteries of field artillery and four machine guns have blown you
to blazes! You haven't a man left!"
Sometimes we reached our objective with less fearful slaughter, but at
the moment when there should have been the sharp clash and clang of steel
on steel, the cries and groans of men fighting for their lives,
we heard the bugles from far and near, sounding the "stand
by," and friend and enemy dropped wearily to the ground for a rest
while our officers assembled in conference around the motor of the
divisional general.

All this was playing at war, and Tommy was "fed up" with play. As
we marched back to barracks after a long day of monotonous field maneuvers,
he eased his mind by making sarcastic comments upon this inconclusive
kind of warfare. He began to doubt the good faith of the War Office in
calling ours a "service" battalion. As likely as not we were for home
defense and would never be sent abroad.

"Left! Right! Left! Right!

Why did I join the army?
Oh! Why did I ever join Kitchener's Mob?
Lor lummy! I must 'ave been balmy!"--
became the favorite, homeward-bound marching song. And so he "groused"
and grumbled after the manner of Tommies the world over. And in the mean
time he was daily approaching more nearly the standard of efficiency
set by England's inexorable War Lord

.

* * * * * *
It was interesting to note the physical improvement in the men wrought
by a life of healthy, well-ordered routine. My battalion was recruited
largely from what is known in England as "the lower middle classes." There
were shop assistants, clerks, railway and city employees, tradesmen,
and a generous sprinkling of common laborers.

Many of them had been used to indoor life, practically all of them to
city life, and needed months of the hardest kind of training before they
could be made physically fit, before they could be seasoned and
toughened to withstand the hardships of active service.

Plenty of hard work in the open air brought great and welcome
changes.

The men talked of their food, anticipated it with a zest which came
from realizing, for the first time, the joy of being genuinely
hungry.

They watched their muscles harden with the satisfaction known to every
normal man when he is becoming physically efficient. Food, exercise, and
rest, taken in wholesome quantities and at regular intervals, were having
the usual excellent results. For my own part, I had never before been in
such splendid health. I wished that it might at all times be possible
for democracies to exercise a beneficent paternalism over the lives of
their citizenry, at least in matters of health. It seems a great pity
that the principle of personal freedom should be responsible for so
many ill-shaped and ill-sorted physical incompetents. My fellow Tommies
were living, really living, for the first time. They had never before
known what it means to be radiantly, buoyantly healthy.

There were, as well, more profound and subtle changes in thoughts and
habits. The restraints of discipline and the very exacting character of
military life and training gave them self-control, mental alertness.
At the beginning, they were individuals, no more cohesive than so
many grains of wet sand. After nine months of training they acted as
a unit, obeying orders with that instinctive promptness of action
which is so essential on the field of battle when men think scarcely
at all. But it is true that what was their gain as soldiers was, to
a certain extent, their loss as individuals. When we went on active service
I noted that men who were excellent followers were not infrequently
lost when called upon for independent action. They had not been trained
to take the initiative, and had become so accustomed to having their
thinking done for them that they often became confused and excited when
they had to do it for themselves.

Discipline was an all-important factor in the daily grind. At the
beginning of their training, the men of the new armies were gently
dealt with. Allowances were made for civilian frailties and
shortcomings. But as they adapted themselves to changed conditions,
restrictions became increasingly severe. Old privileges disappeared
one by one. Individual liberty became a thing of the past. The men
resented this bitterly for a time. Fierce hatreds of officers and
N.C.O.s were engendered and there was much talk of revenge when we should
get to the front. I used to look forward with misgiving to that day.
It seemed probable that one night in the trenches would suffice for a
wholesale slaughtering of officers.

Old scores were to be paid off, old grudges wiped out with our first
issue of ball ammunition. Many a fist-banged board at the wet
canteen gave proof of Tommy's earnestness.

"Shoot 'im?" he would say, rattling the beer glasses the whole length
of the table with a mighty blow of his fist. "Blimy! Wite! That's all
you got to do! Just wite till we get on the other side!"
But all these threats were forgotten months before the time came for
carrying them out. Once Tommy understood the reasonableness of severe
discipline, he took his punishment for his offenses without complaint.
He realized, too, the futility of kicking against the pricks. In the
army he belonged to the Government body and soul. He might resent its
treatment of him.

He might behave like a sulky school-boy, disobey order after order, and
break rule after rule. In that case he found himself check-mated at every
turn. Punishment became more and more severe. No one was at all concerned
about his grievances. He might become an habitual offender from sheer
stupidity, but in doing so, he injured no one but himself.

A few of these incorrigibles were discharged in disgrace. A few followed
the lead of the Boer warrior. After many threats which we despaired of
his ever carrying out, he finally "greased off."

He was immediately posted as a deserter, but to our great joy was never
captured. With the disappearance of the malcontents and incorrigibles
the battalion soon reached a high grade of efficiency. The physical
incompetents were likewise ruthlessly weeded out. All of us had passed
a fairly thorough examination at the recruiting offices; but many had
physical defects which were discovered only by the test of actual
training. In the early days of the war, requirements were much more
severe than later, when England learned how great would be the need
for men. Many, who later reënlisted in other regiments, were discharged
as "physically unfit for further military service."
If the standard of conduct in my battalion is any criterion, then I can
say truthfully that there is very little crime in Lord Kitchener's armies
either in England or abroad. The "jankers" or defaulters' squad was always
rather large; but the "jankers men" were offenders against minor points
in discipline. Their crimes were untidy appearance on parade,
inattention in the ranks, tardiness at roll-call, and others of the
sort, all within the jurisdiction of a company officer. The punishment
meted out varied according to the seriousness of the offense, and
the past-conduct record of the offender. It usually consisted of from
one to ten days, "C.B."--confined to barracks. During the period of his
sentence the offender was forbidden to leave camp after the parades
for the day were ended.

And in order that he might have no opportunity to do so, he was compelled
to answer his name at the guard-room whenever it should be sounded.

Only twice in England did we have a general court-martial, the offense
in each case being assault by a private upon an N.C.O., and the
penalty awarded, three months in the military prison at Aldershot. Tommy
was quiet and law-abiding in England, his chief lapses being due to
an exaggerated estimate of his capacity for beer. In France, his
conduct, in so far as my observation goes, has been splendid throughout.
During six months in the trenches I saw but two instances of drunkenness.
Although I witnessed nearly everything which took place in my own
battalion, and heard the general gossip of many others, never did I
see or hear of a woman treated otherwise than courteously. Neither did
I see or hear of any instances of looting or petty pilfering from the
civilian inhabitants. It is true that the men had fewer opportunities
for misconduct, and they were fighting in a friendly country. Even
so, active service as we found it was by no means free from
temptations. The admirable restraint of most of the men in the
face of them was a fine thing to see.

Frequent changes were made in methods of training in England, to correspond
with changing conditions of modern warfare as exemplified in the
trenches. Textbooks on military tactics and strategy, which were the
inspired gospel of the last generation of soldiers, became obsolete
overnight. Experience gained in Indian Mutiny wars or on the veldt in
South Africa was of little value in the trenches in Flanders. The
emphasis shifted from open fighting to trench warfare, and the textbook
which our officers studied was a typewritten serial issued semiweekly
by the War Office, and which was based on the dearly bought
experience of officers at the front.

We spent many a starry night on the hills above Folkestone digging trenches
and building dug-outs according to General Staff instructions, and
many a rainy one we came home, covered with mud, but happy in the thought
that we were approximating, as nearly as could be, the experience of
the boys at the front. Bomb-throwing squads were formed, and the
best shots in the battalion, the men who had made marksmen's scores
on the rifle ranges, were given daily instruction in the important
business of sniping. More generous provision for the training of
machine-gun teams was made, but so great was the lack in England of
these important weapons, that for many weeks we drilled with wooden
substitutes, gaining such knowledge of machine gunnery as we could from
the study of our M.G.
manuals.

These new duties, coming as an addition to our other work, meant an increased
period of training.

We were impatient to be at the front, but we realized by this time
that Lord Kitchener was serious in his demand that the men of the
new armies be efficiently trained. Therefore we worked with a will,
and at last, after nine months of monotonous toil, the order came. We
were to proceed on active service.

CHAPTER IV
ORDERED ABROAD

One Sunday morning in May we assembled on the barrack square at Aldershot
for the last time. Every man was in full marching order. His rifle was
the "Short Lee Enfield, Mark IV," his bayonet, the long single-edged
blade in general use throughout the British Army. In addition to his
arms he carried 120 rounds of ".303" caliber ammunition, an intrenching-tool,
water-bottle, haversack, containing both emergency and the day's rations,
and his pack, strapped to shoulders and waist in such a way that the
weight of it was equally distributed. His pack contained the following
articles: A greatcoat, a woolen shirt, two or three pairs of socks,
a change of underclothing, a "housewife,"--the soldiers' sewing-kit,--a
towel, a cake of soap, and a "hold-all," in which were a knife,
fork, spoon, razor, shaving-brush, toothbrush, and comb.

All of these were useful and sometimes essential articles, particularly
the toothbrush, which Tommy regarded as the best little instrument for
cleaning the mechanism of a rifle ever invented. Strapped on top
of the pack was the blanket roll wrapped in a waterproof ground sheet;
and hanging beneath it, the canteen in its khaki-cloth cover.

Each man wore an identification disk on a cord about his neck. It was
stamped with his name, regimental number, regiment, and religion. A
first-aid field dressing, consisting of an antiseptic gauze pad and
bandage and a small vial of iodine, sewn in the lining of his tunic,
completed the equipment.

Physically, the men were "in the pink," as Tommy says. They were
clear-eyed, vigorous, alert, and as hard as nails. With their caps on,
they looked the well-trained soldiers which they were; but with caps
removed, they resembled so many uniformed convicts less the prison
pallor. "Oversea haircuts" were the last tonsorial cry, and for several
days previous to our departure, the army hairdressers had been busily
wielding the close-cutting clippers.

Each of us had received a copy of Lord Kitchener's letter to the troops
ordered abroad, a brief, soldierlike statement of the standard of conduct
which England expected of her fighting men:--
You are ordered abroad as a soldier of the King to help our French comrades
against the invasion of a common enemy. You have to perform a task
which will need your courage, your energy, your patience. Remember that
the honor of the British Army depends upon your individual conduct.
It will be your duty not only to set an example of discipline and
perfect steadiness under fire, but also to maintain the most friendly
relations with those whom you are helping in this struggle.

The operations in which you are engaged will, for the most part,
take place in a friendly country, and you can do your own country no
better service than in showing yourself, in France and Belgium, in the
true character of a British soldier.

Be invariably courteous, considerate, and kind. Never do anything likely
to injure or destroy property, and always look upon looting as a disgraceful
act. You are sure to meet with a welcome and to be trusted; and your
conduct must justify that welcome and that trust. Your duty cannot
be done unless your health is sound.
So keep constantly on your guard against any excesses. In this new
experience you may find temptations both in wine and women.
You must entirely resist both temptations, and while treating all women
with perfect courtesy, you should avoid any intimacy.

Do your duty bravely.
Fear God.
Honor the King.
Kitchener, _Field-Marshal_.
It was an effective appeal and a constant reminder to the men of
the glorious traditions of the British Army. In the months that
followed, I had opportunity to learn how deep and lasting was the
impression made upon them by Lord Kitchener's first, and I believe
his only, letter to his soldiers.
The machinery for moving troops in England works without the slightest
friction. The men, transport, horses, commissariat, medical stores,
and supplies of a battalion are entrained in less than half an
hour.
Everything is timed to the minute. Battalion after battalion and
train after train, we moved out of Aldershot at half-hour intervals.
Each train arrived at the port of embarkation on schedule time and
pulled up on the docks by the side of a troop transport, great
slate-colored liners taken out of the merchant service. Not a moment
was lost. The last man was aboard and the last wagon on the crane
swinging up over the ship's side as the next train came in.
Ship by ship we moved down the harbor in the twilight, the boys
crowding the rail on both sides, taking their farewell look at
England--home. It was the last farewell for many of them, but there
was no martial music, no waving of flags, no tearful good-byes. Our
farewell was as prosaic as our long period of training had been.
We were each one a very small part of a tremendous business
organization which works without any of the display considered so
essential in the old days.
We left England without a cheer. There was not so much as a wave
of the hand from the wharf; for there was no one on the wharf to
wave, with the exception of a few dock laborers, and they had seen
too many soldiers off to the front to be sentimental about it. It
was a tense moment for the men, but trust Tommy to relieve a tense
situation. As we steamed away from the landing slip, we passed a
barge, loaded to the water's edge with coal. Tommy has a song pat
to every occasion. He enjoys, above all things, giving a ludicrous
twist to a "weepy" ballad. When we were within hailing distance of
the coal barge, he began singing one of this variety, "Keep the
Home Fires Burning," to those smutty-faced barge hands.Next door to the house in which Elsie resided, dwelt a tradesman and his
wife, who kept an indefinite sort of shop, in which various kinds of
goods were exposed for sale. Their youngest son was about the same age
as Elsie; and while they were rather more than children, and less than
young people, he spent many of his evenings with her, somewhat to the
loss of position in his classes at the parish school. They were, indeed,
much attached to each other; and, peculiarly constituted as Elsie was,
one may imagine what kind of heavenly messenger a companion stronger
than herself must have been to her. In fact, if she could have framed
the undefinable need of her childlike nature into an articulate prayer,
it would have been--"Give me some one to love me stronger than I." Any
love was helpful, yes, in its degree, saving to her poor troubled soul;
but the hope, as they grew older together, that the powerful, yet
tender-hearted youth, really loved her, and would one day make her his
wife, was like the opening of heavenly eyes of life and love in the
hitherto blank and deathlike face of her existence. But nothing had been
said of love, although they met and parted like lovers.

Doubtless, if the circles of their thought and feeling had continued as
now to intersect each other, there would have been no interruption to
their affection; but the time at length arrived when the old couple,
seeing the rest of their family comfortably settled in life, resolved to
make a gentleman of the youngest; and so sent him from school to
college. The facilities existing in Scotland for providing a
professional training enabled them to educate him as a surgeon. He
parted from Elsie with some regret; but, far less dependent on her than
she was on him, and full of the prospects of the future, he felt none of
that sinking at the heart which seemed to lay her whole nature open to a
fresh inroad of all the terrors and sorrows of her peculiar existence.
No correspondence took place between them. New pursuits and relations,
and the development of his tastes and judgments, entirely altered the
position of poor Elsie in his memory. Having been, during their
intercourse, far less of a man than she of a woman, he had no definite
idea of the place he had occupied in her regard; and in his mind she
receded into the background of the past, without his having any idea
that she would suffer thereby, or that he was unjust towards her; while,
in her thoughts, his image stood in the highest and clearest relief. It
was the centre-point from which and towards which all lines radiated and
converged; and although she could not but be doubtful about the future,
yet there was much hope mingled with her doubts.

But when, at the close of two years, he visited his native village, and
she saw before her, instead of the homely youth who had left her that
winter evening, one who, to her inexperienced eyes, appeared a finished
gentleman, her heart sank within her, as if she had found Nature herself
false in her ripening processes, destroying the beautiful promise of a
former year by changing instead of developing her creations. He spoke
kindly to her, but not cordially. To her ear the voice seemed to come
from a great distance out of the past; and while she looked upon him,
that optical change passed over her vision, which all have experienced
after gazing abstractedly on any object for a time: his form grew very
small, and receded to an immeasurable distance; till, her imagination
mingling with the twilight haze of her senses, she seemed to see him
standing far off on a hill, with the bright horizon of sunset for a
background to his clearly defined figure.

She knew no more till she found herself in bed in the dark; and the
first message that reached her from the outer world was the infernal
growl of the bull-dog from the room below. Next day she saw her lover
walking with two ladies, who would have thought it some degree of
condescension to speak to her; and he passed the house without once
looking towards it.

One who is sufficiently possessed by the demon of nervousness to be glad
of the magnetic influences of a friend's company in a public promenade,
or of a horse beneath him in passing through a churchyard, will have
some faint idea of how utterly exposed and defenceless poor Elsie now
felt on the crowded thoroughfare of life. And so the insensibility which
had overtaken her, was not the ordinary swoon with which Nature relieves
the overstrained nerves, but the return of the epileptic fits of her
early childhood; and if the condition of the poor girl had been pitiable
before, it was tenfold more so now. Yet she did not complain, but bore
all in silence, though it was evident that her health was giving way.
But now, help came to her from a strange quarter; though many might not
be willing to accord the name of help to that which rather hastened than
retarded the progress of her decline.

She had gone to spend a few of the summer days with a relative in the
country, some miles from her home, if home it could be called. One
evening, towards sunset, she went out for a solitary walk. Passing from
the little garden gate, she went along a bare country road for some
distance, and then, turning aside by a footpath through a thicket of low
trees, she came out in a lonely little churchyard on the hillside.
Hardly knowing whether or not she had intended to go there, she seated
herself on a mound covered with long grass, one of many. Before her
stood the ruins of an old church which was taking centuries to crumble.
Little remained but the gable wall, immensely thick, and covered with
ancient ivy. The rays of the setting sun fell on a mound at its foot,
not green like the rest, but of a rich red-brown in the rosy sunset, and
evidently but newly heaped up. Her eyes, too, rested upon it. Slowly the
sun sank below the near horizon.

As the last brilliant point disappeared, the ivy darkened, and a wind
arose and shook all its leaves, making them look cold and troubled; and
to Elsie's ear came a low faint sound, as from a far-off bell. But close
beside her--and she started and shivered at the sound--rose a deep,
monotonous, almost sepulchral voice, "_Come hame, come hame! The wow,
the wow_!"

At once she understood the whole. She sat in the churchyard of the
ancient parish church of Ruthven; and when she lifted up her eyes, there
she saw, in the half-ruined belfry, the old bell, all but hidden with
ivy, which the passing wind had roused to utter one sleepy tone; and
there beside her, stood the fool with the bell on his arm; and to him
and to her the _wow o' Rivven_ said, "_Come hame, come hame_!" Ah, what
did she want in the whole universe of God but a home? And though the
ground beneath was hard, and the sky overhead far and boundless, and the
hillside lonely and companionless, yet somewhere within the visible and
beyond these the outer surface of creation, there might be a home for
her; as round the wintry house the snows lie heaped up cold and white
and dreary all the long _forenight_, while within, beyond the closed
shutters, and giving no glimmer through the thick stone wall, the fires
are blazing joyously, and the voice and laughter of young unfrozen
children are heard, and nothing belongs to winter but the grey hairs on
the heads of the parents, within whose warm hearts childlike voices are
heard, and childlike thoughts move to and fro. The kernel of winter
itself is spring, or a sleeping summer.

It was no wonder that the fool, cast out of the earth on a far more
desolate spot than this, should seek to return within her bosom at this
place of open doors, and should call it _home_. For surely the surface
of the earth had no home for him. The mound at the foot of the gable
contained the body of one who had shown him kindness. He had followed
the funeral that afternoon from the town, and had remained behind with
the bell. Indeed it was his custom, though Elsie had not known it, to
follow every funeral going to this, his favourite churchyard of Ruthven;
and, possibly in imitation of its booming, for it was still tolled at
the funerals, he had given the old bell the name of _the wow_, and had
translated its monotonous clangour into the articulate sounds--_come
hame, come hame_. What precise meaning he attached to the words, it is
impossible to say; but it was evident that the place possessed a strange
attraction for him, drawing him towards it by the cords of some
spiritual magnetism. It is possible that in the mind of the idiot there
may have been some feeling about this churchyard and bell, which, in the
mind of another, would have become a grand poetic thought; a feeling as
if the ghostly old bell hung at the church door of the invisible world,
and ever and anon rung out joyous notes (though they sounded sad in the
ears of the living), calling to the children of the unseen to _come
home, come home_. She sat for some time in silence; for the bell did not
ring again, and the fool spoke no more; till the dews began to fall,
when she rose and went home, followed by her companion, who passed the
night in the barn. From that hour Elsie was furnished with a visual
image of the rest she sought; an image which, mingling with deeper and
holier thoughts, became, like the bow set in the cloud, the earthly
pledge and sign of the fulfilment of heavenly hopes. Often when the
wintry fog of cold discomfort and homelessness filled her soul, all at
once the picture of the little churchyard--with the old gable and
belfry, and the slanting sunlight steeping down to the very roots of the
long grass on the graves--arose in the darkened chamber (_camera
obscura,_) of her soul; and again she heard the faint Aeolian sound of
the bell, and the voice of the prophet-fool who interpreted the oracle;
and the inward weariness was soothed by the promise of a long sleep. Who
can tell how many have been counted fools simply because they were
prophets; or how much of the madness in the world may be the utterance
of thoughts true and just, but belonging to a region differing from ours
in its nature and scenery!

But to Elsie looking out of her window came the mocking tones of the
idle boys who had chosen as the vehicle of their scorn the very words
which showed the relation of the fool to the eternal, and revealed in
him an element higher far than any yet developed in them. They turned
his glory into shame, like the enemies of David when they mocked the
would-be king. And the best in a man is often that which is most
condemned by those who have not attained to his goodness. The words,
however, even as repeated by the boys, had not solely awakened
indignation at the persecution of the old man: they had likewise
comforted her with the thought of the refuge that awaited both him and
her.

But the same evening a worse trial was in store for her. Again she sat
near the window, oppressed by the consciousness that her brother had
come in. He had gone upstairs, and his dog had remained at the door,
exchanging surly compliments with some of his own kind, when the fool
came strolling past, and, I do not know from what cause, the dog flew at
him. Elsie heard his cry and looked up. Her fear of the brute vanished
in a moment before her sympathy for her friend. She darted from the
house, and rushed towards the dog to drag him off the defenceless idiot,
calling him by his name in a tone of anger and dislike. He left the
fool, and, springing at Elsie, seized her by the arm above the elbow
with such a grip that, in the midst of her agony, she fancied she heard
the bone crack. But she uttered no cry, for the most apprehensive are
sometimes the most courageous. Just then, however, her former lover was
coming along the street, and, catching a glimpse of what had happened,
was on the spot in an instant, took the dog by the throat with a gripe
not inferior to his own, and having thus compelled him to relax his
hold, dashed him on the ground with a force that almost stunned him, and
then with a superadded kick sent him away limping and howling; whereupon
the fool, attacking him furiously with a stick, would certainly have
finished him, had not his master descried his plight and come to his
rescue.

Meantime the young surgeon had carried Elsie into the house; for, as
soon as she was rescued from the dog, she had fallen down in one of her
fits, which were becoming more and more frequent of themselves, and
little needed such a shock as this to increase their violence. He was
dressing her arm when she began to recover; and when she opened her
eyes, in a state of half-consciousness, he first object she beheld was
his face bending over her. Recalling nothing of what had occurred, it
seemed to her, in the dreamy condition in which the fit had left her,
the same face, unchanged, which had once shone in upon her tardy
springtime, and promised to ripen it into summer. She forgot it had
departed and left her in the wintry cold. And so she uttered wild words
of love and trust; and the youth, while stung with remorse at his own
neglect, was astonished to perceive the poetic forms of beauty in which
the soul of the uneducated maiden burst into flower. But as her senses
recovered themselves, the face gradually changed to her, as if the slow
alteration of two years had been phantasmagorically compressed into a
few moments; and the glow departed from the maiden's thoughts and words,
and her soul found itself at the narrow window of the present, from
which she could behold but a dreary country.--From the street came the
iambic cry of the fool, _"Come hame, come hame."_

Tycho Brahe, I think, is said to have kept a fool, who frequently sat at
his feet in his study, and to whose mutterings he used to listen in the
pauses of his own thought. The shining soul of the astronomer drew forth
the rainbow of harmony from the misty spray of words ascending ever from
the dark gulf into which the thoughts of the idiot were ever falling. He
beheld curious concurrences of words therein; and could read strange
meanings from them--sometimes even received wondrous hints for the
direction of celestial inquiry, from what, to any other, and it may be
to the fool himself, was but a ceaseless and aimless babble. Such power
lieth in words. It is not then to be wondered at, that the sounds I have
mentioned should fall on the ears of Elsie, at such a moment, as a
message from God Himself. This then--all this dreariness--was but a
passing show like the rest, and there lay somewhere for her a reality--a
home. The tears burst up from her oppressed heart. She received the
message, and prepared to go home. From that time her strength gradually
sank, but her spirits as steadily rose.

The strength of the fool, too, began to fail, for he was old. He bore
all the signs of age, even to the grey hairs, which betokened no wisdom.
But one cannot say what wisdom might be in him, or how far he had fought
his own battle, and been victorious. Whether any notion of a continuance
of life and thought dwelt in his brain, it is impossible to tell; but he
seemed to have the idea that this was not his home; and those who saw
him gradually approaching his end, might well anticipate for him a
higher life in the world to come. He had passed through this world
without ever awaking to such a consciousness of being as is common to
mankind. He had spent his years like a weary dream through a long
night--a strange, dismal, unkindly dream; and now the morning was at
hand. Often in his dream had he listened with sleepy senses to the
ringing of the bell, but that bell would awake him at last. He was like
a seed buried too deep in the soil, to which the light has never
penetrated, and which, therefore, has never forced its way upwards to
the open air, ever experienced the resurrection of the dead. But seeds
will grow ages after they have fallen into the earth; and, indeed, with
many kinds, and within some limits, the older the seed before it
germinates, the more plentiful the fruit. And may it not be believed of
many human beings, that, the Great Husbandman having sown them like
seeds in the soil of human affairs, there they lie buried a life long;
and only after the upturning of the soil by death reach a position in
which the awakening of their aspiration and the consequent growth become
possible. Surely He has made nothing in vain.

A violent cold and cough brought him at last near to his end, and
hearing that he was ill, Elsie ventured one bright spring day to go to
see him. When she entered the miserable room where he lay, he held out
his hand to her with something like a smile, and muttered feebly and
painfully, "I'm gaein' to the wow, nae to come back again." Elsie could
not restrain her tears; while the old man, looking fixedly at her,
though with meaningless eyes, muttered, for the last time, "_Come hame!
come hame!_" and sank into a lethargy, from which nothing could rouse
him, till, next morning, he was waked by friendly death from the long
sleep of this world's night. They bore him to his favourite churchyard,
and buried him within the site of the old church, below his loved bell,
which had ever been to him as the cuckoo-note of a coming spring. Thus
he at length obeyed its summons, and went home.

Elsie lingered till the first summer days lay warm on the land. Several
kind hearts in the village, hearing of her illness, visited her and
ministered to her. Wondering at her sweetness and patience, they
regretted they had not known her before. How much consolation might not
their kindness have imparted, and how much might not their sympathy have
strengthened her on her painful road! But they could not long have
delayed her going home. Nor, mentally constituted as she was, would this
have been at all to be desired. Indeed it was chiefly the expectation of
departure that quieted and soothed her tremulous nature. It is true that
a deep spring of hope and faith kept singing on in her heart, but this
alone, without the anticipation of speedy release, could only have kept
her mind at peace. It could not have reached, at least for a long time,
the border land between body and mind, in which her disease lay.

One still night of summer, the nurse who watched by her bedside heard
her murmur through her sleep, "I hear it: _come hame--come hame_. I'm
comin', I'm comin'--I'm gaein' hame to the wow, nae to come back." She
awoke at the sound of her own words, and begged the nurse to convey to
her brother her last request, that she might be buried by the side of
the fool, within the old church of Ruthven. Then she turned her face to
the wall, and in the morning was found quiet and cold. She must have
died within a few minutes after her last words. She was buried according
to her request; and thus she too went home.

Side by side rest the aged fool and the young maiden; for the bell
called them, and they obeyed; and surely they found the fire burning
bright, and heard friendly voices, and felt sweet lips on theirs, in the
home to which they went. Surely both intellect and love were waiting
them there.

Still the old bell hangs in the old gable; and whenever another is borne
to the old churchyard, it keeps calling to those who are left behind,
with the same sad, but friendly and unchanging voice--_"Come hame! come
hame! come hame!"_

"Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself:
for the Lord shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy
mourning shall be ended."--ISA. LX 20.


THE BROKEN SWORDS


The eyes of three, two sisters and a brother, gazed for the last time on
a great pale-golden star, that followed the sun down the steep west. It
went down to arise again; and the brother about to depart might return,
but more than the usual doubt hung upon his future. For between the
white dresses of the sisters, shone his scarlet coat and golden
sword-knot, which he had put on for the first time, more to gratify
their pride than his own vanity. The brightening moon, as if prophetic
of a future memory, had already begun to dim the scarlet and the gold,
and to give them a pale, ghostly hue. In her thoughtful light the whole
group seemed more like a meeting in the land of shadows, than a parting
in the substantial earth. But which should be called the land of
realities?--the region where appearance, and space, and time drive
between, and stop the flowing currents of the soul's speech? or that
region where heart meets heart, and appearance has become the slave to
utterance, and space and time are forgotten?

Through the quiet air came the far-off rush of water, and the near cry
of the land-rail. Now and then a chilly wind blew unheeded through the
startled and jostling leaves that shaded the ivy-seat. Else, there was
calm everywhere, rendered yet deeper and more intense by the dusky
sorrow that filled their hearts. For, far away, hundreds of miles beyond
the hearing of their ears, roared the great war-guns; next week their
brother must sail with his regiment to join the army; and tomorrow he
must leave his home.

The sisters looked on him tenderly, with vague fears about his fate. Yet
little they divined it. That the face they loved might lie pale and
bloody, in a heap of slain, was the worst image of it that arose before
them; but this, had they seen the future, they would, in ignorance of
the further future, have infinitely preferred to that which awaited him.
And even while they looked on him, a dim feeling of the unsuitableness
of his lot filled their minds. For, indeed, to all judgments it must
have seemed unsuitable that the home-boy, the loved of his mother, the
pet of his sisters, who was happy womanlike (as Coleridge says), if he
possessed the signs of love, having never yet sought for its
proofs--that he should be sent amongst soldiers, to command and be
commanded; to kill, or perhaps to be himself crushed out of the fair
earth in the uproar that brings back for the moment the reign of Night
and Chaos. No wonder that to his sisters it seemed strange and sad. Yet
such was their own position in the battle of life, in which their father
had died with doubtful conquest, that when their old military uncle sent
the boy an ensign's commission, they did not dream of refusing the only
path open, as they thought, to an honourable profession, even though it
might lead to the trench-grave. They heard it as the voice of destiny,
wept, and yielded.

If they had possessed a deeper insight into his character, they would
have discovered yet further reason to doubt the fitness of the
profession chosen for him; and if they had ever seen him at school, it
is possible the doubt of fitness might have strengthened into a
certainty of incongruity. His comparative inactivity amongst his
schoolfellows, though occasioned by no dulness of intellect, might have
suggested the necessity of a quiet life, if inclination and liking had
been the arbiters in the choice. Nor was this inactivity the result of
defective animal spirits either, for sometimes his mirth and boyish
frolic were unbounded; but it seemed to proceed from an over-activity of
the inward life, absorbing, and in some measure checking, the outward
manifestation. He had so much to do in his own hidden kingdom, that he
had not time to take his place in the polity and strife of the
commonwealth around him. Hence, while other boys were acting, he was
thinking. In this point of difference, he felt keenly the superiority of
many of his companions; for another boy would have the obstacle
overcome, or the adversary subdued, while he was meditating on the
propriety, or on the means, of effecting the desired end. He envied
their promptitude, while they never saw reason to envy his wisdom; for
his conscience, tender and not strong, frequently transformed slowness
of determination into irresolution: while a delicacy of the sympathetic
nerves tended to distract him from any predetermined course, by the
diversity of their vibrations, responsive to influences from all
quarters, and destructive to unity of purpose.

Of such a one, the _a priori_ judgment would be, that he ought to be
left to meditate and grow for some time, before being called upon to
produce the fruits of action. But add to these mental conditions a vivid
imagination, and a high sense of honour, nourished in childhood by the
reading of the old knightly romances, and then put the youth in a
position in which action is imperative, and you have elements of strife
sufficient to reduce that fair kingdom of his to utter anarchy and
madness. Yet so little, do we know ourselves, and so different are the
symbols with which the imagination works its algebra, from the realities
which those symbols represent, that as yet the youth felt no uneasiness,
but contemplated his new calling with a glad enthusiasm and some vanity;
for all his prospect lay in the glow of the scarlet and the gold. Nor
did this excitement receive any check till the day before his departure,
on which day I have introduced him to my readers, when, accidently
taking up a newspaper of a week old, his eye fell on these
words--"_Already crying women are to be met in the streets_." With this
cloud afar on his horizon, which, though no bigger than a man's hand,
yet cast a perceptible shadow over his mind, he departed next morning.
The coach carried him beyond the consecrated circle of home laws and
impulses, out into the great tumult, above which rises ever and anon the
cry of Cain, "Am I my brother's keeper?"

Every tragedy of higher order, constructed in Christian times, will
correspond more or less to the grand drama of the Bible; wherein the
first act opens with a brilliant sunset vision of Paradise, in which
childish sense and need are served with all the profusion of the
indulgent nurse. But the glory fades off into grey and black, and night
settles down upon the heart which, rightly uncontent with the childish,
and not having yet learned the childlike, seeks knowledge and manhood as
a thing denied by the Maker, and yet to be gained by the creature; so
sets forth alone to climb the heavens, and instead of climbing, falls
into the abyss. Then follows the long dismal night of feverish efforts
and delirious visions, or, it may be, helpless despair; till at length a
deeper stratum of the soul is heaved to the surface; and amid the first
dawn of morning, the youth says within him, "I have sinned against my
_Maker_--I will arise and go to my _Father_." More or less, I say, will
Christian tragedy correspond to this--a fall and a rising again; not a
rising only, but a victory; not a victory merely, but a triumph. Such,
in its way and degree, is my story. I have shown, in one passing scene,
the home paradise; now I have to show a scene of a far differing nature.

The young ensign was lying in his tent, weary, but wakeful. All day long
the cannon had been bellowing against the walls of the city, which now
lay with wide, gaping breach, ready for the morrow's storm, but covered
yet with the friendly darkness. His regiment was ordered to be ready
with the earliest dawn to march up to the breach. That day, for the
first time, there had been blood on his sword--there the sword lay, a
spot on the chased hilt still. He had cut down one of the enemy in a
skirmish with a sally party of the besieged and the look of the man as
he fell, haunted him. He felt, for the time, that he dared not pray to
the Father, for the blood of a brother had rushed forth at the stroke of
his arm, and there was one fewer of living souls on the earth because he
lived thereon. And to-morrow he must lead a troop of men up to that poor
disabled town, and turn them loose upon it, not knowing what might
follow in the triumph of enraged and victorious foes, who for weeks had
been subjected, by the constancy of the place, to the greatest
privations. It was true the general had issued his commands against all
disorder and pillage; but if the soldiers once yielded to temptation,
what might not be done before the officers could reclaim them! All the
wretched tales he had read of the sack of cities rushed back on his
memory. He shuddered as he lay. Then his conscience began to speak, and
to ask what right he had to be there.--Was the war a just one?--He could
not tell; for this was a bad time for settling nice questions. But there
he was, right or wrong, fighting and shedding blood on God's earth,
beneath God's heaven.

Over and over he turned the question in his mind; again and again the
spouting blood of his foe, and the death-look in his eye, rose before
him; and the youth who at school could never fight with a companion
because he was not sure that he was in the right, was alone in the midst
of undoubting men of war, amongst whom he was driven helplessly along,
upon the waves of a terrible necessity. What wonder that in the midst of
these perplexities his courage should fail him! What wonder that the
consciousness of fainting should increase the faintness! or that the
dread of fear and its consequences should hasten and invigorate its
attacks! To crown all, when he dropped into a troubled slumber at
length, he found himself hurried, as on a storm of fire, through the
streets of the captured town, from all the windows of which looked forth
familiar faces, old and young, but distorted from the memory of his
boyhood by fear and wild despair. On one spot lay the body of his
father, with his face to the earth; and he woke at the cry of horror and
rage that burst from his own lips, as he saw the rough, bloody hand of a
soldier twisted in the loose hair of his elder sister, and the younger
fainting in the arms of a scoundrel belonging to his own regiment. He
slept no more. As the grey morning broke, the troops appointed for the
attack assembled without sound of trumpet or drum, and were silently
formed in fitting order. The young ensign was in his place, weary and
wretched after his miserable night. Before him he saw a great,
broad-shouldered lieutenant, whose brawny hand seemed almost too large
for his sword-hilt, and in any one of whose limbs played more animal
life than in the whole body of the pale youth. The firm-set lips of this
officer, and the fire of his eye, showed a concentrated resolution,
which, by the contrast, increased the misery of the ensign, and seemed,
as if the stronger absorbed the weaker, to draw out from him the last
fibres of self-possession: the sight of unattainable determination,
while it increased the feeling of the arduousness of that which required
such determination, threw him into the great gulf which lay between him
and it. In this disorder of his nervous and mental condition, with a
doubting conscience and a shrinking heart, is it any wonder that the
terrors which lay before him at the gap in those bristling walls, should
draw near, and, making sudden inroad upon his soul, overwhelm the
government of a will worn out by the tortures of an unassured spirit?
What share fear contributed to unman him, it was impossible for him, in
the dark, confused conflict of differing emotions, to determine; but
doubtless a natural shrinking from danger, there being no excitement to
deaden its influence, and no hope of victory to encourage to the
struggle, seeing victory was dreadful to him as defeat, had its part in
the sad result. Many men who have courage, are dependent on ignorance
and a low state of the moral feeling for that courage; and a further
progress towards the development of the higher nature would, for a time
at least, entirely overthrow it. Nor could such loss of courage be
rightly designated by the name of cowardice. But, alas! the colonel
happened to fix his eyes upon him as he passed along the file; and this
completed his confusion. He betrayed such evident symptoms of
perturbation, that that officer ordered him under arrest; and the result
was, that, chiefly for the sake of example to the army, he was, upon
trial by court-martial, expelled from the service, and had his sword
broken over his head. Alas for the delicate minded youth! Alas for the
home-darling!

Long after, he found at the bottom of his chest the pieces of the broken
sword, and remembered that, at the time, he had lifted them from the
ground and carried them away. But he could not recall under what impulse
he had done so. Perhaps the agony he suffered, passing the bounds of
mortal endurance, had opened for him a vista into the eternal, and had
shown him, if not the injustice of the sentence passed upon him, yet his
freedom from blame, or, endowing him with dim prophetic vision, had
given him the assurance that some day the stain would be wiped from his
soul, and leave him standing clear before the tribunal of his own
honour. Some feeling like this, I say, may have caused him, with a
passing gleam of indignant protest, to lift the fragments from the
earth, and carry them away; even as the friends of a so-called traitor
may bear away his mutilated body from the wheel. But if such was the
case, the vision was soon overwhelmed and forgotten in the succeeding
anguish. He could not see that, in mercy to his doubting spirit, the
question which had agitated his mind almost to madness, and which no
results of the impending conflict could have settled for him, was thus
quietly set aside for the time; nor that, painful as was the dark,
dreadful existence that he was now to pass in self-torment and moaning,
it would go by, and leave his spirit clearer far, than if, in his
apprehension, it had been stained with further blood-guiltiness, instead
of the loss of honour. Years after, when he accidentally learned that on
that very morning the whole of his company, with parts of several more,
had, or ever they began to mount the breach, been blown to pieces by the
explosion of a mine, he cried aloud in bitterness, "Would God that my
fear had not been discovered before I reached that spot!" But surely it
is better to pass into the next region of life having reaped some
assurance, some firmness of character, determination of effort, and
consciousness of the worth of life, in the present world; so approaching
the future steadily and faithfully, and if in much darkness and
ignorance, yet not in the oscillations of moral uncertainty.

Close upon the catastrophe followed a torpor, which lasted he did not
know how long, and which wrapped in a thick fog all the succeeding
events. For some time he can hardly be said to have had any conscious
history. He awoke to life and torture when half-way across the sea
towards his native country, where was no home any longer for him. To
this point, and no farther, could his thoughts return in after years.
But the misery which he then endured is hardly to be understood, save by
those of like delicate temperament with himself. All day long he sat
silent in his cabin; nor could any effort of the captain, or others on
board, induce him to go on deck till night came on, when, under the
starlight, he ventured into the open air. The sky soothed him then, he
knew not how. For the face of nature is the face of God, and must bear
expressions that can influence, though unconsciously to them, the most
ignorant and hopeless of His children. Often did he watch the clouds in
hope of a storm, his spirit rising and falling as the sky darkened or
cleared; he longed, in the necessary selfishness of such suffering, for
a tumult of waters to swallow the vessel; and only the recollection of
how many lives were involved in its safety besides his own, prevented
him from praying to God for lightning and tempest, borne on which he
might dash into the haven of the other world. One night, following a
sultry calm day, he thought that Mercy had heard his unuttered prayer.
The air and sea were intense darkness, till a light as intense for one
moment annihilated it, and the succeeding darkness seemed shattered with
the sharp reports of the thunder that cracked without reverberation. He
who had shrunk from battle with his fellow-men, rushed to the mainmast,
threw himself on his knees, and stretched forth his arms in speechless
energy of supplication; but the storm passed away overhead, and left him
kneeling still by the uninjured mast. At length the vessel reached her
port. He hurried on shore to bury himself in the most secret place he
could find. _Out of sight_ was his first, his only thought. Return to
his mother he would not, he could not; and, indeed, his friends never
learned his fate, until it had carried him far beyond their reach.

For several weeks he lurked about like a malefactor, in low
lodging-houses in narrow streets of the seaport to which the vessel had
borne him, heeding no one, and but little shocked at the strange society
and conversation with which, though only in bodily presence, he had to
mingle. These formed the subjects of reflection in after times; and he
came to the conclusion that, though much evil and much misery exist,
sufficient to move prayers and tears in those who love their kind, yet
there is less of both than those looking down from a more elevated
social position upon the weltering heap of humanity, are ready to
imagine; especially if they regard it likewise from the pedestal of
self-congratulation on which a meagre type of religion has elevated
them. But at length his little stock of money was nearly expended, and
there was nothing that he could do, or learn to do, in this seaport. He
felt impelled to seek manual labour, partly because he thought it more
likely he could obtain that sort of employment, without a request for
reference as to his character, which would lead to inquiry about his
previous history; and partly, perhaps, from an instinctive feeling that
hard bodily labour would tend to lessen his inward suffering.

He left the town, therefore, at nightfall of a July day, carrying a
little bundle of linen, and the remains of his money, somewhat augmented
by the sale of various articles of clothing and convenience, which his
change of life rendered superfluous and unsuitable. He directed his
course northwards, travelling principally by night--so painfully did he
shrink from the gaze even of foot-farers like himself; and sleeping
during the day in some hidden nook of wood or thicket, or under the
shadow of a great tree in a solitary field. So fine was the season, that
for three successive weeks he was able to travel thus without
inconvenience, lying down when the sun grew hot in the forenoon, and
generally waking when the first faint stars were hesitating in the great
darkening heavens that covered and shielded him. For above every cloud,
above every storm, rise up, calm, clear, divine, the deep infinite
skies; they embrace the tempest even as the sunshine; by their
permission it exists within their boundless peace: therefore it cannot
hurt, and must pass away, while there they stand as ever, domed up
eternally, lasting, strong, and pure.

Several times he attempted to get agricultural employment; but the
whiteness of his hands and the tone of his voice not merely suggested
unfitness for labour, but generated suspicion as to the character of one
who had evidently dropped from a rank so much higher, and was seeking
admittance within the natural masonic boundaries and secrets and
privileges of another. Disheartened somewhat, but hopeful, he journeyed
on. I say hopeful; for the blessed power of life in the universe in
fresh air and sunshine absorbed by active exercise, in winds, yea in
rain, though it fell but seldom, had begun to work its natural healing,
soothing effect, upon his perturbed spirit. --Success and Murder of
Gracchus.--Land Commission.--Caius Gracchus.--Transfer of Judicial
Functions from the Senate to the Equites.--Sempronian Laws.--Free Grants
of Corn.--Plans for Extension of the Franchise.--New Colonies.--
Reaction.--Murder of Caius Gracchus

CHAPTER IV.

Victory of the Optimates.--The Moors.--History of Jugurtha.--The Senate
corrupted.--Jugurthine War.--Defeat of the Romans.--Jugurtha comes to
Rome.--Popular Agitation.--The War renewed.--Roman Defeats in Africa
and Gaul.--Caecilius Metellus and Caius Marius.--Marriage of Marius.--The
Caesars.--Marius Consul.

--First Notice of Sylla.--Capture and Death of Jugurtha

CHAPTER V.

Birth of Cicero.--The Cimbri and Teutons.--German Immigration into Gaul.--
Great Defeat of the Romans on the Rhone.--Wanderings of the Cimbri.--
Attempted Invasion of Italy.--Battle of Aix.--Destruction of the
Teutons.--Defeat of the Cimbri on the Po.--Reform in the Roman Army.--
Popular Disturbances in Rome.--Murder of Memmius.--Murder of Saturninus
and Glaucia

CHAPTER VI.

Birth and Childhood of Julius Caesar.--Italian Franchise.--Discontent
of the Italians.--Action of the Land Laws.--The Social War.

--Partial Concessions.--Sylla and Marius.--Mithridates of Pontus.--First
Mission of Sylla into Asia.

CHAPTER VII.

War with Mithridates.--Massacre of Italians in Asia.--Invasion of
Greece.--Impotence and Corruption of the Senate.--End of the Social
War.-- Sylla appointed to the Asiatic Command.--The Assembly
transfer the Command to Marius.--Sylla marches on Rome.--Flight of
Marius.--Change of the Constitution.--Sylla sails for the East.--Four
Years' Absence.--Defeat of Mithridates.--Contemporary Incidents at
Rome.--Counter Revolution.-- Consulship of Cinna.--Return of
Marius.--Capitulation of Rome.--Massacre of Patricians and Equites.--Triumph
of Democracy.

CHAPTER VIII.

  
  The Young Caesar.--Connection
  with Marius.--Intimacy with the
  Ciceros.-- Marriage of Caesar with the Daughter of Cinna.

--Sertorius.--Death of Cinna.--Consulships of Norbanus and Scipio.--Sylla's
Return.--First Appearance of Pompey.--Civil War.--Victory of Sylla.--The
Dictatorship and the Proscription.--Destruction of the Popular Party and
Murder of the Popular Leaders.--General Character of Aristocratic
Revolutions.--The Constitution remodelled.

--Concentration of Power in the Senate.--Sylla's General Policy.--The
Army.--Flight of Sertorius to Spain.--Pompey and Sylla.--Caesar refuses
to divorce his Wife at Sylla's Order.--Danger of Caesar.--His Pardon.--Growing
Consequence of Cicero.--Defence of Roscius.--Sylla's Abdication and
Death

CHAPTER IX.

Sertorius in Spain.--Warning of Cicero to the Patricians.--Leading
Aristocrats.--Caesar with the Army in the East.--Nicomedes of Bithynia.--
The Bithynian Scandal.--Conspiracy of Lepidus.--Caesar returns to
Rome.-- Defeat of Lepidus.--Prosecution of Dolabella.--Caesar taken by
Pirates.-- Senatorial Corruption.--Universal Disorder.--Civil War in
Spain.--Growth of Mediterranean Piracy.--Connivance of the Senate.--Provincial
Administration.--Verres in Sicily.--Prosecuted by Cicero.--Second War
with Mithridates.--First Success of Lucullus.--Failure of Lucullus, and
the Cause of it.--Avarice of Roman Commanders.--The Gladiators.--The
Servile War.--Results of the Change in the Constitution introduced by
Sylla

CHAPTER X.

Caesar Military Tribune.--Becomes known as a Speaker.--Is made Quaestor.--
Speech at his Aunt's Funeral.--Consulship of Pompey and Crassus.--Caesar
marries Pompey's Cousin.--Mission to Spain.--Restoration of the Powers
of the Tribunes.--The Equites and the Senate.--The Pirates.--Food
Supplies cut off from Rome.--The Gabinian Law.--Resistance of the
Patricians.-- Suppression of the Pirates by Pompey.--The Manilian
Law.--Speech of Cicero.--Recall of Lucullus.--Pompey sent to command in
Asia.--Defeat and Death of Mithridates.--Conquest of Asia by Pompey

CHAPTER XI.

History of Catiline.--A Candidate for the Consulship.--Catiline and
Cicero.--Cicero chosen Consul.--Attaches Himself to the Senatorial
Party.--Caesar elected Aedile.--Conducts an Inquiry into the Syllan
Proscriptions.--Prosecution of Rabirius.--Caesar becomes Pontifex
Maximus--and Praetor.--Cicero's Conduct as Consul.--Proposed Agrarian
Law.--Resisted by Cicero.--Catiline again stands for the Consulship.--
Violent Language in the Senate.

--Threatened Revolution.--Catiline again defeated.--The Conspiracy.--Warnings
sent to Cicero.--Meeting at Catiline's House.--Speech of Cicero in
the Senate.--Cataline joins an Army of Insurrection in Etruria.--His
Fellow-conspirators.--Correspondence with the Allobroges.--Letters
read in the Senate.--The Conspirators seized.-- Debate upon their
Fate.--Speech of Caesar.--Caesar on a Future State.-- Speech of
Cato--and of Cicero.--The Conspirators executed untried.--Death
of Catiline.

CHAPTER XII.

Preparations for the Return of Pompey.--Scene in the Forum.--Cato
and Metellus.--Caesar suspended from the Praetorship.--Caesar supports
Pompey.--Scandals against Caesar's Private Life.--General Character
of them.--Festival of the Bona Dea.--Publius Clodius enters Caesar's
House dressed as a Woman.--Prosecution and Trial of Clodius.--His
Acquittal, and the Reason of it.--Successes of Caesar as Propraetor in
Spain.--Conquest of Lusitania.--Return of Pompey to Italy.--First Speech
in the Senate.-- Precarious Position of Cicero.--Cato and the Equites.--Caesar
elected Consul.--Revival of the Democratic Party.--Anticipated Agrarian
Law.-- Uneasiness of Cicero.

CHAPTER XIII.

The Consulship of Caesar.--Character of his Intended Legislation.--The
Land Act first proposed in the Senate.--Violent Opposition.--Caesar
appeals to the Assembly.--Interference of the Second Consul Bibulus.--The
Land Act submitted to the People.

--Pompey and Crassus support it.--Bibulus interposes, but without
Success.--The Act carried--and other Laws.--The Senate no longer being
Consulted.--General Purpose of the Leges Juliae.-- Caesar appointed
to Command in Gaul for Five Years.--His Object in accepting that
Province.--Condition of Gaul, and the Dangers to be apprehended from
it.--Alliance of Caesar, Pompey, and Crassus.--The Dynasts.--Indignation
of the Aristocracy.--Threats to repeal Caesar's Laws.--Necessity of
Controlling Cicero and Cato.--Clodius is made Tribune.--Prosecution of
Cicero for Illegal Acts when Consul.--Cicero's Friends forsake him.--He
flies, and is banished.

CHAPTER XIV.

Caesar's Military Narrative.--Divisions of Gaul.--Distribution of
Population.--The Celts.--Degree of Civilization.--Tribal System.--The
Druids.--The AEdui and the Sequani.

--Roman and German Parties.--Intended Migration of the Helvetii.--Composition
of Caesar's Army.--He goes to Gaul.--Checks the Helvetii.--Returns to
Italy for Larger Forces.--The Helvetii on the Saône.--Defeated, and
sent back to Switzerland.--Invasion of Gaul by Ariovistus.--Caesar
invites him to a Conference.--He refuses.-- Alarm in the Roman Army.--Caesar
marches against Ariovistus.--Interview between them.--Treachery of the
Roman Senate.--Great Battle at Colmar.-- Defeat and Annihilation of the
Germans.--End of the First Campaign.-- Confederacy among the Belgae.--Battle
on the Aisne.--War with the Nervii.--Battle of Maubeuge.--Capture
of Namur.--The Belgae conquered.-- Submission of Brittany.--End of the
Second Campaign.

CHAPTER XV.

Cicero and Clodius.--Position and Character of Clodius.--Cato sent to
Cyprus.--Attempted Recall of Cicero defeated by Clodius.--Fight
in the Forum.--Pardon and Return of Cicero.--Moderate Speech to the
People.-- Violence in the Senate.

--Abuse of Piso and Gabinius.--Coldness of the Senate toward
Cicero.--Restoration of Cicero's House.--Interfered with by Clodius.--Factions
of Clodius and Milo.--Ptolemy Auletes expelled by his Subjects.--Appeals
to Rome for Help.--Alexandrian Envoys assassinated.-- Clodius elected
aedile.--Fight in the Forum.--Parties in Rome.--Situation of Cicero.--Rally
of the Aristocracy.--Attempt to repeal the Leges Juliae.--Conference
at Lucca.--Caesar, Pompey, and Crassus.--Cicero deserts the Senate.--Explains
his Motives.--Confirmation of the Ordinances of Lucca.--Pompey and
Crassus Consuls.--Caesar's Command prolonged for Five Additional
Years.--Rejoicings in Rome.--Spectacle in the Amphitheater.

CHAPTER XVI.

Revolt of the Veneti.--Fleet prepared in the Loire.--Sea-fight at
Quiberon.--Reduction of Normandy and of Aquitaine.--Complete Conquest
of Gaul.--Fresh Arrival of Germans over the Lower Rhine.--Caesar orders
them to retire, and promises them Lands elsewhere.--They
refuse to go--and are destroyed.--Bridge over the Rhine.--Caesar invades
Germany.--Returns after a Short Inroad.--First Expedition into Britain.--Caesar
lands at Deal, or Walmer.--Storm and Injury to the Fleet.--Approach
of the Equinox.-- Further Prosecution of the Enterprise postponed
till the following Year.-- Caesar goes to Italy for the Winter.

--Large Naval Preparations.--Return of Spring.--Alarm on the Moselle.--Fleet
collects at Boulogne.--Caesar sails for Britain a Second Time.--Lands at
Deal.--Second and more Destructive Storm.--Ships repaired, and
placed out of Danger.--Caesar marches through Kent.--Crosses the Thames,
and reaches St. Albans.--Goes no further, and returns to Gaul.--Object
of the Invasion of Britain.--Description of the Country and People.

CHAPTER XVII.

Distribution of the Legions after the Return from Britain.--Conspiracy
among the Gallic Chiefs.--Rising of the Eburones.--Destruction of
Sabinus, and a Division of the Roman Army.--Danger of Quintus
Cicero.--Relieved by Caesar in Person.--General Disturbance.--Labienus
attacked at Lavacherie.--Defeats and kills Induciomarus.--Second
Conquest of the Belgae.

--Caesar again crosses the Rhine.--Quintus Cicero in Danger a Second
Time.--Courage of a Roman Officer.--Punishment of the Revolted
Chiefs.--Execution of Acco.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Correspondence of Cicero with Caesar.--Intimacy with Pompey and
Crassus.-- Attacks on Piso and Gabinius.---Cicero compelled to defend
Gabinius--and Vatinius.--Dissatisfaction with his Position.--Corruption
at the Consular Elections.--Public Scandal.--Caesar and Pompey.--Deaths
of Aurelia and Julia.--Catastrophe in the East.--Overthrow and Death of
Crassus.-- Intrigue to detach Pompey from Caesar.---Milo a Candidate
for the Consulship.--Murder of Clodius.--Burning of the Senate-house.--Trial
and Exile of Milo.--Fresh Engagements with Caesar.--Promise of the
Consulship at the End of his Term in Gaul.

CHAPTER XIX.

Last Revolt of Gaul.--Massacre of Romans at Gien.--Vercingetorix.--Effect
on the Celts of the Disturbances at Rome.--Caesar crosses the Cevennes.--
Defeats the Arverni.--Joins his Army on the Seine.--Takes Gien, Nevers,
and Bourges.--Fails at Gergovia.--Rapid March to Sens.--Labienus at
Paris.--Battle of the Vingeanne.--Siege of Alesia.--Caesar's Double
Lines.--Arrival of the Relieving Army of Gauls.--First Battle on the
Plain.--Second Battle.--Great Defeat of the Gauls.--Surrender of
Alesia.--Campaign against the Carnutes and the Bellovaci.--Rising
on the Dordogne.--Capture of Uxellodunum.--Caesar at Arras.--Completion
of the Conquest.

CHAPTER XX.

Bibulus in Syria.--Approaching Term of Caesar's Government.--Threats of
Impeachment.--Caesar to be Consul or not to be Consul?--Caesar's
Political Ambition.--Hatred felt toward him by the Aristocracy.--Two
Legions taken from him on Pretense of Service against the Parthians.--Caesar
to be recalled before the Expiration of his Government.--Senatorial
Intrigues.-- Curio deserts the Senate.--Labienus deserts Caesar.--Cicero
in Cilicia.-- Returns to Rome.--Pompey determined on War.--Cicero's
Uncertainties.-- Resolution of the Senate and Consuls.--Caesar
recalled.--Alarm in Rome.-- Alternative Schemes.--Letters of
Cicero.--Caesar's Crime in the Eyes of the Optimates.

CHAPTER XXI.

Caesar appeals to his Army.--The Tribunes join him at Rimini.--Panic
and Flight of the Senate.--Incapacity of Pompey.--Fresh Negotiations.--
Advance of Caesar.--The Country Districts refuse to arm against him.--
Capture of Corfinium.--Release of the Prisoners.--Offers of Caesar.--
Continued Hesitation of Cicero.--Advises Pompey to make Peace.--Pompey,
with the Senate and Consuls, flies to Greece.--Cicero's Reflections.--
Pompey to be another Sylla.--Caesar Mortal, and may die by more Means
than one.

CHAPTER XXII.

Pompey's Army in Spain.--Caesar at Rome.--Departure for Spain.--Marseilles
refuses to receive him.--Siege of Marseilles.--Defeat of Pompey's
Lieutenants at Lerida.

--The whole Army made Prisoners.--Surrender of Varro.--Marseilles
taken.--Defeat of Curio by King Juba in Africa.-- Caesar named
Dictator.--Confusion in Rome.--Caesar at Brindisi.--Crosses to Greece
in Midwinter.--Again offers Peace.--Pompey's Fleet in the
Adriatic.--Death of Bibulus.--Failure of Negotiations.--Caelius and
Milo killed.--Arrival of Antony in Greece with the Second Division of
Caesar's Army.--Siege of Durazzo.--Defeat and Retreat of Caesar.--The
Senate and Pompey.--Pursuit of Caesar.--Battle of Pharsalia.--Flight
of Pompey.--The Camp taken.--Complete Overthrow of the Senatorial
Faction.--Cicero on the Situation once more.

CHAPTER XXIII.

Pompey flies to Egypt.--State of Parties in Egypt.--Murder of Pompey.--His
Character.--Caesar follows him to Alexandria.--Rising in the City.--
Caesar besieged in the Palace.--Desperate Fighting.--Arrival of Mithridates
of Pergamus.--Battle near Cairo, and Death of the Young
Ptolemy.--Cleopatra.--The Detention of Caesar enables the Optimates to
rally.--Ill Conduct of Caesar's Officers in Spain.--War with
Pharnaces.-- Battle of Zela, and Settlement of Asia Minor.

CHAPTER XXIV.

The Aristocracy raise an Army in Africa.--Supported by Juba.--Pharsalia
not to end the War.--Caesar again in Rome.--Restores Order.--Mutiny
in Caesar's Army.--The Mutineers submit.--Caesar lands in Africa.--
Difficulties of the Campaign.--Battle of Thapsus.--No more Pardons.--
Afranius and Faustus Sylla put to Death.--Cato kills himself at
Utica.-- Scipio killed.--Juba and Petreius die on each other's
Swords.--A Scene in Caesar's Camp.

CHAPTER XXV.
Rejoicings in Rome.--Caesar Dictator for the Year.--Reforms the
Constitution.--Reforms the Calendar--and the Criminal Law.--
Dissatisfaction of Cicero.--Last Efforts in Spain of Labienus and
the Young Pompeys.--Caesar goes thither in Person, accompanied by
Octavius.-- Caesar's Last Battle at Munda.--Death of Labienus.--Capture
of Cordova.-- Close of the Civil War.--General Reflections.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Caesar once more in Rome.--General Amnesty.--The Surviving Optimates
pretend to submit.--Increase in the Number of Senators.--Introduction
of Foreigners.--New Colonies.--Carthage.--Corinth.--Sumptuary
Regulations.-- Digest of the Law.--Intended Parthian War.--Honors
heaped on Caesar.--The Object of them.--Caesar's Indifference.--Some
Consolations.--Hears of Conspiracies, but disregards them.--Speculations
of Cicero in the Last Stage of the War.--Speech in the Senate.--A
Contrast, and the Meaning of it.--The Kingship.--Antony offers
Caesar the Crown, which Caesar refuses.--The Assassins.--Who they
were.--Brutus and Cassius.--Two Officers of Caesar's among
them.--Warnings.--Meeting of the Conspirators.--Caesar's Last
Evening.--The Ides of March.--The Senate-house.--Caesar killed.
CHAPTER XXVII.
Consternation in Rome.--The Conspirators in the Capitol.--Unforeseen
Difficulties.--Speech of Cicero.--Caesar's Funeral.--Speech of
Antony.-- Fury of the People.--The Funeral Pile in the Forum.--The
King is dead, but the Monarchy survives.--Fruitlessness of the
Murder.--Octavius and Antony.--Union of Octavius, Antony, and
Lepidus.--Proscription of the Assassins.--Philippi, and the end of
Brutus and Cassius.--Death of Cicero.--His Character.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
General Remarks on Caesar.--Mythological Tendencies.--Supposed
Profligacy of Caesar.--Nature of the Evidence.--Servilia.--Cleopatra.--Personal
Appearance of Caesar.--His Manners in Private Life.--Considerations
upon him as a Politician, a Soldier, and a Man of Letters.--Practical
Justice his Chief Aim as a Politician.--Universality of Military
Genius.--Devotion of his Army to him, how deserved.--Art of reconciling
Conquered Peoples.--General Scrupulousness and Leniency.--Oratorical
and Literary Style.--Cicero's Description of it.--His Lost
Works.--Cato's Judgment on the Civil War.--How Caesar should be
estimated.--Legend of Charles V.-- Spiritual Condition of the Age
in which Caesar lived.--His Work on Earth to establish Order and
Good Government, to make possible the Introduction of Christianity.--A
Parallel.

CAESAR: A SKETCH 

CHAPTER I.
To the student of political history, and to the English student
above all others, the conversion of the Roman Republic into a
military empire commands a peculiar interest. Notwithstanding many
differences, the English and the Romans essentially resemble one
another. The early Romans possessed the faculty of self-government
beyond any people of whom we have historical knowledge, with the
one exception of ourselves. In virtue of their temporal freedom,
they became the most powerful nation in the known world; and their
liberties perished only when Rome became the mistress of conquered
races, to whom she was unable or unwilling to extend her privileges.
If England was similarly supreme, if all rival powers were eclipsed
by her or laid under her feet, the Imperial tendencies, which are
as strongly marked in us as our love of liberty, might lead us over
the same course to the same end. If there be one lesson which history
clearly teaches, it is this, that free nations cannot govern subject
provinces. If they are unable or unwilling to admit their dependencies
to share their own constitution, the constitution itself will fall
in pieces from mere incompetence for its duties.
We talk often foolishly of the necessities of things, and we blame
circumstances for the consequences of our own follies and vices;
but there are faults which are not faults of will, but faults of
mere inadequacy to some unforeseen position. Human nature is equal
to much, but not to everything. It can rise to altitudes where it
is alike unable to sustain itself or to retire from them to a safer
elevation. Yet when the field is open it pushes forward, and
moderation in the pursuit of greatness is never learnt and never
will be learnt. Men of genius are governed by their instinct; they
follow where instinct leads them; and the public life of a nation
is but the life of successive generations of statesmen, whose horizon
is bounded, and who act from day to day as immediate interests
suggest. The popular leader of the hour sees some present difficulty
or present opportunity of distinction. He deals with each question
as it arises, leaving future consequences to those who are to come
after him.
The situation changes from period to period, and tendencies are
generated with an accelerating force, which, when once established,
can never be reversed. When the control of reason is once removed,
the catastrophe is no longer distant, and then nations, like all
organized creations, all forms of life, from the meanest flower to
the highest human institution, pass through the inevitably recurring
stages of growth and transformation and decay.But here the voice within him cried out, "Art thou the disposer of
destinies? Wilt thou, in a universe where the visible God hath died for
the Truth's sake, do evil that a good, which He might neglect or
overlook, may be gained? Leave thou her to Him, and do thou right." And
he said within himself, "Now is the real trial for my life! Shall I
conquer or no?" And his heart awoke and cried, "I will. God forgive me
for wronging the poor soldier! A brave man, brave at least, is better
for her than I."

A great strength arose within him, and lifted him up to depart. "Surely
I may kiss her once," he said. For the crisis was over, and she slept.
He stooped towards her face, but before he had reached her lips he saw
her eyelids tremble; and he who had longed for the opening of those
eyes, as of the gates of heaven, that she might love him, stricken now
with fear lest she should love him, fled from her, before the eyelids
that hid such strife and such victory from the unconscious maiden had
time to unclose. But it was agony--quietly to pack up his bundle of
linen in the room below, when he knew she was lying awake above, with
her dear, pale face, and living eyes! What remained of his money, except
a few shillings, he put up in a scrap of paper, and went out with his
bundle in his hand, first to seek a nurse for his friend, and then to go
he knew not whither. He met the factory people with whom he had worked,
going to dinner, and amongst them a girl who had herself but lately
recovered from the fever, and was yet hardly able for work. She was the
only friend the sick girl had seemed to have amongst the women at the
factory, and she was easily persuaded to go and take charge of her. He
put the money in her hand, begging her to use it for the invalid, and
promising to send the equivalent of her wages for the time he thought
she would have to wait on her. This he easily did by the sale of a ring,
which, besides his mother's watch, was the only article of value he had
retained. He begged her likewise not to mention his name in the matter;
and was foolish enough to expect that she would entirely keep the
promise she had made him.

Wandering along the street, purposeless now and bereft, he spied a
recruiting party at the door of a public-house; and on coming nearer,
found, by one of those strange coincidences which do occur in life, and
which have possibly their root in a hidden and wondrous law, that it was
a party, perhaps a remnant, of the very regiment in which he had himself
served, and in which his misfortune had befallen him. Almost
simultaneously with the shock which the sight of the well-known number
on the soldiers' knapsacks gave him, arose in his mind the romantic,
ideal thought, of enlisting in the ranks of this same regiment, and
recovering, as a private soldier and unknown, that honour which as
officer he had lost. To this determination, the new necessity in which
he now stood for action and change of life, doubtless contributed,
though unconsciously. He offered himself to the sergeant; and,
notwithstanding that his dress indicated a mode of life unsuitable as
the antecedent to a soldier's, his appearance, and the necessity for
recruits combined, led to his easy acceptance.

The English armies were employed in expelling the enemy from an invaded
and helpless country. Whatever might be the political motives which had
induced the Government to this measure, the young man was now able to
feel that he could go and fight, individually and for his part, in the
cause of liberty. He was free to possess his own motives for joining in
the execution of the schemes of those who commanded his commanders.

With a heavy heart, but with more of inward hope and strength than he
had ever known before, he marched with his comrades to the seaport and
embarked. It seemed to him that because he had done right in his last
trial, here was a new glorious chance held out to his hand. True, it was
a terrible change to pass from a woman in whom he had hoped to find
healing, into the society of rough men, to march with them,
"_mitgleichem Tritt und Schritt_," up to the bristling bayonets or the
horrid vacancy of the cannon mouth. But it was the only cure for the
evil that consumed his life.

He reached the army in safety, and gave himself, with religious
assiduity, to the smallest duties of his new position. No one had a
brighter polish on his arms, or whiter belts than he. In the necessary
movements, he soon became precise to a degree that attracted the
attention of his officers; while his character was remarkable for all
the virtues belonging to a perfect soldier.

One day, as he stood sentry, he saw the eyes of his colonel intently
fixed on him. He felt his lip quiver, but he compressed and stilled it,
and tried to look as unconscious as he could; which effort was assisted
by the formal bearing required by his position. Now the colonel, such
had been the losses of the regiment, had been promoted from a
lieutenancy in the same, and had belonged to it at the time of the
ensign's degradation. Indeed, had not the changes in the regiment been
so great, he could hardly have escaped so long without discovery. But
the poor fellow would have felt that his name was already free of
reproach, if he had seen what followed on the close inspection which had
awakened his apprehensions, and which, in fact, had convinced the
colonel of his identity with the disgraced ensign. With a hasty and less
soldierly step than usual the colonel entered his tent, threw himself on
his bed and wept like a child. When he rose he was overheard to say
these words--and these only escaped his lips: "He is nobler than I."

But this officer showed himself worthy of commanding such men as this
private; for right nobly did he understand and meet his feelings. He
uttered no word of the discovery he had made, till years afterwards; but
it soon began to be remarked that whenever anything arduous, or in any
manner distinguished, had to be done, this man was sure to be of the
party appointed. In short, as often as he could, the colonel "set him in
the forefront of the battle." Passing through all with wonderful escape,
he was soon as much noticed for his reckless bravery, as hitherto for
his precision in the discharge of duties bringing only commendation and
not honour. But his final lustration was at hand.

A great part of the army was hastening, by forced marches, to raise the
siege of a town which was already on the point of falling into the hands
of the enemy. Forming one of a reconnoitring party, which preceded the
main body at some considerable distance, he and his companions came
suddenly upon one of the enemy's outposts, occupying a high, and on one
side precipitous rock, a short way from the town, which it commanded.
Retreat was impossible, for they were already discovered, and the
bullets were falling amongst them like the first of a hail-storm. The
only possibility of escape remaining for them was a nearly hopeless
improbability. It lay in forcing the post on this steep rock; which if
they could do before assistance came to the enemy, they might, perhaps,
be able to hold out, by means of its defences, till the arrival of the
army. Their position was at once understood by all; and, by a sudden,
simultaneous impulse, they found themselves halfway up the steep ascent,
and in the struggle of a close conflict, without being aware of any
order to that effect from their officer. But their courage was of no
avail; the advantages of the place were too great; and in a few minutes
the whole party was cut to pieces, or stretched helpless on the rock.
Our youth had fallen amongst the foremost; for a musket ball had grazed
his skull, and laid him insensible.

But consciousness slowly returned, and he succeeded at last in raising
himself and looking around him. The place was deserted. A few of his
friends, alive, but grievously wounded, lay near him. The rest were
dead. It appeared that, learning the proximity of the English forces
from this rencontre with part of their advanced guard, and dreading lest
the town, which was on the point of surrendering, should after all be
snatched from their grasp, the commander of the enemy's forces had
ordered an immediate and general assault; and had for this purpose
recalled from their outposts the whole of his troops thus stationed,
that he might make the attempt with the utmost strength he could
accumulate.

As the youth's power of vision returned, he perceived, from the height
where he lay, that the town was already in the hands of the enemy.
But looking down into the level space immediately below him, he started
to his feet at once; for a girl, bare-headed, was fleeing towards the
rock, pursued by several soldiers. "Aha!" said he, divining her
purpose--the soldiers behind and the rock before her--"I will help you
to die!" And he stooped and wrenched from the dead fingers of a sergeant
the sword which they clenched by the bloody hilt. A new throb of life
pulsed through him to his very finger-tips; and on the brink of the
unseen world he stood, with the blood rushing through his veins in a
wild dance of excitement. One who lay near him wounded, but recovered
afterwards, said that he looked like one inspired. With a keen eye he
watched the chase. The girl drew nigh; and rushed up the path near which
he was standing. Close on her footsteps came the soldiers, the distance
gradually lessening between them.

Not many paces higher up, was a narrower part of the ascent, where the
path was confined by great stones, or pieces of rock. Here had been the
chief defence in the preceding assault, and in it lay many bodies of his
friends. Thither he went and took his stand.

On the girl came, over the dead, with rigid hands and flying feet, the
bloodless skin drawn tight on her features, and her eyes awfully large
and wild. She did not see him though she bounded past so near that her
hair flew in his eyes. "Never mind!" said he, "we shall meet soon." And
he stepped into the narrow path just in time to face her
pursuers--between her and them. But the Bishop was to be _Primus_ and
above all other dignitaries of the Cathedral. For it was ordained
that instead of the one priest who had previously officiated, there
should be ten Canons with the Bishop as their head, five of them holding
the dignities of Dean, Precentor, Chancellor, Treasurer, and Archdeacon,
each of them during residence to minister there daily, as well as the
Abbot of Scone, who was a Canon, but had a Vicar to perform his duties
in his absence. The teinds (or tithes) of certain parishes were
allocated to each member of the Chapter; and lands, residences, and
prebends were assigned to them, provision also being made from the
teinds of other parishes for the lighting and services of the Church.

Bishop Gilbert built and completed the Cathedral, making, it is
said, the glass for its windows at Sidera, from sand taken from
near the howe of the first Jarl Sigurd, a worshipper of Odin.[6]

Bishop Gilbert had also translated the Psalms into Gaelic; and,
having set his diocese of Caithness, comprising the modern counties
of Sutherland and Caithness, in good working order, and having
re-buried his predecessor Adam, with a stately funeral, at Dornoch
in 1239, had made his will in 1242, and died in the episcopal palace
at Scrabster, near Thurso, in 1245.

It was probably during his episcopate that King Alexander II gave
his open letter,[7] directed to the sheriffs, bailies, and other good
men of Moray and Caithness, and enjoining them to protect the ship of
the Abbot and Convent of Scone and their men and goods from injury,
molestation or damage in their journeys to the north. Bishop Gilbert was
buried at Dornoch, and was succeeded by Bishop William,[8] and he in
his turn, in 1261, by Bishop Walter de Baltroddi, who doubtless
suffered from King Hakon's fines levied in Caithness in 1263, and
whose daughter the Chief of the Mackays is said to have married
after that date.

In 1261 the Hebrides had been harried by William, MacFerchar, Earl of
Ross and uncle of Freskin de Moravia the younger, with great cruelty
and barbarity, and King Hakon in 1263 began to collect and equip a fleet
with a view to revenging the injury done to his subjects in the west.[9]
In the preparation for this in the spring of 1263, we find Jon Langlifson,
whose mother Langlif was Harold Maddadson's youngest daughter, and who
was thus himself a nephew of Earl John, sent over with Henry Skot
to Shetland to obtain pilots for King Hakon,[10] while Dougal of the
Isles met them in Orkney, and was let into the secret of Hakon's intended
expedition.

Meantime Earl Magnus II, being, according to our conjectures, a member
of the Angus line, whose mother was an elder sister of Harald Ungi, and
being also the husband of Earl John's daughter, had become entitled
to the earldom of Orkney soon after Earl John's death in 1231, and probably
since 1236 had held part of Caithness as Earl, by heirship, and by
charter from the Scottish King. Magnus II, soon after the earldom of
Sutherland had been taken away from him, had died in 1239. Gillebride
had then succeeded to both the reduced Scottish earldom of Caithness
and the whole of the Orkney jarldom as successor in the Angus line
of Magnus II; and Gillebride had died in 1256 leaving a son Magnus
III.

Like his predecessors, Magnus III seems to have found himself in the
awkward position of being bound to serve two masters who were
rapidly approaching a state of war with each other.

Freskin de Moravia, _dominus_ de Duffus by 1248, who about that date had
married the Lady Johanna, had with her obtained not only her lands
in Strathnaver and Caithness, but also the bulk of the Erlend share
of the earldom lands of Caithness, while Magnus held the rest of
Caithness, and William, second Earl of Sutherland, then a mere boy,
had succeeded to that earldom on his father's death in 1248.[11]

As already stated, Alexander II's attempt on the Sudreys had proved
abortive through his death in 1249, and the further attacks on them
in Alexander III's reign by William, son of Ferchar Mac-in-tagart,
and Earl of Ross, had been made in 1261; and by 1262 or 1263, Freskin
had died, leaving two daughters Mary and Christian, both minors and
unmarried, to inherit his share of Caithness, as co-parceners, each
entitled to one quarter of that county.

Early in 1263 Magnus III of Orkney and Caithness, was in Bergen
with King Hakon.

For the Saga says,[12] "with him from Bergen came Magnus, Jarl of
Orkney, and the king gave him a good long-ship."

Sailing from Norway in the end of July 1263, King Hakon found a fair
wind, and crossed in two days to Shetland, where he lay for a
fortnight assembling his fleet in Bressay Sound off Lerwick.

While he was here Jon Langlifson, son of Langlif, the youngest
daughter of Earl Harold Maddadson, brought the disappointing news
that King John of the Sudreys had gone over to the side of the
Scottish king, but the news was disbelieved, and Hakon, at the time,
had every reason to think that, while he was sure of the support
of the Orkneymen and their earl, the western islanders would support
him to a man.

Quitting Shetland, therefore, he sailed to Orkney, and his fleet lay
first at Ellidarvik or Ellwick in The String off the south of Shapinsay,
a few miles from Kirkwall. While it was here, King Hakon conceived the
idea of sending a squadron of his ships to raid the shores of the Moray
Firth, and there is little doubt that this project was aimed at the lands
of the families of De Moravia in Sutherland and Moray. The question,
however, was submitted to a council of the freemen of the fleet, who
proved to be unwilling that any of them should leave their king
and decided that the fleet should not be divided, but that the original
object of the expedition, the reconquest of the Western Isles and
West of Scotland, should be adhered to instead.

What Earl Magnus' feelings on the subject were is not recorded, but it
can hardly have been pleasing to him to find that his people in Caithness
were to be subjected to a fine by his suzerain in Orkney, though, probably
by his advice, the Caithness folk paid the fine exacted from
them,[13] and had hostages taken from them, in consequence, by the
Scottish king.

Hakon's fleet then sailed round the Mull of Deerness into the roadstead
of Ragnvaldsvoe, in the north of South Ronaldsay, which is now known
either as St. Margaret's Hope or possibly as Widewall Bay in Scapa
Flow, and it was while it was there that the annular eclipse of the sun,
ascertained by astronomical calculation[14] to have taken place on
the 5th August 1263, was reported by the writer of the Saga to have been
seen by him. While the fleet was here, it appeared that the Orkney
contingent of ships which Hakon had commanded to join him, were not
"boun" or ready for sea, and Jarl Magnus accordingly "stayed
behind" with his people in Orkney under orders to follow the main
fleet.

On St. Lawrence's day, the 10th of August 1263, Hakon weighed anchor
without the jarl, or his men, and the fleet, the largest then ever
seen in these waters, sailed from Ragnvaldsvoe into the Pentland
Firth, and, rounding Cape Wrath on the same day, anchored in Asleifarvik,
now corruptly called Aulsher-beg or Old-shore, on the west coast
of the parish of Durness[15] in Sutherland.

Thence the fleet ran across to the Lewis, whence it proceeded on a
southerly course by Rona, into the Sound of Skye, and brought up
at the Carline, now the Cailleach, Stone, in Kyleakin or the Kyle
of Hakon.

The Norse King was soon joined by King Magnus of Man, and Erling
Ivar's son, and Andres Nicholas' son, and Halvard and Nicholas Tart,
the last having made no land since he left Norway till he sighted
the Lewis.

Dougal, king of the Sudreys also joined King Hakon, and the fleet
shortly afterwards reached Kerrera, near Oban in the Sound of Mull.

The events which followed are recounted, in considerable detail and
with much exaggeration on both sides, by Scottish and Norse
chroniclers, but it is impossible to reconcile their different
versions of the story of the battle of Largs.

Nor does such detail, save in the result, affect Sutherland or Caithness.
Suffice it to say, then, that after much fruitless negotiation between
the two kings, purposely prolonged by the Scottish monarch, a severe and
protracted October storm drove many of the Norse ships ashore near
Largs, where the Scots attacked their crews; and five days later King
Hakon withdrew, and sailed with the remnants of his starving and shattered
fleet northwards by the Sound of Mull and Rum and Loch Snizort in Skye,
and thence round Cape Wrath, to the Goa-fiord or Hoanfiord, which we
know as Loch Erriboll, reaching it on Sunday, October 28th, 1263,
in a profound calm.

On their way south, Erling Ivar's son, Andrew Nicolas' son, and Harvard
the Red had[16] "sailed into Scotland under Dyrnes, from which they went
up country, and destroyed a castle and more than twenty hamlets." But
on the return voyage the children of Heth were waiting for the invaders,
and on the day[17] "of St. Simon and St. Jude, when Mass had been sung,
some Scottish men, whom the Northmen had taken, came. King Hakon gave
them peace and sent them up into the country; and they promised to
come down with cattle to[18] him; but one of them stayed behind
as a hostage.

It happened that day that eleven men of the ship of Andrew Kuzi landed
in a boat to fetch water. A little after, it was heard that they
called out. Then men rowed to them from the ships, and there two of
them were taken up, swimming much wounded, but nine were found on land
all slain. The Scots had come down on them, but they all ran to the
boat, and it was high and dry, and they were all weaponless, and
there was no defence. But as soon as the Scots saw the boats were
rowing up, they ran to the woods, but the Northmen took the bodies
with them.

"On Monday King Hakon sailed out of the Goa-fiord and let the Scottish
man be put on shore, and gave him peace."[19]
Such is the story, so far as Sutherland and Caithness are concerned, of
Hakon's expedition as told in his Saga, which adds that after losing one
ship in the Pentland Firth, while another was all but sunk in the
Swelchie near Stroma, he sheltered for the night in the Sound north of
Osmundwall, and finally landed again near Ragnvaldsvoe and went to
Kirkwall. Retaining twenty of his ships, he let such of the rest of
them as had not already gone home sail for Norway.

Deserted by his Jarl, the aged king found a home in the Palace of the
faithful bishop, Henry of Orkney, who, alone of all Orkney men, had
followed the fortunes of the fleet.

Then King Hakon's health gradually failed, and after laying up his ships
in Scapa Flow, and seeing to the welfare of his men, he lay down to
die of a broken heart, listening as he sank to Masses indeed, but afterwards
with greater joy to the Sagas of the Norse kings. "Near midnight" on
the 15th of December "Sverri's Saga was read through. But just as
midnight was past Almighty God called King Hakon from this world's life."

His body lay in state, first in the Palace and then in the Cathedral
of St. Magnus, where after a Solemn Mass it was temporarily buried in the
Choir, and it was removed in his flag-ship to Christ Church in Bergen
three months afterwards.[20]
The consequence of King Hakon's failure was the immediate conquest
of the Isle of Man and of the Hebrides by Alexander III.

Sutherland and Caithness were saved for Scotland, it would seem, only
by the vote of King Hakon's freemen before sailing for Largs, while the
defeat of his fleet there led directly to the cession by King Magnus,
his successor, under the treaty of Perth in 1266, of all the Western
Highlands and Islands, for a payment of 4000 marks down and of 100 marks
a year, and the treaty also secured their permanent political union
with Scotland.

Orkney and Shetland, however, remained part of Norway for two hundred years
more, and have since 1468 been held by Scotland and afterwards by the
United Kingdom only under a wadset or mortgage securing 58,000
crowns, the unpaid balance of the dower of Margaret, wife of James
III of Scotland and daughter of King Christian of Norway.

The right to redeem them was frequently though fruitlessly claimed by
Norway and Denmark in succession until the reign of Charles II
and even later; and possibly this right remains, to the legal mind,
open until the present day.

On the 20th February 1471 the Earldom of Orkney and Lordship of Shetland
were, by an Act of the Scottish Parliament, finally annexed to the
Scottish Crown. But Norse law and usages and the Norse language long
lived on in Orkney and longer still in Shetland.

CHAPTER XI.

_Results and Conclusion._

Restless energy, and a religion that taught its followers that death
in combat alone conferred on the happy warrior a title to immortal
glory and a perpetual right to the unbroken joy of battle daily
renewed in Valhalla drove the Viking to war.

Headed off on the south by the vast army and feudal system of Charlemagne,
this energy in war could be exercised, and its religious aims achieved,
solely on the sea, which skill in shipbuilding and in navigation as well
had converted from a barrier into a highway to the west.

As already stated, over-population in the sterile lands of Norway, and
famine probably increased by immigration from the east and south,
drove its people "at times in piracy and at times in commerce"[1]
forth from the western fjords and The Vik across the North Sea to the
opposite coasts of Scotland, and so to its western lochs and to
Ireland, where they found cattle to slaughter on the nesses, stores
of grain, and other booty.

War, in fact, paid; and, after generations of harrying, many of the raiders
concluded that the western lands in Britain were fairer and more
fertile than their native shores, and desired to settle in the west.

Finally the feudalism of Charlemagne was imitated by Harald Harfagr in
Norway; and, against that, Norse independence revolted and rebelled.

The true Viking would be no other man's man, and to secure Harald's
feudal power he was driven forth from Norway by an organised navy manned
by those of his countrymen who had agreed to accept King Harald as
feudal overlord and to pay him tribute. Defeated, as we have seen, at
the naval battle of Hafrsfjord in 872, the rebel remnant of the
Vikings found their return to Norway barred; and those of them who became
pirates in Orkney and Shetland and raided Norway as such, were, in
their turn, assailed in these islands by King Harald, and destroyed.

Others of them colonised Ireland, the Hebrides, and the Faroes; and from
all these islands as well as from Scotland and Norway issued the swarms
that settled in Iceland, and afterwards gave us a code of law, our system
of trial by jury, much of our legal procedure, and, when crossed with
Gaelic blood, produced the glorious literature of the Sagas. But in
their exodus, whencesoever they started, what all alike sought was
liberty; which, for them, meant the right to do exactly as they pleased
to others, and freedom from paying "scat" or dues to a superior lord.

When the Vikings came, they came as worshippers of Thor and Odin and the
old Teutonic gods.

To them the Christianity of the Pict was "a weak effeminate creed."
They, therefore, slew its followers, plundered its shrines, and drove
its clergy south from Orkney, from north-east Caithness and the coasts
of Sutherland, and from the seaboard of Ross and Moray, and for a century
and a half Christianity was uprooted and almost wholly expelled. No jarl
before Sigurd Hlodverson was a Christian, and he was baptized by
force, and died fighting for Odin at Clontarf.

With all "the fury of an expiring faith, its last lambent flickering
flame, against a creed that seemed to contradict every article of the
old belief,"[2] wherever they came, they destroyed the cult and culture
of Columba, which it had taken several centuries to establish in the
north and west of Alban.

When the conquerors settled in the land, they enslaved such of its
inhabitants as remained among them for a time, and gave to the best
coastal lands and lower valley farms the Norse names which they
still bear, but they left the heads of the river valleys and the
hills mainly to the Moddan family and their Pictish followers and
clansmen, who held them tenaciously and extended their holdings,
as the Norse became less hostile through inter-marriage, or less
strong.

Once settled, the Norse exerted such steady pressure on their southern
Pictish neighbours in Ross and Moray, and kept them so fully occupied
in war or by the constant menace of it from the north, that successive
Scottish kings were in their turn left comparatively free, on their own
northern frontier, from Pictish attacks, and were therefore enabled
to consolidate their own kingdom in the south of Scotland and to beat
the English back to the line of the Tweed. Afterwards they were able to
turn their attention to the consolidation of the mainland north
of the Grampians,[3] by first overcoming the Picts in Moray, and
then the Norse in Cat, and establishing the feudal system and the
Catholic Church.

Worshipping, as the Vikings did, amongst others, the "fair white god Baldr
of golden beauty," and accounting as base-born "hellskins" those
of darker hue, it seems strange that they should so soon have taken
to themselves Celtic wives.

But we have seen that they came by sea and that no Norse
women were allowed in Viking ships,[4] and thus it was Celtic mothers
alone that perpetuated the race. They also taught the children the Gaelic
tongue, and, on the mainland in all Sutherland and Caithness save
the north-eastern portions of the latter, Gaelic soon became again
the only spoken language.

But the language was Gaelic with a difference. As already stated, it
contained, especially in connection with the sea, and ships, gear, and
tackle, many old Norse words,[5] and, in the Gaelic of Sutherland,
as in the English of Orkney and Shetland and of Caithness and Moray
the Old Norse roots remain.

Nor need we believe that every Magnus or Sweyn, or Ragnvald was a pure
Norseman. For their Celtic mothers often preferred to give their
children Old Norse names.

The Norse place-names,[6] too, have been faithfully preserved by Gaelic
inhabitants, and are still with us; and despite their varying spellings
in documents of title and maps of different dates, these names generally
yield up the secret of their original meanings when they can be
traced back to the earliest charters, especially if they can be
compared with the corresponding Gaelic versions of them in use at
the present time.

For Gaelic was ever a trustworthy vehicle of the original Norse. The Norse
place-names too are found in the same spots on which the remains of
brochs exist, that is, on the best land at the lowest levels which the
Picts had already cultivated, and which the Norse invaders seized.
Such names are also found on the eastern coast as far south as Dingwall,
both in Ross and Cromarty. They were never imposed on the Moray
seaboard, which was not permanently held by the Norse. Freskyn and
his descendants saw to that.

His fortress at Duffus checked all raids from their fort at Burghead.

Of outward and visible monuments, save here and there a howe or
grave-mound, the Vikings, unlike their Pictish predecessors, have left
us little or nothing on the mainland. In Iceland the skali[7] or farm-house
of the Norseman was built with some stone and turf below, and a
superstructure of wood which has long ago perished,[8] and but slight
traces of foundations are visible on the surface there. From
the frequent burnings in the Saga we know that such houses were of highly
inflammable materials which would soon perish. The place-name, "Skaill,"
remains both in Sutherland and Caithness. But no skilled antiquary,
has as yet laid bare by excavation the secrets of likely sites of
Norse dwellings in these counties, as Mr.

A.W. Johnston has done at The Jarls' Bu at Orphir, in Orkney.[9] And
yet, if Drumrabyn or Dunrabyn, Rafn's Ridge or Broch, be the true
derivation of Dunrobin (and the name is found at a time when as yet
no Robin had inhabited the place) possibly the Norse Lawman Rafn
had a house of consequence there like his Pictish predecessors, if,
indeed, he did not inhabit the Pictish broch whose foundations were
found on or under the present castle's site.

There was also a castle of note on the northern shore of the modern port
of Helmsdale, which is probably the castle of Sorlinc of Mr. Collingwood's
_William the Wanderer_, also called Surclin, both words being a corrupt
form, it is suggested, of Scir-Illigh, the old name of the parish of
Kildonan.

In Caithness especially, we have many a Norse castle site, such as
Earl Harold's borg at Thurso, and Lambaborg, the modern Freswick,
which we know to have been inhabited by noted Norsemen, while, in
Sutherland, Borve near Farr, and Seanachaistel on the Farrid Head
near Durness seem to be ideal Viking sites.

_Breithivellir_[10] or Brawl Castle was a known residence of Earl John
and later earls, and search for foundations might well be made on
the coasts of Caithness, and round Tongue and at the mouths of the
Naver and of the Borgie and other rivers, and at or near Unes or
Little Ferry, possibly at Skelbo, (Skail-bo) and in Kildonan at
Helmsdale.

That the Norsemen used many of the Pictish brochs as dwelling-places is
more than probable, and is proved by the Sagas in certain instances.[11]
At the same time few articles used distinctively by Norsemen have been
found in them.

No stately church like the Cathedral of St.

Magnus at Kirkwall, itself the finest specimen of Norman
architecture in Scotland, survives on the mainland from Viking
days; nor, so far as is known, was any such edifice built there by
any Norseman; but the original High Church of Halkirk, and also the
old church of St.

Bar at Dornoch, which preceded and is believed to have occupied a
site immediately to the east of St.

Gilbert's later Cathedral, may have been used by the later jarls, and a
few miles south of Halkirk are the foundations of the Spittal of St.

Magnus,[12] part of which, and of St. Peter's Church at Thurso may
be Norse.

Though the towns of Wick and Thurso[13] are frequently mentioned in the
_Orkneyinga Saga_, and earls and jarls stayed at both, no Sutherland
village (if any save Dornoch existed) is named in it; but the site
of modern Golspie (Gol's-by) appears in ancient charters as Platagall,
"the Flat of the Stranger

."[14]

If in his outward and visible man the Norseman has all but faded away
in Sutherland, he remains more in evidence in Caithness, in spite
of Celtic mothers and successive waves of Scottish immigration.

The high Norse skull, the tall frame with broad shoulders and narrow
hips,[15] the fair hair and skin, the sea-blue eyes and sound teeth
are still to be seen; and from time to time, amid greatly preponderating
Celtic types, we are startled by coming across some perfect living
specimen of the pure Viking type almost always on or near the coast.

But, if the outward type is rarely seen, its inward qualities remain.
What were those qualities?

The late Professor York Powell summed up the character of the Viking
emigrant folk in his introduction to Mr.

Collingwood's _Scandinavian Britain_, as follows:--
"A sturdy, thrifty, hardworking, law-loving people, fond of good
cheer and strong drink, of shrewd, blunt speech, and a stubborn
reticence, when speech would be useless or foolish; a people
clean-living, faithful to friend and kinsman, truthful, hospitable,
liking to make a fair show, but not vain or boastful; a people with
perhaps little play of fancy or great range of thought, but
cool-thinking, resolute, determined, able to realise the plainer
facts of life clearly, and even deepl

y
Hence, the life-periods of a world being long and
slow, some of these huge, unformed bulks of half-created matter might,
somehow, like the megatherium of later times,--a baby creation to
them,--roll at age-long intervals, clothed in a mighty terror of
shapelessness into the half-recognition of human beings, whose
consternation at the uncertain vision were barrier enough to prevent all
further knowledge of its substance."

"I begin to have some notion of your meaning, uncle," said Kate.

"But then," said Janet, "all that must be over by this time. That world
has been invisible now for many years."

"Ever since you were born, I suppose, Janet. The changes of a world are
not to be measured by the changes of its generations."

"Oh, but, uncle, there can't be any such things. You know that as well
as I do."

"Yes, just as well, and no better."

"There can't be any ghosts now. Nobody believes such things."

"Oh, as to ghosts, that is quite another thing. I did not know you were
talking with reference to them. It is no wonder if one can get nothing
sensible out of you, Janet, when your discrimination is no greater than
to lump everything marvellous, kelpies, ghosts, vampires, doubles,
witches, fairies, nightmares, and I don't know what all, under the one
head of ghosts; and we haven't been saying a word about them. If one
were to disprove to you the existence of the afreets of Eastern tales,
you would consider the whole argument concerning the reappearance of the
departed upset. I congratulate you on your powers of analysis and
induction, Miss Janet. But it matters very little whether we believe in
ghosts, as you say, or not, provided we believe that we are ghosts--that
within this body, which so many people are ready to consider their own
very selves, their lies a ghostly embryo, at least, which has an inner
side to it God only can see, which says I concerning itself, and which
will soon have to know whether or not it can appear to those whom it has
left behind, and thus solve the question of ghosts for itself, at
least."

"Then you do believe in ghosts, uncle?" said Janet, in a tone that
certainly was not respectful.

"Surely I said nothing of the sort, Janet. The man most convinced that
he had himself had such an interview as you hint at, would find--ought
to find it impossible to convince any one else of it."

"You are quite out of my depth, uncle," said Harry. "Surely any honest
man ought to be believed?"

"Honesty is not all, by any means, that is necessary to being believed.
It is impossible to convey a conviction of anything. All you can do is
to convey a conviction that you are convinced. Of course, what satisfied
you might satisfy another; but, till you can present him with the
sources of your conviction, you cannot present him with the
conviction--and perhaps not even then."

"You can tell him all about, it, can't you?"

"Is telling a man about a ghost, affording him the source of your
conviction? Is it the same as a ghost appearing to him? Really,
Harry!--You cannot even convey the impression a dream has made upon
you."

"But isn't that just because it is only a dream?"

"Not at all. The impression may be deeper and clearer on your mind than
any fact of the next morning will make. You will forget the next day
altogether, but the impression of the dream will remain through all the
following whirl and storm of what you call facts. Now a conviction may
be likened to a deep impression on the judgment or the reason, or both.
No one can feel it but the person who is convinced. It cannot be
conveyed."

"I fancy that is just what those who believe in spirit-rapping would
say."

"There are the true and false of convictions, as of everything else. I
mean that a man may take that for a conviction in his own mind which is
not a conviction, but only resembles one. But those to whom you refer
profess to appeal to facts. It is on the ground of those facts, and with
the more earnestness the more reason they can give for receiving them as
facts, that I refuse all their deductions with abhorrence. I mean that,
if what they say is true, the thinker must reject with contempt the
claim to anything like revelation therein."

"Then you do not believe in ghosts, after all?" said Kate, in a tone of
surprise.

"I did not say so, my dear. Will you be reasonable, or will you not?"

"Dear uncle, do tell us what you really think."

"I have been telling you what I think ever since I came, Katey; and you
won't take in a word I say."

"I have been taking in every word, uncle, and trying hard to understand
it as well.--Did you ever see a ghost, uncle?"

Cornelius Heywood was silent. He shut his lips and opened his jaws till
his cheeks almost met in the vacuum. A strange expression crossed the
strange countenance, and the great eyes of his spectacles looked as if,
at the very moment, they were seeing something no other spectacles could
see. Then his jaws closed with a snap, his countenance brightened, a
flash of humour came through the goggle eyes of pebble, and, at length,
he actually smiled as he said--"Really, Katey, you must take me for a
simpleton!"

"How, uncle?"

"To think, if I had ever seen a ghost, I would confess the fact before a
set of creatures like you--all spinning your webs like so many spiders
to catch and devour old Daddy Longlegs."

By this time Harry had grown quite grave. "Indeed, I am very sorry,
uncle," he said, "if I have deserved such a rebuke."

"No, no, my boy," said Cornelius; "I did not mean it more than half. If
I had meant it, I would not have said it. If you really would like--"
Here he paused.

"Indeed we should, uncle," said Kate, earnestly. "You should have heard
what we were saying just before you came in."

"All you were saying, Katey?"

"Yes," answered Kate, thoughtfully. "The worst we said was that you
could not tell a story without--well, we did say tacking a moral to it."

"Well, well! I mustn't push it. A man has no right to know what people
say about him. It unfits him for occupying his real position amongst
them. He, least of all, has anything to do with it. If his friends won't
defend him, he can't defend himself. Besides, what people say is so
often untrue!--I don't mean to others, but to themselves. Their hearts
are more honest than their mouths. But Janet doesn't want a strange
story, I am sure."

Janet certainly was not one to have chosen for a listener to such a
tale. Her eyes were so small that no satisfaction could possibly come of
it. "Oh! I don't mind, uncle," she said, with half-affected
indifference, as she searched in her box for silk to mend her gloves.

"You are not very encouraging, I must say," returned her uncle, making
another cow-face."

"I will go away, if you like," said Janet, pretending to rise.

"No, never mind," said her uncle hastily. "If you don't want me to tell
it, I want you to hear it; and, before I have done, that may have come
to the same thing perhaps."

"Then you really are going to tell us a ghost story!" said Kate, drawing
her chair nearer to her uncle's; and then, finding this did not satisfy
her sense of propinquity to the source of the expected pleasure, drawing
a stool from the corner, and seating herself almost on the hearth-rug at
his knee.

"I did not say so," returned Cornelius, once more. "I said I would tell
you a strange story. You may call it a ghost story if you like; I do not
pretend to determine what it is. I confess it will look like one,
though."

After so many delays, Uncle Cornelius now plunged almost hurriedly into
his narration.

"In the year 1820," he said, "in the month of August, I fell in love."
Here the girls glanced at each other. The idea of Uncle Cornie in love,
and in the very same century in which they were now listening to the
confession, was too astonishing to pass without ocular remark; but, if
he observed it, he took no notice of it; he did not even pause. "In the
month of September, I was refused. Consequently, in the month of
October, I was ready to fall in love again. Take particular care of
yourself, Harry, for a whole month, at least, after your first
disappointment; for you will never be more likely to do a foolish thing.
Please yourself after the second. If you are silly then, you may take
what you get, for you will deserve it--except it be good fortune."

"Did you do a foolish thing then, uncle?" asked Harry, demurely.

"I did, as you will see; for I fell in love again."

"I don't see anything so very foolish in that."

"I have repented it since, though. Don't interrupt me again, please. In
the middle of October, then, in the year 1820, in the evening, I was
walking across Russell Square, on my way home from the British Museum,
where I had been reading all day. You see I have a full intention of
being precise, Janet."

"I'm sure I don't know why you make the remark to me, uncle," said
Janet, with an involuntary toss of her head. Her uncle only went on with
his narrative.

"I begin at the very beginning of my story," he said; "for I want to be
particular as to everything that can appear to have had anything to do
with what came afterwards. I had been reading, I say, all the morning in
the British Museum; and, as I walked, I took off my spectacles to ease
my eyes. I need not tell you that I am short-sighted now, for that you
know well enough. But I must tell you that I was short-sighted then, and
helpless enough without my spectacles, although I was not quite so much
so as I am now;--for I find it all nonsense about short-sighted eyes
improving with age. Well, I was walking along the south side of Russell
Square, with my spectacles in my hand, and feeling a little bewildered
in consequence--for it was quite the dusk of the evening, and
short-sighted people require more light than others. I was feeling, in
fact, almost blind. I had got more than half-way to the other side,
when, from the crossing that cuts off the corner in the direction of
Montagu Place, just as I was about to turn towards it, an old lady
stepped upon the kerbstone of the pavement, looked at me for a moment,
and passed--an occurrence not very remarkable, certainly. But the lady
was remarkable, and so was her dress. I am not good at observing, and I
am still worse at describing dress, therefore I can only say that hers
reminded me of an old picture--that is, I had never seen anything like
it, except in old pictures. She had no bonnet, and looked as if she had
walked straight out of an ancient drawing-room in her evening attire. Of
her face I shall say nothing now. The next instant I met a man on the
crossing, who stopped and addressed me. So short-sighted was I that,
although I recognised his voice as one I ought to know, I could not
identify him until I had put on my spectacles, which I did instinctively
in the act of returning his greeting. At the same moment I glanced over
my shoulder after the old lady. She was nowhere to be seen.

"'What are you looking at?' asked James Hetheridge.

"'I was looking after that old lady,' I answered, 'but I can't see her.'

"'What old lady?' said Hetheridge, with just a touch of impatience.

"'You must have seen her,' I returned. 'You were not more than three
yards behind her.'

"'Where is she then?'

"'She must have gone down one of the areas, I think. But she looked a
lady, though an old-fashioned one.'

"'Have you been dining?' asked James, in a tone of doubtful inquiry.

"'No,' I replied, not suspecting the insinuation; 'I have only just come
from the Museum.'

"'Then I advise you to call on your medical man before you go home.'

"'Medical man!' I returned; 'I have no medical man. What do you mean? I
never was better in my life.'

"'I mean that there was no old lady. It was an illusion, and that
indicates something wrong. Besides, you did not know me when I spoke to
you.'

"'That is nothing," I returned. 'I had just taken off my spectacles, and
without them I shouldn't know my own father.'

"'How was it you saw the old lady, then?'

"The affair was growing serious under my friend's cross-questioning. I
did not at all like the idea of his supposing me subject to
hallucinations. So I answered, with a laugh, 'Ah! to be sure, that
explains it. I am so blind without my spectacles, that I shouldn't know
an old lady from a big dog.'

"'There was no big dog,' said Hetheridge, shaking his head, as the fact
for the first time dawned upon me that, although I had seen the old lady
clearly enough to make a sketch of her, even to the features of her
care-worn, eager old face, I had not been able to recognise the
well-known countenance of James Hetheridge.

"'That's what comes of reading till the optic nerve is weakened," he
went on. 'You will cause yourself serious injury if you do not pull up
in time. I'll tell you what; I'm going home next week--will you go with
me?'

"'You are very kind,' I answered, not altogether rejecting the proposal,
for I felt that a little change to the country would be pleasant, and I
was quite my own master. For I had unfortunately means equal to my
wants, and had no occasion to follow any profession--not a very
desirable thing for a young man, I can tell you, Master Harry. I need
not keep you over the commonplaces of pressing and yielding. It is
enough to say that he pressed and that I yielded. The day was fixed for
our departure together; but something or other, I forget what, occurred,
to make him advance the date, and it was resolved that I should follow
later in the month.

"It was a drizzly afternoon in the beginning of the last week of October
when I left the town of Bradford in a post-chaise to drive to Lewton
Grange, the property of my friend's father. I had hardly left the town,
and the twilight had only begun to deepen, when, glancing from one of
the windows of the chaise, I fancied I saw, between me and the hedge,
the dim figure of a horse keeping pace with us. I thought, in the first
interval of unreason, that it was a shadow from my own horse, but
reminded myself the next moment that there could be no shadow where
there was no light. When I looked again, I was at the first glance
convinced that my eyes had deceived me. At the second, I believed once
more that a shadowy something, with the movements of a horse in harness,
was keeping pace with us. I turned away again with some discomfort, and
not till we had reached an open moorland road, whence a little watery
light was visible on the horizon, could I summon up courage enough to
look out once more. Certainly then there was nothing to be seen, and I
persuaded myself that it had been all a fancy, and lighted a cigar. With
my feet on the cushions before me, I had soon lifted myself on the
clouds of tobacco far above all the terrors of the night, and believed
them banished for ever. But, my cigar coming to an end just as we turned
into the avenue that led up to the Grange, I found myself once more
glancing nervously out of the window. The moment the trees were about
me, there was, if not a shadowy horse out there by the side of the
chaise, yet certainly more than half that conviction in here in my
consciousness. When I saw my friend, however, standing on the doorstep,
dark against the glow of the hall fire, I forgot all about it; and I
need not add that I did not make it a subject of conversation when I
entered, for I was well aware that it was essential to a man's
reputation that his senses should be accurate, though his heart might
without prejudice swarm with shadows, and his judgment be a very stable
of hobbies.

"I was kindly received. Mrs. Hetheridge had been dead for some years,
and Laetitia, the eldest of the family, was at the head of the
household. She had two sisters, little more than girls. The father was a
burly, yet gentlemanlike Yorkshire squire, who ate well, drank well,
looked radiant, and hunted twice a week. In this pastime his son joined
him when in the humour, which happened scarcely so often. I, who had
never crossed a horse in my life, took his apology for not being able to
mount me very coolly, assuring him that I would rather loiter about with
a book than be in at the death of the best-hunted fox in Yorkshire.

"I very soon found myself at home with the Hetheridges; and very soon
again I began to find myself not so much at home; for Miss
Hetheridge--Laetitia as I soon ventured to call her--was fascinating. I
have told you, Katey, that there was an empty place in my heart. Look to
the door then, Katey. That was what made me so ready to fall in love
with Laetitia. Her figure was graceful, and I think, even now, her face
would have been beautiful but for a certain contraction of the skin over
the nostrils, suggesting an invisible thumb and forefinger pinching
them, which repelled me, although I did not then know what it indicated.
I had not been with her one evening before the impression it made on me
had vanished, and that so entirely that I could hardly recall the
perception of the peculiarity which had occasioned it. Her observation
was remarkably keen, and her judgment generally correct. She had great
confidence in it herself; nor was she devoid of sympathy with some of
the forms of human imagination, only they never seemed to possess for
her any relation to practical life. That was to be ordered by the
judgment alone. I do not mean she ever said so. I am only giving the
conclusions I came to afterwards. It is not necessary that you should
have any more thorough acquaintance with her mental character. One point
in her moral nature, of special consequence to my narrative, will show
itself by and by.

"I did all I could to make myself agreeable to her, and the more I
succeeded the more delightful she became in my eyes. We walked in the
garden and grounds together; we read, or rather I read and she
listened;--read poetry, Katey--sometimes till we could not read any more
for certain haziness and huskiness which look now, I am afraid,
considerably more absurd than they really were, or even ought to look.
In short, I considered myself thoroughly in love with her."

"And wasn't she in love with you, uncle?"

"Don't interrupt me, child. I don't know. I hoped so then. I hope the
contrary now. She liked me I am sure. That is not much to say. Liking is
very pleasant and very cheap. Love is as rare as a star."

"I thought the stars were anything but rare, uncle."

"That's because you never went out to find one for yourself, Katey. They
would prove a few miles apart then."

"But it would be big enough when I did find it."

"Right, my dear. That is the way with love.--Laetitia was a good
housekeeper. Everything was punctual as clockwork. I use the word
advisedly. If her father, who was punctual to one date,--the
dinner-hour,--made any remark to the contrary as he took up the
carving-knife, Laetitia would instantly send one of her sisters to
question the old clock in the hall, and report the time to half a
minute. It was sure to be found that, if there was a mistake, the
mistake was in the clock. But although it was certainly a virtue to have
her household in such perfect order, it was not a virtue to be impatient
with every infringement of its rules on the part of others. She was very
severe, for instance, upon her two younger sisters if, the moment after
the second bell had rung, they were not seated at the dinner-table,
washed and aproned. Order was a very idol with her. Hence the house was
too tidy for any sense of comfort. If you left an open book on the
table, you would, on returning to the room a moment after, find it put
aside. What the furniture of the drawing-room was like, I never saw; for
not even on Christmas Day, which was the last day I spent there, was it
uncovered. Everything in it was kept in bibs and pinafores. Even the
carpet was covered with a cold and slippery sheet of brown holland. Mr.
Hetheridge never entered that room, and therein was wise. James
remonstrated once. She answered him quite kindly, even playfully, but no
change followed. What was worse, she made very wretched tea. Her father
never took tea; neither did James. I was rather fond of it, but I soon
gave it up. Everything her father partook of was first-rate. Everything
else was somewhat poverty-stricken. My pleasure in Laetitia's society
prevented me from making practical deductions from such trifles."

"I shouldn't have thought you knew anything about eating, uncle," said
Janet.

"The less a man eats, the more he likes to have it good, Janet. In
short,--there can be no harm in saying it now,--Laetitia was so far from
being like the name of her baptism,--and most names are so good that
they are worth thinking about; no children are named after bad
ideas,--Laetitia was so far unlike hers as to be stingy--an abominable
fault. But, I repeat, the notion of such a fact was far from me then.
And now for my story.

"The first of November was a very lovely day, quite one of the 'halcyon
days' of 'St. Martin's summer.' I was sitting in a little arbour I had
just discovered, with a book in my hand,--not reading, however, but
day-dreaming,--when, lifting my eyes from the ground, I was startled to
see, through a thin shrub in front of the arbour, what seemed the form
of an old lady seated, apparently reading from a book on her knee. The
sight instantly recalled the old lady of Russell Square. I started to my
feet, and then, clear of the intervening bush, saw only a great stone
such as abounded on the moors in the neighbourhood, with a lump of
quartz set on the top of it. Some childish taste had put it there for an
ornament. Smiling at my own folly, I sat down again, and reopened my
book. After reading for a while, I glanced up again, and once more
started to my feet, overcome by the fancy that there verily sat the old
lady reading. You will say it indicated an excited condition of the
brain. Possibly; but I was, as far as I can recall, quite collected and
reasonable. I was almost vexed this second time, and sat down once more
to my book. Still, every time I looked up, I was startled afresh. I
doubt, however, if the trifle is worth mentioning, or has any
significance even in relation to what followed.

"After dinner I strolled out by myself, leaving father and son over
their claret. I did not drink wine; and from the lawn I could see the
windows of the library, whither Laetitia commonly retired from the
dinner-table. It was a very lovely soft night. There was no moon, but
the stars looked wider awake than usual. Dew was falling, but the grass
was not yet wet, and I wandered about on it for half an hour. The
stillness was somehow strange. It had a wonderful feeling in it as if
something were expected--as if the quietness were the mould in which
some event or other was about to be cast.

"Even then I was a reader of certain sorts of recondite lore. Suddenly I
remembered that this was the eve of All Souls. This was the night on
which the dead came out of their graves to visit their old homes. 'Poor
dead!' I thought with myself; 'have you any place to call a home now? If
you have, surely you will not wander back here, where all that you
called home has either vanished or given itself to others, to be their
home now and yours no more! What an awful doom the old fancy has
allotted you! To dwell in your graves all the year, and creep out, this
one night, to enter at the midnight door, left open for welcome! A poor
welcome truly!--just an open door, a clean-swept floor, and a fire to
warm your rain-sodden limbs! The household asleep, and the house-place
swarming with the ghosts of ancient times,--the miser, the spendthrift,
the profligate, the coquette,--for the good ghosts sleep, and are
troubled with no waking like yours! Not one man, sleepless like
yourselves, to question you, and be answered after the fashion of the
old nursery rhyme--

  "'What makes your eyes so holed?'
  'I've lain so long among the mould.'
  'What makes your feet so broad?'
  'I've walked more than ever I rode!'

"'Yet who can tell?' I went on to myself. 'It may be your hell to return
thus. It may be that only on this one night of all the year you can show
yourselves to him who can see you, but that the place where you were
wicked is the Hades to which you are doomed for ages.' I thought and
thought till I began to feel the air alive about me, and was enveloped
in the vapours that dim the eyes of those who strain them for one peep
through the dull mica windows that will not open on the world of ghosts.
At length I cast my fancies away, and fled from them to the library,
where the bodily presence of Laetitia made the world of ghosts appear
shadowy indeed.

"'What a reality there is about a bodily presence!' I said to myself, as
I took my chamber-candle in my hand. 'But what is there more real in a
body?' I said again, as I crossed the hall. 'Surely nothing,' I went on,
as I ascended the broad staircase to my room. 'The body must vanish. If
there be a spirit, that will remain. A body can but vanish. A ghost can
appear.'

"I woke in the morning with a sense of such discomfort as made me spring
out of bed at once. My foot lighted upon my spectacles. How they came to
be on the floor I could not tell, for I never took them off when I went
to bed. When I lifted them I found they were in two pieces; the bridge
was broken. This was awkward. I was so utterly helpless without them!
Indeed, before I could lay my hand on my hair-brush I had to peer
through one eye of the parted pair. When I looked at my watch after I
was dressed, I found I had risen an hour earlier than usual. I groped my
way downstairs to spend the hour before breakfast in the library.

"No sooner was I seated with a book than I heard the voice of Laetitia
scolding the butler, in no very gentle tones, for leaving the garden
door open all night. The moment I heard this, the strange occurrences I
am about to relate began to dawn upon my memory. The door had been open
the night long between All Saints and All Souls. In the middle of that
night I awoke suddenly. I knew it was not the morning by the sensations
I had, for the night feels altogether different from the morning. It was
quite dark. My heart was beating violently, and I either hardly could or
hardly dared breathe. A nameless terror was upon me, and my sense of
hearing was, apparently by the force of its expectation, unnaturally
roused and keen. There it was--a slight noise in the room!--slight, but
clear, and with an unknown significance about it! It was awful to think
it would come again. I do believe it was only one of those creaks in the
timbers which announce the torpid, age-long, sinking flow of every house
back to the dust--a motion to which the flow of the glacier is as a
torrent, but which is no less inevitable and sure. Day and night it
ceases not; but only in the night, when house and heart are still, do we
hear it. No wonder it should sound fearful! for are we not the immortal
dwellers in ever-crumbling clay? The clay is so near us, and yet not of
us, that its every movement starts a fresh dismay. For what will its
final ruin disclose? When it falls from about us, where shall we find
that we have existed all the time?

"My skin tingled with the bursting of the moisture from its pores.
Something was in the room beside me. A confused, indescribable sense of
utter loneliness, and yet awful presence, was upon me, mingled with a
dreary, hopeless desolation, as of burnt-out love and aimless life. All
at once I found myself sitting up. The terror that a cold hand might be
laid upon me, or a cold breath blow on me, or a corpse-like face bend
down through the darkness over me, had broken my bonds!--I would meet
half-way whatever might be approaching. The moment that my will burst
into action the terror began to ebb.

"The room in which I slept was a large one, perfectly dreary with
tidiness. I did not know till afterwards that it was Laetitia's room,
which she had given up to me rather than prepare another. The furniture,
all but one article, was modern and commonplace. I could not help
remarking to myself afterwards how utterly void the room was of the
nameless charm of feminine occupancy. I had seen nothing to wake a
suspicion of its being a lady's room. The article I have excepted was an
ancient bureau, elaborate and ornate, which stood on one side of the
large bow window. The very morning before, I had seen a bunch of keys
hanging from the upper part of it, and had peeped in. Finding however,
that the pigeon-holes were full of papers, I closed it at once. I should
have been glad to use it, but clearly it was not for me. At that bureau
the figure of a woman was now seated in the posture of one writing. A
strange dim light was around her, but whence it proceeded I never
thought of inquiring. As if I, too, had stepped over the bourne, and was
a ghost myself, all fear was now gone. I got out of bed, and softly
crossed the room to where she was seated. 'If she should be beautiful!'
I thought--for I had often dreamed of a beautiful ghost that made love
to me. The figure did not move. She was looking at a faded brown paper.
'Some old love-letter,' I thought, and stepped nearer. So cool was I
now, that I actually peeped over her shoulder. With mingled surprise and
dismay I found that the dim page over which she bent was that of an old
account-book. Ancient household records, in rusty ink, held up to the
glimpses of the waning moon, which shone through the parting in the
curtains, their entries of shillings and pence!--Of pounds there was not
one. No doubt pounds and farthings are much the same in the world of
thought--the true spirit-world; but in the ghost-world this eagerness
over shillings and pence must mean something awful! I To think that
coins which had since been worn smooth in other pockets and purses,
which had gone back to the Mint, and been melted down, to come out again
and yet again with the heads of new kings and queens,--that dinners,
eaten by men and women and children whose bodies had since been eaten by
the worms,--that polish for the floors, inches of whose thickness had
since been worn away,--that the hundred nameless trifles of a life
utterly vanished, should be perplexing, annoying, and worst of all,
interesting the soul of a ghost who had been in Hades for centuries! The
writing was very old-fashioned, and the words were contracted. I could
read nothing but the moneys and one single entry--'Corinths, Vs.'

"Currants for a Christmas pudding, most likely!--Ah, poor lady! the
pudding and not the Christmas was her care; not the delight of the
children over it, but the beggarly pence which it cost. And she cannot
get it out of her head, although her brain was 'powdered all as thin as
flour' ages ago in the mortar of Death. 'Alas, poor ghost!' It needs no
treasured hoard left behind, no floor stained with the blood of the
murdered child, no wickedly hidden parchment of landed rights! An old
account-book is enough for the hell of the housekeeping gentlewoman!

"She never lifted her face, or seemed to know that I stood behind her. I
left her, and went into the bow window, where I could see her face. I
was right. It was the same old lady I had met in Russell Square, walking
in front of James Hetheridge. Her withered lips went moving as if they
would have uttered words had the breath been commissioned thither; her
brow was contracted over her thin nose; and once and again her shining
forefinger went up to her temple as if she were pondering some deep
problem of humanity. How long I stood gazing at her I do not know, but
at last I withdrew to my bed, and left her struggling to solve that
which she could never solve thus. It was the symbolic problem of her own
life, and she had failed to read it. I remember nothing more. She may be
sitting there still, solving at the insolvable.

"I should have felt no inclination, with the broad sun of the squire's
face, the keen eyes of James, and the beauty of Laetitia before me at
the breakfast table, to say a word about what I had seen, even if I had
not been afraid of the doubt concerning my sanity which the story would
certainly awaken. What with the memories of the night and the want of my
spectacles, I passed a very dreary day, dreading the return of the
night, for, cool as I had been in her presence, I could not regard the
possible reappearance of the ghost with equanimity. But when the night
did come, I slept soundly till the morning.

"The next day, not being able to read with comfort, I went wandering
about the place, and at length began to fit the outside and inside of
the house together. It was a large and rambling edifice, parts of it
very old, parts comparatively modern. I first found my own window, which
looked out of the back. Below this window, on one side, there was a
door. I wondered whither it led, but found it locked. At the moment
James approached from the stables. 'Where does this door lead?' I asked
him. 'I will get the key,' he answered. 'It is rather a queer old place.
We used to like it when we were children.' 'There's a stair, you see,'
he said, as he threw the door open. 'It leads up over the kitchen.' I
followed him up the stair. 'There's a door into your room,' he said,
'but it's always locked now.--And here's Grannie's room, as they call
it, though why, I have not the least idea,' he added, as he pushed open
the door of an old-fashioned parlour, smelling very musty. A few old
books lay on a side table. A china bowl stood beside them, with some
shrivelled, scentless rose-leaves in the bottom of it. The cloth that
covered the table was riddled by moths, and the spider-legged chairs
were covered with dust.

"A conviction seized me that the old bureau must have belonged to this
room, and I soon found the place where I judged it must have stood. But
the same moment I caught sight of a portrait on the wall above the spot
I had fixed upon. 'By Jove!' I cried, involuntarily, 'that's the very
old lady I met in Russell Square!'

"'Nonsense!' said James. 'Old-fashioned ladies are like babies--they all
look the same. That's a very old portrait.'

"'So I see,' I answered. 'It is like a Zucchero.'

"'I don't know whose it is," he answered hurriedly, and I thought he
looked a little queer.

"'Is she one of the family?' I asked.

"'They say so; but who or what she was, I don't know. You must ask
Letty," he answered.

"'The more I look at it,' I said, 'the more I am convinced it is the
same old lady.'

"'Well,' he returned with a laugh, 'my old nurse used to say she was
rather restless. But it's all nonsense.'

"'That bureau in my room looks about the same date as this furniture,' I
remarked.

"'It used to stand just there,' he answered, pointing to the space under
the picture. 'Well I remember with what awe we used to regard it; for
they said the old lady kept her accounts at it still. We never dared
touch the bundles of yellow papers in the pigeon-holes. But there
is some excuse in the fact that Bishop John had been censured by Rome for
his neglect in collecting the dues of Rome or Peter's Pence as greatly
as Bishop Adam was blamed by the people of Caithness for his
greediness.

"'Yes.'

"'I am ashamed of keeping her out of it.'

"'Oh! she'll do well enough.'

"'If I were she though,' I added, 'I would send that bureau back to its
own place.'

"'What do you mean, Heywood? Do you believe every old wife's tale that
ever was told?'

"'She may get a fright some day--that's all!' I replied.

"He smiled with such an evident mixture of pity and contempt that for
the moment I almost disliked him; and feeling certain that Laetitia
would receive any such hint in a somewhat similar manner, I did not feel
inclined to offer her any advice with regard to the bureau.

"Little occurred during the rest of my visit worthy of remark. Somehow
or other I did not make much progress with Laetitia. But one might
rhyme for weeks this way, And still have lots of things to say; And
so I'll close, for reader mine, This is about the hour to dine._"

SOUP.

"The best soups are made with a blending of many flavors. Don't be
afraid of experimenting with them. Where you make one mistake you will
be surprised to find the number of successful varieties you can
produce.

If you like a spicy flavor try two or three cloves, or allspice, or bay
leaves. All soups are improved by a dash of onion, unless it is the
white soups, or purées from chicken, veal, fish, etc. In these celery
may be used. In nothing as well as soups can a housekeeper be economical
of the odds and ends of food left from meals.

One of the best cooks was in the habit of saving everything,
and announced one day, when her soup was especially praised, that it
contained the crumbs of gingerbread from her cake box! Creamed onions
left from a dinner, or a little stewed corn, potatoes mashed, a few
baked beans--even a small dish of apple sauce have often added to the
flavor of soup. Of course, all good meat gravies, or bones from roast
or boiled meats, can be added to your stock pot. A little butter is always
needed in tomato soup. In making stock, use a quart of water for every
pound of meat and bone. Cut the meat in pieces, crack the bones, place
all in the kettle, pour over it the proper quantity of cold water;
let it soak a while on the back of the range before cooking.She blushed crimson.

"'I beg your pardon, Mr. Heywood,' she said in great confusion; 'I
thought you had gone to church with the rest.'

"'I had lain down with a headache, and gone to sleep,' I replied.
'But,--forgive me, Miss Hetheridge,' I added, for my mind was full of
the dreadful coincidence,--'don't you think you would have been better
at church than balancing your accounts on Christmas Day?'

"'The better day the better deed,' she said, with a somewhat offended
air, and turned to walk from the room.

"'Excuse me, Laetitia,' I resumed, very seriously, 'but I want to tell
you something.'

"She looked conscious. It never crossed me, that perhaps she fancied I
was going to make a confession. Far other things were then in my mind.
For I thought how awful it was, if she too, like the ancestral ghost,
should have to do an age-long penance of haunting that bureau and those
horrid figures, and I had suddenly resolved to tell her the whole story.
She listened with varying complexion and face half turned aside. When I
had ended, which I fear I did with something of a personal appeal, she
lifted her head and looked me in the face, with just a slight curl on
her thin lip, and answered me. 'If I had wanted a sermon, Mr. Heywood, I
should have gone to church for it. As for the ghost, I am sorry for
you.' So saying she walked out of the room.

"The rest of the day I did not find very merry. I pleaded my headache as
an excuse for going to bed early. How I hated the room now! Next
morning, immediately after breakfast, I took my leave of Lewton Grange."

"And lost a good wife, perhaps, for the sake of a ghost, uncle!" said
Janet.

"If I lost a wife at all, it was a stingy one. I should have been
ashamed of her all my life long."

"Better than a spendthrift," said Janet.

"How do you know that?" returned her uncle. "All the difference I see
is, that the extravagant ruins the rich, and the stingy robs the poor."

"But perhaps she repented, uncle," said Kate.

"I don't think she did, Katey. Look here."

Uncle Cornelius drew from the breast pocket of his coat a black-edged
letter.

"I have kept up my friendship with her brother," he said. "All he knows
about the matter is, that either we had a quarrel, or she refused
me;--he is not sure which. I must say for Laetitia, that she was no
tattler. Well, here's a letter I had from James this very morning. I
will read it to you.

"'MY DEAR MR. HEYWOOD,--We have had a terrible \shock this morning.
Letty did not come down to breakfast, and Lizzie went to see if she was
ill. In a stereograph sent us by the same gentleman the epithelium scales
from mucous membrane are shown floating or half-submerged in fluid,--a
very curious effect, requiring the double image to produce it. Of all
the microphotographs we have seen, those made by Dr.The doctors say it was disease of the heart.'

"There!" said Uncle Cornie, folding up the letter.

"Do you think the ghost had anything to do with it, uncle?" asked Kate,
almost under her breath.

"How should I know, my dear? Possibly."

"It's very sad," said Janet; "but I don't see the good of it all. If the
ghost had come to tell that she had hidden away money in some secret
place in the old bureau, one would see why she had been permitted to
come back. For their fertile lands yielded the supplies of grain which
Norway required; and when the Norse were driven from the arable
lands of the Moray seaboard, Orkney and Cat became still more
necessary to them and their folk at home.

Uncle Cornelius rose without another word, bade them good-night, and
walked out into the wind.