"Top can" text scanner, with a bit of correcting here and
there.***


My Lady of the Chinese Courtyard by Elizabeth Cooper.

Author of "Sayonara," etc.

With Thirty-One Illustrations In Duotone From Photographs.

Dedicated,
To My Husband.


Author's Note.

Dr. Crombie (_Etymology and Syntax of the English language_, p. 150.)
says:

"The participle in _ed_ I consider to be perfectly analogous to the
participle in _ing_, and used like it in either an active or passive
sense, belonging, therefore, neither to the one voice nor the other
exclusively."
Supposing for a moment that Shakspeare used delight_ed_ for
delight_ing_, the sense of the passages would, I presume, be in
_Measure for Measure_, "the spirit affording delight;" in _Othello_,
"if virtue want no beauty affording delight;" in _Cymbeline_, "the
gifts delighting more from being delayed."

Here we have a simple, and, in the last two instances, I think, a more
satisfactory meaning than Mr.
Donald Mennie of Shanghai,
China, who took most of the photographs from which the illustrations
have been made.

--Elizabeth Cooper.


Part 1.

-Preface_.

A writer on things Chinese was asked why one found so little writing
upon the subject of the women of China. He stopped, looked puzzled
for a moment, then said, "The woman of China! One never hears about
them. I believe no one ever thinks about them, except perhaps that
they are the mothers of the Chinese men!"

Such is the usual attitude taken in regard to the woman of the flowery
Republic. She is practically unknown, she hides herself behind her
husband and her sons, yet, because of that filial piety, that almost
religious veneration in which all men of Eastern races hold their
parents, she really exerts an untold influence upon the deeds of the
men of her race.

Less is known about Chinese women than about any other women of
Oriental lands. Their home life is a sealed book to the average person
visiting China. Books about China deal mainly with the lower-class
Chinese, as it is chiefly with that class that the average visitor or
missionary comes into contact. The tourists see only the coolie
woman bearing burdens in the street, trotting along with a couple of
heavy baskets swung from her shoulders, or they stop to stare at the
neatly dressed mothers sitting on their low stools in the narrow
alleyways, patching clothing or fondling their children. They see and
hear the boat-women, the women who have the most freedom of any
in all China, as they weave their sampans in and out of the crowded
traffic on the canals. These same tourists visit the tea-houses and
see the gaily dressed "sing-song" girls, or catch a glimpse of a
gaudily painted face, as a lady is hurried along in her sedan-chair,
carried on the shoulders of her chanting bearers. But the real Chinese
woman, with her hopes, her fears, her romances, her children, and her
religion, is still undiscovered.

I hope that this book, based on letters shown me many years after
they were written, will give a faint idea of the life of a Chinese lady.
The story is told in two series of letters conceived to be written by
Kwei-li, the wife of a very high Chinese official, to her husband when
he accompanied his master, Prince Chung, on his trip around the
world.

She was the daughter of a viceroy of Chih-li, a man most advanced for
his time, who was one of the forerunners of the present educational
movement in China, a movement which has caused her youth to rise
and demand Western methods and Western enterprise in place of the
obsolete traditions and customs of their ancestors. To show his belief
in the new spirit that was breaking over his country, he educated his
daughter along with his sons. She was given as tutor Ling-Wing-pu, a
famous poet of his province, who doubtless taught her the imagery
and beauty of expression which is so truly Eastern.

Within the beautiful ancestral home of her husband, high on the
mountains-side outside of the city of Su-Chau, she lived the quite,
sequestered life of the high-class Chinese woman, attending to the
household duties, which are not light in these patriarchal homes,
where an incredible number of people live under the same rooftree.
The sons bring their wives to their father's house instead of
establishing separate homes for themselves, and they are all under
the watchful eye of the mother, who can make a veritable prison or a
palace for her daughters-in-law. In China the mother reigns supreme.

The mother-in-law of Kwei-li was an old-time conservative Chinese
lady, the woman who cannot adapt herself to the changing conditions,
who resents change of methods, new interpretations and fresh
expressions of life. She sees in the new ideas that her sons bring
from the foreign schools disturbers only of her life's ideals. She
instinctively feels that they are gathering about her retreat, beating at
her doors, creeping in at her closely shuttered windows, even winning
her sons from her arms. She stands an implacable foe of progress
and she will not admit that the world is moving on, broadening its
outlook and clothing itself in a new expression. She feels that she is
being left behind with her dead gods, and she cries out against the
change which is surely but slowly coming to China, and especially to
Chinese women, with the advent of education and the knowledge of
the outside world.

In a household in China a daughter-in-law is of very little importance
until she is the mother of a son. Then, from being practically a servant
of her husband's mother, she rises to place of equality and is looked
upon with respect. She has fulfilled her once great duty, the thing for
which she was created: she has given her husband a son to worship
at his grave and at the graves of his ancestors. The great prayer which
rises from the heart of all Chinese women, rich and poor, peasant and
princess, is to Kwan-yin, for the inestimable blessing of sons. "Sons!
Give me sons!" is heard in every temple. To be childless is the
greatest sorrow that can come to Chinese women, as she fully
realizes that for this cause her husband is justified in putting her away
for another wife, and she may not complain or cry out, except in
secret, to her Goddess of Mercy, who has not answered her prayers.
Understanding this, we can dimly realise the joy of Kwei-li upon the
birth of her son, and her despair upon his death.

At this time, when she was in very depths of despondency, when she
had turned from the gods of her people, when it was feared that her
sorrow, near to madness, she would take the little round ball of
sleep-- opium-- that was brought rest to so many despairing women in
China, her servants brought her the Gospel of St. John, which they
bought of an itinerant colporteur in the market-place, hoping that it
might interest her. In the long nights when sleep would not come to
her, she read it-- and found the peace she sought.


1
My Dear One,
The house on the mountain-top has lost its soul. It is nothing but a
palace with empty windows. I go upon the terrace and look over the
valley where the sun sinks a golden red ball, casting long purple
shadows on the plain. Then I remember that thou art not coming from
the city to me, and I stay to myself that there can be no dawn that I
care to see, and no sunset to gladden my eyes, unless I share it with
thee.

[Illustration: Mylady02.]

But do not think I am unhappy. I do everything the same as if thou
wert here, and in everything I say, "Would this please my master?"
Meh-ki wished to put thy long chair away, as she said it was too big;
but I did not permit. It must rest where I can look at it and imagine I
see thee lying it, smoking thy water pipe; and the small table is
always near by, where thou canst reach out thy hand for thy papers
and the drink thou lovest. Meh-ki also brought out the dwarf pine-tree
and put it on the terrace, but I remembered thou saidst it looked like
an old man who had been beaten in his childhood, and I gave it to her
for one of the inner courtyards. She thinks it very beautiful, and so I
did once; but I have learned to see with thine eyes, and I know now
that a tree made straight and beautiful and tall by the Gods is more to
be regarded than one that has been bent and twisted by man.

Such a long letter I am writing thee. I am so glad that though madest
me promise to write thee every seventh day, and to tell thee all that
passes within my household and my heart. Thine Honourable Mother
says it is not seemly to send communication from mine hand to thine.
She says it was a thing unheard of in her girlhood, and that we
younger generations have passed the limits of all modesty and
womanliness. She wishes me to have the writer or thy brother send
thee the news of thine household; but that I will not permit. It must
come from me, thy wife. Each one of these strokes will come to thee
bearing my message. Thou wilt not tear the covering roughly as thou
didst those great official letters; nor wilt thou crush the papers quickly
in thy hand, because it is the written word of Kwei-li, who sends with
each stroke of brush a part of her heart.


2
My Dear One,
My first letter to thee was full of sadness and longing because thou
wert newly gone from me. Now a week has passed, the sadness is
still in my heart, but it is buried deep for only me to know. I have my
duties which must be done, my daily tasks that only I can do since
thine Honourable Mother has handed me the keys of the rice-bin. I
realise the great honour she does me, and that at last she trusts me
and believes me no child as she did when I first entered her
household.

Can I ever forget that day when I came to my husband's people? I had
the one great consolation of a bride, my parents had not sent me
away empty-handed. The procession was almost a li in length and I
watched with a swelling heart the many tens of coolies carrying my
household goods. There were the silken coverlets for the beds, and
they were folded to show their richness and carried on red lacquered
tables of great value. There were the household utensils of many
kinds, the vegetable dishes, the baskets, the camphor-wood baskets
containing my clothing, tens upon tens of them; and I said within my
heart as they passed me by, "Enter my new home before me. Help
me find a loving welcome." Then at the end of the chanting procession
I came in my red chair of marriage, so closely covered I could barely
breathe. My trembling feet could scarce support me as they helped
me from the chair, and my hand shook with fear as I was being led
into my new household. She stood bravely before you, that little girl
dressed in red and gold, her hair twined with pearls and jade, her
arms tiny finger, but with all her bravery she was
frightened-- frightened. She was away from her parents for the first
time, away from all who love her, and she knew if she did not meet
with approval in her new home her rice-bowl would be full of bitterness
for many moons to come.

After the obeisance to the ancestral tablet and we had fallen upon our
knees before thine Honourable Parent, I then saw for the first time the
face of my husband. Dost thou remember when first thou raised my
veil and looked long into my eyes? I was thinking, "Will he find me
beautiful?" and in fear I could look but for a moment, then my eyes fell
and I would not raise then to thine again. But in that moment I saw
that thou wert tall and beautiful, that thine eyes were truly almond,
that thy skin was clear and thy teeth like pearls. I was secretly glad
within my heart, because I have known of brides who, when they saw
their husbands for the first time, wished to scream in terror, as they
were old or ugly. I thought to myself that I could be happy with this
tall, strong young man if I found favour in his sight, and I said a little
prayer to Kwan-yin. Because she has answered that prayer, each day
I place a candle at her feet to show my gratitude.

I think thine Honourable Mother has passed me the keys of the
household to take my mind from my loss. She says a heart that is
busy cannot mourn, and my days are full of duties. I arise in the
morning early, and after seeing that my hair is tidy, I take a cup of tea
to the Aged One and make my obeisance; then I place the rice and
water in their dishes before the God of the Kitchen, and light a tiny
stick of incense for his altar, so that our day may begin auspiciously.
After the morning meal I consult with the cook and steward. The
vegetables must be regarded carefully and the fish inspected, and I
must ask the price that has been paid, because often a hireling is
hurried and forgets that a bargain is not made with a breath.

I carry the great keys and feel much pride when I open the door of the
storeroom. Why, I do not know, unless it is because of the realisation
that I am the head of this large household. If the servants or their
children are ill, they come to me instead of to thine Honourable
Mother, as they be too rare or heavy for one of my mind and
experience.

Then I go with the gardener to the terrace and  help him arrange the
flowers for the day. I love the stone-flagged terrace, with its low marble
balustrade, resting close against the mountain to which it seems to
cling.

I always stop a moment and look over the valley, because it was from
here I watched thee when thou went to the city in the morning, and
here I waited thy return. Because of my love for it and the rope of
remembrance with which it binds me, I keep it beautiful with rugs and
flowers.

It speaks to me of happiness and brings back memories of summer
days spent idling in a quite so still that we could hear the rustle of the
bamboo grasses on the hillside down below; or, still more dear, the
evenings passed close by thy side, watching the brightened into jade
each door and archway as it passed.

I long for thee, I love thee, I am thine.

Thy Wife.


3
My Dear One,
The hours of one day are as like each other as are twin blossoms
from the pear-tree. There is no news to tell thee. The mornings are
passed in the duties that come to all women who have the care of a
household, and the afternoons I am on the terrace with thy sister. But
first of all, thine August Mother must be made comfortable for her
sleep, and then the peace indeed is wonderful.

Mah-li and I take our embroidery and sit upon the terrace, where we
pass long hours watching the people in the valley below. The faint
blue smoke curls from a thousand dwellings, and we try to imagine
the lives of those who dwell beneath the rooftrees. We see the
peasants in their rice-fields; watch them dragging the rich mud from
the bottoms of the canal for fertilizing; hear the shrill whistle of the
duck man as, with long bamboo, he drives the great flock of ducks
homeward or sends them over the fields to search for insects. We see
the wedding procession far below, and can but faintly follow the great
covered chair of the bride and the train of servants carrying the
possessions to the new home. Often the wailing of the mourners in a
funeral comes to our ears, and we lean far over the balcony to watch
the coolie scatter the spirit money that will pay the dead man's way to
land of the Gods. But yesterday we saw the procession carrying the
merchant Wong to his resting-place of sycee spent upon his funeral.
Thy brothers tell me his sons made great boast that no man has been
buried with such pomp in all the province. But it only brings more
clearly the remembrance that he began this life a sampan coolie and
ended it with many millions. But his millions did not bring him
happiness. He laboured without ceasing, and then without living to
enjoy the fruit, worn out, departed, one knows not whither.

[Illustration: Mylady03.]
[Illustration: Mylady04.]

Yesterday we heard the clang-clang of a gong and saw the Taotai
pass by, his men carrying the boards and banners with his official
rank and virtues written upon them, and we counted the red umbrellas
and wondered if some poor peasant was in deep trouble.

It is beautiful here now. The hillside is purple with the autumn bloom
and air is filled with a golden haze. The red leaves drift slowly down
the canal and tell me that soon the winter winds will come. Outside
the walls the insects sing sleepily in grass, seeming to know that
their brief life is nearly spent. The wild geese on their southward flight
carry my thoughts to thee. All is sad, and sad as the clouded moon
my longing face, and my eyes are filled with tears. Not at twilight nor
at grey of dawn can I find happiness without thee, my lord, mine own,
and "endless are the days as trailing creepers."

Thy Wife.


4
My Dear One,
I have much to tell thee. My last letter was unhappy, and these little
slips of paper must bring to thee joy, not sorrow, else why the written
word?

First, I must tell thee that thy brother Chih-peh will soon be married.
Thou knowest he has long been betrothed to Li-ti, the daughter of the
Governor of Chih-li, and soon the bride will be here. We have been
arranging her apartments. We do not know how many home servants
she will bring, and we are praying the Gods to grant her discretion,
because with servants from a different province there are sure to be
jealousies and the retailing of small tales that disturb the harmony of
a household.

Many tales have been brought us of her great beauty, and we hear
she has much education. Thine August Mother is much disturbed over
the latter, as she says, and justly too, that over-learning is not good
for women. It is not meet to give them books in which to store their
embroidery silks. But I-- I am secretly delighted, and Mah-li, thy
sister, is transported with joy. I think within our hearts, although we
would not even whisper it to the night wind, we are glad that there will
be three instead of two to bear the burden of the discourses of thine
Honourable Mother. Not that she talks too much, thou understandest,
nor that her speech is not stored full of wisdom, but-- she talks-- and
we must listen.

We have other news. A new slave-girl has come into our household.
As thou knowest, there has been a great famine to the north of us,
and the boats, who follow all disaster, have been anchored in our
canal. I do not know why August One desired to add one more to take
of rice beneath our rooftree; but she is here. She was brought before
me, a little peasant girl, dressed in faded blue trousers and a jacket
that had been many times to the washing pool. Her black hair was
coiled in the girlhood knot at the side of the head, and in it she had
stuck a pumpkin blossom. She was such a pretty little country flower,
and looked so helpless, I drew her to me and questioned her. She told
me there were many within their compound wall: grandmother, father,
mother, brothers, sisters, uncles and cousins. The rice was gone, the
heavy clothing and all of value in the pawn-shop. Death was all around
them, and they watched each day as he drew nearer-- nearer. Then
came the buyers of girls. They had money that would buy rice for the
winter and mean life to all. But the mother would not listen. She was
told over and over that the price of one would save the many. Her
nights were spent in weeping and her days in fearful watching. At last,
worn out, despairing, she went to a far-off temple to ask Kwan-yin, the
Mother of Mercies, for help in her great trouble. While she was gone,
Ho-tai was taken to the women in the boat at the water-gate, and
many pieces of silver were paid the father. When the stomach is
empty, pride is not strong, and there were many small bodies crying
for rice that could only be bought with the sacrifice of one. That night,
as they started down the canal, they saw on the tow-path a peasant
women, her dress open far below her throat, her hair loose and flying,
her eyes swollen and dry from over-weeping, moaning pitifully,
stumbling on in the darkness, searching for the boat that had been
anchored at the water-gate; but it was gone. Poor little Ho-tai! She
said, "It was my mother!" and as she told me, he face was wet with
bitter rain. I soothed her and told her we would make her happy, and I
made a little vow in my heart that I would find that mother and bring
peace to her heart again.

The summer wanes and autumn is upon us with all its mists and
shadows of purple and grey. The camphor-trees look from the
distance like great balls of fire, and the eucalyptus-tree, in its dress of
brilliant yellow, is a gaily painted court lady. If one short glimpse of
thee my heart could gladden, then all my soul would be filled with the
beauty of this time, these days of red and gold. I do never use it.

SHYLOCK.

When Jacob graz'd his uncle Laban's sheep,-- This Jacob from our
holy Abram was, As his wise mother wrought in his behalf, The third
possessor; ay, he was the third,-- 
ANTONIO.

And what of
him? Did he take interest?

SHYLOCK.
No, not take interest; not, as you would say, Directly interest;
mark what Jacob did.
When Laban and himself were compromis'd That all the eanlings
which were streak'd and pied Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes,
being rank, In end of autumn turned to the rams; And when the
work of generation was Between these woolly breeders in the act, The
skilful shepherd peel'd me certain wands, And, in the doing of the
deed of kind, He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes, Who, then
conceiving, did in eaning time Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those
were Jacob's.

This was a way to thrive, and he was blest; And thrift is
blessing, if men steal it not.

ANTONIO.
This was a venture, sir, that Jacob serv'd for; A thing not in his power
to bring to pass, But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
Was this inserted to make interest good?
Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?

SHYLOCK.
I cannot tell; I make it breed as fast.
But note me, signior.

ANTONIO.
Mark you this, Bassanio, The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
An evil soul producing holy witness Is like a villain with a
smiling cheek, A goodly apple rotten at the heart.
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!

SHYLOCK.
Three thousand ducats; 'tis a good round sum.
Three months from twelve; then let me see the rate.

ANTONIO.
Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you?

SHYLOCK.
Signior Antonio, many a time and oft In the Rialto you have rated
me About my moneys and my usances; Still have I borne it with a patient
shrug, For suff'rance is the badge of all our tribe; You call me
misbeliever, cut-throat dog, And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine, And
all for use of that which is mine own.
Well then, it now appears you need my help; Go to, then; you come to me,
and you say 'Shylock, we would have moneys.' You say so:
You that did void your rheum upon my beard, And foot me as you
spurn a stranger cur Over your threshold; moneys is your suit.
What should I say to you?

Should
I not say 'Hath a dog money?

Is
it possible
A cur can lend three thousand ducats?' Or Shall I bend low and, in
a bondman's key, With bated breath and whisp'ring humbleness, Say this:--
'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last; You spurn'd me such a day;
another time You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies I'll lend
you thus much moneys?'
ANTONIO.
I am as like to call thee so again, To spet on thee again, to spurn
thee too.

If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not As to thy friends,--for when did
friendship take A breed for barren metal of his friend?-- But lend it
rather to thine enemy; Who if he break thou mayst with better face
Exact the penalty.

SHYLOCK.
Why, look you, how you storm!

I would be friends with you, and have your love, Forget the shames
that you have stain'd me with, Supply your present wants, and
take no doit Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me:
This is kind I offer.

BASSANIO.
This were kindness.

SHYLOCK.
This kindness will I show.
Go with me to a notary, seal me there Your single bond; and, in a merry
sport, If you repay me not on such a day, In such a place, such sum or sums
as are Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit Be nominated
for an equal pound Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken In
what part of your body pleaseth me.

ANTONIO.
Content, in faith; I'll seal to such a bond, And say there is much
kindness in the Jew.

BASSANIO.
You shall not seal to such a bond for me; I'll rather dwell in my
necessity.

ANTONIO.
Why, fear not, man; I will not forfeit it; Within these two months,
that's a month before This bond expires, I do expect return Of
thrice three times the value of this bond.

SHYLOCK.
O father Abram, what these Christians are, Whose own hard dealings teaches
them suspect The thoughts of others. Pray you, tell me this; If he
should break his day, what should I gain By the exaction of the
forfeiture?
A pound of man's flesh, taken from a man, Is not so estimable,
profitable neither, As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say,
To buy his favour, I extend this friendship; If he will take it,
so; if not, adieu; And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.

ANTONIO.
Yes, Shylock, I will seal unto this bond.

SHYLOCK.
Then meet me forthwith at the notary's; Give him direction for this
merry bond, And I will go and purse the ducats straight, See to
my house, left in the fearful guard Of an unthrifty knave, and
presently I'll be with you.

ANTONIO.
Hie thee, gentle Jew.

[Exit SHYLOCK]
This Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind.

BASSANIO.
I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.

ANTONIO.
Come on; in this there can be no dismay; My ships come home a
month before the day.

[Exeunt]

ACT 2.

SCENE I. Belmont. A room in PORTIA's house.

[Flourish of
cornets. Enter the PRINCE of MOROCCO, and his Followers; PORTIA,
NERISSA, and Others of her train.]
PRINCE OF Morocco.
Mislike me not for my complexion, The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd
sun, To whom I am a neighbour, and near bred.
Bring me the fairest creature northward born, Where Phoebus' fire
scarce thaws the icicles, And let us make incision for your love To
prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine Hath fear'd the valiant; by my
love, I swear The best-regarded virgins of our clime Have lov'd it too.
I would not change this hue, Except to steal your thoughts, my
gentle queen.

PORTIA.
In terms of choice I am not solely led By nice direction of
a maiden's eyes; Besides, the lottery of my destiny Bars me the right
of voluntary choosing; But, if my father had not scanted me And hedg'd
me by his wit, to yield myself His wife who wins me by that means
I told you, Yourself, renowned Prince, then stood as fair As any comer
I have look'd on yet For my affection.

PRINCE OF MOROCCO.
Even for that I thank you:
Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets To try my fortune.
By this scimitar,-- That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince, That
won three fields of Sultan Solyman,-- I would o'erstare the sternest
eyes that look, Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth, Pluck
the young sucking cubs from the she-bear, Yea, mock the lion when
he roars for prey, To win thee, lady.

But, alas the while!

If Hercules and Lichas play at dice Which is the better man,
the greater throw May turn by fortune from the weaker hand:
So is Alcides beaten by his page; And so may I, blind Fortune leading me,
Miss that which one unworthier may attain, And die with
grieving.

PORTIA.
You must take your chance, And either not attempt to choose at all,
Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong, Never to speak to
lady afterward In way of marriage; therefore be advis'd.

PRINCE OF MOROCCO.
Nor will not; come, bring me unto my chance.

PORTIA.
First, forward to the temple: after dinner Your hazard shall
be made.

PRINCE OF MOROCCO.
Good fortune then!
To make me blest or cursed'st among men!

[Cornets, and exeunt.]

SCENE 2. Venice.
A street
[Enter LAUNCELOT GOBBO.]
LAUNCELOT.
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew my master.
The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me, saying to me 'Gobbo,
Launcelot Gobbo, good Launcelot' or 'good Gobbo' or 'good Launcelot
Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.' My conscience says
'No; take heed, honest Launcelot, take heed, honest Gobbo' or, as
aforesaid, 'honest Launcelot Gobbo, do not run; scorn running
with thy heels.' Well, the most courageous fiend bids me pack. 'Via!'
says the fiend; 'away!' says the fiend. 'For the heavens, rouse
up a brave mind,' says the fiend 'and run.' Well, my conscience,
hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me 'My honest
friend Launcelot, being an honest man's son'--or rather 'an honest woman's
son';--for indeed my father did something smack, something grow
to, he had a kind of taste;--well, my conscience says 'Launcelot,
budge not.'

'Budge,' says the fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience.
'Conscience,' say I, (you counsel well.' 'Fiend,' say I, 'you counsel
well.' To be ruled by my conscience, I should stay with the Jew my
master, who, God bless the mark! is a kind of devil; and, to
run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the fiend, who, saving
your reverence! is the devil himself. Certainly the Jew is the very devil
incarnal; and, in my conscience, my conscience is but a kind of hard
conscience, to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew.

The fiend gives the more friendly
counsel: I will run, fiend; my
heels are at your commandment; I will run.

[Enter OLD GOBBO, with a
basket]

GOBBO.
Master young man, you, I pray you; which is the way to Master Jew's?

LAUNCELOT.

[Aside] O heavens!

This is my
true-begotten father, who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind,
knows me not: I will try confusions with him.

GOBBO.
Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way to Master
Jew's?

LAUNCELOT.
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but, at the next
turning of all, on your left; marry, at the very next turning, turn
of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the Jew's house.

GOBBO.
Be God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit. Can you tell me whether one
Launcelot, that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?

LAUNCELOT.
Talk you of young Master Launcelot? [Aside] Mark me now; now will I
raise the waters. Talk you of young Master Launcelot?

GOBBO.
No master, sir, but a poor man's son; his father, though I say't,
is an honest exceeding poor man, and, God be thanked, well to live.

LAUNCELOT.
Well, let his father be what 'a will, we talk of young Master
Launcelot.

GOBBO.
Your worship's friend, and Launcelot, sir.

LAUNCELOT.
But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you, talk you of young
Master Launcelot?

GOBBO.
Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership.

LAUNCELOT.
Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master Launcelot, father; for
the young gentleman,--according to Fates and Destinies and such odd
sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of learning,--is indeed
deceased; or, as you would say in plain terms, gone to heaven.

GOBBO.
Marry, God forbid! The boy was the very staff of my age, my very
prop.

LAUNCELOT.
Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a prop?

Do you know me, father?

GOBBO.
Alack the day! I know you not, young gentleman; but I pray you tell
me, is my boy--God rest his soul!

--alive or dead?

LAUNCELOT.
Do you not know me, father?

GOBBO.
Alack, sir, I am sand-blind; I know you not.

LAUNCELOT.
Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of the knowing me:
it is a wise father that knows his own child. Well, old man, I will
tell you news of your son. Give me your blessing; truth will come to
light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son may, but in the end truth
will out.

GOBBO.
Pray you, sir, stand up; I am sure you are not Launcelot, my boy.

LAUNCELOT.

Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but give me your
blessing; I am Launcelot, your boy that was, your son that is, your
child that shall be.

GOBBO.
I cannot think you are my son.

LAUNCELOT.
I know not what I shall think of that; but I am Launcelot, the Jew's
man, and I am sure Margery your wife is my mother.

GOBBO.
Her name is Margery, indeed: I'll be sworn, if thou be Launcelot,
thou art mine own flesh and blood.

Lord worshipped might he be, what a beard hast thou got! Thou
hast got more hair on thy chin than Dobbin my thill-horse has on his
tail.

LAUNCELOT.
It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows backward; I am sure
he had more hair on his tail than I have on my face when I last saw
him.

GOBBO.

Lord! how art
thou changed! How dost thou and thy master agree? I have brought
him a present. How 'gree you now?

LAUNCELOT.

Well, well; but, for mine own part, as I have set up my rest to run
away, so I will not rest till I have run some ground.
My master's a very Jew. Give him a present! Give him a halter. I am
famished in his service; you may tell every finger I have with my ribs.
Father, I am glad you are come; give me your present to one Master
Bassanio, who indeed gives rare new liveries. If I serve not him, I
will run as far as God has any ground. O rare fortune! Here comes the
man: to him, father; for I am a Jew, if I serve the Jew any longer.

[Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO, with and other Followers.]
BASSANIO.
You may do so; but let it be so hasted that supper be ready at the
farthest by five of the clock.

See these letters delivered, put the liveries to making, and
desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging.

[Exit a SERVANT]
LAUNCELOT.
To him, father.

GOBBO.

God bless your worship!

BASSANIO.
Gramercy; wouldst thou aught with me?

GOBBO.
Here's my son, sir, a poor boy--
LAUNCELOT.

Not a poor boy, sir, but
the rich Jew's man, that would, sir,--as my father shall specify--
GOBBO.

He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--
LAUNCELOT.
Indeed the short and the long is, I serve the Jew, and have a desire,
as my father shall specify--
GOBBO.

His master and he, saving your worship's reverence, are scarce
cater-cousins--
LAUNCELOT.
To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having done me wrong, doth
cause me,--as my father, being I hope an old man, shall frutify
unto you--
GOBBO.
I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon your worship;
and my suit is--
LAUNCELOT.
In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as your
worship shall know by this honest old man; and, though I say it, though
old man, yet poor man, my father.

BASSANIO.
One speak for both. What would you?

LAUNCELOT.
Serve you, sir.

GOBBO.
That is the very defect of the matter, sir.

BASSANIO.
I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit.
Shylock thy master spoke with me this day, And hath preferr'd thee,
if it be preferment To leave a rich Jew's service to become The
follower of so poor a gentleman.

LAUNCELOT.
The old proverb is very well parted between my master Shylock and
you, sir: you have the grace of God, sir, and he hath enough.

BASSANIO.
Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
Take leave of thy old master, and inquire My lodging out. [To a
SERVANT] Give him a livery More guarded than his fellows'; see it
done.

LAUNCELOT.
Father, in. I cannot get a service, no! I have ne'er a tongue in
my head! [Looking on his palm] Well; if any man in Italy have a
fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book, I shall have
good fortune. Go to; here's a simple line of life:
here's a small trifle of wives; alas, fifteen wives is nothing;
a'leven widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for one man.
And then to scape drowning thrice, and to be in peril of my life
with the edge of a feather-bed; here are simple 'scapes. Well, if
Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father, come;
I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye.
[Exeunt LAUNCELOT and OLD GOBBO.] 
BASSANIO.
I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this:
These things being bought and orderly bestow'd, Return in haste,
for I do feast to-night My best esteem'd acquaintance; hie thee,
go.

LEONARDO.
My best endeavours shall be done herein.
[Enter GRATIANO.] 
GRATIANO.
Where's your master?

LEONARDO.
Yonder, sir, he walks.

[Exit.] 
GRATIANO.
Signior Bassanio!-- 
BASSANIO.
Gratiano!

GRATIANO.
I have suit to you.

BASSANIO.
You have obtain'd it.

GRATIANO.
You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont.

BASSANIO.
Why, then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano; Thou art too wild, too
rude, and bold of voice; Parts that become thee happily enough, And
in such eyes as ours appear not faults; But where thou art not
known, why there they show Something too liberal. Pray thee, take
pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit,
lest through thy wild behaviour I be misconstrued in the place I
go to, And lose my hopes.

GRATIANO.
Signior Bassanio, hear me:
If I do not put on a sober habit, Talk with respect, and swear but
now and then, Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely, Nay
more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes Thus with my hat, and
sigh, and say 'amen'; Use all the observance of civility, Like one
well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam, never trust me
more.

BASSANIO.
Well, we shall see your bearing.

GRATIANO.
Nay, but I bar to-night; you shall not gauge me By what we do
to-night.

BASSANIO.
No, that were pity; I would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest
suit of mirth, for we have friends That purpose merriment. But fare
you well; I have some business.

GRATIANO.
And I must to Lorenzo and the rest; But we will visit you at
supper-time.

[Exeunt.]
SCENE 3. The same. A room in SHYLOCK's house.
[Enter JESSICA and LAUNCELOT.] 
JESSICA.
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so:
Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil, Didst rob it of some
taste of tediousness.
But fare thee well; there is a ducat for thee; And, Launcelot, soon
at supper shalt thou see Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest:
Give him this letter; do it secretly.
And so farewell. I would not have my father See me in talk with
thee.

LAUNCELOT.
Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful pagan, most sweet
Jew! If a Christian do not play the knave and get thee, I am much
deceived. But, adieu! these foolish drops do something drown my
manly spirit; adieu!

JESSICA.
Farewell, good Launcelot.
[Exit LAUNCELOT]
Alack, what heinous sin is it in me To be asham'd to be my father's
child!
But though I am a daughter to his blood, I am not to his manners.
O Lorenzo!
If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife, Become a Christian
and thy loving wife.

[Exit] 

SCENE 4. The same. A street
[Enter GRATIANO, LORENZO, SALARINO, and SALANIO.] 
LORENZO.
Nay, we will slink away in supper-time, Disguise us at my lodging,
and return All in an hour.

GRATIANO.
We have not made good preparation.

SALARINO.
We have not spoke us yet of torch-bearers.

SALANIO.
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly order'd, And better in my mind
not undertook.

LORENZO.
'Tis now but four o'clock; we have two hours To furnish us.
[Enter LAUNCELOT, With a letter.]
Friend Launcelot, what's the news?

LAUNCELOT.
An it shall please you to break up this, it shall seem to
signify.

LORENZO.
I know the hand; in faith, 'tis a fair hand, And whiter than the
paper it writ on Is the fair hand that writ.

GRATIANO.
Love news, in faith.

LAUNCELOT.
By your leave, sir.

LORENZO.
Whither goest thou?

LAUNCELOT.
Marry, sir, to bid my old master, the Jew, to sup to-night with my
new master, the Christian.

LORENZO.
Hold, here, take this. Tell gentle Jessica I will not fail her;
speak it privately.
Go, gentlemen, 
[Exit LAUNCELOT]
Will you prepare you for this masque to-night?
I am provided of a torch-bearer.

SALARINO.
Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.

SALANIO.
And so will I.

LORENZO.
Meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.

SALARINO.
'Tis good we do so.

[Exeunt SALARINO and SALANIO.] 
GRATIANO.
Was not that letter from fair Jessica?

LORENZO.
I must needs tell thee all. She hath directed How I shall take her
from her father's house; What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with;
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven, It will be for his gentle
daughter's sake; And never dare misfortune cross her foot, Unless
she do it under this excuse, That she is issue to a faithless
Jew.
Come, go with me, peruse this as thou goest; Fair Jessica shall be
my torch-bearer.

[Exeunt]
SCENE 5. The same. Before SHYLOCK'S house
[Enter SHYLOCK and LAUNCELOT.] 
SHYLOCK.
Well, thou shalt see; thy eyes shall be thy judge, The difference
of old Shylock and Bassanio:-- What, Jessica!--Thou shalt not
gormandize, As thou hast done with me;--What, Jessica!-- And sleep
and snore, and rend apparel out-- Why, Jessica, I say!

LAUNCELOT.
Why, Jessica!

SHYLOCK.
Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call.

LAUNCELOT.
Your worship was wont to tell me I could do nothing without
bidding.

[Enter JESSICA.] 
JESSICA.
Call you? What is your will?

SHYLOCK.
I am bid forth to supper, Jessica:
There are my keys. But wherefore should I go?
I am not bid for love; they flatter me; But yet I'll go in hate,
to feed upon The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl, Look to my
house. I am right loath to go; There is some ill a-brewing towards
my rest, For I did dream of money-bags to-night.

LAUNCELOT.
I beseech you, sir, go: my young master doth expect your
reproach.

SHYLOCK.
So do I his.

LAUNCELOT.
And they have conspired together; I will not say you shall see a
masque, but if you do, then it was not for nothing that my nose
fell a-bleeding on Black Monday last at six o'clock i' the morning,
falling out that year on Ash-Wednesday was four year in the
afternoon.

SHYLOCK.
What! are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica:
Lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum, And the vile squealing
of the wry-neck'd fife, Clamber not you up to the casements then,
Nor thrust your head into the public street To gaze on Christian
fools with varnish'd faces; But stop my house's ears- I mean my
casements; Let not the sound of shallow fopp'ry enter My sober
house. By Jacob's staff, I swear I have no mind of feasting forth
to-night; But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah; Say I will
come.

LAUNCELOT.
I will go before, sir. Mistress, look out at window for all this;
There will come a Christian by Will be worth a Jewess' eye.
[Exit LAUNCELOT.] 
SHYLOCK.
What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?

JESSICA.
His words were 'Farewell, mistress'; nothing else.

SHYLOCK.
The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder; Snail-slow in profit,
and he sleeps by day More than the wild-cat; drones hive not with
me, Therefore I part with him; and part with him To one that I would
have him help to waste His borrow'd purse. Well, Jessica, go in;
Perhaps I will return immediately:
Do as I bid you, shut doors after you:
'Fast bind, fast find,' A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
[Exit.] 
JESSICA.
Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost, I have a father, you a
daughter, lost.

[Exit.] 

SCENE 6. The same.
[Enter GRATIANO and SALARINO, masqued.] 
GRATIANO.
This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo Desir'd us to make
stand.

SALARINO.
His hour is almost past.

GRATIANO.
And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour, For lovers ever run before
the clock.

SALARINO.
O! ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love's bonds new
made than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited!

GRATIANO.
That ever holds: who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite
that he sits down?
Where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures
with the unbated fire That he did pace them first? All things that
are Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
How like a younker or a prodigal The scarfed bark puts from her
native bay, Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind![Illustration: Mylady10.]

As we turned to leave the temple I glanced back at the great dark
chamber and I saw the God of Light, the Buddha, sitting there so
calm upon his throne, with the light of many candles before him and
clouds of incense that floated to the roof. I thought, "He is all-powerful.
I only prayed to him from out my lips, not with my heart. Perhaps--"
So I returned. I prayed the mighty God with humble prayer to bring my
loved one swiftly home to me; and then we left the temple. We walked
slowly through the courtyards, looking at the great trees that stood
like tall, grim sentinels guarding the place of prayer. Then we were
taken by our bearers to the Goldfish Monastery in the hills. Dost thou
remember it? Thou and I were there once in the springtime.

We bought the small round cakes from the priests and fed the greedy
fish. They swarmed over the pool, pushing, nudging, fighting one
another to get the morsels we threw them. Tiring of that, we had tea
and sweetmeats served upon the terrace; then, after chatting for a
time, we left for the boat. We drifted slowly homeward. Thy Mother
and her friends discussed the earth, the moon, the sun and stars, as
well as smaller matters, such as children, husbands, servants,
schools-- and upon the last thy Mother waxed most eloquent; as thou
knowest, it is a sore subject with her, this matter of the new
education. I heard her say: "All my sons have book knowledge. Of
what use is it in the end? The cock crows and the dog barks. We
know that, but the wisest of my sons cannot say why one crows and
the other barks, nor why they crow or bark at all." Canst thou hear
her, and see her shake her head dolefully over the dismal fact that
thou hast left the narrow way of Confucius and the classics?

We came to the pathway just at sunset, and as I looked up at the old
palace a little hurt came to my heart that thou wert not close by my
side. It lay so peaceful there and quiet, the curving roofs like flights of
doves who had settled down with their wings not yet quite folded. It
brought remembrance that for me it was an empty palace. I will see
no one-- as Li-ti will-- within the archway.

Thy Wife Who Loves Thee.


11
My Dear One,
Thy letter and the photographs received. Thou sayest it is a
"flashlight" of a reception to thy Master, the Prince. I do not know
exactly what that means, but there seem to be many people and--
ladies. I have not shown thine Honourable Mother the picture, as she
might ask thee to return at once. I do not criticise thy friends, nor
could our Prince go to a place not fitting to his dignity, but-- the ladies
seem in my poor judgment most lightly clad.

The papers here are full of thy reception in that foreign land and of the
honour that is paid the embassy. Thy brother read to all within the
courtyard of the feasts that are given in honour of His Highness, and
we were full proud, knowing well thou stoodst close by him at the
time. Thy letters are a joy to me. We read them many times, and
then I read those of Chih-peh, which talk of things I do not understand.
Thou must not give the foolish boy ideas, as he prates most glibly of
"republics" and "government of the people by the people," after he has
received thy letters. That is for men of wisdom like thee, but not for
foolish boys to carry with them to the tea-house.

Kwei-li.


12
My Dear One,
Thou askest me if I still care for thee, if the remembrance of thy face
has grown less dear with the passing of the days. Dear one, thou
knowest we Chinese women are not supposed to know of love, much
less to speak of it. We read of it, we know it is the song of all the
world, but it comes not to us unless by chance. We go to you as
strangers, we have no choice, and if the Gods withhold their greatest
gift, the gift of love, then life is grey and wan as the twilight of a
hopeless day. Few women have the joy I feel when I look into my
loved one's face and know that I am his and he is mine, and that our
lives are twined together for all the days to come.

Do I love thee? I cannot tell. I think of thee by day and I dream of thee
by night. I never want to hurt thee nor cause thee a moment's sorrow.
I would fill my hands with happiness to lay down at thy feet. Thou art
my life, my love, my all, and I am thine to hold through all the years.


13
My Dear One,
It is the time of school, and now all the day from the servants'
courtyard I hear their droning voices chanting the sayings of
Confucius. I did not know we had so many young lives within our
compound until I saw them seated at their tables. I go at times and
tell them tales which they much prefer to lessons, but of which thine
Honourable Mother does not approve. I told them the other day of
Pwan-ku. Dost thou remember him? How at the beginning of Time the
great God Pwan-ku with hammer and chisel formed the earth. He
toiled and he worked for eighteen thousand years, and each day
increased in stature six feet, and, to give him room, the Heavens rose
and the earth became larger and larger. When the Heavens were
round and the earth all smooth, he died. His head became mountains,
his breath the wind and the clouds, his voice the thunder. His arms
and legs were the four poles, his veins the rivers, his muscles the hills
and his flesh the fields. His eyes became the stars, his skin and hair
the herbs and the trees, and the insects which touched him became
people. Does not that make thee think of thy childhood's days?

They crowd around me and say, "Tell us more," just as I did with my
old amah when she stilled me with the tales of the Gods. Yesterday,
one small boy, the son of the chief steward, begged for a story of the
sun. I had to tell him that my wisdom did not touch the sun, although
I, in my foolish heart, think it a great God because it gives us warmth
and we can feel its kindly rays. I said, "Thou hast seen the coolies
tracking on the tow-path with their heavy wadded clothing wet with
rain. If it were not for the kindly sun which dries them, how could they
toil and work and drag the great rice-boats up to the water-gate? Is he
not a God to them?"

I told them also of Chang-ngo, the great, great beauty who drank the
cup of life eternal. She went to the moon, where the jealous Gods
turned her into a great black toad. She is there, forever thinking,
mourning over her lost beauty, and when we see the soft haze come
over the face of the moon, we know that she is weeping and filling the
space with her tears.

I perhaps am wrong to tell the foolish tales to the children, but they
grow so tired of the hard benches and Chang-tai, the teacher, who
glares at them so fiercely when they speak not quickly enough to
please him.

There has been much gossip from the valley over the mountain-side. It
seems an iron bridge is being put across the river, and strange men
come and peer at the countryside through witch glasses. It has made
the good spirits of the air to draw apart from the valley, and the cattle
have died and the rice not ripened, and much sorrow has gone
broadcast. The river overflowed, because they desecrated the
Dragon's back by digging down into the earth that was sacred. I know
nothing except what is brought from the market-place, and, as it does
not concern us here on the mountain-side, I listen only with my ears,
not with my mind.

The nights are long and cold. The moon casts silver shimmering lights
over the valley below. We cannot stand long on the terrace but must
stay close within our rooms near to the charcoal braziers. The wind
sweeps o'er the rooftree with the wailing voice of a woman.

Oh, Soul of Mine, with weary heart the creeping days I'm counting.

Thy Wife.


14
My Dear One,
We have had a serious sickness come to all the countryside; rich and
poor, peasant and merchant have suffered from a fever that will not
abate. It raged for more than a moon before it was known the cause
thereof. Dost thou remember the Kwan-lin Pagoda? Its ruin has long
been a standing shame to the people of the province, and finally the
Gods have resented their neglect and sent them this great illness.
Over all the city the yellow edicts of the priests have been placed so
as to meet the eye of all who travel. They are in the market-places, at
the entrance of the tea-houses, standing on great boards at the
doorways of the temples, in front of the water-gates, and at each city
postern. They state that the Gods are angry and send to each man or
household that will not give three days' work upon the Pagoda the
fever that leaves him weak and ailing. They demand the labour of the
city; and if it is not given freely, toil is sent the people in their sleep
and they waken weary, and must so remain until the work is finished.

We did not hearken to the summons until Chih-peh, thy brother, fell ill
with the sickness. He grew worse each day, until Li-ti and thine
Honourable Mother were panic-stricken. At last the chairs were
ordered, and thy Mother and I went to the monastery on the hillside to
consult with the old abbot, who is most full of wisdom. Thine
Honourable Mother told him of the illness which had assailed her son,
and begged him to tell her if it were the illness of the Pagoda. He
meditated long and seriously, then he said, "My daughter, the Gods
are no respecter of persons; they wish the service of your son."
"But," thine Honourable Mother objected, "he is no workman. He
cannot labour upon the Pagoda." The abbot said, "There are more
ways of giving service than the labour of the hands. The Gods will
allow him to contribute of his wealth and buy the toil of other men, and
thus he may cancel his obligation." The August One satisfied the
greedy heart of the priest, and then he told her to go and make her
beisance to the God of Light, the great Buddha, and see what
message he had for her.

She took the hollow bamboo filled with the numbered slices of wood
and, prostrating herself three times before the Great One, shook it
slowly until one detached itself from its brothers and fell to the floor.
The abbot then handed her a slip of paper which read:

"Wisdom sits by the Western Gate
And gives health and happiness to those who wait."

These words meant nothing to thine Honourable Mother; and after
giving the abbot more silver, he said, "Beside the Western Gate sits
the owl of wisdom, the great doctor Chow-fong. His father and his
father's father were wise; their study was mankind, and to him has
come all their stores of knowledge. He has books of wonderful age,
that tell him the secret of the world. Go to him; he will give you the
plan of healing."

We started for the Western Gate, and I, in my wicked heart, spoke
thoughts that should have been closely locked within my breast. I
said, "Perhaps the doctor and the priest have formed a combination
most profitable to the two. If we had gone to the doctor first, we might
have been sent to the abbot." It was a great mistake to mention such
a dreadful thing, and I realised it instantly; as thou knowest, the Elder
One has a tongue of eloquence, and I was indeed glad that her
bearers carried her at least ten paces from my bearers-- and the way
was long.

Even thine Honourable Mother was awed at the solemn looks of this
great man of medicine who, in his dim room with dried bats hanging
from the ceiling beams and a dragon's egg close by his hand, glared
at her through his great goggles like a wise old owl. She apologised
for disturbing so great a man at his studies, but she was the bearer of
a message from the abbot. He read it carefully, then took down a
monstrous book entitled "The Golden Mirror of Medical Practice," and
solemnly pored over its pages. At last he wrote upon a paper, then
chanted:

"In a building tall, by the city wall, In the street of the Tower of Gold, Is
the plant of health, long life and wealth, In the claws of the Dragon
bold."

The August One took the paper, laid some silver upon the table, and
we hurried from his doorway, glad to be free from his fearful presence.
When we entered the chairs and looked to the paper for directions to
give the bearers, the characters were meaningless to us. I repeated
his chant, and the head bearer said, "There is a shop of drugs in the
street of the Tower of Gold, and the sign of the place is a Golden
Dragon's Claw."

We soon were there, and waited in our chairs while the bearer took
the paper into the maker of medicines. We waited long, and thine
Honourable Mother would have been impatient if sleep had not kindly
made her forget the waiting hours. I, sitting in my chair, could look
through the archways into the big covered courtyards where blind men
were grinding herbs. They were harnessed to great stones, and went
round and round all day, like buffalo at the water-wheel. I wondered
why the Gods had put them at this service. What sins they had
committed in their other life, to be compelled to work like beasts,
grinding the herbs that would bring health and life to others, while they
lived on in darkness. Often I would hear the soft call of the deer as
they moved restlessly in their tiny cells. I know their horns, when
powdered fine with beetles' wings, is the cure for fevers and all
ailments of the blood, but why could not the wise ones of the earth
have found some herb or weed to take their place and give these wild
ones of the woods their freedom? Finally, the bearer came with a tiny
jar, too small, it seemed, to take such time in mixing, and we
returned to the waiting Li-ti.

The medicine was black and nasty and smelled not sweetly, which
proved its strength. Chih-peh got slowly better, and the world again
looked fair to Li-ti, and the song came to her lips. The flowers were
put in the hair, the gay dresses were brought out of their boxes, and
she was, as of old, our butterfly.

We laughed at her for her fright, but I thought, if it had been thou who
wast ill, and I did not know the cure! Oh, dear one, dost thou
understand that, to a woman who loves, her husband is more than
Heaven, more than herself? All that she is not, all that she lacks, all
that she desires to be, is her beloved. His breath alone can bring
peace to her heart, and it is he alone who teaches her the depth of
passionate joy there is in love and life and all things beautiful.

I am, thy wife.


15
My Dear One,
Thine Honourable Mother is beset by the desire or marrying. No, do
not start; it is not or herself she is thinking. She will go to the River or
Souls mourning thine Honourable Father, and a pailo will be erected in
her honour. It is or her household she is thinking. She says our
rooftree is too small to shelter four women, three or whom have little
brains-- and that includes thy humble, loving wire-- but why she
should wish to exchange Mah-li, whom she knows, for a strange
woman whom she does not know, passes my understanding. She
seems not overfond of daughters-in-law, if one judge from chance
remarks.

First, before I speak or Mah-li, I must tell thee of thy brother. Thine
Honourable Mother is right-- it were better that he marry and have a
heel rope that leads him homewards. He is unruly and passes
overmuch time at the Golden Lotus Tea-house. He is not bad or
wicked. He lives but for the moment, and the moment is often
wine-flushed. He will not work or study, and many times at night I
send away the gatekeeper and leave my amah at the outer archway,
so thy Mother will not know the hour he enters. He is young, and has
chosen friends not equal to himself, and they have set his feet in the
path-way that slopes downward.

[Illustration: Mylady11.]

He does not wish to marry. We have told him that marriage is a will of
the Gods and must be obeyed. "Man does not attain by himself, nor,
Woman by herself, but like the one-winged birds of our childhood's
tale, they must rise together." It is useless to talk to him. A spark of
fire will not kindle wood that is still too green, and I rear he is in love
with life, and youth, and freedom.

I do not wish to doubt the wisdom of the August One, but I think she
made a mistake in her choice of a bride for Chih-mo. She chose
Tai-lo, the daughter of the Prefect of Chih-Ii. The arrangements were
nearly made, the dowry even was discussed, but when the astrologer
cast their horoscopes to see if they could pass their life in peace
together, it was found that the ruler of Chih-mo's life was a lion, and
that of the bride's, a swallow, so it was clearly seen they could not
share one rooftree. I fear (I would not have this come to the ears of
thine Honourable Mother) that some silver was left upon the doorstep
of the astrologer. Chih-mo asked of me the loan of an hundred taels,
and I saw the wife of the reader of the stars pass by with a new gown
of red and gold brocade.

I think Chih-mo had seen Tai-lo. Report gives her small beauty. Yet,
as the Elder One says, "Musk is known by its perfume, and not by
the druggist's label." Quite likely she would have made a good wife;
and-- we have one beauty in the household-- it is enough.

There is much wailing in the courtyards. The gardener and the bearer
and the watchman are having bound the feet of their small daughters.
The saying, "For every pair of golden lillies' there is a kang of tears,"
is true. I am so sorry for them. Just when they want to run and play,
they must sit all day with aching feet. My amah wished to put on the
heavy bindings, but I would not permit it. I said, "Do you want little
eyes to fill with tears each time they see you coming across the
courtyard? If their grandmothers do not come, let some old women
from the village do the cruel thing."

The happy rains of the spring are here. It is not the cold, drear rain of
autumn, but dancing, laughing rain that comes sweeping across the
valley, touching the rice-fields lovingly, and bringing forth the young
green leaves of the mulberry. I hear it patter upon the roof at
night-time, and in the morning all the earth seems cleansed and new;
fresh colours greet mine eye when I throw back my casement.

When wilt thou come to me, thou keeper of my heart?

Thy Wife.


16
Dear One,
"He whose faults are never told him
Doubtless deems the angels mould him."

That cannot be said of three women of thy household.

It is Mah-li this time on whom the wrath descends. She and Li-ti were
broidering in the western room, where they could get the last rays of
the sun. Perhaps they were speaking on forbidden subjects-- I do not
know; but thine Honourable Mother entered quietly and reproved them,
and (even when I write it I blush for her) Mah-li said to her Honourable
Mother, "Only cats and cranes and thieves walk silently." Thy Mother
was speechless with anger, and justly so, and now it is decided that
Mah-li must be married. She needs a stronger hand than a woman's.
Is it not ridiculous, little Mah-li needing a strong hand?

At first the August One considered Meng-wheh, the prefect at
Sung-dong. He is old and cross, but when I remonstrated, I was told
that he was rich. His many tens of thousands of sycee are supposed
to weigh more than youth and love. I said, "Though he bar with gold
his silver door," a man cannot keep the wife who loves him not. Thine
Honourable Mother thought more wisely, and after days of
consideration entered into consultation with the family of Sheng Ta-jen
in regard to his son. It seems Mah-li is doomed to marriage soon, and
she does not know whether she is happy or sorrowful. She is turned
this way and that, as the seed of the cotton-tree is swayed by the
coming and going of the wind. To-day she laughs, to-morrow she
weeps. Thy Mother has lost all patience with her, and, as she always
does when her own words rail her, I heard her quoting the Sage: "Just
as ducks' legs though short cannot be lengthened without pain, nor
cranes' legs though long be shortened without misery to the crane,
neither can sense be added to a silly woman's head."

I feel that thine Honourable Mother is unkind to Mah-li. She is a
flower, a flower that has her place in life the same as the
morning-glory, which is loved just as fondly by the Gods as the
pine-tree which stands so stately upon the hillside. She is light and
pure and dainty as the fragrance of perfumed air, and I do not want to
see her go to a family who will not understand her youth and love of
play.

Mah-li has asked of me money, and with it bought a great candle for
each day, which she sends down the mountain-side to be placed
before Kwan-yin. I asked her to tell me her prayer, that needed so
large an offering. The unfilial girl said she prayed, "Kwan-yin, send me
a husband with no family."

Such a lot of petty gossip I pour into thine ears, yet thou wouldst
know the happenings of thine household. Of the world outside, thy
brother writes thee. My world is here within these walls.

Thy Wife.


17
My Dear One,
Thine house of intrigue. Deep, dark intrigue and plotting. Thy wife has
lent herself to a most unwomanly thing, and doubtless thou wilt tell
her so, but Mah-li begged so prettily, I could refuse her nothing. I told
thee in my last letter that thine Honourable Mother had been regarding
the family of Sheng Ta-jen with a view to his son as husband of
Mah-li. It is settled, and Mah-li leaves us in the autumn. None of us
except Chih-peh has seen the young man, and Mah-li did a most
immodest thing the other day. She came to me and asked me to find
out from Chih-peh if he were handsome, if he were young-- all the
questions that burn the tongue of a young girl, but which she must
keep within tightly closed lips if she would not be thought unmaidenly.
I asked thy brother; but his answer was not in regard to the questions
Mah-li wished so much to know. So we arranged a plan-- a plan that
caused me many nights of sleeplessness. It was carried out and-- still
the sky is blue, the stars are bright at night, and the moon shines just
as softly on the valley.

The first part of the plan was for Li-ti. She must persuade Chih-peh to
ask Shen-go to spend the day with him at the Fir-tree Monastery.
When he knew the meaning of the invitation he refused. He was
shocked, and properly; as it was a thing unheard-of. He could not
understand why Mah-li would not be content with her mother's choice.
Li-ti brought all her little ways to bear-- and Chih-peh can refuse her
nothing. At the Feast of the Moon thy brother asked three friends to
join him at the monastery and stroll amongst its groves.

The rest of the plan was for me to carry out; and I, thy wife, displayed
a talent for diplomacy. I noticed that the cheeks of our Honourable
Mother were pale, that she seemed listless, that her step was
wearied. I said doubtless she was tired of being shut within the
compound walls with three aimless, foolish women, and proposed a
feast or pilgrimage. I mentioned the Goldfish Pond, knowing she was
tired of it; spoke of the Pagoda on the Hills, knowing full well that she
did not like the priests therein; then, by chance, read from a book the
story of the two kings. It is the tale of the King of Hangchow and the
King of Soochow who, in the olden time, divided our great valley
between them. The King of Hangchow was an old man and the cares
of state fell heavily upon his shoulders. The King of Soochow was a
man, eaten up with mad ambitions. He began to tread upon the lands
of the old King, taking now a farmhouse, now a village, and at last a
city, until the poor old King was threatened at his very gateway by the
army of the young man. The young King had strength, but the old
King had guile, so he made a peace with his enemy for one year. He
sent him presents, costly silks and teas, and pearls and jade and
ginseng, and, last and best, a beautiful slave-girl, the most beautiful in
the province. The young King was delighted, and forgot his warring,
passing all his days within the women's quarters.

As the winter waned and the spring came, the slave-girl sickened,
said she panted for the hillsides, and she pointed to the mountain
outside his city walls. He was a foolish King, and he builded for her a
palace, and she moved there with her women. The King was lonely in
the city, and he passed his days with the women in the palace on the
mountain. While living there in pleasure, and his army in the city, the
old King of Hangchow sent his soldiers; and soon there was no King
of Soochow, only a slave-girl decked with many jewels was taken
back with honour to the old King's city.

I read all this to thine Honourable Mother, and told her we could see
the ruins of the fish-pond, of the palace, see the fallen marbles from
the tea-house, and-- the chairs were ordered, and we went. We
wandered over deserted pathways, saw the lotus pools once filled with
goldfish, picked our way through lonely courtyards, climbed the
sunken steps of terraces that had once been gay with flowers. It all
was melancholy, this palace built for pleasure, now a mass of
crumbling ruins, and it saddened us. We sat upon the King's bench
that overlooked the plain, and from it I pointed out the Fir-tree
Monastery in the distance. I spoke of their famous tea, sun-dried with
the flowers of jessamine, and said it might bring cheer and take away
the gloom caused by the sight of death and vanished grandeurs now
around us.

We were carried swiftly along the pathways that wound in and out
past farm villages and rest-houses until we came to the monastery,
which is like a yellow jewel in its setting of green fir-trees. The priests
made us most welcome, and we drank of their tea, which has not
been overpraised, sitting at a great open window looking down upon
the valley. Strolling in the courtyard was Chih-peh with his three
friends. Mah-li never raised her eyes; she sat as maidens sit in public,
but-- she saw.

But let us hope a brighter day is approaching, when a Scottish
country gentleman may be a scholar without the pedantry of our friend
the Baron, a sportsman without the low habits of Mr. Falconer, and
a judicious improver of his property without becoming a boorish two-
legged steer like Killancureit.'
Thus did Flora prophesy a revolution, which time indeed has produced,
but in a manner very different from what she had in her mind.

The amiable Rose was next mentioned, with the warmest encomium on her
person, manners, and mind. 'That man,' said Flora, 'will find an
inestimable treasure in the affections of Rose Bradwardine who shall
be so fortunate as to become their object. Her very soul is in
home, and in the discharge of all those quiet virtues of which home
is the centre. Her husband will be to her what her father now is,
the object of all her care, solicitude, and affection. She will see
nothing, and connect herself with nothing, but by him and through him.
If he is a man of sense and virtue, she will sympathise in his
sorrows, divert his fatigue, and share his pleasures.

If she becomes the property of a churlish or negligent husband, she will
suit his taste also, for she will not long survive his unkindness.
And, alas! how great is the chance that some such unworthy
lot may be that of my poor friend!

O that I were a queen this moment, and could command the most amiable
and worthy youth of my kingdom to accept happiness with the hand
of Rose Bradwardine!'

'I
wish you would
command her to accept mine en attendant,' said Fergus, laughing.

I don't know by what caprice it was that this wish, however jocularly
expressed, rather jarred on Edward's feelings, notwithstanding his
growing inclination to Flora and his indifference to Miss Bradwardine.

This is one of the inexplicabilities of human nature, which we leave
without comment.

'Yours, brother?' answered Flora, regarding him steadily. 'No; you
have another bride--Honour; and the dangers you must run in pursuit
of her rival would break poor Rose's heart.'
With this discourse they reached the castle, and Waverley soon prepared
his despatches for Tully-Veolan. As he knew the Baron was punctilious in
such matters, he was about to impress his billet with a seal on which his
armorial bearings were engraved, but he did not find it at his
watch, and thought he must have left it at Tully-Veolan. He mentioned
his loss, borrowing at the same time the family seal of the
Chieftain.

'Surely,' said Miss Mac-Ivor, 'Donald Bean Lean would not--'
'My life for him in such circumstances,' answered her brother;
'besides, he would never have left the watch behind.'
'After all, Fergus,' said Flora, 'and with every allowance, I
am surprised you can countenance that man.'
'I countenance him? This kind sister of mine would persuade you,
Captain Waverley, that I take what the people of old used to call
"a steakraid," that is, a "collop of the foray," or, in plainer
words, a portion of the robber's booty, paid by him to the Laird,
or Chief, through whose grounds he drove his prey.

O, it is certain that, unless I can find some way to charm Flora's
tongue, General Blakeney will send a sergeant's party from Stirling
(this he said with haughty and emphatic irony) to seize Vich lan
Vohr, as they nickname me, in his own castle.'

'Now,
Fergus, must not our guest be sensible that all this is folly and
affectation?

You
have men
enough to serve you without enlisting banditti, and your own honour
is above taint. Why don't you send this Donald Bean Lean, whom I
hate for his smoothness and duplicity even more than for his rapine,
out of your country at once? No cause should induce me to tolerate such
a character.'
'No cause, Flora?' said the Chieftain significantly.

'No cause, Fergus! not even that which is nearest to my heart.
Spare it the omen of such evil supporters!'
'O but, sister,' rejoined the Chief gaily, 'you don't consider my
respect for la belle passion.

Evan Dhu Maccombich is in love with Donald's daughter, Alice, and
you cannot expect me to disturb him in his amours.

Why, the whole clan would cry shame on me. You know it is one of
their wise sayings, that a kinsman is part of a man's body, but a
foster-brother is a piece of his heart.'
'Well, Fergus, there is no disputing with you; but I would all this
may end well.'
'Devoutly prayed, my dear and prophetic sister, and the best way in the
world to close a dubious argument. But hear ye not the pipes, Captain
Waverley? Perhaps you will like better to dance to them in the hall
than to be deafened with their harmony without taking part in the
exercise they invite us to.'

Waverley took Flora's hand. The dance, song, and merry-making
proceeded, and closed the day's entertainment at the castle of
Vich Ian Vohr. Edward at length retired, his mind agitated by a variety
of new and conflicting feelings, which detained him from rest for
some time, in that not unpleasing state of mind in which fancy
takes the helm, and the soul rather drifts passively along with the rapid
and confused tide of reflections than exerts itself to encounter,
systematise, or examine them.

At a late hour he fell asleep, and dreamed of Flora Mac-Ivor.

CHAPTER XXIV

A STAG-HUNT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES

Shall this be a long or a short chapter? This is a question in which
you, gentle reader, have no vote, however much you may be
interested in the consequences; just as you may (like myself)
probably have nothing to do with the imposing a new tax, excepting
the trifling circumstance of being obliged to pay it.

More happy surely in the present case, since, though it lies within my
arbitrary power to extend my materials as I think proper, I cannot
call you into Exchequer if you do not think proper to read my narrative.
Let me therefore consider. It is true that the annals and documents in my
hands say but little of this Highland chase; but then I can find copious
materials for description elsewhere.
There is old Lindsay of Pitscottie ready at my elbow, with his
Athole hunting, and his 'lofted and joisted palace of green timber;
with all kind of drink to be had in burgh and land, as ale, beer,
wine, muscadel, malvaise, hippocras, and aquavitae; with wheat-bread,
main-bread, ginge-bread, beef, mutton, lamb, veal, venison, goose,
grice, capon, coney, crane, swan, partridge, plover, duck, drake,
brisselcock, pawnies, black-cock, muir-fowl, and capercailzies';
not forgetting the 'costly bedding, vaiselle, and napry,' and least
of all the 'excelling stewards, cunning baxters, excellent cooks,
and pottingars, with confections and drugs for the desserts.'

Besides the particulars which may be thence gleaned for this Highland
feast (the splendour of which induced the Pope's legate to dissent
from an opinion which he had hitherto held, that Scotland, namely,
was the--the--the latter end of the world)--besides these, might
I not illuminate my pages with Taylor the Water Poet's hunting in the
Braes of Mar, where,--

Through heather, mosse,'mong frogs, and bogs, and fogs, 'Mongst
craggy cliffs and thunder-batter'd hills, Hares, hinds, bucks, roes,
are chased by men and dogs, Where two hours' hunting fourscore fat
deer kills.

Lowland, your
sports are low as is your seat; The Highland games and minds are high
and great?

But without further tyranny over my readers, or display of the
extent of my own reading, I shall content myself with borrowing a
single incident from the memorable hunting at Lude, commemorated
in the ingenious Mr. Gunn's essay on the Caledonian Harp, and so
proceed in my story with all the brevity that my natural style of
composition, partaking of what scholars call the periphrastic and
ambagitory, and the vulgar the circumbendibus, will permit me.

The solemn hunting was delayed, from various causes, for about three
weeks. The interval was spent by Waverley with great
satisfaction at Glennaquoich; for the impression which Flora had made
on his mind at their first meeting grew daily stronger.

She was precisely the character to fascinate a youth of romantic
imagination.

Her
manners, her language, her talents for poetry and music, gave
additional and varied influence to her eminent personal charms.

Even
in her hours of gaiety she was in his fancy exalted above the
ordinary daughters of Eve, and seemed only to stoop for an instant
to those topics of amusement and gallantry which others appear to
live for.

In
the neighbourhood of this enchantress, while sport consumed the
morning and music and the dance led on the hours of evening, Waverley
became daily more delighted with his hospitable landlord, and more
enamoured of his bewitching sister.

At length the period fixed for the grand hunting arrived, and Waverley
and the Chieftain departed for the place of rendezvous, which was a
day's journey to the northward of Glennaquoich. Fergus was attended
on this occasion by about three hundred of his clan, well armed
and accoutred in their best fashion.

Waverley complied so far with the custom of the country as to adopt
the trews (he could not be reconciled to the kilt), brogues, and
bonnet, as the fittest dress for the exercise in which he was to
be engaged, and which least exposed him to be stared at as a stranger
when they should reach the place of rendezvous.

They
found on the spot appointed several powerful Chiefs, to all of whom
Waverley was formally presented, and by all cordially received. Their
vassals and clansmen, a part of whose feudal duty it was to attend on
these parties, appeared in such numbers as amounted to a small army.
These active assistants spread through the country far and near, forming
a circle, technically called the tinchel, which, gradually closing,
drove the deer in herds together towards the glen where the Chiefs
and principal sportsmen lay in wait for them.

In the meanwhile these distinguished personages bivouacked among
the flowery heath, wrapped up in their plaids, a mode of passing a
summer's night which Waverley found by no means unpleasant.

For
many hours after sunrise the mountain ridges and passes retained their
ordinary appearance of silence and solitude, and the Chiefs, with their
followers, amused themselves with various pastimes, in which the
joys of the shell, as Ossian has it, were not forgotten. 'Others
apart sate on a hill retired,' probably as deeply engaged in the
discussion of politics and news as Milton's spirits in metaphysical
disquisition.

At length signals of the approach of the game were descried and
heard.

Distant shouts resounded from valley to valley, as the various parties
of Highlanders, climbing rocks, struggling through copses, wading brooks,
and traversing thickets, approached more and more near to each other,
and compelled the astonished deer, with the other wild animals that
fled before them, into a narrower circuit. Every now and then the
report of muskets was heard, repeated by a thousand echoes. The
baying of the dogs was soon added to the chorus, which grew ever louder
and more loud. At length the advanced parties of the deer began to
show themselves; and as the stragglers came bounding down the pass
by two or three at a time, the Chiefs showed their skill by
distinguishing the fattest deer, and their dexterity in bringing
them down with their guns.

Fergus exhibited remarkable address, and Edward was also so fortunate
as to attract the notice and applause of the sportsmen.

But
now the main body of the deer appeared at the head of the glen,
compelled into a very narrow compass, and presenting such a
formidable phalanx that their antlers appeared at a distance, over the
ridge of the steep pass, like a leafless grove.

Their number was very great, and from a desperate stand which they
made, with the tallest of the red-deer stags arranged in front, in a
sort of battle-array, gazing on the group which barred their
passage down the glen, the more experienced sportsmen began to
augur danger.
The work of destruction, however, now commenced on all sides. Dogs and
hunters were at work, and muskets and fusees resounded from every
quarter. The deer, driven to desperation, made at length a fearful
charge right upon the spot where the more distinguished sportsmen
had taken their stand.

The word was given in Gaelic to fling themselves upon their faces; but
Waverley, on whose English ears the signal was lost, had almost
fallen a sacrifice to his ignorance of the ancient language in
which it was communicated.

Fergus, observing his danger, sprung up and pulled him with violence
to the ground, just as the whole herd broke down upon them.

The
tide being absolutely irresistible, and wounds from a stag's horn highly
dangerous, the activity of the Chieftain may be considered, on
this occasion, as having saved his guest's life. He detained him with
a firm grasp until the whole herd of deer had fairly run over them.
Waverley then attempted to rise, but found that he had suffered
several very severe contusions, and, upon a further examination,
discovered that he had sprained his ankle violently.

[Footnote: The thrust from the tynes, or branches, of the stag's horns
was accounted far more dangerous than those of the boar's tusk:--
If thou be hurt with horn of stag, it brings thee to thy bier, But
barber's hand shall boar's hurt heal, thereof have thou no
fear.]
This checked the mirth of the meeting, although the Highlanders,
accustomed to such incidents, and prepared for them, had suffered
no harm themselves.

A wigwam was erected almost in an instant, where Edward was deposited
on a couch of heather. The surgeon, or he who assumed the office,
appeared to unite the characters of a leech and a conjuror. He was
an old smoke-dried Highlander, wearing a venerable grey beard,
and having for his sole garment a tartan frock, the skirts of which
descended to the knee, and, being undivided in front, made the
vestment serve at once for doublet and breeches. [Footnote: This garb,
which resembled the dress often put on children in Scotland, called
a polonie (i. e.
polonaise), is a very ancient modification of the Highland garb.

It was, in fact, the hauberk or shirt of mail, only composed
of cloth instead of rings of armour.]

He
observed great
ceremony in approaching Edward; and though our hero was
writhing with pain, would not proceed to any operation which might
assuage it until he had perambulated his couch three times, moving
from east to west, according to the course of the sun. This, which
was called making the deasil, [Footnote: Old Highlanders will still
make the deasil around those whom they wish well to. To go round
a person in the opposite direction, or withershins (German
wider-shins), is unlucky, and a sort of incantation.] both the leech
and the assistants seemed to consider as a matter of the last
importance to the accomplishment of a cure; and Waverley, whom pain
rendered incapable of expostulation, and who indeed saw no chance
of its being attended to, submitted in silence.

After this ceremony was duly performed, the old Esculapius let his
patient's blood with a cupping-glass with great dexterity, and
proceeded, muttering all the while to himself in Gaelic, to boil on
the fire certain herbs, with which he compounded an embrocation. He
then fomented the parts which had sustained injury, never failing to murmur
prayers or spells, which of the two Waverley could not distinguish, as
his ear only caught the words Gaspar-Melchior-Balthazar-max-prax-fax,
and similar gibberish. The fomentation had a speedy effect in alleviating
the pain and swelling, which our hero imputed to the virtue of the herbs
or the effect of the chafing, but which was by the bystanders
unanimously ascribed to the spells with which the operation had
been accompanied.

Edward was given to understand that not one of the ingredients had
been gathered except during the full moon, and that the herbalist
had, while collecting them, uniformly recited a charm, which in
English ran thus:--
Hail to thee, them holy herb, That sprung on holy ground!

All in the Mount Olivet First wert thou found.

Thou
art boot for
many a bruise, And healest many a wound; In our Lady's blessed name, I
take thee from the ground.

[Footnote: This metrical spell, or something very like it, is preserved
by Reginald Scott in his work on Witchcraft.]
Edward observed with some surprise that even Fergus, notwithstanding
his knowledge and education, seemed to fall in with the superstitious
ideas of his countrymen, either because he deemed it impolitic to
affect scepticism on a matter of general belief, or more probably because,
ike most men who do not think deeply or accurately on such subjects,
he had in his mind a reserve of superstition which balanced the
freedom of his expressions and practice upon other occasions.

Waverley made no commentary, therefore, on the manner of the treatment,
but rewarded the professor of medicine with a liberality beyond the
utmost conception of his wildest hopes.

He uttered on the occasion so many incoherent blessings in Gaelic
and English that Mac-Ivor, rather scandalised at the excess of his
acknowledgments, cut them short by exclaiming, Ceud mile mhalloich
ort!

i.e.
'A hundred thousand curses on you!' and so pushed the helper of men out
of the cabin.

After Waverley was left alone, the exhaustion of pain and fatigue --for
the whole day's exercise had been severe--threw him into a profound,
but yet a feverish sleep, which he chiefly owed to an opiate draught
administered by the old Highlander from some decoction of herbs in his
pharmacopoeia.

Early the next morning, the purpose of their meeting being over,
and their sports damped by the untoward accident, in which Fergus
and all his friends expressed the greatest sympathy, it became a
question how to dispose of the disabled sportsman.

This was settled by Mac-Ivor, who had a litter prepared, of 'birch
and hazel-grey,' 
[FOOTNOTE:
On the morrow they made their biers Of birch and hazel grey.

Chevy Chase.]

which was borne by his people with such caution and dexterity as renders
it not improbable that they may have been the ancestors of some
of those sturdy Gael who have now the happiness to transport the
belles of Edinburgh in their sedan-chairs to ten routs in one
evening.

When Edward was elevated upon their shoulders he could not help being
gratified with the romantic effect produced by the breaking up of
this sylvan camp. [Footnote: See Note 25.]
The various tribes assembled, each at the pibroch of their native
clan, and each headed by their patriarchal ruler. Some, who had
already begun to retire, were seen winding up the hills, or descending
the passes which led to the scene of action, the sound of their
bagpipes dying upon the ear.

Others made still a moving picture upon the narrow plain, forming
various changeful groups, their feathers and loose plaids waving
in the morning breeze, and their arms glittering in the rising
sun. Most of the Chiefs came to take farewell of Waverley,
and to express their anxious hope they might again, and speedily,
meet; but the care of Fergus abridged the ceremony of taking leave.

At length, his own men being completely assembled and mustered,
Mac-Ivor commenced his march, but not towards the quarter from
which they had come. He gave Edward to understand that the greater part
of his followers now on the field were bound on a distant expedition, and
that when he had deposited him in the house of a gentleman, who he was
sure would pay him every attention, he himself should be under the
necessity of accompanying them the greater part of the way, but would
lose no time in rejoining his friend.

This one needs them, and the hours thou passest with them are only
filled with saddened memories." I said to her, "This is a girl, a beggar
child. I will not give to her the clothing of my son. Each time I looked
upon her it would be a knife plunged in my heart." She said to me,
"Kwei-li, thou art not a child, thou art a woman. Of what worth that
clothing lying in that box of camphor-wood? Does it bring back thy
son? Some day thou wilt open it, and there will be nothing but dust
which will reproach thee. Get them and give them to this child which
has come to us out of the night."

I went to the box and opened it, and they lay there, the little things
that had touched his tiny body. I gave them, the trousers of purple,
the jackets of red, the embroidered shoes, the caps with the many
Buddhas. I gave them all to the begger child.

I am,
Thy Wife.


38
I am reproached because I will not go to the temple. It is filled with the
sounds of chanting which comes to me faintly as I lie upon the
terrace. There are women there, happy women, with their babies in
their arms, while mine are empty. There are others there in sorrow,
laying their offerings at the feet of Kwan-yin. They do not know that
she does not feel, nor care, for womankind. She sits upon her lotus
throne and laughs at mothers in despair. How can she feel, how can
she know, that thing of gilded wood and plaster?

I stay upon my terrace, I live alone within my court of silent dreams.
For me there are no Gods.


39
They have brought to me from the market-place a book of a new God.
I would not read it. I said, "There are too many Gods-- why add a new
one? I have no candles or incense to lay before an image." But-- I
read and saw within its pages that He gave rest and love and peace.
Peace-- what the holy man desired, the end of all things-- peace. And
I, I do not want to lose the gift of memory; I want remembrance, but I
want it without pain.

The cherry-blossoms have bloomed and passed away. They lingered
but a moment's space, and, like my dream of spring, they died. But,
passing, they have left behind the knowledge that we'll see them once
again. There must be something, somewhere, to speak to despairing
mothers and say, "Weep not! You will see your own again."

I do not want a God of temples. I have cried my prayers to Kwan-yin,
and they have come back to me like echoes from a deadened wall. I
want a God to come to me at night-time, when I am lying lonely,
wide-eyed, staring into darkness, with all my body aching for the
touch of tiny hands. I want that God who says, "I give thee Peace," to
stand close by my pillow and touch my wearied eyelids and bring me
rest.

I have been dead-- enclosed within a tomb of sorrow and despair; but
now, at words but dimly understood, a faint new life seems stirring
deep within me. A Voice speaks to me from out these pages, a Voice
that says, "Come unto Me all ye weary and heavy-laden, and I will
give thee rest." My longing soul cries out, "Oh, great and unknown
God, give me this rest!" I am alone, a woman, helpless, stretching out
my arms in darkness, but into my world of gloom has come a faint
dim star, a star of hope that says to me, "There is a God."


Part 2.

-Preface_.

These letters were written by Kwei-li twenty-five years after those
written to her husband when she was a young girl of eighteen. They
are, therefore, the letters of the present-day Chinese woman of the old
school, a woman who had by education and environment exceptional
opportunities to learn of the modern world, but who, like every Eastern
woman, clings with almost desperate tenacity to the traditions and
customs of her race. Indeed, however the youth of Oriental countries
may be changing, their mothers always exhibit that characteristic of
woman-hood, conservatism, which is to them the safe-guard of their
homes. Unlike the Western woman, accustomed to a broader
horizon, the woman of China, secluded for generations within her
narrow courtyards, prefers the ways and manners which she knows,
rather than flying to ills she knows not of. It is this self-protective
instinct that makes the Eastern woman the foe to those innovations
which are slowly but surely changing the face of the entire Eastern,
yard.

The former letters were written out of the quiet, domestic scenes of
the primitive, old China, while the present letters come out of the
confused revolutionary atmosphere of the new China. Kwei-li's
patriotism and hatred of the foreigner grows out of the fact that, as
wife of the governor of one of the chief provinces, she had been from
the beginning en rapport with the intrigues, the gossip, and the
rumours of a revolution which, for intricacy of plot and hidden motive,
is incomparable with any previous national change on record. Her
attitude toward education as seen in her relationship with her son
educated in England and America reveals the attitude of the average
Chinese father and mother if they would allow their inner feelings to
speak.

Kwei-li's religion likewise exhibits the tendency of religious attitude on
the part of the real Chinese, especially those of the older generation.
It is touched here and there by the vital spark of Christianity, but at
the centre continues to be Chinese and inseparably associated with
the worship of ancestors and the reverence for those gods whose
influence has been woven into the early years of impressionable life.

That the hope of the educational, social, and religious change in
China rests with the new generation is evident to all. The Chinese
father and mother will sail in the wooden ships which their sons and
daughters are beginning to leave for barks of steel.

There is little doubt that new China will be Westernised in every
department of her being. No friend of China hopes for such sudden
changes, however, as will prevent the Chinese themselves from
permeating the new with their own distinctive individuality. There is a
charm about old China that only those who have lived there can
understand, and there is a charm about these dainty ladies, secluded
within their walls, which the modern woman may lose in a too sudden
transition into the air of the Western day.

Let Europe, let America, let the West come to China, but let the day
be far distant when we shall find no longer in the women's courtyards
such mothers as Kwei-li.


1
My Dear Mother,
Thy son has received his appointment as governor of this province,
and we are at last settled in this new and strange abode. We are
most proud of the words pronounced by His Excellency Yuan when
giving him his power of office. He said:

"You, Liu, are an example of that higher patriotism rarely met with in
official life, which recognises its duty to its Government, a duty too
often forgotten by the members of a great family such as that of which
you are the honoured head, in the obligation to the Clan and the
desire to use power for personal advantage. Your official record has
been without stain; and especially your work among the foreigners
dwelling in our land has been accomplished with tact and discretion. I
am sending you to Shanghai, which is the most difficult post in the
Republic because of its involved affairs with the foreign nations,
knowing that the interests of the Republic will be always safe in your
hands."

I write thee this because I know thy mother-heart will rejoice that our
President shows such confidence in thy son, and that his many years
of service to his country have been appreciated.

Shanghai truly is a difficult place at present. There are fifteen
nationalities here represented by their consuls, and they are all
watching China and each other with jealous eyes, each nation fearing
that another will obtain some slight advantage in the present unsettled
state of our country. The town is filled with adventurers, both
European and Chinese, who are waiting anxiously to see what
attitude the new Governor takes in regard to the many projects in
which they are interested. My husband says nothing and allows them
to wonder. It is better for them, because, like all schemers, if they had
nothing to give them anxious nights and troubled dreams, they would
not be happy.

We found the Yamen not suitable for our large household, as it did not
lend itself readily to the reception of foreigners and the innovations
and new customs that seem to be necessary for the fulfillment of the
duties of a Chinese official under this new order. As thy son was
selected governor of this province because of his knowledge of foreign
lands and customs, it is necessary for him to live, partly at least, the
life of a European; but let me assure thee that, so far as I am
concerned, and so far as I can influence it, our life behind the screens
will always be purely Chinese, and the old, unchanged customs that I
love will rule my household. I will surrender no more than is necessary
to this new tide of Westernism that seems to be sweeping our China
from its moorings; but-- I must not dwell o'ermuch upon that theme,
though it is a subject on which I can wax most eloquent, and I know
thou desirest to hear of this house which would seem so ugly in thine
eyes.

There are no quiet courtyards, no curving roofs, no softly shaded
windows of shell, no rounded archways; but all is square and glaring
and imposing, seeming to look coldly from its staring windows of
glass at the stranger within its gates. It says loudly, "I am rich; it
costs many thousands of taels to make my ugliness." For me, it is
indeed a "foreign" house. Yet I will have justice within my heart and
tell thee that there is much that we might copy with advantage. In
place of floors of wide plain boards, and walls of wood with great wide
cracks covered with embroideries and rugs, as in the Chinese homes,
the floors are made of tiny boards polished until they glisten like unto
the sides of the boats of the tea-house girls, and the walls are of
plaster covered, as in our rooms of reception, with silk and satin, and
the chairs and couches have silken tapestry to match their colour.
This furniture, strange to me, is a great care, as I do not understand
its usages, and it seems most stiff and formal. I hope some day to
know a foreign woman on terms of friendship, and I will ask her to
touch the room with her hands of knowledge, and bring each piece
into more friendly companionship with its neighbour. Now chairs look
coldly at tables, as if to say, "You are an intruder!" And it chills me.

This house is much more simple than our homes, because of the
many modern instruments that make the work less heavy and allow it
to be done by few instead of many, as is our way. It is not necessary
to have a man attend solely to the lighting of the lamps. Upon the wall
is placed a magic button which, touched even by the hand of
ignorance, floods the room with the light of many suns. We see no
more the water-carrier with his two great wooden buckets swinging
from the bamboo as he comes from river or canal to pour the water
into the great kangs standing by the kitchen door. Nor do we need to
put the powder in it to make it clear and wholesome. That is all done
by men we do not see, and they call it "sanitation." The cook needs
only to turn a small brass handle, and the water comes forth as from
a distant spring. It reminds me of the man who came to my father,
when he was governor of Wuseh, and wished to install a most
unheard-of machine to bring water to the city from the lake upon the
hillside. My father listened most respectfully to the long and stupid
explanation, and looked at the clear water which the foreign man
produced to show what could be done, then, shaking his head, said,
"Perhaps that water is more healthful, as you say, but it is to me too
clear and white. It has no body, and I fear has not the strength of the
water from our canals."

Another thing we do not hear is the rattle of the watchman as he
makes his rounds at night, and I miss it. In far Sezchuan, on many
nights when sleep was distant, I would lie and listen as he struck
upon his piece of hollow bamboo telling me that all was well within our
compound. Now the city has police that stand outside the gateway.
Many are men from India-- big black men, with fierce black beards
and burning eyes. Our people hate them, and they have good cause.
They are most cruel, and ill-treat all who come within their power. But
we must tread with cat-like steps, as they are employed by the
English, who protect them at all times. They are the private army of
that nation here within our city, and at every chance their numbers are
constantly increased. I do not understand this question of police.
There are in thousands of our cities and villages no police, no
soldiers, yet there is less lawlessness and vice in a dozen purely
Chinese cities than in this great mongrel town that spends many tens
of thousands of taels each year upon these guardians of the people's
peace. It seems to me that this should tell the world that the force of
China is not a physical force, but the force of the law-abiding instinct
of a happy common people, who, although living on the verge of
misery and great hunger, live upright lives and do not try to break their
country's laws.

There is a garden within our walls, but not a garden of winding
pathways and tiny bridges leading over lotus ponds, nor are there
hillocks of rockery with here and there a tiny god or temple peeping
from some hidden grotto. All is flat, with long bare stretches of green
grass over which are nets, by which my children play a game called
tennis. This game is foolish, in my eyes, and consists of much
jumping and useless waste of strength, but the English play it, and of
course the modern Chinese boy must imitate them. I have made one
rule: my daughters shall not play the game. It seems to me most
shameful to see a woman run madly, with great boorish strides, in
front of men and boys. My daughters pout and say it is played by all
the girls in school, and that it makes them strong and well; but I am
firm. I have conceded many things, but this to me is vulgar and
unseemly.

Need I tell thee, Mother mine, that I am a stranger in this great city,
that my heart calls for the hills and the mountain-side with its ferns
and blossoms? Yesterday at the hour of twilight I drove to the country
in the motor (a new form of carrying chair that thou wouldst not
understand-- or like) and I stopped by a field of flowering mustard. The
scent brought remembrance to my heart, and tears flowed from
beneath my eyelids. The delicate yellow blossoms seemed to speak
to me from out their golden throats, and I yearned to hold within my
arms all this beauty of the earth flowering beneath my feet. We
stayed until the darkness came, and up to the blue night rose from all
the fields "that great soft, bubbling chorus which seems the very voice
of the earth itself-- the chant of the frogs." When we turned back and
saw the vulgar houses, with straight red tops and piercing chimneys, I
shut my eyes and in a vision saw the blue-grey houses with their
curved-up, tilted roofs nestling among the groves of bamboo, and I felt
that if it were my misfortune to spend many moons in this great alien
city, my heart would break with longing for the beautiful home I love.

I felt sympathy with Kang Tang-li, of my father's province, who heard
of a new God in Anhui. He had eaten bitter sorrow and he felt that the
old Gods had forgotten him and did not hear his call, so he walked
two long days' journey to find this new God who gave joy and peace to
those who came to him. He arrived at eventime, the sun was setting
in a lake of gold, but even with its glory it could not change the ugly
square-built temple, with no curves or grace to mark it as a
dwelling-place of Gods. Kang walked slowly around this temple,
looked long at its staring windows and its tall and ugly spire upon the
rooftree which seemed to force its way into the kindly blue sky; then,
saddened, sick at heart, he turned homeward, saying deep within him
no God whom he could reverence would choose for a dwelling-place a
house so lacking in all beauty.

Is this a long and tiresome letter, my Honourable Mother? But thou art
far away, and in thy sheltered walls yearn to know what has come to
us, thy children, in this new and foreign life. It is indeed a new life for
me, and I can hardly grasp its meaning. They are trying hard to force
us to change our old quietude and peace for the rush and worry of the
Western world, and I fear I am too old and settled for such sudden
changes.

Tell Mah-li's daughter that I will send her news of the latest fashions,
and tell Li-ti that the hair is dressed quite differently here. I will write
her more about it and send her the new ornaments. They are not so
pretty in my eyes, nor are the gowns so graceful, but I will send her
patterns that she may choose.

We all give thee our greetings and touch my hand with love.

Kwei-li.


2
My Dear Mother,
I have not written thee for long, as my days have been filled with
duties new and strange to me. The wives of the foreign officials have
called upon me, as that appears to be their custom. It seems to me
quite useless and a waste of time; but they come, and I must return
the calls. I do not understand why the consuls cannot transact their
business with the Governor without trying to peer into his inner life. To
us a man's official life and that which lies within his women's
courtyard are as separate as two pathways which never meet.

The foreign woman comes and sits upon the edge of her chair in great
discomfort, vainly searching for a subject upon which we may have a
common bond. I sit upon the edge of the chair from necessity, as
these chairs are far too high for me, and my tiny feet hang helplessly
in the air. Although the chairs are not so high or so straight and stiff
as are our seats of honour, they have no footstools, and no small
tables on which to lean the arm. Thou wouldst laugh at our poor feeble
efforts to be agreeable one to the other. Our conversation is as foolish
and as useless as would be the using of a paper lantern for the
rice-mill. With all desire to be courteous and to put her at her ease, I
ask about her children, the health of her honourable mother, and the
state of her household. I do not ask her age, as I have learned that,
contrary to our usage, it is a question not considered quite
auspicious, and often causes the flush of great embarrassment to rise
to the cheek of a guest. Often she answers me in "pidgin" English, a
kind of baby-talk that is used when addressing servants. These
foreign women have rarely seen a Chinese lady, and they are
surprised that I speak English; often I have been obliged to explain
that when I found that my husband's office brought him close to
foreigners, and that my sons and daughters were learning the new
education in which it is necessary to know other than their mother
tongue, I would not be left behind within closed doors, so I too learned
of English and of French enough to read and speak. I am to them a
curiosity. It has not been correct in former times to know a Chinese
lady socially; and to these ladies, with their society, their calls, their
dinners, and their games of cards, we within the courtyards are
people from another world. They think that Chinese women are and
always have been the closely prisoned slaves of their husbands, idle
and ignorant and soulless, with no thoughts above their petty
household cares and the strange heathen gods they worship.

Of course, these foreign women do not say these things in words, but
their looks are most expressive, and I understand. I serve them tea
and cake, of which they take most sparingly, and when the proper
time has come they rise, trying not to look relief that their martyrdom
is over. I conduct them to the doorway, or, if the woman is the wife of
a great official, to the outer entrance. Then I return to my own rooms
midst the things I understand; and I fear, I fear, Mother mine, that I
gossip with my household upon the ways and dress and manners of
these queer people from distant lands.

I have been asked to join a society of European and Chinese ladies
for the purpose of becoming acquainted one with the other, but I do
not think that I will do so. I believe it impossible for the woman of the
West to form an alliance with the woman of the East that will be
deep-rooted. The thoughts within our hearts are different, as are our
points of view. We do not see the world through the same eyes. The
foreign woman has children like myself, but her ambitions and her
ideals for them are different. She has a home and a husband, but my
training and my instincts give my home and my husband a different
place in life than that which she gives to those of her household. To
me the words marriage, friendship, home, have a deeper meaning
than is attached to them by a people who live in hotels and public
eating-places, and who are continually in the homes of others. They
have no sanctity of the life within; there are no shrines set apart for
the family union, and the worship of the spirits of their ancestors. I
cannot well explain to thee, the something intangible, the thick grey
mist that is always there to put its bar across the open door of
friendship between the woman of the Occident and those of Oriental
blood.

I would ask of thee a favour I wish that thou wouldst search my rooms
and find the clothing that is not needed by thy women. My house is
full to overflowing. I had no idea we had so many poor relations. The
poor relation of our poor relation and the cousin of our cousin's cousin
have come to claim their kinship. Thy son will give no one official
position nor allow them money from the public funds; but they must
have clothing and rice, and I provide it. I sometimes feel, when looking
into the empty rice-bin, that I sympathize with His Excellency Li
Hung-chang who built a great house here, far from his home province.
When asked why, unlike the Chinese custom, he builded so far from
kith and kin, he answered, "You have placed the finger upon the
pulse-beat the first instant. I built it far away, hoping that all the
relatives of my relatives who find themselves in need, might not find
the money where-with to buy a ticket in order to come and live
beneath my rooftree." (With us, they do not wait for tickets; they have
strong and willing feet.) I am afraid that His Excellency, although of
the old China that I love, was touched with this new spirit of each
member for himself that has come upon this country.

It is the good of the one instead of the whole, as in the former times,
and there is much that can be said upon both sides. The family
should always stand for the members of the clan in the great crises of
their lives, and help to care for them in days of poverty and old age. It
is not just that one should prosper while others of the same blood
starve; yet it is not just that one should provide for those unwilling to
help themselves. I can look back with eyes of greater knowledge to
our home, and I fear that there are many eating from the bowl of
charity who might be working and self-respecting if they were not
members of the great family Liu, and so entitled to thy help.

It is the hour for driving with the children. We all are thine and think of
thee each day.

Kwei-li.


3
My Mother,
I have such great news to tell thee that I hardly know where to begin.
But, first, I will astonish thee-- Ting-fang is home! Yes, I can hear thee
say, "Hi yah!" And I said it many times when, the evening before last,
after thy son and the men of the house-hold had finished the evening
meal, and I and the women were preparing to eat our rice, we saw a
darkness in the archway, and standing there was my son. Not one of
us spoke a word; we were as if turned to stone; as we thought of him
as in far-off America, studying at the college of Yale. But here he
stood in real life, smiling at our astonishment. He slowly looked at us
all, then went to his father and saluted him respectfully, came and
bowed before me, then took me in his arms in a most disrespectful
manner and squeezed me together so hard he nearly broke my
bones. I was so frightened and so pleased that of course I could only
cry and cling to this great boy of mine whom I had not seen for six
long years. I held him away from me and looked long into his face. He
is a man now, twenty-one years old, a big, strong man, taller than his
father. I can hardly reach his shoulder. He is straight and slender, and
looks an alien in his foreign dress, yet when I looked into his eyes I
knew it was mine own come to me again.

No one knows how all my dreams followed this bird that left the nest.
Now forasmuch as this is sufficiente to unite us togeather in
love and good neighbourhood, in all our dealings, yet are many
of us further obliged, by the good and curteous entreaty which we have
found in your countrie; haveing lived ther many years,
with freedome, and good contente, as also many of our freinds doe to
this day; for which we, and our children after us, are bound to be
thankfull to your Nation, and shall never forgett y^e same, but shall
hartily desire your good & prosperity, as our owne, for ever.

Likwise for your freindly tender, & offer to aco[=m]odate and help us
with any comodities or marchandise you have, or shall come to you,
either for beaver, otters, or other wares, it is to us very acceptable,
and we doubte not but in short time we may have profitable co[=m]erce
& trade togeather. But for this year we are fully supplyed with all
necessaries, both for cloathing and other things; but hereafter it
is like we shall deale with you, if your rates be reasonable.

And therfore when you please to send to us againe by any of yours, we
desire to know how you will take beaver, by y^e pounde, & otters, by
y^e skine; and how you will deale per cent. for other comodities,
and what you can furnishe us with. As likwise what other commodities
from us may be acceptable unto you, as tobaco, fish, corne, or
other things, and what prises you will give, &c.

Thus hoping that you will pardon & excuse us for our rude and imperfecte
writing in your language, and take it in good parte, because [152]
for wante of use we cannot so well express that we understand, nor
hapily understand every thing so fully as we should.
And so we humbly pray the Lord for his mercie sake, that he will take
both us and you into his keeping & gratious protection.

By y^e Gove^r and Counsell of New-Plimoth, Your Wor^pps very good
freinds & neigbours, &c.

New-Plim: March 19.

After this ther was many passages betweene them both by letters and
other entercourse; and they had some profitable commerce togither for
diverce years, till other occasions interrupted y^e same, as may
happily appear afterwards, more at large.

Before they sent M^r. Allerton away for England this year, y^e Gove^r
and some of their cheefe freinds had serious consideration, not only how
they might discharge those great ingagments which lay so heavily
upon them, as is affore mentioned, but also how they might (if possiblie
they could) devise means to help some of their freinds and breethren
of Leyden over unto them, who desired so much to come to them, [=a]d
they desired as much their company. To effecte which, they resolved
to rune a high course, and of great adventure, not knowing otherwise
how to bring it aboute.

Which was to hire y^e trade of y^e company for certaine years, and
in that time to undertake to pay that 1800^li. and all y^e rest of
y^e debts that then lay upon y^e plantation, which was aboute some
600^li. more; and so to set them free, and returne the trade to y^e
generalitie againe at y^e end of y^e terme.

Upon which resolution they called y^e company togeither,
and made it clearly appear unto all what their debts were, and upon
what terms they would undertake to pay them all in such a time,
and sett them clear. But their other ends they were faine to keepe
secrete, haveing only privatly acquaynted some of their trusty freinds
therwith; which were glad of y^e same, but doubted how they would be
able to performe it. So after some agitation of the thing w^th y^e
company, it was yeelded unto, and the agreemente made upon y^e
conditions following.

Articles of agreemente betweene y^e collony of New-Pli[=m]oth of y^e one
partie, and William Bradford, Captein Myles Standish, Isaack Allerton,
&c. one y^e other partie; and shuch others as they shall thinke
good to take as partners and undertakers with them, concerning the trade
for beaver & other furrs & comodities, &c.; made July, 1627.

First, it is agreed and covenanted betweexte y^e said parties, that y^e
afforsaid William Bradford, Captain Myl Standish, & Isaack Allerton,
&c. have undertaken, and doe by these presents, covenante and agree
to pay, discharge, and acquite y^e said collony of all y^e debtes
both due for y^e purchass, or any other belonging to them, at y^e
day of y^e date of these presents

.

[153] Secondly, y^e above-said parties are to have and freely injoye
y^e pinass latly builte, the boat at Manamett, and y^e shalop,
called y^e Bass-boat, with all other implements to them belonging,
that is in y^e store of y^e said company; with all y^e whole stock
of furrs, fells, beads, corne, wampampeak, hatchets, knives, &c.
that is now in y^e storre, or any way due unto y^e same uppon
accounte.

3^ly.

That y^e above said parties have y^e whole trade to them selves,
their heires and assignes, with all y^e privileges therof, as y^e said
collonie doth now, or may use the same, for 6. full years, to begine y^e
last of September next insuing.

4^ly.

In furder consideration of y^e discharge of y^e said debtes, every severall
purchaser doth promise and covenante yearly to pay, or cause to be
payed, to the above said parties, during y^e full terme of y^e said
6. years, 3. bushells of corne, or 6^li. of tobaco, at y^e undertakers
choyse.

5^ly. The said undertakers shall dureing y^e afforesaid terme bestow
50^li. per annum, in hose and shoese, to be brought over for y^e
collonies use, to be sould unto them for corne at 6^s. per
bushell.

6^ly.

That at y^e end of y^e said terme of 6. years, the whole trade shall
returne to y^t use and benefite of y^e said collonie, as
before.

Lastly, if y^e afforesaid undertakers, after they have aquainted
their freinds in England with these covenants, doe (upon y^e first
returne) resolve to performe them, and undertake to discharge y^e
debtes of y^e said collony, according to y^e true meaning & intente
of these presents, then they are (upon such notice given) to stand
in full force; otherwise all things to remaine as formerly they
were, and a true accounte to be given to y^e said collonie, of the
disposing of all things according to the former order.

M^r. Allerton carried a coppy of this agreemente with him into England,
and amongst other his instructions had order given him to deale
with some of their speciall freinds, to joyne with them in this trade
upon y^e above recited conditions; as allso to imparte their further
ends that moved them to take this course, namly, the helping over of some
of their freinds from Leyden, as they should be able; in which if any of
them would joyne with them they should thankfully acceptt of their
love and partnership herein. And with all (by their letters) gave them
some grounds of their hops of the accomplishmente of these things with
some advantage.

_Anno Dom: 1628._
After M^r. Allertons arivall in England, he aquainted them with his
comission and full power to conclude y^e forementioned bargan &
purchas; upon [154] the veiw wherof, and y^e delivery of y^e bonds
for y^e paymente of y^e money yearly, (as is before mentioned,) it was
fully concluded, and a deede[CF] fairly ingrossed in partchmente was
delivered him, under their hands & seals confirming the same.
Morover he delte with them aboute other things according to his
instructions. As to admitt some of these their good freinds into this
purchass if they pleased, and to deale with them for moneys at
better rates, &c.

Touching which I shall hear inserte a letter of M^r. Sherleys, giving light
to what followed therof, writ to y^e Gov^r as followeth.

S^r: I have received yours of y^e 26. of May by M^r.

Gibs, & M^r.
Goffe, with y^e barrell of otter skins, according to y^e contents;
for which I got a bill of store, and so tooke them up, and sould
them togeather at 78^li. 12^s. sterling; and since, M^r. Allerton hath
received y^e money, as will apear by the accounte. It is true (as you
write) that your ingagments are great, not only the purchass,
but you are yet necessitated to take up y^e stock you work upon;
and y^t not at 6. or 8. p^r cent. as it is here let out, but
at 30. 40. yea, & some at 50. p^r cent. which, were not your gaines
great, and Gods blessing on your honest indeaours more then ordinarie,
it could not be y^t you should longe subsiste in y^e maintaining
of, & upholding of your worldly affaires. And this your honest &
discreete agente, M^r.
Allerton, hath seriously considered, & deeply laid to mind, how to ease
you of it. He tould me you were contented to accepte of me & some
few others, to joyne with you in y^e purchass, as partners; for which
I kindly thanke you and all y^e rest, and doe willingly accepte of
it.

And though absente, shall willingly be at shuch charge as you & y^e
rest shall thinke meete; and this year am contented to forbear my former
50^li. and 2. years increase for y^e venture, both which now makes it
80^li. without any bargaine or condition for y^e profite, you
(I mean y^e generalitie) stand to y^e adventure, outward, and homeward.
I have perswaded M^r. Andrews and M^r. Beachamp to doe y^e like, so as
you are eased of y^e high rate, you were at y^e other 2.
yeares; I say we leave it freely to your selves to alow us what you
please, and as God shall blesse. What course I rune, M^r.

Beachamp desireth to doe y^e same; and though he have been or seemed
somwhat harsh heretofore, yet now you shall find he is new moulded.
I allso see by your letter, you desire I should be your
agente or factore hear. I have ever found you so faithfull, honest, and
upright men, as I have even resolved with my selfe (God assisting
me) to doe you all y^e good lyeth in my power; and therfore if you
please to make choyse of so weak a man, both for abillities and
body, to performe your bussines, I promise (y^e Lord enabling me)
to doe y^e best I can according to those abillities he hath given
me; and wherin I faile, blame your selves, y^t you made no
better choyce. Now, because I am sickly, and we are all mortall, I
have advised M^r. Allerton to joyne M^r. Beachamp with me in your
deputation, which I conceive to be very necessary & good for you; your
charge shall be no more, for it is not your salarie maks me undertake
your [156[CG]] bussines. Thus contending you & yours, and all
Gods people, unto y^e guidance and protection of y^e Allmightie, I
ever rest,
Your faithfull loving freind, JAMES SHERLEY.

[CH]
London, Nov. 17. 1628.

With this leter they sent a draught of a formall deputation to be
hear sealed and sent back unto them, to authorise them as their agents,
according to what is mentioned in y^e above said letter; and because
some inconvenience grue therby afterward I shall here inserte it.

To all to whom these pr[=e]ts shall come greeting; know yee that
we, William Bradford, Gov^r of Plimoth, in N.E. in America, Isaak
Allerton, Myles Standish, William Brewster, & Ed: Winslow, of Plimoth
aforesaid, marchants, doe by these presents for us & in our names,
make, substitute, & appointe James Sherley, Goldsmith, & John
Beachamp, Salter, citizens of London, our true & lawfull agents,
factors, substitutes, & assignes; as well to take and receive all
such goods, wares, & marchandise what soever as to our said substitutes
or either of them, or to y^e citie of London, or other place of y^e
Relme of Engl: shall be sente, transported, or come from us or any
of us, as allso to vend, sell, barter, or exchaing y^e said goods,
wares, and marchandise so from time to time to be sent to such
person or persons upon credite, or other wise in such maner as to
our said agents & factors joyently, or to either of them severally
shall seeme meete.

And further we doe make & ordaine our said substituts & assignes
joyntly & severally for us, & to our uses, & accounts, to buy and
consigne for and to us into New-Engl: aforesaid, such goods and marchandise
to be provided here, and to be returned hence, as by our said assignes,
or either of them, shall be thought fitt. And to recover, receive,
and demand for us & in our names all such debtes & sumes of
money, as now are or hereafter shall be due incidente accruing
or belonging to us, or any of us, by any wayes or means; and to
acquite, discharge, or compound for any debte or sume of money, which
now or hereafter shall be due or oweing by any person or persons to
us, or any of us. And generally for us & in our names to doe, performe,
and execute every acte & thing which to our said assignes, or either of
them, shall seeme meete to be done in or aboute y^e premissies, as
fully & effectually, to all intents & purposes, as if we or any
of us were in person presente.

And whatsoever our said agents & factors joyntly or severally
shall doe, or cause to be done, in or aboute y^e premisses, we will &
doe, & every of us doth ratife, alow, & confirme, by these presents.
In wittnes wherof we have here unto put our hands & seals. Dated 18.
Nov^br 1628.

This was accordingly confirmed by the above named, and 4. more of the
cheefe of them under their hands & seals, and delivered unto them. Also
M^r. Allerton formerly had authoritie under their hands & seals
for y^e transacting of y^e former bussines, and taking up of moneys, &c.
which still he retained whilst he was imployed in these affaires;
they mistrusting neither him nor any of their freinds faithfullnes,
which made them more remisse in looking to shuch acts as had passed
under their hands, as necessarie for y^e time; but letting them
rune on to long unminded or recaled, it turned to their harme
afterwards, as will appere in its place

.

[157] M^r. Allerton having setled all things thus in a good and hopfull
way, he made hast to returne in y^e first of y^e spring to be hear with
their supply for trade, (for y^e fishermen with whom he came used to
sett forth in winter & be here betimes.) He brought a resonable
supply of goods for y^e plantation, and without those great
interests as before is noted; and brought an accounte of y^e beaver
sould, and how y^e money was disposed for goods, & y^e paymente of other
debtes, having paid all debts abroad to others, save to M^r.

Sherley, M^r. Beachamp, & M^r.

Andrews; from whom likwise he brought an accounte which to them
all amounted not to above 400^li. for which he had passed bonds. Allso
he had payed the first paymente for y^e purchass, being due for this
year, viz. 200^li. and brought them y^e bonde for y^e same canselled; so
as they now had no more foreine debtes but y^e abovesaid 400^li.
and odde pownds, and y^e rest of y^e yearly purchass monie.

Some other debtes they had in y^e cuntrie, but they were without
any intrest, & they had wherwith to discharge them when they were
due.

To this pass
the Lord had brought things for them.

Also he brought
them further notice that their freinds, the abovenamed, & some
others that would joyne with them in y^e trad & purchass, did intend
for to send over to Leyden, for a competente number of them, to
be hear the next year without fayle, if y^e Lord pleased to blesse
their journey. He allso brought them a patente for Kenebeck, but it
was so straite & ill bounded, as they were faine to renew & inlarge
it the next year, as allso that which they had at home, to their great
charge, as will after appeare. Hithertoo M^r. Allerton did them good and
faithfull service; and well had it been if he had so continued, or els they
had now ceased for imploying him any longer thus into England. But of
this more afterwards.

Having procured a patente (as is above said) for Kenebeck, they now
erected a house up above in y^e river in y^e most convenientest
place for trade, as they conceived, and furnished the same with
co[=m]odities for y^t end, both winter & so[=m]er, not only with
corne, but also with such other commodities as y^e fishermen had
traded with them, as coats, shirts, ruggs, & blankets, biskett,
pease, prunes, &c.; and what they could not have out of England,
they bought of the fishing ships, and so carried on their bussines
as well as they could.

This year the Dutch sent againe unto them from their plantation, both
kind leterss, and also diverse comodities, as suger, linen cloth,
Holand finer & courser stufes, &c. They came up with their barke to
Manamete, to their house ther, in which came their Secretarie Rasier;
who was accompanied with a noyse of trumpeters, and some other
attendants; and desired that they would send a boat for him, for he could
not travill so farr over land. So they sent a boat to Manonscussett,
and brought him to y^e plantation, with y^e cheefe of his company. And after
some few days entertainmente, he returned to his barke, and some
of them wente with him, and bought sundry of his goods; after which
begining thus made, they sente often times to y^e same place, and
had entercourse togeather for diverce years; and amongst other
comodities, they vended [158] much tobaco for linen cloath, stuffs,
&c., which was a good benefite to y^e people, till the Virginians
found out their plantation.

But that which turned most to their profite, in time, was an entrance
into the trade of Wampampeake; for they now bought aboute 50^li. worth
of it of them; and they tould them how vendable it was at their forte
Orania; and did perswade them they would find it so at Kenebeck;
and so it came to pass in time, though at first it stuck, &
it was 2. years before they could put of this small quantity, till
y^e inland people knew of it; and afterwards they could scarce ever
gett enough for them, for many years togeather.

And so this, with their other provissions, cutt of they trade quite
from y^e fisher-men, and in great part from other of y^e stragling
planters. And strange it was to see the great allteration it made in
a few years amonge y^e Indeans them selves; for all the Indeans
of these parts, & y^e Massachussets, had none or very litle of
it,[CI] but y^e sachems & some spetiall persons that wore a litle of it
for ornamente.
Only it was made & kepte amonge y^e Nariganssets, & Pequents, which
grew rich & potent by it, and these people were poore & begerly,
and had no use of it. Neither did the English of this plantation,
or any other in y^e land, till now that they had knowledg of it
from y^e Dutch, so much as know what it was, much less y^t
it was a co[=m]oditie of that worth & valew. But after it grue thus
to be a comoditie in these parts, these Indeans fell into it allso,
and to learne how to make it; for y^e Narigansets doe geather
y^e shells of which y^ey make it from their shors. And it hath
now continued a current comoditie aboute this 20.
years, and it may prove a drugg in time. In y^e mean time it maks y^e Indeans
of these parts rich & power full and also prowd therby; and fills
them with peeces, powder, and shote, which no laws can restraine, by
reasone of y^e bassnes of sundry unworthy persons, both English, Dutch,
& French, which may turne to y^e ruine of many. Hithertoo y^e Indeans of
these parts had no peeces nor other armes but their bowes & arrowes, nor
of many years after; nether durst they scarce handle a gune,
so much were they affraid of them; and y^e very sight of one (though
out of kilter) was a terrour unto them. But those Indeans to y^e east
parts, which had co[=m]erce with y^e French, got peces of them,
and they in the end made a commone trade of it; and in time our
English fisher-men, led with y^e like covetoussnes, followed their
example, for their owne gaine; but upon complainte against them,
it pleased the kings majestie to prohibite y^e same by a stricte
proclaimation, commanding that no sorte of armes, or munition,
should by any of his subjects be traded with them.

Did he not say frankly that he
must consult his mother, and was he not honoured and given
permission to come to his home to have thy blessing? Dost thou
remember when Yuan was appointed secretary to the embassy in
London, and declined the honour because his mother was old and did
not wish her only son to journey o'er the seas; he gave up willingly
and cheerfully the one great opportunity of his life rather than bring
sorrow to the one who bore him.

A similar case came to our ears but a few days since. Some priests
of a foreign mission came to my husband and wished him to
intercede, as Governor, and command the Taotai of Soochow to sell
to them a piece of land on which to erect a temple of their faith. When
the Taotai was asked why he was so persistent in his refusal to carry
out the promise of the man before him in the office, he told the
Governor that the temple where his mother worshipped was in a direct
line with the proposed new foreign house of worship. His mother
feared that a spire would be placed upon its rooftree that would
intercept the good spirits of the air from bringing directly to her family
rooftree the blessings from the temple. My husband tried to persuade
him that the superstitions of a woman long in years should not stand
in the way of a possible quarrel with men of a foreign power, but the
Taotai only shrugged his shoulders and said, "What can I do? She is
my mother. I cannot go against her expressed commands;" and-- the
temple to the foreign God will not be built.

[Illustration: Mylady16.]

But it is as foolish to talk to Wan-li as "to ask the loan of a comb from
a Buddhist nun." She will not listen; or, if she does, a smile lies in the
open lily of her face, and she bows her head in mock submission;
then instantly lifts it again with new arguments learned from foreign
books, and arguments that I in my ignorance cannot refute.

I feel that I am alone on a strange sea with this, my household; and I
am in deadly fear that she will do some shocking thing, like those
girls from the school in Foochow who, dressed in their brothers'
clothing, came to Nanking and asked to be allowed to fight on the
side of the Republic. Patriotism is a virtue, but the battle-field is man's
place. Let the women stay at home and make the bandages to bind
the wounded, and keep the braziers lighted to warm returning men.

I will not write thee more of troubles, but I will tell thee that thy box of
clothing came and is most welcome; also the cooking oil, which gave
our food the taste of former days. The oils and sauces bought at
shops are not so pure as those thy servants make within the
compound, nor does the cook here prepare things to my taste. Canst
send me Feng-yi, who understands our customs? Thy son has no
great appetite, and I hope that food prepared in homely ways may
tempt him to linger longer at the table. He is greatly over-worked, and
if he eat not well, with enjoyment of his rice, the summer will quite
likely find him ill.

Thy daughter and thy family who touch thy hand,
Kwei-li


6
My Dear Mother,
Thy letter came, and I thank thee for thy advice. It is most difficult to
act upon. I cannot shut Wan-li within an inner chamber, nor can I
keep her without rice until she sees the wisdom of her ways. The
times are truly different; we mothers of the present have lost our
power to control our children, and cannot as in former days compel
obedience. I can only talk to her; she laughs. I quote to her the words
of the Sage: "Is any blessing better than to give a man a son, man's
prime desire by which he and his name shall live beyond himself; a
foot for him to stand on, a hand to stop his falling, so that in his son's
youth he will be young again, and in his strength be strong." Be the
mother of men; and I hear that, that is China's trouble. She has too
many children, too many thousands of clutching baby fingers, too
many tiny mouths asking for their daily food. I am told, by this learned
daughter of mine, that China has given no new thing to the world for
many tens of centuries. She has no time to write, no time to think of
new inventions; she must work for the morrow's rice. "How have you
eaten?" Is the salutation that one Chinese makes to another when
meeting on a pathway; and in that question is the root of our greatest
need. I am told that we are a nation of rank materialists; that we pray
only for benefits that we may feel or see, instead of asking for the
blessings of the Spirit to be sent us from above; that the women of my
time and kind are the ruin of the country, with our cry of sons, sons!

But if our girls flaunt motherhood, if this thought of each one for
himself prevails, what will become of us, a nation that depends upon
its worship of the ancestors for its only practical religion? The
loosening of the family bonds, the greater liberty of the single person,
means the lessening of the restraining power of this old religion which
depends upon the family life and the unity of that life. To do away with
it is to do away with the greatest influence for good in China to-day.
What will become of the filial piety that has been the backbone of our
country? This family life has always been, from time immemorial, the
foundation-stone of our Empire, and filial piety is the foundation-stone
of the family life.

I read not long since, in the Christian's Sacred Book, the
commandment, "Honour thy father and thy mother, that thy days may
be long in the land which the Lord thy God hath given thee," and I
thought that perhaps in the observance of that rule is to be found one
of the chief causes for the long continuance of the Chinese Empire.
What is there to compare in binding power to the family customs of
our people? Their piety, their love one for the other and that to which it
leads, the faithfulness of husband to his wife-- all these, in spite of
what may be said against them by the newer generation, do exist and
must influence the nation for its good. And this one great fact must be
counted amongst the forces, if it is not the greatest force, which bind
the Chinese people in bonds strong as ropes of twisted bamboo.

Our boys and girls will not listen; they are trying to be what they are
not, trying to wear clothes not made for them, trying to be like nations
and people utterly foreign to them; and they will not succeed. But,
"into a sack holding a ri, only a ri will go," and these sacks of our
young people are full to overflowing with this, which seems to me
dearly acquired knowledge, and there is not room for more. Time will
help, and they will learn caution and discretion in life's halls of
experience, and we can only guard their footsteps as best we may.

In the meantime, Mother mine, my days are full and worried, and I, as
in the olden time, can only come to thee with my rice-bowl filled with
troubles and pour them all into thy kindly lap. It is my only comfort, as
thy son is bitter and will not talk with patience, and it would not be
seemly for me to open wide my heart to strangers; but I know thou
lovest me and art full of years and knowledge and will help me find the
way.

Kwei-li.


7
My Dear Mother,
These are most troublous times, and thy son is harassed to the verge
of sickness. Shanghai is filled with Chinese who come seeking foreign
protection. Within the narrow confines of the foreign settlements, it is
said, there are nearly a million Chinese, half of them refugees from
their home provinces, fearing for their money or their lives, or both.
The great red houses on the fashionable streets, built by the English
for their homes, are sold at fabulous prices to these gentlemen, who
have brought their families and their silver to the only place they know
where the foreign hand is strong enough to protect them from their
own people. There are many queer tales; some are simply the breath
of the unkind winds that seem to blow from nowhere but gain in
volume with each thing they touch. Tan Toatai, who paid 300,000
taels for his position as Toatai of Shanghai, and who left for his home
province with 3,000,000 taels, as the gossips say, was asked to
contribute of his plenty for the help of the new government. He
promised; then changed his mind, and carefully gathered all his
treasures together and left secretly one night for Shanghai. Now he is
in fear for his life and dares not leave the compound walls of the
foreigner who has befriended him.

It makes one wonder what is the use of these fortunes that bring
endless sorrow by the misery of winning them, guarding them, and
the fear of losing them. They who work for them are as the water
buffalo who turns the water-wheel and gets but his daily food and the
straw-thatched hut in which he rests. For the sake of this food and
lodging which falls to the lot of all, man wastes his true happiness
which is so hard to win.

These Chinese of the foreign settlements seem alien to me. Yuan
called upon thy son the other day, and had the temerity to ask for
me-- a most unheard-of thing. I watched him as he went away,
dressed in European clothes, as nearly all of our younger men are
clothed these days, and one would never know that he had worn his
hair otherwise than short. There are no more neatly plaited braids
hanging down the back, and the beautiful silks and satins, furs and
peacock feathers are things of the past. These peacock feathers,
emblems of our old officialdom, are now bought by foreign ladies as a
trimming on their hats. Shades of Li Hung-chang and Chang
Chih-tung! What will they say if looking over the barriers they see the
insignia of their rank and office gracing the glowing head-gear of the
tourists who form great parties and come racing from over the seas to
look at us as at queer animals from another world?

It is not only the men who are copying the foreign customs and
clothing. Our women are now seen in public, driving with their
husbands, or walking arm in arm upon the public street. I even saw a
Chinese woman driving that "devil machine," a motor-car, with her own
hands. She did not seem a woman, but an unsexed thing that had as
little of woman-hood as the car that took her along so swiftly. I
promised to send Tah-li the new hair ornaments, but there are no hair
ornaments worn now. The old jewels are laid aside, the jade and
pearls are things of the past. The hair is puffed and knotted in a way
most unbecoming to the face. It is neither of the East nor of the West,
but a half-caste thing, that brands its wearer as a woman of no race.

Dost thou remember the story over which the Chinese in all the
Empire laughed within their sleeves? Her Majesty, the Empress
Dowager, was on most friendly terms with the wife of the Minister of
the United States of America, and on one occasion gave her as a gift
a set of combs enclosed within a box of silver. The foreign lady was
delighted, and did not see the delicate sarcasm hidden within the
present. Combs-- the foreign ladies need them! We Chinese like the
locks most smoothly brushed and made to glisten and shine with the
scented elm, but they, the foreign ladies, allow them to straggle in
rude disorder around their long, grave faces, which are so ugly in our
eyes.

Thou hast asked me for the latest style in dress. It is impossible to
say what is the latest style. Some women wear a jacket far too short
and trousers tight as any coat sleeve. The modest ones still cover
them with skirts; but I have seen women walking along the street who
should certainly stay within the inner courtyard and hide their shame.
For those who wear the skirt, the old, wide-pleated model has gone
by, and a long black skirt that is nearly European is now worn. It is
not graceful, but it is far better than the trousers worn by women who
walk along so stiffly upon their "golden lilies." These tiny feet to me
are beautiful, when covered with gay embroidery they peep from
scarlet skirts; but they too are passing, and we hear no more the
crying of the children in the courtyards. I am told that the small-footed
woman of China is of the past, along with the long finger-nails of our
gentlemen and scholars; and I am asked why I do not unbind my feet.
I say, "I am too old; I have suffered in the binding, why suffer in the
unbinding?" I have conceded to the new order by allowing unbound
feet to all my girls, and everywhere my family is held up as an
example of the new Chinese. They do not know of the many bitter
tears I have shed over the thought that my daughters would look like
women of the servant class and perhaps not make a good marriage;
but I was forced to yield to their father, whose foreign travel had taught
him to see beauty in ugly, natural feet. Even now, when I see Wan-li
striding across the grass, I blush for her and wish she could walk
more gracefully. My feet caused me many moons of pain, but they
are one of the great marks of my lady-hood, and I yet feel proud as I
come into a room with the gentle swaying motions of the bamboo in a
breeze; although my daughter who supports me takes one great step
to five of mine.

The curse of foot binding does not fall so heavily upon women like
myself, who may sit and broider the whole day through, or, if needs
must travel, can be borne upon the shoulders of their chair bearers,
but it is a bane to the poor girl whose parents hope to have one in the
family who may marry above their station, and hoping thus, bind her
feet. If this marriage fails and she is forced to work within her
household, or, even worse, if she is forced to toil within the fields or
add her mite gained by most heavy labour to help fill the many eager
mouths at home, then she should have our pity. We have all seen the
small-footed woman pulling heavy boats along the tow-path, or leaning
on their hoes to rest their tired feet while working in the fields of
cotton. To her each day is a day of pain; and this new law forbidding
the binding of the feet of children will come as Heaven's blessing. But
it will not cease at once, as so many loudly now proclaim. It will take
at least three generations; her children's children will all quite likely
have natural feet. The people far in the country, far from the noise of
change and progress, will not feel immediately that they can wander
so far afield from the old ideas of what is beautiful in their womanhood.

I notice, as I open wide my casement, that the rain has come, and
across the distant fields it is falling upon the new-sown rice and
seems to charm the earth into the thought that spring is here, bringing
forth the faint green buds on magnolia, ash, and willow. Dost thou
remember the verse we used to sing:

"Oh she is good, the little rain, and well she knows our need,
Who cometh in the time of spring to aid the sun-drawn seed.
She wanders with a friendly wind through silent heights unseen,
The furrows feel her happy tears, and lo, the land is green!"

I must send a servant with the rain coverings for the children, that they
may not get wet in returning from their schools.

We greet thee, all.

Kwei-li.


8
My Dear Mother,
Last night I heard a great wailing in the servants' courtyard, and found
there the maid of thy old friend, Tang Tai-tai. She came from Nanking
to us, as she has no one left in all the world. She is a Manchu and
has lived all her life in the Manchu family of Tang within the Tartar city
of Nanking. It seems the soldiers, besieging the city, placed their
guns on Purple Hill, so that they would cause destruction only to the
Tartar city, and it was levelled to the ground. No stone remains upon
another; and the family she had served so faithfully were either killed
in the battle that raged so fiercely, or were afterward taken to the
grounds of Justice to pay with their life for the fact that they belonged
to the Imperial Clan. She is old, this faithful servant, and now claims
my protection. It is another mouth to feed; but there is so much
unhappiness that if it were within my power I would quench with rains
of food and drink the anguish this cruel war has brought upon so
many innocent ones. A mat on which to sleep, a few more bowls of
rice, these are the only seeds that I may sow within the field of love,
and I dare not them withhold.

I am most sorrowful for these poor Manchus. For generations they
have received a pension from the government; to every man-child an
allowance has been made; and now they find themselves with
nothing. Even their poor homes are piles of stone and rubbish. What
will they do to gain their food in this great country which is already full
to over-flowing? They are so pitiful, these old men and women thrown
so suddenly upon the world. Their stories pierce my marrow, and I
would that my sleeve were long and wide enough to cover all the earth
and shelter these poor helpless ones. One old man-- his years must
have been near eighty-- came to our door for help. I talked to him and
found that, until his sons were killed before his eyes, his home torn to
the ground, he had never been without the city's walls. He said, just
like a child, "Why should I go? My wife, my sons, my home, my all,
were within the walls; why go outside?"

[Illustration: Mylady17.]

Each hour brings us fresh rumours of the actions of the rebels, Poor
Liang Tai-tai was here and in the sorest trouble. Her husband and her
brother were officers in the army of Yuan, and when in Ranking were
shot along with twenty of their brother officers, because they would
not join the Southern forces. To add to China's trouble, the Southern
pirates are attacking boats; and I am glad to say, although it sounds
most cruel, that the government is taking measures both quick and
just. Ten men were captured and were being brought by an English
ship to Canton, and when in neutral waters it is said a Chinese
gunboat steamed alongside with an order for the prisoners. As they
stepped upon the Chinese boat, each man was shot. John Oldom,
who was a copartner with him in his after courses. He had bene a
cheefe sticler in y^e former faction among y^e perticulers, and an
intelligencer to those in England. But now, since the coming of this
ship and he saw the supply that came, he tooke occasion to open
his minde to some of y^e cheefe amongst them heere, and confessed
he had done them wrong both by word & deed, & writing into England;
but he now saw the eminente hand of God to be with them, and his
blesing upon them, which made his hart smite him, neither should
those in England ever use him as an instrumente any longer against
them in any thing; he also desired former things might be forgotten,
and that they would looke upon him as one that desired to close
with them in all things, with such like expressions.

Now whether this was in hipocrisie, or out of some sudden pange of
conviction (which I rather thinke), God only knows. Upon it they shew
all readynes to imbrace his love, and carry towards him in all
frendlynes, and called him to counsell with them in all cheefe
affairs, as y^e other, without any distrust at all.

Thus all things seemed to goe very comfortably and smothly on
amongst them, at which they did much rejoyce; but this lasted not
[119] long, for both Oldom and he grew very perverse, and shewed a
spirite of great malignancie, drawing as many into faction as they
could; were they never so vile or profane, they did nourish & back
them in all their doings; so they would but cleave to them and speak
against y^e church hear; so as ther was nothing but private meetings
and whisperings amongst them; they feeding themselves & others with
what they should bring to pass in England by the faction of their
freinds their, which brought others as well as them selves into a
fools paradise.

Yet they could not cary so closly but much of both their doings &
sayings were discovered, yet outwardly they still set a faire face
of things.

At lenght when y^e ship was ready to goe, it was observed Liford
was long in writing, & sente many letters, and could not forbear to
comunicate to his intimats such things as made them laugh in their sleeves,
and thought he had done ther errand sufficiently. The Gov^r and some
other of his freinds knowing how things stood in England, and what hurt
these things might doe, tooke a shalop and wente out with the ship a
league or 2. to sea, and caled for all Lifords & Oldums letters. Mr.
William Peirce being m^r. of y^e ship, (and knew well their evill
dealing both in England & here,) afforded him all y^e assistance
he could.

He found above 20. of Lyfords letters, many of them larg, and full of
slanders, & false accusations, tending not only to their prejudice,
but to their ruine & utter subversion. Most of the letters they let
pas, only tooke copys of them, but some of y^e most materiall they
sent true copyes of them, and kept y^e originalls, least he should deney
them, and that they might produce his owne hand against
him.
Amongst his letters they found y^e coppyes of tow letters which he sent
inclosed in a leter of his to M^r. John Pemberton, a minster, and a
great opposite of theirs. These 2. letters of which he tooke the
coppyes were one of them write by a gentle-man in England to M^r.
Brewster here, the other by M^r. Winslow to M^r.

Robinson, in
Holand, at his coming away, as y^e ship lay at Gravsend.

They lying
sealed in y^e great cabin, (whilst M^r. Winslow was bussie aboute the
affairs of y^e ship,) this slye marchante taks & opens them, taks
these coppys, & seals them up againe; and not only sends the
coppyes of them thus to his friend and their adversarie, but adds
thertoo in y^e margente many scurrilous and flouting a[=n]otations.
This ship went out _towards e[=v]ing_, and _in the night_ y^e
Gov^r retu[=r]ed. They were somwaht blanke at it, but after some
weeks, when they heard nothing, they then were as briske as
ever, thinking nothing had been knowne, but all was gone currente,
and that the Gov^r went but to dispatch his owne letters. The
reason why the Gov^r & rest concealed these things the longer, was
to let things ripen, that they [120] might y^e better discover their intents
and see who were their adherents. And y^e rather because amongst
y^e rest they found a letter of one of their confederats, in w^ch was
writen that M^r. Oldame & M^r. Lyford intended a reformation in church
and commone wealth; and, as soone as the ship was gone, they intended
to joyne togeather, and have the sacrements, &c.

For Oldame, few of his leters were found, (for he was so bad a
scribe as his hand was scarce legible,) yet he was as deepe in y^e
mischeefe as the other. And thinking they were now strong enough,
they begane to pick quarells at every thing. Oldame being called
to watch (according to order) refused to come, fell out with y^e
Capten, caled him raskell, and beggerly raskell, and resisted him, drew
his knife at him; though he offered him no wrong, nor gave him no
ille termes, but with all fairnes required him to doe his duty. The
Gov^r, hearing y^e tumulte, sent to quiet it, but he ramped more
like a furious beast then a man, and cald them all treatours, and
rebells, and other such foule language as I am ashamed to remember;
but after he was clapt up a while, he came to him selfe, and with
some slight punishmente was let goe upon his behaviour for further
censure.

But to cutt things shorte, at length it grew to this esseue, that Lyford
with his complicies, without ever speaking one word either to y^e
Gov^r, Church, or Elder, withdrewe them selves & set up a publick meeting
aparte, on y^e Lord's day; with sundry such insolente cariages,
too long here to relate, begining now publikly to acte what privatly
they had been long plotting.

It was now thought high time (to prevent further mischeefe) to calle
them to accounte; so y^e Gov^r called a courte and su[=m]oned the
whol company to appeare.

And then charged Lyford & Oldom with such things as they were guilty
of. But they were stiffe, & stood resolutly upon y^e deneyall of
most things, and required proofe. They first alledged what was write
to them out of England, compared with their doings & pactises
hear; that it was evident they joyned in plotting against them,
and disturbing their peace, both in respecte of their civill & church
state, which was most injurious; for both they and all y^e world knew they
came hither to injoye y^e libertie of their conscience and y^e free
use of Gods ordinances; and for y^t end had ventured their lives and
passed throwgh so much hardshipe hithertoo, and they and their
freinds had borne the charg of these beginings, which was not
small. And that Lyford for his parte was sent over on this charge,
and that both he and his great family was maintained on y^e same, and also
was joyned to y^e church, & a member of them; and for him to plote against
them & seek their ruine, was most unjust & perfidious. And for [121]
Oldam or any other that came over at their owne charge, and were
on ther perticuler, seeing they were received in curtesie by the
plantation, when they came only to seeke shelter & protection under
their wings, not being able to stand alone, that they, (according
to y^e fable,) like the Hedghogg whom y^e conny in a stormy day in
pittie received into her borrow, would not be content to take part
with her, but in the end with her sharp pricks forst the poore conny
to forsake her owne borrow; so these men with the like injustice
indevored to doe y^e same to thos that entertained them.

Lyford denyed that he had any thing to doe with them in England, or
knew of their courses, and made other things as strange that he was
charged with. Then his letters were prodused & some of them read, at
which he was struck mute. But Oldam begane to rage furiously, because they
had intercepted and opened his letters, threatening them in very
high language, and in a most audacious and mutinous maner stood up &
caled upon y^e people, saying, My maisters, wher is your harts? now shew
your courage, you have oft complained to me so & so; now is
y^e time, if you will doe any thing, I will stand by you, &c.
Thinking y^t every one (knowing his humor) that had soothed and flattered
him, or other wise in their discontente uttered any thing unto
him, would now side w^th him in open rebellion.

But he was deceived, for not a man opened his mouth, but all were silent,
being strucken with the injustice of y^e thing. Then y^e Gov^r
turned his speech to M^r. Lyford, and asked him if he thought they had
done evill to open his letters; but he was silente, & would not
say a word, well knowing what they might reply. Then y^e Gov^r shewed
the people he did it as a magistrate, and was bound to it by his
place, to prevent y^e mischeefe & ruine that this conspiracie and
plots of theirs would bring on this poor colony. But he, besids his
evill dealing hear, had delte trecherusly with his freinds y^t trusted
him, & stole their letters & opened them, and sent coppies of
them, with disgracefull a[=n]otations, to his freinds in
England. And then y^e Gov^r produced them and his other letters
under his owne hand, (which he could not deney,) and caused them to
be read before all y^e people; at which all his freinds were blanke,
and had not a word to say.

It would be too long & tedious here to inserte his letters
(which would almost fill a volume), though I have them by me. I shall
only note a few of y^e cheefe things collected out of them,
with y^e answers to them as they were then given; and but a few of
those many, only for instance, by which the rest may be judged
of.

[121[BT]] 1. First, he saith, the church would have none to live
hear but them selves. 2^ly. Neither are any willing so to doe if they
had company to live elswher.

Ans: Their answer was, that this was false, in both y^e parts of it;
for they were willing & desirous y^t any honest men may live with
them, that will cary them selves peacably, and seek y^e co[=m]one
good, or at least doe them no hurte. And againe, ther are many that
will not live els wher so long as they may live with them.

2.

That if ther come over any honest men that are not of y^e seperation, they
will quickly distast them, &c.

A. Ther answer was as before, that it was a false callumniation, for
they had many amongst them that they liked well of, and were glad of
their company; and should be of any such like that should come
amongst them.

3.

That they excepted against him for these 2. doctrins raised from
2.
Sam: 12. 7. First, that ministers must sume times perticulerly
apply their doctrine to spetiall persons; 2^ly, that great men
may be reproved as well as meaner.

A.

Their answer was, that both these were without either truth or colour of
y^e same (as was proved to his face), and that they had taught and
beleeved these things long before they knew M^r. Liford.

4. That they utterly sought y^e ruine of y^e perticulers; as appeareth by
this, that they would not suffer any of y^e generall either to buy or
sell with them, or to exchaing one co[=m]oditie for another.

Ans: This was a most malicious slander and voyd of all truth, as was
evidently proved to him before all men; for any of them did both buy,
sell, or exchaing with them as often as they had any occation.
Yea, and allso both lend & give to them when they wanted; and this
the perticuler persons them selves could not deney, but freely
confest in open court.

But y^e ground from whence this arose made it much worse, for he was
in counsell with them. When one was called before them, and questioned
for receiving powder and bisket from y^e gu[=n]er of the small ship,
which was y^e companys, and had it put in at his window in the night, and
allso for buying salt of one, that had no right to it, he not only
stood to back him (being one of these perticulers) by excusing &
extenuating his falte, as long as he could, but upon this builds this
mische[=c]ous & most false slander: That because they would not
suffer them to buy stolne goods, ergo, they sought their utter ruine.

Bad logick for a devine.

5. Next he writs, that he chocked them with this; that they turned
[122]
men into their perticuler, and then sought to starve them,
and deprive them of all means of subsistance.

A. To this was answered, he did them manifest wrong, for they turned
none into their perticuler; it was their owne importunitie and
ernest desire that moved them, yea, constrained them to doe
it. And they apealed to y^e persons them selves for y^e truth
hereof.

And they testified the same against him before all present,
as allso that they had no cause to complaine of any either hard
or unkind usage.

6.

He accuseth them with unjust distribution, and writeth, that it was
a strang difference, that some have bene alowed 16^li. of meale by
y^e weeke, and others but 4^li.

And
then (floutingly)
saith, it seems some mens mouths and bellies are very litle & slender
over others.

Ans: This might seeme strange indeed to those to whom he write his
leters in England, which knew not y^e reason of it; but to
him and others hear, it could not be strange, who knew how things stood.
For the first co[=m]ers had none at all, but lived on their corne.

Those w^ch _came in y^e Anne, y^e August before_, & were to live
13. months of the provissions they brought, had as good alowance
in meal & pease as it would extend too, y^e most part of y^e year;
but a litle before harvest, when they had not only fish, but other fruits
began to come in, they had but 4^li. having their libertie to make
their owne provisions. But some of these which came last, as y^e ship
carpenter, and samiers, the salte-men & others that were to follow
constante imployments, and had not an howers time, from their hard
labours, to looke for any thing above their alowance; they had
at first, 16^li. alowed them, and afterwards as fish, & other food
coued be gott, they had as balemente, to 14. &. 12. yea some of
them to 8. as the times & occasions did vary.

And yet those which followed planting and their owne occasions,
and had but 4^li. of meall a week, lived better then y^e other, as was
well knowne to all. And yet it must be remembered that Lyford & his had
allwais the highest alowance.

Many other things (in his letters) he accused them of, with many
aggravations; as that he saw exseeding great wast of tools & vesseles;
& this, when it came to be examened, all y^e instance he could give was,
that he had seen an old hogshed or too fallen to peeces, and a
broken how or tow lefte carlesly in y^e feilds by some. Though he also
knew that a godly, honest man was appointed to looke to these things.
But these things & such like was write of by him, to cast disgrace &
prejudice upon them; as thinking what came from a [123] minister would
pass for currente. Then he tells them that Winslow should say,
that ther was not above 7. of y^e adventurers y^t souight y^e good of y^e
collony.
That M^r. Oldam & him selfe had had much to doe with them, and that
y^e faction here might match y^e Jesuits for politie.

With many y^e like greevious complaints & accusations.

1. Then, in the next place, he comes to give his freinds counsell
and directtion. And first, that y^e Leyden company (M^r. Robinson & y^e
rest) must still be kepte back, or els all will be spoyled. And least
any of them should be taken in privatly somewher on y^e coast of
England, (as it was feared might be done,) they must chaing the
m^r. of y^e ship (M^r. William Peirce), and put another allso in
Winslows stead, for marchante, or els it would not be prevented.

2.

Then he would have such a number provided as might oversway them
hear. And that y^e perticulers should have voyces in all courts
& elections, and be free to bear any office. And that every
perticuler should come over as an adventurer, if he be but a servante;
some other venturing 10^li., y^e bill may be taken out in y^e servants
name, and then assigned to y^e party whose money it was, and good
covenants drawn betweene them for y^e clearing of y^e matter; and this
(saith he) would be a means to strengthen this side y^e more.

3. Then he tells them that if that Capten they spoake of should come
over hither as a generall, he was perswaded he would be chosen
Capten; for this Captaine Standish looks like a silly boy, and is
in utter contempte.

4.

Then he shows that if by y^e forementioned means they cannot be
strengthened to cary & overbear things, it will be best for them
to plant els wher by them selves; and would have it artickled by
them that they might make choyse of any place that they liked best
within 3. or 4.
myls distance, shewing ther were farr better places for plantation then
this.

5.
The suave and humorous American,
with his easy ways, is most popular with our people, although he
cannot always be trusted nor is his word a bond. He is different from
the man of England, who is not fond of people not of his own colour
and will not try to disguise the fact. He is cold and shows no
sympathy to those of an alien race, although we must admit he
always acts with a certain amount of justice. America is
contemptuous of China and her people, but it is a kindly contempt,
not tinged with the bitterness of the other Powers, and we hope,
because of that kindliness and also because of trade interests (the
American is noted for finding and holding the place that yields him
dollars), she will play the part of a kindly friend and save China from
her enemies who are now watching each other with such jealous
eyes. There is another reason why we like America: she does not
seem to covet our land. There is no Shang-tung nor Wei-hai-wei for
her. I would that she and England might form a bond of brotherhood
for our protection; because all the world knows that where Germany,
Russia, or Japan has power, all people from other lands are barred by
close-shut doors.

Since hearing my husband talk I see those babies with other eyes,
with eyes of knowledge and dislike. I see them becoming one of the
two great classes in Japan-- merchants with grasping hands to hold
fast all they touch, or men of war. There is no other class. And, too,
they have no religion to restrict them, irreverence already marks their
attitude toward their gods. They will imitate and steal what they want
from other countries, even as their ancestors took their religion, their
art, their code of ethics, even their writing, from other peoples. Their
past is a copy of the East; their present is an attempt to be a copy of
the West. They cannot originate or make a thing from within
them-selves.

Their lives are coarse and sordid when stripped of the elaborate
courtesy and sham politeness that marks their dealings with the
outside world. Their courtesy, what is it? This thin veneer of politeness
is like their polished lacquer that covers the crumbling wood within.
But we have a proverb, "Even a monkey falls"; and some distant day
the Western world that thinks so highly of Japan will see beneath the
surface and will leave her, and the great pagoda she has builded
without foundation will come tumbling down like the houses of sand
which my children build in the garden. It will be seen that they are like
their beautiful kimonas, that hang so gracefully in silken folds. But
take away the kimonas, and the sons and daughters of that Empire
are revealed in all their ugliness-- coarse, heavy, sensual, with no
grace or spirit life to distinguish them from animals.

[Illustration: Mylady19.]

Do I speak strongly, my Mother? We feel most strongly the action of
the Japanese in this, our time of trouble. We have lost friends; the
husbands, brothers, fathers of our women-folk are lying in long
trenches because of training given to our rebels by members of that
race. I should not speak so frankly, but it is only to thee that I can
say what is within my heart. I must put the bar of silence across my
lips with all save thee; and sitting here within the courtyard I hear all
that goes on in Yamen, shop, and women's quarters. One need not
leave one's doorway to learn of the great world. I hear my sons speak
of new China, and many things I do not understand; my husband and
his friends talk more sedately, for they are watching thoughtful men,
trying hard to steer this, our ship of State, among the rocks that now
beset it close on every side. My daughters bring their friends, my
servants their companions, and the gossip of our busy world is
emptied at my feet.

The clock strikes one, and all the world's asleep except,
Kwei-li.


11
Dear Mother,
She is here, my daughter-in-law, and I can realise in a small degree
thy feelings when I first came to thy household. I know thou wert
prepared to give me the same love and care that my heart longs to
give to this, the wife of my eldest son. I also know how she feels in
this strange place, with no loved faces near her, with the thought that
perhaps the new home will mean the closed doors of a prison, and the
husband she never saw until the marriage day the jealous guardian
thereof. I have tried to give her welcome and let her see that she is
heart of our hearts, a part of us.

She is different from the young girls I have seen these latter days,
different from my daughters, and-- I may say it to thee, my Mother-- a
sweeter, dearer maiden in many ways. She has been trained within
the courtyards in the old-fashioned customs that make for simplicity
of heart, grace of manner, that give obedience and respect to older
people; and she has the delicate high-bred ways that our girls seem
to feel unnecessary in the hurry of these days. She takes me back to
years gone by, where everything is like a dream, and I can feel again
the chair beneath me that carried me up the mountain-side with its
shadowing of high woods, and hear the song of water falling gently
from far-off mountain brooks, and the plaintive cry of flutes unseen,
that came to welcome me to my new home.

[Illustration: Mylady20.]

With her dainty gowns, her tiny shoes, her smooth black hair, she is
a breath from another world, and my sons and daughters regard her
as if she were a stray butterfly, blown hither by some wind too strong
for her slight wings. She is as graceful as the slender willow, her
youthful charm is like the cherry-tree in bloom, and the sweet
thoughts natural to youth and the springtime of life, flow from her heart
as pure as the snow-white blossoms of the plum-tree. She does not
belong to this, our modern world; she should be bending with iris
grace above goldfish in the ponds, or straying in gardens where there
are lakes of shimmering water murmuring beneath great lotus flowers
that would speak to her of love.

We are all more than charmed, and gather to the sunshine she has
brought. As they knelt before us for our blessing, I thought what a
happy thing is youth and love. "Kings in their palaces grow old, but
youth dwells forever at contentment's side."

But I must tell thee of the marriage. Instead of the red chair of
marriage, my new daughter-in-law was brought from the house of her
uncle in that most modern thing, a motor-car. I insisted that it should
be covered with red satin, the colour of rejoicing; and great rosettes
trailed from the corners to the ground. The feasting was elaborate and
caused me much care in its preparation, as not only had been
provided the many different kinds of food for our Chinese friends, but
foreigners, who came also, were served with dishes made expressly
for them, and with foreign wines, of which they took most liberally.
The Europeans, men and women, ate and drank together with a
freedom that to me is most unseemly, and I cannot understand the
men who have no pride in their women's modesty but allow them to sit
at table with strange men close by their side. Behind the archway, we
Chinese women "of the old school," as my daughter calls us, feasted
and laughed our fill, just as happy as if parading our new gowns before
the eyes of stranger-men.

Li-ti is delighted with thy gift, the chain of pearls. It is a most
appropriate present, for "pearls belong of right to her whose soul
reflects the colour of youth's purity"; and I, I am so happy in this new
life that has come to dwell beneath our rooftree. I had many fears that
she would not be to my liking, that she would be a modern Chinese
woman; and another one, oh, Mother mine, would fill to overflowing my
bowl of small vexations; but the place is perfumed by her scent, the
scent of sandalwood, which represents the China that I love, and
flowers of jessamine and purple hyacinths and lilies-of-the-valley,
which speak to us of youth and spring and love and hope.

Thy daughter, who gives the messages from all thy family, who touch
thy hand with deep respect.


12
My Dear Mother,
I am sorry that thou hast been troubled by news of the fighting within
the province. All is well with us, as we sent thee word by telegraph. If
anything happens that touches any of thy household, we will send
thee word at once.

This town is a hotbed of rebellion, and it is all because the rebels have
been enabled to perfect their plans through the existence of the
foreign settlements. How I dislike these foreigner adventurers! I wish
they would take their gilded dust, their yellow gold, and leave us to
our peace; but they walk our streets as lords and masters, and allow
the plotting traitors to make their plans, and we are helpless. If I were
China's ruler and for one day had power, there would not be one white
man left within the borders of my country. We hear each day of
friends who give their lives on the field of battle, these battles and this
conflict which would not be present with us were it not for the foreign
powers, who within these settlements, protect the low-browed ruffians
who are plotting China's ruin.

Did I say I disliked these foreigners? How mild a word! Thou, in
Sezchuan, far from the touch of the alien life, hast never seen these
people who cause us so much trouble. How can I describe them to
thee so that thou wilt understand? They are like unto the dragons of
the earth, for ugliness. Men have enormous stature and mighty
strength, and stride with fierce and lordly steps. Their faces have great
noses between deep-set eyes, and protruding brows, and ponderous
jaws like animals-- symbols of brute force which needs but to be seen
to frighten children in the dark. We are the gentler race, and we feel
instinctively the dominating power of these men from over the seas,
who all, American, Russian, German, English, seem to be cast in the
same brutal mould. Their women have long, horse-like faces, showing
the marks of passion and discontent, which they try to cover with the
contents of the powder-jar and with rouge; they are utterly unlike the
women of our race, who are taught to express no hate, no love, nor
anything save perfect repose and gentleness, as befits true ladyhood.

One has but to see a Chinese gentleman, with his easy manners,
composed, self-contained, with a natural dignity, to know that we are
better trained than the people from the West. It is because we are
true idealists. We show it in our grading of society. With us the
scholar is honoured and put first, the farmer second, the artisan third,
and the merchant and the soldier last. With them, these worshippers
of the dollar, the merchant is put first, and the man to guard that dollar
is made his equal! That is a standard for a nation! The barterer and the
murderer; let others follow where they lead.

These foreigners rate China low, who have never met a Chinese
gentleman, never read a line of Chinese literature, and who look at
you in ignorance if you mention the names of our sages. They see no
Chinese except their servants, and they judge the world about them
from that low point of view. I know a lady here who is a leader in their
society, a woman who has lived within our land for many tens of
years; when asked to meet a prince of our house Imperial, she
declined, saying she never associated with Chinese. A prince to her
was no more than any other yellow man; she said she would as soon
think of meeting her gate coolie at a social tea. How can there be a
common meeting-ground between our people and the average
European, of whom this woman is a representative and who is not
alone in her estimation of the people amongst whom she lives but
whom she never sees. They get their knowledge of China from
servants, from missionaries who work among the lower classes, and
from newspaper reports that are always to the disadvantage of our
people.

More and more the West must see that the East and West may meet
but never can they mingle. Foreigners can never enter our inner
chamber; the door is never wholly opened, the curtain never drawn
aside between Chinese and European. The foreign man is a
materialist, a mere worshipper of things seen. With us "the taste of
the tea is not so important as the aroma." When Chinese gentlemen
meet for pleasure, they talk of poetry and the wisdom of the sages, of
rare jade and porcelains and brass. They show each other treasures,
they handle with loving fingers the contents of their cherished boxes,
and search for stores of beauty that are brought to light only for those
who understand. But when with foreigners, the talk must be of tea, its
prices, the weight of cotton piece goods, the local gossip of the town
in which they live. Their private lives are passed within a world apart,
and there is between these men from different lands a greater bar than
that of language-- the bar of mutual misunderstanding and lack of
sympathy with the other race.

Poor China! She is first clubbed on the head and then stroked on the
back by these foreigners, her dear friends. Friends! It is only when the
cold season comes that we know the pine-tree and the cypress to be
evergreens, and friends are known in adversity. The foreigners who
profess to be our friends are waiting and hoping for adversity to come
upon us, that they may profit by it. They want our untouched wealth,
our mines of coal and iron and gold, and it is upon them they have
cast their eyes of greed.

The foreigners have brought dishonesty in business dealings to our
merchants. At first, the trader from the foreign land found that he
could rely on old-time customs and the word of the merchant to bind a
bargain; but what did the Chinese find? There are no old-time customs
to bind a foreigner, except those of bond and written document. He
has no traditions of honour, he can be held by nothing except a court
of law. For years the word "China" has meant to the adventurers of
other lands a place for exploitation, a place where silver was to be
obtained by the man with fluent tongue and winning ways. Even
foreign officials did not scruple to use their influence to enter trade.

An old case has recently come before the Governor. It has been
brought many times to the ears of the officials, but they have said
nothing, for fear of offending the Great Government whose
representative is involved in the not too pleasant transaction. One of
our great inland cities had no water nearer than the river, several miles
away. A foreign official with a machine of foreign invention digged deep
into the earth and found pure, clear water. Then he thought, "If there is
ater here for me, why not for all this great city of many tens of
thousands?" Which was a worthy thought, and he saw for himself
great gains in bringing to the doors of rich and poor alike the water
from the wells. He told the Taotai that he would go to his country and
bring back machines that would make the water come forth as from
living springs. The official met his friends and the plan was discussed
and many thousands of taels were provided and given into the hands
of the official from over the seas. The friends of the Taotai felt no fear
for their money, as the official signed a contract to produce water from
the earth, and he signed, not as a simple citizen but as the
representative of his government, with the great seal of that
government attached to the paper. Of course our simple people
thought that the great nation was behind the project; and they were
amazed and startled when, after a trip to his home land and a return
with only one machine, a few holes were made but no water found,
and the official announced that he was sorry but there was nothing
more that he could do. He did not offer to return the money, and in his
position he could not be haled into a court of law; there was nothing
for his dupes to do but to gaze sadly into the great holes that had
taken so much money, and remember that wisdom comes with
experience.

"When a man has been burned once with hot soup he forever after
blows upon cold rice"; so these same men of China will think o'erlong
before trusting again a foreigner with their silver.

Thy son has been trying to settle another case. Some men from
America went to Ningpo, and talked long and loud of the darkness of
the city, its streets dangerous in the night-time, its continual fires
caused by the flickering lamps of oil that are being so constantly
overturned by the many children. They told the officials that the times
were changing, that to walk the streets with a lighted lantern in the
hand is to lose step with the march of progress. They showed the
benefits of the large lights of electricity blazing like a sun on each
corner of the great city, making it impossible for robbers and
evil-doers to carry on their work in darkness. They promised to turn
night-time into day, to put white lights in Yamen, office, and
house-hold. There should be a light beneath each rooftree, at no
greater expense than the bean-oil lamp. They were most plausible,
and many thousands of silver dollars were brought forth and given to
the men as contract money. They left us to buy machinery; the years
have passed; they never have returned. Ningpo still has streets of
darkness, men still walk abroad with lighted lanterns, the bean-oil
lamp is seen within the cottage and-- will be until the hills shall fade,
so far as the officials are concerned, who once dreamed dreams of a
city lit by the light as of myriad suns.

How can the missionaries have the face to come here with their
religion, when the dissolute white man is in every port manifesting a
lust and greed and brutality which Chinese are accustomed to
associate with the citizenship and religion attributed to Christianity.
No wonder it is hard for them to make converts among the people who
have business dealings with these men from Christian nations.

But China will not forever bear the ill-treatment of men from Western
lands. When they do choose, They have the wisdom by their wit to
lose.

NERISSA.
The ancient saying is no heresy:
'Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.'
PORTIA.
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.

[Enter a SERVANT.]
SERVANT.
Where is my lady?

PORTIA.
Here; what would my lord?

SERVANT.
Madam, there is alighted at your gate A young Venetian, one that
comes before To signify th' approaching of his lord; From whom he
bringeth sensible regreets; To wit,--besides commends and courteous
breath,-- Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen So likely an
ambassador of love.
A day in April never came so sweet, To show how costly summer was at hand,
As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.

PORTIA.
No more, I pray thee; I am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is
some kin to thee, Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.

Come, come,
Nerissa, for I long to see Quick Cupid's post that comes so
mannerly.

NERISSA.

Bassanio, lord Love, if thy will it be!

[Exeunt.]

ACT 3.

SCENE I. Venice. A street
[Enter SALANIO and SALARINO.]
SALANIO.
Now, what news on the Rialto?

SALARINO.
Why, yet it lives there unchecked that Antonio hath a ship of rich
lading wrack'd on the narrow seas; the Goodwins, I think they call
the place, a very dangerous flat and fatal, where the carcasses
of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip Report
be an honest woman of her word.

SALANIO.
I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made
her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a third husband.
But it is true,--without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain
highway of talk,--that the good Antonio, the honest Antonio,--O
that I had a title good enough to keep his name company!--
SALARINO.
Come, the full stop.

SALANIO.
Ha! What sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath lost a ship.

SALARINO.
I would it might prove the end of his losses.

SALANIO.
Let me say 'amen' betimes, lest the devil cross my prayer, for here
he comes in the likeness of a Jew.

[Enter SHYLOCK.]
How now, Shylock! What news among the merchants?

SHYLOCK.
You knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my daughter's
flight.

SALARINO.
That's certain; I, for my part, knew the tailor that made the
wings she flew withal.

SALANIO.
And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was fledged; and then
it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam.

SHYLOCK.

She is damned for it.

SALARINO.
That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.

SHYLOCK.
My own flesh and blood to rebel!

SALANIO.

Out upon it, old carrion! Rebels it at these years?

SHYLOCK.
I say my daughter is my flesh and my blood.

SALARINO.
There is more difference between thy
flesh and hers than between jet and ivory;
more between your bloods than
there is between red wine and Rhenish. But tell
us, do you hear whether
Antonio have had any loss at sea or
no?

SHYLOCK.
There I have another
bad match: a bankrupt, a
prodigal, who
dare scarce show
his head on the
Rialto; a beggar, that
used to come so smug upon the mart; let him look to his bond: he
was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond: he was wont
to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him look to his bond.

SALARINO.
Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take his flesh: what's
that good for?

SHYLOCK.
To bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else, it will feed my
revenge.

He hath disgrac'd me and hind'red me half a million; laugh'd at my losses,
mock'd at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled
my friends, heated mine enemies.

And what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes?
Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions,
fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same
diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the
same winter and summer, as a Christian is?

If you prick
us, do we not bleed?

If
you tickle us,
do we not laugh?
If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not
revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in
that. If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility?
Revenge. If a Christian wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be
by Christian example? Why, revenge. The villaiy you teach me I will
execute; and it shall go hard but I will better the instruction.

[Enter a Servant.]
SERVANT.
Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house, and desires to speak with
you both.

SALARINO.
We have been up and down to seek him.

[Enter TUBAL.]
SALANIO.
Here comes another of the tribe: a third cannot be match'd, unless the
devil himself turn Jew.

[Exeunt SALANIO, SALARINO, and Servant.]
SHYLOCK.

How now, Tubal! what news from Genoa? Hast thou found my daughter?

TUBAL.
I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.

SHYLOCK.
Why there, there, there, there!

A diamond gone, cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse never
fell upon our nation till now; I never felt it till now. Two thousand
ducats in that, and other precious, precious jewels. I would my daughter
were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear; would she were hearsed
at my foot, and the ducats in her coffin! No news of them? Why, so:
and I know not what's spent in the search. Why, thou--loss upon
loss! The thief gone with so much, and so much to find the thief; and no
satisfaction, no revenge; nor no ill luck stirring but what lights on
my shoulders; no sighs but of my breathing; no tears but of my shedding.

TUBAL.

Yes, other men have ill luck too. Antonio, as I heard in Genoa,--

SHYLOCK.
What, what, what? Ill luck, ill luck?

TUBAL.
--hath an argosy cast away, coming from Tripolis.

SHYLOCK.
I thank God! I thank God! Is it true, is it true?

TUBAL.
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack.

SHYLOCK.
I thank thee, good Tubal. Good news, good news! ha, ha!
Where? in Genoa?

TUBAL.
Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, one night, fourscore
ducats.

SHYLOCK.
Thou stick'st a dagger in me: I shall never see my gold again: fourscore
ducats at a sitting! Fourscore ducats!

TUBAL.
There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my company to Venice that
swear he cannot choose but break.

SHYLOCK.
I am very glad of it; I'll plague him, I'll torture him; I am glad of
it.

TUBAL.

One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a
monkey.

SHYLOCK.
Out upon her! Thou torturest me, Tubal: It was my turquoise; I
had it of Leah when I was a bachelor; I would not have given it
for a wilderness of monkeys.

TUBAL.
But Antonio is certainly undone.

SHYLOCK.
Nay, that's true; that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee me an officer; bespeak
him a fortnight before. I will have the heart of him, if he
forfeit; for, were he out of Venice, I can make what merchandise
I will. Go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue; go, good Tubal; at
our synagogue, Tubal.

[Exeunt.]

SCENE 2. Belmont.

A room in PORTIA's house.

[Enter BASSANIO, PORTIA, GRATIANO, NERISSA,
and Attendants.]
PORTIA.
I pray you tarry; pause a day or two Before
you hazard; for, in choosing wrong, I lose your company; therefore
forbear a while.

There's something tells me, but it is not love, I would not lose you;
and you know yourself Hate counsels not in such a quality.
But lest you should not understand me well,-- And yet a maiden hath
no tongue but thought,-- I would detain you here some month or two
Before you venture for me. I could teach you How to choose right, but
then I am forsworn; So will I never be; so may you miss me; But if you
do, you'll make me wish a sin, That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your
eyes, They have o'erlook'd me and divided me:
One half of me is yours, the other half yours, Mine own, I
would say; but if mine, then yours, And so all yours. O! these naughty
times Puts bars between the owners and their rights; And so, though yours,
not yours. Prove it so, Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.
I speak too long, but 'tis to peise the time, To eke it, and to
draw it out in length, To stay you from election.

BASSANIO.
Let me choose; For as I am, I live upon the rack.

PORTIA.
Upon the rack, Bassanio! Then confess What treason there is mingled
with your love.

BASSANIO.
None but that ugly treason of mistrust, Which makes me fear th' enjoying
of my love:
There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire as treason
and my love.

PORTIA.
Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack, Where men enforced do speak
anything.

BASSANIO.

Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.

PORTIA.
Well then, confess and live.

BASSANIO.
'Confess' and 'love' Had been the very sum of my confession:
O happy torment, when my torturer Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.

PORTIA.
Away, then! I am lock'd in one of them:
If you do love me, you will find me out.
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof; Let music sound while he doth
make his choice; Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end, Fading
in music: that the comparison May stand more proper, my eye shall
be the stream And watery death-bed for him.

He may win; And what is music then? Then music is Even as the flourish
when true subjects bow To a new-crowned monarch; such it is As are
those dulcet sounds in break of day That creep into the
dreaming bridegroom's ear And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,
With no less presence, but with much more love, Than young Alcides
when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the
sea-monster: I stand for sacrifice; The rest aloof are the Dardanian
wives, With bleared visages come forth to view The issue of th' exploit.
Go, Hercules!
Live thou, I live. With much much more dismay I view the fight than thou
that mak'st the fray.

[A Song, whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself.]
Tell me where is fancy bred, Or in the heart or in the head, How
begot, how nourished?

Reply, reply.

It is engend'red in the eyes, With gazing fed; and fancy dies In
the cradle where it lies.
Let us all ring fancy's knell:
I'll begin it.--Ding, dong, bell.
[ALL.] Ding, dong, bell.

BASSANIO.
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
The world is still deceiv'd with ornament.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt But, being season'd with
a gracious voice, Obscures the show of evil? In religion, What
damned error but some sober brow Will bless it, and approve it with
a text, Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
There is no vice so simple but assumes Some mark of virtue on his
outward parts.
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand,
wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars;
Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk; And these assume
but valour's excrement To render them redoubted! Look on beauty And
you shall see 'tis purchas'd by the weight:
Which therein works a miracle in nature, Making them lightest that
wear most of it:
So are those crisped snaky golden locks Which make such wanton
gambols with the wind, Upon supposed fairness, often known To be
the dowry of a second head, The skull that bred them, in the
sepulchre.
Thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea; the
beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word, The seeming
truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest. Therefore,
thou gaudy gold, Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee; Nor none
of thee, thou pale and common drudge 'Tween man and man: but thou,
thou meagre lead, Which rather threaten'st than dost promise aught,
Thy plainness moves me more than eloquence, And here choose I: joy
be the consequence!

PORTIA.
[Aside] How all the other passions fleet to air, As doubtful thoughts,
and rash-embrac'd despair, And shuddering fear, and green-ey'd
jealousy!
O love! be moderate; allay thy ecstasy; In measure rain thy joy;
scant this excess; I feel too much thy blessing; make it less, For
fear I surfeit!

BASSANIO.
What find I here? [Opening the leaden casket.] Fair Portia's
counterfeit! What demi-god Hath come so near creation? Move these
eyes?
Or whether riding on the balls of mine, Seem they in motion? Here
are sever'd lips, Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar Should
sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs The painter plays the
spider, and hath woven A golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men
Faster than gnats in cobwebs: but her eyes!-- How could he see to
do them? Having made one, Methinks it should have power to steal
both his, And leave itself unfurnish'd: yet look, how far The
substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow In underprizing it,
so far this shadow Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll,
The continent and summary of my fortune.
'You that choose not by the view, Chance as fair and choose as
true!
Since this fortune falls to you, Be content and seek no new.
If you be well pleas'd with this, And hold your fortune for your
bliss, Turn to where your lady is And claim her with a loving kiss.'

A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave; {Kissing her.] I come
by note, to give and to receive.
Like one of two contending in a prize, That thinks he hath done
well in people's eyes, Hearing applause and universal shout, Giddy
in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise
be his or no; So, thrice-fair lady, stand I, even so, As doubtful
whether what I see be true, Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by
you.

PORTIA.
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand, Such as I am: though for
myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself
much better, yet for you I would be trebled twenty times myself, A
thousand times more fair, ten thousand times More rich; That only
to stand high in your account, I might in virtues, beauties, livings,
friends, Exceed account. But the full sum of me Is sum of something
which, to term in gross, Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd,
unpractis'd; Happy in this, she is not yet so old But she may learn;
happier than this, She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours
to be directed, As from her lord, her governor, her king.
Myself and what is mine to you and yours Is now converted. But now
I was the lord Of this fair mansion, master of my servants, Queen
o'er myself; and even now, but now, This house, these servants, and
this same myself, Are yours- my lord's. I give them with this ring,
Which when you part from, lose, or give away, Let it presage the
ruin of your love, And be my vantage to exclaim on you.

BASSANIO.
Madam, you have bereft me of all words, Only my blood speaks to you
in my veins; And there is such confusion in my powers As, after
some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince, there doth appear
Among the buzzing pleased multitude; Where every something, being
blent together, Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy, Express'd
and not express'd. But when this ring Parts from this finger, then
parts life from hence:
O! then be bold to say Bassanio's dead.

NERISSA.
My lord and lady, it is now our time, That have stood by and seen
our wishes prosper, To cry, good joy. Good joy, my lord and
lady!

GRATIANO.
My Lord Bassanio, and my gentle lady, I wish you all the joy that
you can wish; For I am sure you can wish none from me; And when
your honours mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith, I do
beseech you Even at that time I may be married too.

BASSANIO.
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.

GRATIANO.
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid; You lov'd, I lov'd; for
intermission No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
Your fortune stood upon the caskets there, And so did mine too, as
the matter falls; For wooing here until I sweat again, And swearing
till my very roof was dry With oaths of love, at last, if promise
last, I got a promise of this fair one here To have her love,
provided that your fortune Achiev'd her mistress.

PORTIA.
Is this true, Nerissa?

NERISSA.
Madam, it is, so you stand pleas'd withal.

BASSANIO.
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?

GRATIANO.
Yes, faith, my lord.

BASSANIO.
Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.

GRATIANO.
We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats.

NERISSA.
What! and stake down?

GRATIANO.
No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel?
What, and my old Venetian friend, Salanio!
[Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALANIO.] 
BASSANIO.
Lorenzo and Salanio, welcome hither, If that the youth of my new
interest here Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave, I bid
my very friends and countrymen, Sweet Portia, welcome.

PORTIA.
So do I, my lord; They are entirely welcome.

LORENZO.
I thank your honour. For my part, my lord, My purpose was not to
have seen you here; But meeting with Salanio by the way, He did
entreat me, past all saying nay, To come with him along.

SALANIO.
I did, my lord, And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio Commends
him to you.

[Gives BASSANIO a letter] 
BASSANIO.
Ere I ope his letter, I pray you tell me how my good friend
doth.

SALANIO.
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind; Nor well, unless in mind;
his letter there Will show you his estate.

GRATIANO.
Nerissa, cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome.
Your hand, Salanio. What's the news from Venice?
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
I know he will be glad of our success:
We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.

SALANIO.
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.

PORTIA.
There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper.
That steal the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world Could turn so much
the constitution Of any constant man. What, worse and worse!
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself, And I must freely have
the half of anything That this same paper brings you.

BASSANIO.
O sweet Portia!
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words That ever blotted paper.This
aggressive religion from the West, coupled with the education that
seems to go hand in hand with it, is bound to raise the religious plane
of China by forcing our dying faiths to reassume higher and higher
forms in order to survive.

But I believe that these teachers from the foreign lands should
understand better the religions they are so anxious to displace, and
instead of always looking for the point of difference or weakness in our
faith, should search more anxiously for the common ground, the spark
of the true light that may still be blown to flame, finding the altar that
may be dedicated afresh to the true God.

Every religion, however imperfect, has something that ought to be held
sacred, for there is in all religions a secret yearning after the unknown
God. This thought of God "is an elixir made to destroy death in the
world, an unfailing treasure to relieve the poverty of mankind, a balm
to allay his sickness, a tree under which may rest all creatures
wearied with wanderings over life's pathways. It is a bridge for passing
over hard ways, open to all wayfarers, a moon of thought arising to
cool the fever of the world's sin, and whatever name His followers may
call Him, he is the one True God of all mankind."

Whether we see the coolie bowing his head before the image of the
Lord of Light, the Buddha, or the peasant woman with her paper
money alight in the brazier at the feet of Kwan-yin, we ought to feel
that the place where he who worships stands, is holy ground. We
hear it said that he is worshipping an image, an idol, a thing of stone
or wood or clay. It is not so; he is thinking far beyond the statue, he is
seeing God. He looks upwards towards the sky and asks what
supports that cup of blue. He hears the winds and asks them whence
they come and where they go. He rises for his toil at break of day and
sees the morning sun start on his golden journey. And Him who is the
cause of all these wonders, he calls his Life, his Breath, his Lord of
All. He does not believe that the idol is his God. "'Tis to the light
which Thy splendour lends to the idol's face, that the worshipper
bends."

[Illustration: Mylady24.]

The difference between us all lies not in the real teaching of our Holy
Men, Confucius, Buddha, Lao Tze, or Christ, but in the narrowness of
the structure which their followers have built upon their words. Those
sages reared a broad foundation on which might have been built,
stone by stone, a mighty pagoda reaching to the skies. There could
have been separate rooms, but no closed doors, and from out the
pointed roofs might have pealed the deep-toned bells caught by every
wandering breeze to tell the world that here spoke the Truth or the
One Great God. But, instead, what have they done? The followers
have each built separately over that portion which was the work of
their own Master. The stories have grown narrower and narrower with
the years; each bell rings out with its own peculiar tone, and there is
no accord or harmony.

I do not dispute with those who have found a healing for themselves.
To us our religion is something quite inseparable from ourselves,
something that cannot be compared with anything else, or replaced
ith anything else. It is like our bodies. In its form it may be like other
bodies, but in its relation to ourselves it stands alone and admits of no
rival; yet the remedy that has cured us should not be forced upon a
people, irrespective of their place, their environment or their
temperament.

We of the East "have sounded depth on depth only to find still deeper
depths unfathomed and profound," and we have learned to say that no
sect or religion can claim to be in possession of all the Truth. Let the
teachers from other countries learn of our doctrines. Let them learn of
Buddha. To one who reads his pure teaching, nothing so beautiful,
nothing so high, has been heard in all the world. We admit that, little
by little, changes have come, simplicity has been lost, and with every
addition something departed from its purity and it became stained.
Yet I believe that much of the kindliness, much of the gentleness now
so marked in Chinese nature, may be traced to the teaching of this
great apostle of peace and quietude.

That other great religion, the religion of the Way, has become steeped
in superstition and has been made a reproach in all our land. Yet Lao
Tze had noble sentiments and lofty thoughts that have helped
generations of mankind in many struggles.

Confucius, it is said, presented high ideals without the breath of spirit;
his system was for the head and did not feed the heart; yet he taught
that, from the highest in the land to the lowest worker in the field,
personal virtue, cleanness of heart and hands, is to be held the thing
of greatest value. Men are urged to cherish all that is of good in them,
to avoid evil living, to cultivate right feeling, and to be true and faithful
to their tasks.

We should not value the teaching of our religion "as a miser values his
pearls and jade, thinking their value lessened if pearls and jade are
found in other parts of the world." But the searcher after Truth will
welcome any true doctrine, and believe it no less precious because it
was spoken by Buddha, Lao Tze, Confucius or Christ. We should not
peer too closely to learn what the temple may enshrine, but "feel the
influence of things Divine and pray, because by winding paths we all
may reach the same great Ocean's shore." We all are searchers for
the Way. Whence do I come; where do I go? In this passage from the
unknown to the unknown, this pilgrimage of life, which is the straight
path, which the true road-- if indeed there be a Way? Such are the
questions that all the world is asking. What is the true answer; where
may we find it? Whose holy book holds the key that will open wide
the door?

All have a hunger of the soul for something beside life's meat and
drink; all want a remedy for the sorrows of the world. The Buddhists
believe that it can be found in the destruction of desire, by renouncing
the world and following the noble path of peace until death shall open
the portals of the unknowable, everlasting stillness from which there is
no return. The Confucianists say the remedy is found within the world
by fulfilling all its duties and leaving to a greater Justice the future and
its rewards. The Christians give a whispered message of hope to the
lonely soul beating against the bars of the world about him, and say
that a life of love and joy and peace is the gift of their great
Messenger, and when the years have passed that He stands within
an archway to welcome those, His chosen, to a land of bliss where
we shall meet all who have loved us and whom we have loved in life,
and gaze upon His face.

Which is the Way, which path to God is broad enough for all the
world?

Kwei-li.


16
My Dear Mother,
I received thy letter which was full of reproaches most unjust. I have
not broken my word, given to thee so long ago. I opened the home for
friendless children, not because it belonged to a mission of a foreign
religion, but because I think it a most worthy cause. There are many
homeless little ones in this great city, and these people give them
food and clothing and loving care, and because it is given in the name
of a God not found within our temples, is that a reason for withholding
our encouragement?

Thou hast made my heart most heavy. Twenty-five years ago, when
my first-born son was taken from me, I turned from Gods who gave no
comfort in my time of need: all alone with hungry winds of bitterness
gnawing the lute strings of my desolate mother-heart, I stood upon my
terrace, and fought despair. My days were without hope and my
nights were long hours filled with sorrow, when sleep went trailing
softly by and left me to the old dull pain of memory. I called in anguish
upon Kwan-yin, and she did not hear my prayer. The painted smile
upon her lips but mocked me, and in despair I said, "There are no
Gods," and in my lonely court of silent dreams I lost the thread of
worldly care until my tiny bark of life was nearly drifting out upon the
unknown sea.

Thou rememberest that the servants brought to me from out the
market-place the book of the foreign God, and in its pages I woke to
life again. I looked once more from out my curtained window, and saw
the rosy glow of dawn instead of grey, wan twilights of the hopeless
days before me; and, as on a bridge half seen in shadows dim, I
returned to the living world about me. Thou saidst nothing until it had
brought its healing, then thou tookest the book and kept it from me.
Thou toldst me with tears that it would bring thine head in sorrow to
thy resting-place upon the hillside if I left the Gods of my ancestors
and took unto my heart the words and teachings of the God of an
alien race. I promised thee that I would not cause thee grief, and I
have kept my word.

In my ignorance I have longed for knowledge, for some one to explain
the teaching that rolled away for me the rush of troubled waters that
flooded all my soul; but as I looked about me and saw the many
warring factions that follow the great Teacher of love and peace, I did
not know which way to turn, which had the truth to give me; and I
wanted all, not part. I have this book, and have not sought for wisdom
from outside, but only search its pages to find its messages to me.

Thou must not say I have deserted China's Gods, nor is it just to write
that my children are wandering from the Way. I have observed the
feasts and fastings; each morn the Household God has rice and tea
before him; the Kitchen God has gone with celebrations at springtime
to the spirit up above. The candles have been lighted and the smoke
of incense has ascended to propitiate the God of Light, Lord Buddha,
and Kwan-yin, and my children have been taught their prayers and
holy precepts. It is not my fault, nor shouldst thou blame it to my
teaching if rites and symbols have lost their meaning, and if the Gods
of China are no longer strong enough to hold our young.

Oh, Mother mine, thou knowest I would not cause thee sorrow, and
thou hast hurt me sorely with thy letter of bitterness and reproach. If
thou couldst have seen within my heart these many ears, and known
the longing for this light that came to me in darkness, then thou
wouldst not have burned the book that brought me hope and life again
when all seemed gone.

Thou askest me to promise thee anew that I will not trouble thy last
few years with thoughts that seem to thee a sacrilege and a
desecration of thy Gods. Thou art the mother of my husband, and 'tis
to thee I owe all loyalty and obedience. I promise thee, but-- that
which is deep within my heart-- is mine.

Thy daughter,
Kwei-li.


17
My Dear Mother,
I, thy son's wife, have been guilty of the sin of anger, one of the seven
deadly sins-- and great indeed has been my anger. Ting-fang has
been bringing home with him lately the son of Wong Kai-kia, a young
man who has been educated abroad, I think in Germany. I have never
liked him, have looked upon his aping of the foreign manners, his
half-long hair which looks as if he had started again a queue and then
stopped, his stream of words without beginning and without end, as a
foolish boy's small vanities that would pass as the years and wisdom
came. But now-- how can I tell thee-- he asks to have my daughter as
his wife, my Luh-meh, my flower. If he had asked for Man-li, who
wishes to become a doctor, I might have restrained my anger; but, no,
he wants the beauty of our house-hold, and for full a space of ten
breaths' breathing-time, I withheld my indignation, for I was
speechless. Then I fear I talked, and only stopped for lack of words.
My son is most indignant, and says I have insulted his dear friend.
His dear friend indeed! He is so veiled in self-conceit that he can be
insulted by no one; and as for being a friend, he does not know the
word unless he sees in it something to further his own particular
interests.

I told my son that he is a man who leads a life of idleness and worse.
The tea-house knows him better than his rooftree. He is most learned
and has passed safely many examinations, and writes letters at the
end of his name, and has made an especial study of the philosophers
of the present time; and because of this vast amount of book learning
and his supposedly great intelligence he is entitled to indulgence,
says my son, and should not be judged by the standards that rule
ordinary people, who live upon a lower plane. I say that his knowledge
and greater intelligence (which latter I very much doubt) increase his
responsibilities and should make of him an example for the better
living of men.

[Illustration: Mylady25.]

A clever bad man is like vile characters scrawled in ink of gold, and
should be thrown aside as fit only for the braziers.

He is handsome in my daughter's eyes; but I say virtue is within the
man, not upon his skin. He fascinates my younger sons with his
philosophy and his tea-house oratory. I do not like philosophy, it is all
marked with the stamp of infidelity and irreligion. It is rarely that a
man devotes himself to it with-out robbing himself of his faith, and
casting off the restraints of his religion; or, if they do not lose it utterly,
they so adulterate it with their philosophy that it is impossible to
separate the false from the true. The reading of philosophic writings,
so full of vain and delusive reasonings, should be forbidden to our
young folk, just as the slippery banks of a river are forbidden to one
who knows not how to swim. I will have none of them in our library,
nor will I allow their father to read them where his sons can see him.
The snake-charmer should not touch the serpents before his child's
eyes, knowing that the child will try to imitate him in all things.

It is "as pouring water in a frog's face" to talk to these, my children,
who think a man, with words upon his lips, a sage. I say a dog is not
a good dog because he is a good barker, nor should a man be
considered a good man because he is a good talker; but I see only
pity in their faces that their mother is so far behind the times. These
boys of ours are so much attracted by the glimpses they have had of
European civilisation, that they look down upon their own nationality.
They have been abroad only long enough to take on the veneer of
Western education; it is a half-and-half knowledge; and it is these
young men who become the discontented ones of China. When they
return they do not find employment immediately, since they have
grown out of touch with their country and their country's customs.
They feel that they should begin at the top of the ladder, instead of
working up slowly, rung by rung, as their fathers did before them.
They must be masters all at once, not realising that, even with their
tiny grains of foreign knowledge, they have not yet experience to
make them leaders of great enterprises or of men; yet they know too
much to think of going back into their father's shop.

I realise that the students who go abroad from China have many
difficulties to overcome. It is hard to receive their information and
instruction in a language not their mother tongue. They have small
chance to finish their education by practical work in bank or shop or
factory. They get a mass of book knowledge and little opportunity to
practise the theories which they learn, and they do not understand
that the text-book knowledge is nearly all foreign to their country and
to the temperament of their race. I often ask, when looking at my son,
what is his gain? I presume it is in securing a newer, broader point of
view, an ability to adjust himself to modern conditions, and a wider
sympathy with the movements of the world.

China has for centuries been lost to the world by reason of her great
exclusion, her self-satisfaction and blind reliance upon the ways
marked out for her by sages of other days. These young men, with
the West in their eyes, are coming back to shock their fathers' land
into new channels. The process may not be pleasant for us of the old
school, but quite likely it is necessary. Yet, I feel deep within me, as I
look at them, that these new Westernised Easterners with their
foreign ways and clever English are not to be the final saviours of
China. They are but the clarion voices that are helping to awake the
slumbering power. China must depend upon the firmer qualities of the
common people, touched with the breath of the West.

It is with great sorrow that we mothers and fathers see our boys and
girls, especially those who return from abroad, neglecting and scoffing
at our modes of education that have endured and done such noble
work for centuries past. I know it is necessary to study things modern
to keep up with the demands of the times; but they can do this and
still reserve some hours for the reading of the classics. Instead of
always quoting Byron, Burns, or Shelley, as do my son and daughter,
let them repeat the beautiful words of Tu Fu, Li Po, Po Chu-i, our
poets of the golden age.

In no country is real learning held in higher esteem than in China. It is
the greatest characteristic of the nation that, in every grade of society,
education is considered above all else. Why, then, should our young
people be ashamed of their country's learning? The Chinese have
devoted themselves to the cultivation of literature for a longer period by
some thousands of years than any existing nation. The people who
lived at the time of our ancestors, the peoples of Egypt, the Greeks,
the Romans, have disappeared ages ago and have left only their
histories writ in book or stone. The Chinese alone have continued to
give to the world their treasures of thought these five thousand years.
To literature and to it alone they look for the rule to guide them in their
conduct. To them all writing is most sacred. The very pens and
papers used in the making of their books have become objects of
veneration. Even our smallest village is provided with a scrap-box into
which every bit of paper containing words or printed matter is carefully
placed, to await a suitable occasion when it may be reverently
burned.

Change is now the order of the day, educationally as well as
politically. We do not hear the children shouting their tasks at the top
of their voices, nor do they learn by heart the thirteen classics, sitting
on their hard benches within the simple rooms with earthen floor,
where the faint light comes straggling through the unglazed windows
on the boy who hopes to gain the prize that will lead him to the great
Halls of Examination at Peking. If, while there, he is favoured by the
God of Learning and passes the examination, he will come back to
his village an honour to his province, and all his world will come and
do him reverence, from the viceroy in his official chair to the meanest
worker in the fields. These old-time examinations are gone, the
degrees which were our pride have been abolished, the subjects of
study in the schools have been completely changed. The privileges
which were once given our scholars, the social and political offices
which were once open to the winner of the highest prize, have been
thrown upon the altar of modernity. They say it is a most wise move
and leads to the greater individualism, which is now the battle-cry of
China. The fault of the old examination, we are told, is the lack of
original ideas which might be expressed by a student. He must give
the usual interpretations of the classics. Now the introduction of free
thought and private opinion has produced in China an upheaval in
men's minds. The new scholars may say what they think wisest, and
they even try to show that Confucius was at heart a staunch
republican, and that Mencius only thinly veiled his sentiments of
modern philosophy.

Perhaps the memory work of the Chinese education was wrong; but it
served its purpose once, if tales are true.

It is said that many hundreds of years ago, the founder of the Chinese
dynasty, the man of pride who styled himself Emperor the First,
conceived the idea of destroying all literature which was before his
reign, so that he might be regarded by posterity as the founder of the
Chinese Empire. It is believed by many Chinese scholars that this
wicked thing was done, and that not a single perfect copy of any book
escaped destruction. He even went so far as to bury alive above five
hundred of the best scholars of the land, that none might remain to
write of his cruel deed. But the classics had been too well learned by
the scholars, and were reproduced from memory to help form the
minds of China for many tens of years. This could be done to-day if a
similar tragedy were enacted. The glen, or dell, was terminated by
a sheet of water, called Loch Veolan, into which the brook discharged
itself, and which now glistened in the western sun. The distant country
seemed open and varied in surface, though not wooded; and there
was nothing to interrupt the view until the scene was bounded by a
ridge of distant and blue hills, which formed the southern boundary
of the strath or valley.

To this pleasant station Miss Bradwardine had ordered coffee.

The view of the old tower, or fortalice, introduced some family
anecdotes and tales of Scottish chivalry, which the Baron told
with great enthusiasm. The projecting peak of an impending crag which
rose near it had acquired the name of Saint Swithin's Chair.
It was the scene of a peculiar superstition, of which Mr.

Rubrick mentioned some curious particulars, which reminded Waverley
of a rhyme quoted by Edgar in King Lear; and Rose was called
upon to sing a little legend, in which they had been interwoven by some
village poet,
Who, noteless as the race from which he sprung, Saved others' names, but
left his own unsung.

The sweetness of her voice, and the simple beauty of her music, gave
all the advantage which the minstrel could have desired, and which his
poetry so much wanted. I almost doubt if it can be read with patience,
destitute of these advantages, although I conjecture the following copy to
have been somewhat corrected by Waverley, to suit the taste of those
who might not relish pure antiquity.

Saint Swithin's Chair
On Hallow-Mass Eve, ere ye boune ye to rest, Ever beware that your couch
be bless'd; Sign it with cross, and sain it with bead, Sing the Ave,
and say the Creed.

For on Hallow-Mass Eve the Night-Hag will ride, And all her nine-fold
sweeping on by her side, Whether the wind sing lowly or loud,
Sailing through moonshine or swath'd in the cloud.

The Lady she sat in Saint Swithin's Chair, The dew of the night has
damp'd her hair:
Her cheek was pale; but resolved and high Was the word of her lip
and the glance of her eye.

She mutter'd the spell of Swithin bold, When his naked foot traced
the midnight wold, When he stopp'd the Hag as she rode the night,
And bade her descend, and her promise plight.

He
that dare sit
on Saint Swithin's Chair, When the Night-Hag wings the troubled air,
Questions three, when he speaks the spell, He may ask, and she must tell.

The Baron has been with King Robert his liege These three long
years in battle and siege; News are there none of his weal or his
woe, And fain the Lady his fate would know.

She shudders and stops as the charm she speaks;-- Is it the moody owl
that shrieks?

Or is it that sound, betwixt laughter and scream, The voice of the
Demon who haunts the stream?

The moan of the wind sunk silent and low, And the roaring torrent
had ceased to flow; The calm was more dreadful than raging storm, When
the cold grey mist brought the ghastly Form!

'I am sorry to disappoint the company, especially Captain
Waverley, who listens with such laudable gravity; it is but a fragment,
although I think there are other verses, describing the return of
the Baron from the wars, and how the lady was found "clay-cold
upon the grounsill ledge.'"

'It is one of those figments,' observed Mr. Bradwardine, 'with which
the early history of distinguished families was deformed in the times
of superstition; as that of Rome, and other ancient nations, had
their prodigies, sir, the which you may read in ancient histories,
or in the little work compiled by Julius Obsequens, and inscribed
by the learned Scheffer, the editor, to his patron, Benedictus
Skytte, Baron of Dudershoff.'
'My father has a strange defiance of the marvellous, Captain Waverley,'
observed Rose, 'and once stood firm when a whole synod of Presbyterian
divines were put to the rout by a sudden apparition of the foul
fiend.'

Waverley looked as if desirous to hear more.

'Must I tell my story as well as sing my song? Well--Once upon a time there
lived an old woman, called Janet Gellatley, who was suspected to be a
witch, on the infallible grounds that she was very old, very ugly, very
poor, and had two sons, one of whom was a poet and the other
a fool, which visitation, all the neighbourhood agreed, had come
upon her for the sin of witchcraft.
And she was imprisoned for a week in the steeple of the parish
church, and sparely supplied with food, and not permitted to
sleep until she herself became as much persuaded of her being a witch
as her accusers; and in this lucid and happy state of mind was brought forth
to make a clean breast, that is, to make open confession of her sorceries,
before all the Whig gentry and ministers in the vicinity, who were
no conjurors themselves. My father went to see fair play between the
witch and the clergy; for the witch had been born on his estate. And
while the witch was confessing that the Enemy appeared, and made his
addresses to her as a handsome black man,--which, if you could have
seen poor old blear-eyed Janet, reflected little honour on Apollyon's
taste,-- and while the auditors listened with astonished ears, and the
clerk recorded with a trembling hand, she, all of a sudden,
changed the low mumbling tone with which she spoke into a shrill
yell, and exclaimed, "Look to yourselves! look to yourselves! I
see the Evil One sitting in the midst of ye." The surprise was
general, and terror and flight its immediate consequences.

Happy were those who were next the door; and many were the disasters
that befell hats, bands, cuffs, and wigs, before they could get
out of the church, where they left the obstinate prelatist to settle
matters with the witch and her admirer at his own peril or pleasure.'

'Risu solvuntur tabulae,' said the Baron; 'when they recovered their
panic trepidation they were too much ashamed to bring any wakening
of the process against Janet Gellatley.' [Footnote: See Note 11]
This anecdote led to a long discussion of
All those idle thoughts and fantasies, Devices, dreams, opinions unsound,
Shows, visions, soothsays, and prophecies, And all that feigned is, as
leasings, tales, and lies.

With such conversation, and the romantic legends which it introduced,
closed our hero's second evening in the house of Tully-Veolan.

CHAPTER XIV
A DISCOVERY--WAVERLEY BECOMES DOMESTICATED AT TULLY-VEOLAN

The next day Edward arose betimes, and in a morning walk around the house
and its vicinity came suddenly upon a small court in front of the
dog-kennel, where his friend Davie was employed about his four-footed
charge. One quick glance of his eye recognised Waverley, when, instantly
turning his back, as if he had not observed him, he began to sing
part of an old ballad:--
Young men will love thee more fair and more fast; Heard ye so merry
the little bird sing?

Old men's love the longest
will last, And the throstle-cock's head is under his wing.

The
young man's wrath
is like light straw on fire; Heard ye so merry the little bird
sing?
But like red-hot steel is the old man's ire, And the throstle-cock's head
is under his wing.

The young man will brawl at the evening board; Heard ye so merry the
little bird sing?
But the old man will draw at the dawning the sword, And the throstle-cock's
head is under his wing.

Waverley could not avoid observing that Davie laid something like a satirical
emphasis on these lines. He therefore approached, and endeavoured, by
sundry queries, to elicit from him what the innuendo might mean; but
Davie had no mind to explain, and had wit enough to make his folly
cloak his knavery. Edward could collect nothing from him, excepting
that the Laird of Balmawhapple had gone home yesterday morning 'wi' his
boots fu' o' bluid.' In the garden, however, he met the old butler,
who no longer attempted to conceal that, having been bred in the
nursery line with Sumack and Co. of Newcastle, he sometimes wrought a
turn in the flower- borders to oblige the Laird and Miss Rose. By a
series of queries, Edward at length discovered, with a painful feeling
of surprise and shame, that Balmawhapple's submission and apology had
been the consequence of a rencontre with the Baron before his guest
had quitted his pillow, in which the younger combatant had been
disarmed and wounded in the sword arm.

Greatly mortified at this information, Edward sought out his friendly
host, and anxiously expostulated with him upon the injustice he
had done him in anticipating his meeting with Mr.
Falconer, a circumstance which, considering his youth and the profession
of arms which he had just adopted, was capable of being represented
much to his prejudice. The Baron justified himself at greater length than
I choose to repeat.

He urged that the quarrel was common to them, and that Balmawhapple
could not, by the code of honour, evite giving satisfaction to both,
which he had done in his case by an honourable meeting, and in that
of Edward by such a palinode as rendered the use of the sword
unnecessary, and which, being made and accepted, must necessarily
sopite the whole affair.

With this excuse, or explanation, Waverley was silenced, if not satisfied;
but he could not help testifying some displeasure against the Blessed
Bear, which had given rise to the quarrel, nor refrain from hinting
that the sanctified epithet was hardly appropriate. The
Baron observed, he could not deny that 'the Bear, though allowed by
heralds as a most honourable ordinary, had, nevertheless, somewhat
fierce, churlish, and morose in his disposition (as might be read in
Archibald Simson, pastor of Dalkeith's 'Hieroglyphica Animalium') and
had thus been the type of many quarrels and dissensions which had
occurred in the house of Bradwardine; of which,' he continued, 'I might
commemorate mine own unfortunate dissension with my third cousin
by the mother's side, Sir Hew Halbert, who was so unthinking as to
deride my family name, as if it had been QUASI BEAR-WARDEN; a most
uncivil jest, since it not only insinuated that the founder
of our house occupied such a mean situation as to be a custodier of wild
beasts, a charge which, ye must have observed, is only entrusted
to the very basest plebeians; but, moreover, seemed to infer that
our coat-armour had not been achieved by honourable actions in
war, but bestowed by way of paranomasia, or pun, upon our family
appellation,--a sort of bearing which the French call armoires
parlantes, the Latins arma cantantia, and your English authorities
canting heraldry, [Footnote: See Note 12] being indeed a species
of emblazoning more befitting canters, gaberlunzies, and such like
mendicants, whose gibberish is formed upon playing upon the word,
than the noble, honourable, and useful science of heraldry, which
assigns armorial bearings as the reward of noble and generous
actions, and not to tickle the ear with vain quodlibets, such as
are found in jestbooks.'

Of his quarrel with Sir Hew he said nothing more than that it was
settled in a fitting manner.

Having been so minute with respect to the diversions of Tully-
Veolan on the first days of Edward's arrival, for the purpose of
introducing its inmates to the reader's acquaintance, it becomes less
necessary to trace the progress of his intercourse with the same
accuracy. It is probable that a young man, accustomed to more cheerful
society, would have tired of the conversation of so violent an assertor
of the 'boast of heraldry' as the Baron; but Edward found an
agreeable variety in that of Miss Bradwardine, who listened with
eagerness to his remarks upon literature, and showed great justness
of taste in her answers.

The sweetness of her disposition had made her submit with complacency,
and even pleasure, to the course of reading prescribed by her father,
although it not only comprehended several heavy folios of history, but
certain gigantic tomes in high-church polemics. In heraldry he was fortunately
contented to give her only such a slight tincture as might be acquired
by perusal of the two folio volumes of Nisbet. Rose was indeed the
very apple of her father's eye. Her constant liveliness, her
attention to all those little observances most gratifying to
those who would never think of exacting them, her beauty, in which he
recalled the features of his beloved wife, her unfeigned piety, and the
noble generosity of her disposition, would have justified the
affection of the most doting father.

His anxiety on her behalf did not, however, seem to extend itself in that
quarter where, according to the general opinion, it is most
efficiently displayed, in labouring, namely, to establish her in
life, either by a large dowry or a wealthy marriage.

By an old settlement, almost all the landed estates of the Baron
went, after his death, to a distant relation; and it was supposed
that Miss Bradwardine would remain but slenderly provided for, as the
good gentleman's cash matters had been too long under the exclusive charge
of Bailie Macwheeble to admit of any great expectations from his
personal succession. It is true, the said Bailie loved his patron
and his patron's daughter next (though at an incomparable
distance) to himself. He thought it was possible to set aside the
settlement on the male line, and had actually procured an opinion to
that effect (and, as he boasted, without a fee) from an eminent Scottish
counsel, under whose notice he contrived to bring the point while
consulting him regularly on some other business. But the Baron
would not listen to such a proposal for an instant. On the contrary,
he used to have a perverse pleasure in boasting that the barony of
Bradwardine was a male fief, the first charter having been given at
that early period when women were not deemed capable to hold a feudal
grant; because, according to Les coustusmes de Normandie, c'est
l'homme ki se bast et ki conseille; or, as is yet more ungallantly
expressed by other authorities, all of whose barbarous names he
delighted to quote at full length, because a woman could not serve
the superior, or feudal lord, in war, on account of the decorum
of her sex, nor assist him with advice, because of her limited
intellect, nor keep his counsel, owing to the infirmity of her
disposition.

He would triumphantly ask, how it would become a female, and that female
a Bradwardine, to be seen employed in servitio exuendi, seu detrahendi,
caligas regis post battaliam?
that is, in pulling off the king's boots after an engagement, which
was the feudal service by which he held the barony of Bradwardine. 'No,'
he said, 'beyond hesitation, procul dubio, many females, as worthy
as Rose, had been excluded, in order to make way for my own succession,
and Heaven forbid that I should do aught that might contravene the
destination of my forefathers, or impinge upon the right of my
kinsman, Malcolm Bradwardine of Inchgrabbit, an honourable, though
decayed branch of my own family.'

The Bailie, as prime minister, having received this decisive communication
from his sovereign, durst not press his own opinion any farther, but
contented himself with deploring, on all suitable occasions, to Saunderson,
the minister of the interior, the laird's self-willedness, and
with laying plans for uniting Rose with the young Laird of Balmawhapple,
who had a fine estate, only moderately burdened, and was a faultless
young gentleman, being as sober as a saint--if you keep brandy from
him and him from brandy --and who, in brief, had no imperfection
but that of keeping light company at a time; such as Jinker, the
horse-couper, and Gibby Gaethroughwi't, the piper o' Cupar; 'o'
whilk follies, Mr.

Saunderson, he'll mend, he'll mend,' pronounced the Bailie.

'Like sour ale in simmer,' added Davie Gellatley, who happened to
be nearer the conclave than they were aware of.

Miss Bradwardine, such as we have described her, with all the simplicity
and curiosity of a recluse, attached herself to the opportunities
of increasing her store of literature which Edward's visit afforded
her.

He sent for some of his books from his quarters, and they opened to
her sources of delight of which she had hitherto had no idea. The best
English poets, of every description, and other works on belles-lettres,
made a part of this precious cargo. Her music, even her flowers,
were neglected, and Saunders not only mourned over, but began to
mutiny against, the labour for which he now scarce received thanks.

These new
pleasures became gradually enhanced by sharing them with one of a
kindred taste.

Edward's readiness
to comment, to recite, to explain difficult passages, rendered his
assistance invaluable; and the wild romance of his spirit delighted a
character too young and inexperienced to observe its deficiencies.
Upon subjects which interested him, and when quite at ease, he
possessed that flow of natural, and somewhat florid eloquence, which
has been supposed as powerful even as figure, fashion, fame, or
fortune, in winning the female heart.

There was, therefore, an increasing danger in this constant intercourse
to poor Rose's peace of mind, which was the more imminent as
her father was greatly too much abstracted in his studies, and wrapped
up in his own dignity, to dream of his daughter's incurring
it. The daughters of the house of Bradwardine were, in his opinion,
like those of the house of Bourbon or Austria, placed high
above the clouds of passion which might obfuscate the intellects of
meaner females; they moved in another sphere, were governed by other
feelings, and amenable to other rules than those of idle and
fantastic affection.
Chung spoke bravely in sending this reply to Peking; but no sooner
was it sent than he gathered his family and his sycee and departed
for Shanghai, where he feels more sure of the protection of the foreign
settlements than he does of the kindly intentions of His Excellency
Yuan toward his dollars.

The children have come home and are clamouring for their supper.
They are growing rougher and noisier each day, and, I fear, are
spending far too many hours in the servants' courtyard, where they
hear of things not seemly for young ears. Canst thou send me
Wong-si for a few months? She might be able to keep some order in
my household, although I doubt a person of a nature not divine being
able to still the many tongues I have now about me.

We send thee love, and greetings to thy new-born great-grandson.

Kwei-li.


21
My Dear Mother,
I have been in the country with my friend Ang Ti-ti. It was the time of
pilgrimage to the graves of her family at the temple near Wu-seh. My
household gave me many worries, and my husband said it was a time
of rest for me, so we took a boat, with only a few servants, as I am
tired of chattering women, and spent three long happy days amongst
the hills. We sat upon the deck as the boat was slowly drawn along
the canal, and watched the valley that autumn now is covering with
her colours rare. All the green of the fields is changed. All the gay
foliage of the trees upon the hillsides will soon be dead and crumbling.
These withered leaves that once waved gaily in the air are lying now in
clustered heaps, or fluttering softly to the ground like dull, brown
butterflies who are tired with flight. The only touch of colour is on the
maple-trees, which still cling with jealous hands to coverings of red
and gold. The autumn winds wailed sadly around our cabin windows,
and every gust brought desolation to tree and shrub and waving grass.
Far away the setting sun turned golden trees to flame, and now and
then on the sluggish waters of the canal would drift in lonely splendour
a shining leaf that autumn winds had touched and made into a thing of
more than beauty.

[Illustration: Mylady28.]

We anchored the first night by a marshy bank girdled with tall yellow
reeds and dwarf bamboo, and from our quiet cabin listened to the
rainy gusts that swept the valley. Out of the inky clouds the lightning
flashed and lighted up each branch and stem and swaying leaf,
revealing to our half-blinded eyes the rain-swept valley; then darkness
came with her thick mantle and covered all again.

[Illustration: Mylady29.]

We discussed the past, the present, and the future; and then, as
always when mothers meet, the talk would turn to children. How we
are moved by our children! We are like unto the Goddess of the
Pine-tree. She came out from her rugged covering and bore a
man-child for her husband's house, and then one day the overlord of
all that land sent to cut down the pine-tree, that its great trunk might
form the rooftree of his temple. At the first blow of the axe the soul
glided back into its hiding-place, and the woman was no more. And
when it fell, three hundred men could not move it from its place of
falling; but her baby came and, putting out his hand, said, "Come,"
and it followed him quite quietly, gliding to the very doorway of the
temple. So do our children lead us with their hands of love.

On the second day we went to the temple to offer incense at the
family shrine of Ang Ti-ti. We Chinese ladies love these pilgrimages to
these shrines of our ancestors, and it is we who keep up the family
worship. We believe that it is from the past that we must learn, and
"the past is a pathway which spirits have trodden and made
luminous." It is true, as Lafcadio Hearn has written, "We should be
haunted by the dead men and women of our race, the ancestors that
count in the making of our souls and have their silent say in every
action, thought and impulse of our life. Are not our ancestors in very
truth our souls? Is not every action the work of the dead who dwell
within us? Have not our impulses and our tendencies, our capacities
and our weaknesses, our heroisms and our fears, been created by
those vanished myriads from whom we received that all-mysterious
gift of life? Should we think of that thing which is in each of us and
which we call 'I' should it be 'I' or 'they'? What is our pride or shame
but the pride or shame of the unseen in that which they have made?
And what is our conscience but the inherited sum of countless dead
experiences with all things good and evil?"

"In this worship that we give the dead they are made divine. And the
thought of this tender reverence will temper with consolation the
melancholy that comes with age to all of us. Never in our China are
the dead too quickly forgotten; by simple faith they are still thought to
dwell among their beloved, and their place within the home remains
holy. When we pass to the land of shadows we know that loving lips
will nightly murmur our names before the family shrine, that our faithful
ones will beseech us in their pain and bless us in their joy. We will
not be left alone upon the hillsides, but loving hands will place before
our tablet the fruits and flowers and dainty food that we were wont to
like, and will pour for us the fragrant cups of tea or amber rice-wine."

"Strange changes are coming upon this land, old customs are
vanishing, old beliefs are weakening, the thoughts of to-day will not be
the thoughts of to-morrow; but of all this we will know nothing. We
dream that for us as for our mothers the little lamp will burn on
through the generations; we see in fancy the yet unborn, the children
of our children's children, bowing their tiny heads and making the filial
obeisance before the tablets that bear our family name."

This is our comfort, we who feel that "this world is not a place of rest,
but where we may now take our little ease, until the landlord whom we
never see, gives our apartment to another guest."

As I said to thee, it is the women who are the preservers of the family
worship and who are trying hard to cling to old loved customs.
Perhaps it is because we suffer from lack of facility in adapting
ourselves to new conditions. We are as fixed as the star in its orbit.
Not so much the men of China but we women of the inner courtyards
seem to our younger generation to stand an immovable mountain in
the pathway of their freedom from the old traditions.

In this course we are only following woman nature. An instinct more
powerful than reason seems to tell us that we must preserve the thing
we know. Change we fear. We see in the new ideas that our
daughters bring from school, disturbers only of our life's ideals. Yet
the new thoughts are gathering about our retreats, beating at our
doorways, creeping in at the closely shuttered windows, even winning
our husbands and our children from our arms. The enclosing walls and
the jealously guarded doors of our courtyards are impotent. While we
stand a foe of this so-called progress, a guardian of what to us seems
womanhood and modesty, the world around us is moving, feeling the
impulse of a larger life, broadening its outlook and clothing itself in
new expression that we hardly understand. We feel that we cannot
keep up with this generation; and, seeing ourselves left behind with
our dead Gods, we cry out against the change which is coming to our
daughters with the advent of this new education and the knowledge of
the outside world. But--.

All happy days must end, and we floated slowly back to the busy life
again. As we came down the canal in the soft moonlight it recalled
those other nights to me upon the mountain-side, and as I saw the
lights of the city before us I remembered the old poem of Chang Chili
Lo:

"The Lady Moon is my lover,
My friends are the Oceans four,
The Heavens have roofed me over,
And the Dawn is my golden door.
I would liefer follow a condor,
Or the sea-gull soaring from ken,
Than bury my Godhead yonder,
In the dust and whirl of men."

Thy daughter,
Kwei-li.


22
My Dear Mother,
I have not written thee for many days. I came back from my happy
country trip to find clouds of sorrow wrapping our home in close
embrace. We hear Ting-fang is in deep trouble, and we cannot
understand it. He is accused of being in league with the Southern
forces. Of course we do not believe it, my son is not a traitor; but
black forebodings rise from deeps unknown and the cold trail of fear
creeps round my heart.

But I cannot brood upon my fears alone; this world seems full of
sorrow. Just now I have stopped my letter to see a woman who was
brought to the Yamen for trying to kill her baby daughter. She is
alone, has no one to help her in her time of desolation, no rice for
crying children, and nothing before her except to sell her daughter to
the tea-house. She gave her sleep; and who can blame her?

Mother, send me all that thou canst spare from out thy plenty. I would
I could give more. I would be a lamp for those who need a lamp, a bed
for those who need a bed; but I am helpless. O, He who hears the
wretched when they cry, deign to hear these mothers in their sorrow!

Thy daughter,
Kwei-li.


23
I know that thou hast heard the news, as it is in all the papers.
Ting-fang is accused of throwing the bomb that killed General Chang. I
write to reassure thee that it cannot be true. I know my son. Thou
knowest thy family. No Liu could do so foul a deed.

Do not worry; we will send thee all the news. The morrow's tidings will
be well, so rest in peace.

Kwei-li.


24,a.
I thank thee from my heart for the ten thousand taels telegraphed for
the use of our son. Father has sent fifty thousand taels to be used in
obtaining his freedom. I am sure it will not be needed, as my son is
not the culprit. And if he were, it is not the olden time when a life
could be bought for a few thousand ounces of silver, no matter how
great the crime. We will not bribe the Courts of Law, even for our son.

But I am sure it will pass with the night's darkness, and we will wake
to find it all a dream. I know, my mother's heart assures me, that my
boy is innocent.

Do not speak or think of coming down. We will let thee know at once
all news.

Kwei-li


24,b.
[-Telegram_]
We are leaving to-night for Canton.


25
We are entering Canton. The night denies me sleep, and my brain
seems beating like the tireless shuttles upon a weaving-loom. I
cannot rest, but walk the deck till the moon fades from the dawn's
pale sky, and the sun shows rose-coloured against the morning's
grey. Across the river a temple shines faintly through its ring of
swaying bamboo, and the faint light glistens on the water dripping
from the oars that bring the black-sailed junks with stores of
vegetables for all that greedy city of living people. The mists cling
lovingly to the hill-tops, while leaves from giant banyan-trees sway idly
in the morning wind, and billows of smoke, like dull, grey spirits, roll
up-ward and fade into a mist of clouded jade, touched with the golden
fingers of the rising sun.

[Illustration: Mylady30.]

I see it all with eyes that do not see, because the creeping hours I
count until I find my son.


26
Ting-fang has been tried and found guilty. The runners have brought
me hour by hour the news; and even his father can see nothing that
speaks in favour of his innocence. It is known and he confesses to
having been with the men who are the plotters in this uprising. He was
with the disloyal officers only a few hours before the bomb was
thrown, but of the actual deed he insists that he knows nothing. All
evidence points to his guilt. Even the official who sentenced him, a
life-long friend of ours, said in the open court that it hurt him sorely to
condemn a man bearing the great name of Liu, because of what his
father and his father's father had been to China, but in times such as
these an example must be made; and all the world is now looking on
to see what will be done.

I will write thee and telegraph thee further news; I can say no more at
present; my heart is breaking.

Kwei-li.


27
A man came to us secretly last night and offered to effect my son's
escape for fifty thousand taels. He said that arrangements could be
made to get him out of the country-- and we have refused! We told
him we could give no answer until the morning, and I walked the floor
the long night through, trying to find the pathway just.

We cannot do it. China is at the parting of the ways; and if we, her
first officials, who are taking the stand upon the side of justice and
new ideas of honour, do not remain firm in hours of great temptation,
what lesson have we to give to them who follow where we lead? It
ust not be said that our first acts were those of bribery and corruption.
If my son is a traitor, we let him pay. He must give his life upon the
altar of new China. We cannot buy his life. We are of the house of Liu,
and our name must stand, so that, through the years to come, it will
inspire those who follow us to live and die for China, the country that
we love.


28
My Mother,
From the red dawn until the dense night fell, and all the hours of
darkness through, have my weary feet stumbled on in hopeless
misery, waiting, listening for the guns that will tell to me my son is
gone. At sunset a whispered message of hope was brought, then
vanished quite again, and I have walked the lengthened reach of the
great courtyard, watching as, one by one, the lanterns die and the
world is turning into grey. Far away toward the rice-fields the circling
gulls rise, flight on flight, and hover in the blue, then fly away to life
and happiness in the great beyond. In the distance, faint blue smoke
curls from a thousand dwellings of people who are rising and will greet
their sons, while mine lies dead. Oh, I thought that tears were human
only, yet I see each blade of shining grass weighed down with
dewdrop tears that glimmer in the air. Even the grass would seem all
sorrow filled as is my heart.

The whole night through the only sound has been the long-drawn note
of the bamboo flute, as the seller passes by, and the wind that wailed
and whistled and seemed to bring with it spirits of the other world who
came and taunted me that I did not save my son. Why, why did I not
save him! What is honour, what is this country, this fighting,
quarrelling, maddened country, what is our fame, in comparison to his
dear life? Why did we not accept the offer of escape! It was ours to
give or take; we gave, and I repent-- O God, how I repent! My boy, my
boy! I will be looking for his face in all my dreams and find despair.

.......

Dost thou remember how he came to me in answer to the Towers of
Prayer I raised when my first-born slept so deep a sleep he could not
be wakened even by the voice of his mother? But that sorrow passed
and I rose to meet a face whose name is memory. At last I knew it
was not kindness to mourn so for my dead. Over the River of Tears
their silent road is, and when mothers weep too long, the flood of that
river rises, and their souls cannot pass but must wander to and fro.
But to those whom they leave with empty arms they are never utterly
gone. They sleep in the darkest cells of tired hearts and busy brains,
to come at echo of a voice that recalls the past.

.......

My sleeve is wet with bitter rain; but tears cannot blot out the dream
visions that memory wakes, and the dead years answer to my call. I
see my boy, my baby, who was the gift of kindly Gods. When I first
opened my eyes upon him, I closed them to all the world besides,
and my soul rested in peace beside the jewel within its cradle. 
Falconer sleep here last night?' Rose, not much pleased with the
abruptness of the first question which the young stranger had
addressed to her, answered drily in the negative, and the conversation
again sunk into silence.

At this moment Mr. Saunderson appeared, with a message from his
master, requesting to speak with Captain Waverley in another apartment.
With a heart which beat a little quicker, not indeed from fear, but
from uncertainty and anxiety, Edward obeyed the summons.At evening
when the lamps were lighted I taught him the words of the evening
prayer, and when he slept I brought my work close by his cradle and
watched the still sweetness of his face. The list of the beauties who
displayed their hebdomadal finery at the parish church of
Waverley was neither numerous nor select. By far the most passable
was Miss Sissly, or, as she rather chose to be called, Miss Cecilia
Stubbs, daughter of Squire Stubbs at the Grange.

I can see my courtyard in far Sezchuan; and in the wooden box within
my bedroom are all his baby-clothes. There are the shoes with
worn-out toes and heels that tried so hard to confine restless, eager
feet; the cap with Buddha and his saints, all broken and tarnished
where tiny, baby teeth have left their marks; and, Mother, dost thou
remember when we made him clothing like the soldier at the Yamen?
And the bamboo that the gateman polished he carried for a gun...

O my son, my son! How can I rise to begin the bitter work of life
through the twilights yet to come!


29
How can I tell thee, Mother mine, of the happiness within my heart! It
is passed; it was but a dream, a mirage. But is it necessary that
_delighted_ should have the same signification in all the three
passages? I think not.

These are only suggestions, of course, but the passage from Sidney is
certainly curious, and, from the correct and careful manner in
which the book is printed, does not appear to be a corruption. I
have not seen the earlier editions. I have only further to remark,
that none of our old authorities favour DR.

KENNEDY'S suggestion,
"that the word represents the Latin participle _delectus_."
Dost thou remember Liang Tai-tai, she whom I wrote thee was
so anxious for the mercy of the Gods that she spent her time in
praying instead of looking after household duties and her son? He was
the one who tried to pass the Dark Water and I talked to him and we
sent him to the prefect at Canton. It was he who found the man for
whom my son was accused. It seemed he felt he owed us much for
helping him in his time of trouble, and now he has repaid.

I feel that I have laughed too oft at Liang Tai-tai and her Gods, but now
I will go with her from temple shrine to temple shrine. A gentle riddance.
Draw the curtains: go.
Let all of his complexion choose me so.

[Exeunt.]

SCENE 8.

Venice. A
street
[Enter SALARINO and SALANIO.] 
SALARINO.
Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail; With him is Gratiano gone
along; And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not.

SALANIO.
The villain Jew with outcries rais'd the Duke, Who went with him
to search Bassanio's ship.

SALARINO.
He came too late, the ship was under sail; But there the duke was
given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo
and his amorous Jessica.We found our dear one, our Li-ti, bending o'er her babe, holding it
safely, nestling it, murmuring, softly, whispers of mother love. This
son, born in the hour of trouble and despair, is a token of the
happiness to come, of the new life that will come forth from grief and
sorrow.

He has learned a lesson, this boy of mine, and he will walk more
carefully, guard more surely his footsteps, now he is the father of a
son.

Kwei-li.


32
O Mother of graciousness, we are coming to thee! Belmont. A room in
PORTIA's house.

[Enter NERISSA, with a SERVITOR.]
NERISSA.
Quick, quick, I pray thee, draw the curtain straight; The Prince
of Arragon hath ta'en his oath, And comes to his election
presently.

[Flourish of cornets.[Illustration: Mylady31.]

We leave this place of trial and turmoil. I want my children to come
within the shelter of thy compound walls, where safety lies; and with
the "shell of forgetfulness" clasped tightly in our hands, we will forget
these days of anguish and despair. My present object is to
strengthen the argument of the writer in the _Gentleman's Magazine_, by
recording the fact that I, having no communication with him, or
knowledge of him, even of his name, should have arrived at exactly
the same conclusion as his own.We are coming home to thee, Mother of my husband, and I have
learned in life's great, bitter school that the joy of my Chinese
woman-hood is to stand within the sheltered courtyard, with my family
close about me, and my son's son in my arms.

Kwei-li.