POEMS

POEMS IN TWO VOLUMES,

VOL. I.

BY WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

AUTHOR OF _THE LYRICAL BALLADS._


    Posterius graviore sono tibi Musa loquetur
    Nostra: dabunt cum securos mihi tempora fructus.


CONTENTS


_To the Daisy_

_Louisa_

_Fidelity_

_She was a Phantom of delight_

_The Redbreast and the Butterfly_

_The Sailor's Mother_

_To the Small Celandine_

_To the same Flower_

_Character of the Happy Warrior_

_The Horn of Egremont Castle_

_The Affliction of Margaret ---- of ----_

_The Kitten and the falling Leaves_

_The Seven Sisters, or the Solitude of Binnorie_

_To H.C., six Years old_

_Among all lovely things my Love had been_

_I travell'd among unknown Men_

_Ode to Duty_


POEMS, COMPOSED DURING A TOUR, CHIEFLY ON FOOT.

1. [PRICE 2d.

ARCHITECTURAL ILLUSTRATIONS.

No. II.
        

[Illustration: THE TEMPLE CHURCH.]

The Temple Church,[1] London, was erected in the twelfth century;
but among antiquarians considerable difference of opinion at various
times prevailed as to who were the original builders of these round
churches, which form the most striking and beautiful specimens of
the architectural skill of our Anglo-Norman ancestors.

In England there are four examples of round churches, almost in
perfect preservation, namely, the church of St.

Mary, Temple; St. Sepulchre, Northampton; St.

Mary, Cambridge; and that of Little Maplestead, Essex.

It was long thought that they were of Jewish origin; but through
the ingenious and learned essays of Mr.

Essex and of Mr. Britton, this erroneous
        notion has been entirely removed.

Mr.

Essex, in his Essay, observes, in support of his opinion, that
"their Temple at Jerusalem was not of a circular form, neither was
the Tabernacle of Moses; nor do we find the modern Jews affect that
figure in building their synagogues.

It has, however, been generally supposed that the round church at
Cambridge, that at Northampton, and some others, were built for
synagogues by the Jews while they were permitted to dwell in those
places.

But as no probable reason can be assigned for this supposition, and
I think it is very certain that the Jews who were settled in Cambridge
had their synagogue, and probably dwelled together in a part of the
town now called the Jewry, so we may reasonably conclude the round
churches we find in other parts of this kingdom were not built by
the Jews for synagogues, whatever the places may be called in which
they stand."

--It has been generally allowed by these and other writers on
archaeology, that the primitive church of this form was that of the
Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, and that the Temple Church at London
was built by the Knights' Templars, whose occupation was the
protection of Christian pilgrims against the Saracens.

It has been further urged by a correspondent (Charles Clarke, Esq.

F.S.A.) in the first volume of Britton's "Architectural Antiquities,"
that two of the before-mentioned round churches, namely, Northampton
and Cambridge, were in fact built by "affluent crusaders, in imitation
of that of the Holy Sepulchre;" and in support of his opinion he
cites several historical notice

s
         Be Violets in their secret mews
  The flowers the wanton Zephyrs chuse;
  Proud be the Rose, with rains and dews
          Her head impearling;
  Thou liv'st with less ambitious aim,
  Yet hast not gone without thy fame;                      30
  Thou art indeed by many a claim
          The Poet's darling.

  If to a rock from rains he fly,
  Or, some bright day of April sky,
  Imprison'd by hot sunshine lie
          Near the green holly,
  And wearily at length should fare;
  He need but look about, and there
  Thou art! a Friend at hand, to scare
          His melancholy.                                  40

  A hundred times, by rock or bower,
  Ere thus I have lain couch'd an hour,
  Have I derived from thy sweet power
          Some apprehension;
  Some steady love; some brief delight;
  Some memory that had taken flight;
  Some chime of fancy wrong or right;
          Or stray invention.

  If stately passions in me burn,
  And one chance look to Thee should turn,                 50
  I drink out of an humbler urn
          A lowlier pleasure;
  The homely sympathy that heeds
  The common life, our nature breeds;
  A wisdom fitted to the needs
          Of hearts at leisure.

  When, smitten by the morning ray,
  I see thee rise alert and gay,
  Then, chearful Flower! my spirits play
          With kindred motion:                             60
  At dusk, I've seldom mark'd thee press
  The ground, as if in thankfulness,
  Without some feeling, more or less,
          Of true devotion.

  And all day long I number yet,
  All seasons through, another debt,
  Which I wherever thou art met,
          To thee am owing;
  An instinct call it, a blind sense;
  A happy, genial influence,                               70
  Coming one knows not how nor whence,
          Nor whither going.

  Child of the Year! that round dost run
  Thy course, bold lover of the sun,
  And chearful when the day's begun
          As morning Leveret,
  Thou long the Poet's praise shalt gain;
  Thou wilt be more belov'd by men
  In times to come; thou not in vain
          Art Nature's Favorite.                            80


LOUISA.

       *       *       *       *       *

  I met Louisa in the shade;
  And, having seen that lovely Maid,
  Why should I fear to say
  That she is ruddy, fleet, and strong;
  And down the rocks can leap along,
  Like rivulets in May?

  And she hath smiles to earth unknown;
  Smiles, that with motion of their own
  Do spread, and sink, and rise;
  That come and go with endless play,                      10
  And ever, as they pass away,
  Are hidden in her eyes.

  She loves her fire, her Cottage-home;
  Yet o'er the moorland will she roam
  In weather rough and bleak;
  And when against the wind she strains,
  Oh! might I kiss the mountain rains
  That sparkle on her cheek.

  Take all that's mine 'beneath the moon',
  If I with her but half a noon                            20
  May sit beneath the walls
  Of some old cave, or mossy nook,
  When up she winds along the brook,
  To hunt the waterfalls.


FIDELITY.

       *       *       *       *       *

  A barking sound the Shepherd hears,
  A cry as of a Dog or Fox;
  He halts, and searches with his eyes
  Among the scatter'd rocks:
  And now at distance can discern
  A stirring in a brake of fern;
  From which immediately leaps out
  A Dog, and yelping runs about.

  The Dog is not of mountain breed;
  It's motions, too, are wild and shy;                      10
  With something, as the Shepherd thinks,
  Unusual in its' cry:
  Nor is there any one in sight
  All round, in Hollow or on Height;
  Nor shout, nor whistle strikes his ear;
  What is the Creature doing here?

  It was a Cove, a huge Recess,
  That keeps till June December's snow;
  A lofty Precipice in front,
  A silent Tarn [1] below!                                  20
  Far in the bosom of Helvellyn,
  Remote from public Road or Dwelling,
  Pathway, or cultivated land;
  From trace of human foot or hand.

[Footnote 1: A Tarn is a small Mere or Lake mostly high up in the
mountains.]

  There, sometimes does a leaping Fish
  Send through the Tarn a lonely chear;
  The Crags repeat the Raven's croak,
  In symphony austere;
  Thither the Rainbow comes, the Cloud;
  And Mists that spread the flying shroud;                 30
  And Sun-beams; and the sounding blast,
  That, if it could, would hurry past,
  But that enormous Barrier binds it fast.

  Not knowing what to think, a while
  The Shepherd stood: then makes his way
  Towards the Dog, o'er rocks and stones,
  As quickly as he may;
  Nor far had gone before he found
  A human skeleton on the ground,
  Sad sight! the Shepherd with a sigh                      40
  Looks round, to learn the history.

  From those abrupt and perilous rocks,
  The Man had fallen, that place of fear!
  At length upon the Shepherd's mind
  It breaks, and all is clear:
  He instantly recall'd the Name,
  And who he was, and whence he came;
  Remember'd, too, the very day
  On which the Traveller pass'd this way.

  But hear a wonder now, for sake                          50
  Of which this mournful Tale I tell!
  A lasting monument of words
  This wonder merits well.
  The Dog, which still was hovering nigh,
  Repeating the same timid cry,
  This Dog had been through three months' space
  A Dweller in that savage place.

  Yes, proof was plain that since the day
  On which the Traveller thus had died
  The Dog had watch'd about the spot,                      60
  Or by his Master's side:
  How nourish'd here through such long time
  He knows, who gave that love sublime,
  And gave that strength of feeling, great
  Above all human estimate.


_SHE WAS A PHANTOM OF DELIGHT_

       *       *       *       *       *

  She was a Phantom of delight
  When first she gleam'd upon my sight;
  A lovely Apparition, sent
  To be a moment's ornament;
  Her eyes as stars of Twilight fair;
  Like Twilight's, too, her dusky hair;
  But all things else about her drawn
  From May-time and the chearful Dawn;
  A dancing Shape, an Image gay,
  To haunt, to startle, and way-lay.                       10

  I saw her upon nearer view,
  A Spirit, yet a Woman too!
  Her household motions light and free,
  And steps of virgin liberty;
  A countenance in which did meet
  Sweet records, promises as sweet;
  A Creature not too bright or good
  For human nature's daily food;
  For transient sorrows, simple wiles,
  Praise, blame, love, kisses, tears, and smiles.          20

  And now I see with eye serene
  The very pulse of the machine;
  A Being breathing thoughtful breath;
  A Traveller betwixt life and death;
  The reason firm, the temperate will,
  Endurance, foresight, strength and skill;
  A perfect Woman; nobly plann'd,
  To warn, to comfort, and command;
  And yet a Spirit still, and bright
  With something of an angel light.                        30


_The REDBREAST and the BUTTERFLY_.

  Art thou the Bird whom Man loves best,
  The pious Bird with the scarlet breast,
      Our little English Robin;
  The Bird that comes about our doors
  When Autumn winds are sobbing?
  Art thou the Peter of Norway Boors?
      Their Thomas in Finland,
      And Russia far inland?
  The Bird, whom by some name or other
  All men who know thee call their Brother,                10
  The Darling of Children and men?
  Could Father Adam open his eyes,
  And see this sight beneath the skies,
  He'd wish to close them again.

  The interest, such as it is, which
  belongs to his later stories, is
  rarely a literary
  interest. Not one of them has
  the slightest pretension to
  be termed a work of art.
  There are, at times, passages in them
      that thrill us, and
  scenes that display something
  of his old skill in description. But these
      are recollections rather than new creations.

  Cooper's fame would not have been a whit lessened,
      if every line he wrote
  after "The Chainbearer"
  had never seen the
  light.
  

  The works that came out during the remaining
  years of his life (p. 255) were "The
  Crater," published October 12, 1847;
  "Jack Tier," published March 21,
  1848; "The Oak Openings," published
  August 24 of the same year;
  "The Sea Lions," published April 10, 1849,
  and "The Ways of the Hour,"
  published April 10, 1850. Of these "Jack Tier" originally
  made its appearance in "Graham's
  Magazine" during the years 1845-1847, under the title of "The
Islets of the Gulf," and strictly stands first in the order of time.

It shares with "The Crater" the distinction of being one of the two
best of these later stories.

       It may be fair to mention that Bryant saw in it as much spirit,
energy, invention, and life-like presentation of objects and events
as in anything the author ever wrote.

    This will seem exaggerated praise
    when one reads it in connection
    with "The Red Rover," of
    which it is in some respects a feeble
    reflection. It was hard for Cooper to be
  uninteresting when once fairly launched upon the waves.

    Without denying the existence in
    "Jack Tier" of passages of marked power,
    no small share of it was merely
    a reproduction of what had been done and better done before.
    The old woman who is constantly misusing
  nautical terms is the most palpable imitation of the admiral's
widow in "The Red Rover."

    It is a cheap expedient at best, and
    must at any time be used with extreme
    moderation. Above all, it is a
    device which is abused the very moment
    it is repeated. As displayed in "Jack Tier,"
  it is simply unendurable.And, thus continuing, she said,
    "I had a Son, who many a day                           20
    Sail'd on the seas; but he is dead;
    In Denmark he was cast away;
    And I have been as far as Hull, to see
  What clothes he might have left, or other property."

    "The Bird and Cage they both were his;
    'Twas my Son's Bird; and neat and trim
    He kept it: many voyages
    This Singing-bird hath gone with him;
    When last he sail'd he left the Bird behind;
  As it might be, perhaps, from bodings of his mind."      30

    "He to a Fellow-lodger's care
    Had left it, to be watch'd and fed,
    Till he came back again; and there
    I found it when my Son was dead;
    And now, God help me for my little wit!
  I trail it with me, Sir! he took so much delight in it."


_TO THE SMALL CELANDINE_
           [Footnote: Common Pilewort.]

       *       *       *       *       *

  Pansies, Lilies, Kingcups, Daisies,
  Let them live upon their praises;
  Long as there's a sun that sets
  Primroses will have their glory;
  Long as there are Violets,
  They will have a place in story:
  There's a flower that shall be mine,
  'Tis the little Celandine.

  Eyes of some men travel far
  For the finding of a star;                               10
  Up and down the heavens they go,
  Men that keep a mighty rout!
  I'm as great as they, I trow,
  Since the day I found thee out,
  Little flower!--I'll make a stir
  Like a great Astronomer.

  Modest, yet withal an Elf
  Bold, and lavish of thyself,
  Since we needs must first have met
  I have seen thee, high and low,                          20
  Thirty years or more, and yet
  'Twas a face I did not know;
  Thou hast now, go where I may,
  Fifty greetings in a day.

  Ere a leaf is on a bush,
  In the time before the Thrush
  Has a thought about it's nest,
  Thou wilt come with half a call,
  Spreading out thy glossy breast
  Like a careless Prodigal;                                20
  Telling tales about the sun,
  When we've little warmth, or none.

  Poets, vain men in their mood!
  Travel with the multitude;
  Never heed them; I aver
  That they all are wanton Wooers;
  But the thrifty Cottager,
  Who stirs little out of doors,
  Joys to spy thee near her home,
  Spring is coming, Thou art come!                         During the year he had spent in the merchant vessel he had seen a
good deal of hard service.

  His preparatory studies having
  been completed after a
  fashion, he now regularly entered
  the navy. His commission as
  midshipman bears (p. 011) date
  the 1st of January, 1808.
  Ill befal the yellow Flowers,
  Children of the flaring hours!                           50
  Buttercups, that will be seen,
  Whether we will see or no;
  Others, too, of lofty mien;
  They have done as worldlings do,
  Taken praise that should be thine,
  Little, humble Celandine!

