This eBook was produced by Chetan Jain.


THE GARDENER


[Frontispiece: Rabindranath Tagore.  Age 16--see tagore.jpg]


THE GARDENER


By

Rabindranath Tagore


Translated by the author from the original Bengali


1915


To

W. B. Yeats


Thanks are due to the editor of _Poetry, a Magazine of Verse_,
for permission to reprint eight poems in this volume.


Preface


Most of the lyrics of love and life, the translations of which
from Bengali are published in this book, were written much
earlier than the series of religious poems contained in the book
named _Gitanjali_.  The translations are not always literal--
the originals being sometimes abridged and sometimes
paraphrased.


Rabindranath Tagore.


1


SERVANT.  Have mercy upon your servant, my queen!

QUEEN.  The assembly is over and my servants are all gone.  Why
  do you come at this late hour?

SERVANT.  When you have finished with others, that is my time.
I come to ask what remains for your last servant to do.

QUEEN.  What can you expect when it is too late?

SERVANT.  Make me the gardener of your flower garden.

QUEEN.  What folly is this?

SERVANT.  I will give up my other work.
I will throw my swords and lances down in the dust.  Do not send
  me to distant courts; do not bid me undertake new conquests.
  But make me the gardener of your flower garden.

QUEEN.  What will your duties be?

SERVANT.  The service of your idle days.
I will keep fresh the grassy path where you walk in the morning,
  where your feet will be greeted with praise at every step by
  the flowers eager for death.
I will swing you in a swing among the branches of the
  _saptaparna_, where the early evening moon will struggle
  to kiss your skirt through the leaves.
I will replenish with scented oil the lamp that burns by your
  bedside, and decorate your footstool with sandal and saffron
  paste in wondrous designs.

QUEEN.  What will you have for your reward?

SERVANT.  To be allowed to hold your little fists like tender
  lotus-buds and slip flower chains over your wrists; to tinge
  the soles of your feet with the red juice of _ashoka_
  petals and kiss away the speck of dust that may chance to
  linger there.

QUEEN.  Your prayers are granted, my servant, you will be the
  gardener of my flower garden.


2


"Ah, poet, the evening draws near; your hair is turning grey.
"Do you in your lonely musing hear the message of the hereafter?"

"It is evening," the poet said, "and I am listening because some
  one may call from the village, late though it be.
"I watch if young straying hearts meet together, and two pairs of
  eager eyes beg for music to break their silence and speak for
  them.
"Who is there to weave their passionate songs, if I sit on the
  shore of life and contemplate death and the beyond?

"The early evening star disappears.
"The glow of a funeral pyre slowly dies by the silent river.
"Jackals cry in chorus from the courtyard of the deserted house
  in the light of the worn-out moon.
"If some wanderer, leaving home, come here to watch the night and
  with bowed head listen to the murmur of the darkness, who is
  there to whisper the secrets of life into his ears if I,
  shutting my doors, should try to free myself from mortal bonds?

"It is a trifle that my hair is turning grey.
"I am ever as young or as old as the youngest and the oldest of
  this village.
"Some have smiles, sweet and simple, and some a sly twinkle in
  their eyes.
"Some have tears that well up in the daylight, and others tears
  that are hidden in the gloom.
They all have need for me, and I have no time to brood over the
  afterlife.
"I am of an age with each, what matter if my hair turns grey?"


3


In the morning I cast my net into the sea.
I dragged up from the dark abyss things of strange aspect and
  strange beauty--some shone like a smile, some glistened like
  tears, and some were flushed like the cheeks of a bride.
When with the day's burden I went home, my love was sitting in
  the garden idly tearing the leaves of a flower.
I hesitated for a moment, and then placed at her feet all that I
  had dragged up, and stood silent.
She glanced at them and said, "What strange things are these?  I
  know not of what use they are!"
I bowed my head in shame and thought, "I have not fought for
  these, I did not buy them in the market; they are not fit gifts
  for her."
Then the whole night through I flung them one by one into the
  street.
In the morning travellers came; they picked them up and carried
  them into far countries.


4


Ah me, why did they build my house by the road to the market
  town?
They moor their laden boats near my trees.
They come and go and wander at their will.
I sit and watch them; my time wears on.
Turn them away I cannot.  And thus my days pass by.

Night and day their steps sound by my door.
Vainly I cry, "I do not know you."
Some of them are known to my fingers, some to my nostrils, the
  blood in my veins seems to know them, and some are known to my
  dreams.
Turn them away I cannot.  I call them and say, "Come to my house
  whoever chooses.  Yes, come."

In the morning the bell rings in the temple.
They come with their baskets in their hands.
Their feet are rosy red.  The early light of dawn is on their
  faces.
Turn them away I cannot.  I call them and I say, "Come to my
  garden to gather flowers.  Come hither."

In the mid-day the gong sounds at the palace gate.
I know not why they leave their work and linger near my hedge.
The flowers in their hair are pale and faded; the notes are
  languid in their flutes.
Turn them away I cannot.  I call them and say, "The shade is cool
  under my trees.  Come, friends."

At night the crickets chirp in the woods.
Who is it that comes slowly to my door and gently knocks?
I vaguely see the face, not a word is spoken, the stillness of
  the sky is all around.
Turn away my silent guest I cannot.  I look at the face through
  the dark, and hours of dreams pass by.


5


I am restless.  I am athirst for far-away things.
My soul goes out in a longing to touch the skirt of the dim
  distance.
O Great Beyond, O the keen call of thy flute!
I forget, I ever forget, that I have no wings to fly, that I am
  bound in this spot evermore.

I am eager and wakeful, I am a stranger in a strange land.
Thy breath comes to me whispering an impossible hope.
Thy tongue is known to my heart as its very own.
O Far-to-seek, O the keen call of thy flute!
I forget, I ever forget, that I know not the way, that I have not
  the winged horse.

I am listless, I am a wanderer in my heart.
In the sunny haze of the languid hours, what vast vision of thine
  takes shape in the blue of the sky!
O Farthest end, O the keen call of thy flute!
I forget, I ever forget, that the gates are shut everywhere in
  the house where I dwell alone!


6


The tame bird was in a cage, the free bird was in the forest.
They met when the time came, it was a decree of fate.
The free bird cries, "O my love, let us fly to wood."
The cage bird whispers, "Come hither, let us both live in the
  cage."
Says the free bird, "Among bars, where is there room to spread
  one's wings?"
"Alas," cries the cage bird, "I should not know where to sit
  perched in the sky."

The free bird cries, "My darling, sing the songs of the
  woodlands."
The cage bird says, "Sit by my side, I'll teach you the speech of
  the learned."
The forest bird cries, "No, ah no! songs can never be taught."
The cage bird says, "Alas for me, I know not the songs of the
  woodlands."

Their love is intense with longing, but they never can fly wing
  to wing.
Through the bars of the cage they look, and vain is their wish to
  know each other.
They flutter their wings in yearning, and sing, "Come closer, my
  love!"
The free bird cries, "It cannot be, I fear the closed doors of
  the cage."
The cage bird whispers, "Alas, my wings are powerless and dead."


7


O mother, the young Prince is to pass by our door,--how can I
  attend to my work this morning?
Show me how to braid up my hair; tell me what garment to put on.
Why do you look at me amazed, mother?
I know well he will not glance up once at my window; I know he
  will pass out of my sight in the twinkling of an eye; only the
  vanishing strain of the flute will come sobbing to me from
  afar.
But the young Prince will pass by our door, and I will put on my
  best for the moment.

O mother, the young Prince did pass by our door, and the morning
  sun flashed from his chariot.
I swept aside the veil from my face, I tore the ruby chain from
  my neck and flung it in his path.
Why do you look at me amazed, mother?
I know well he did not pick up my chain; I know it was crushed
  under his wheels leaving a red stain upon the dust, and no one
  knows what my gift was nor to whom.
But the young Prince did pass by our door, and I flung the jewel
  from my breast before his path.


8


When the lamp went out by my bed I woke up with the early birds.
I sat at my open window with a fresh wreath on my loose hair.
The young traveller came along the road in the rosy mist of the
  morning.
A pearl chain was on his neck, and the sun's rays fell on his
  crown.  He stopped before my door and asked me with an eager
  cry, "Where is she?"
For very shame I could not say, "She is I, young traveller, she
  is I."

It was dusk and the lamp was not lit.
I was listlessly braiding my hair.
The young traveller came on his chariot in the glow of the
  setting sun.
His horses were foaming at the mouth, and there was dust on his
  garment.
He alighted at my door and asked in a tired voice, "Where is
  she?"
For very shame I could not say, "She is I, weary traveller, she
  is I."

It is an April night.  The lamp is burning in my room.
The breeze of the south comes gently.  The noisy parrot sleeps in
  its cage.
My bodice is of the colour of the peacock's throat, and my mantle
  is green as young grass.
I sit upon the floor at the window watching the deserted street.
Through the dark night I keep humming, "She is I, despairing
  traveller, she is I."


9


When I go alone at night to my love-tryst, birds do not sing, the
  wind does not stir, the houses on both sides of the street
  stand silent.
It is my own anklets that grow loud at every step and I am
  ashamed.

When I sit on my balcony and listen for his footsteps, leaves do
  not rustle on the trees, and the water is still in the river
  like the sword on the knees of a sentry fallen asleep.
It is my own heart that beats wildly--I do not know how to quiet
  it.

When my love comes and sits by my side, when my body trembles and
  my eyelids droop, the night darkens, the wind blows out the
  lamp, and the clouds draw veils over the stars.
It is the jewel at my own breast that shines and gives light.  I
  do not know how to hide it.


10


Let your work be, bride.  Listen, the guest has come.
Do you hear, he is gently shaking the chain which fastens the
  door?
See that your anklets make no loud noise, and that your step is
  not over-hurried at meeting him.
Let your work be, bride, the guest has come in the evening.

No, it is not the ghostly wind, bride, do not be frightened.
It is the full moon on a night of April; shadows are pale in the
  courtyard; the sky overhead is bright.
Draw your veil over your face if you must, carry the lamp to the
  door if you fear.
No, it is not the ghostly wind, bride, do not be frightened.

Have no word with him if you are shy; stand aside by the door
  when you meet him.
If he asks you questions, and if you wish to, you can lower your
  eyes in silence.
Do not let your bracelets jingle when, lamp in hand, you lead him
  in.
Have no word with him if you are shy.

Have you not finished your work yet, bride?  Listen, the guest
  has come.
Have you not lit the lamp in the cowshed?
Have you not got ready the offering basket for the evening
  service?
Have you not put the red lucky mark at the parting of your hair,
  and done your toilet for the night?
O bride, do you hear, the guest has come?
Let your work be!


11


Come as you are; do not loiter over your toilet.
If your braided hair has loosened, if the parting of your hair be
  not straight, if the ribbons of your bodice be not fastened, do
  not mind.
Come as you are; do not loiter over your toilet.

Come, with quick steps over the grass.
If the raddle come from your feet because of the dew, if the
  rings of bells upon your feet slacken, if pearls drop out of
  your chain, do not mind.
Come with quick steps over the grass.

Do you see the clouds wrapping the sky?
Flocks of cranes fly up from the further river-bank and fitful
  gusts of wind rush over the heath.
The anxious cattle run to their stalls in the village.
Do you see the clouds wrapping the sky?

In vain you light your toilet lamp--it flickers and goes out in
  the wind.
Who can know that your eyelids have not been touched with lamp-
  black?  For your eyes are darker than rain-clouds.
In vain you light your toilet lamp--it goes out.

Come as you are; do not loiter over your toilet.
If the wreath is not woven, who cares; if the wrist-chain has not
  been linked, let it be.
The sky is overcast with clouds--it is late.
Come as you are; do not loiter over your toilet.


12


If you would be busy and fill your pitcher, come, O come to my
  lake.
The water will cling round your feet and babble its secret.
The shadow of the coming rain is on the sands, and the clouds
  hang low upon the blue lines of the trees like the heavy hair
  above your eyebrows.
I know well the rhythm of your steps, they are beating in my
  heart.
Come, O come to my lake, if you must fill your pitcher.

If you would be idle and sit listless and let your pitcher float
  on the water, come, O come to my lake.
The grassy slope is green, and the wild flowers beyond number.
Your thoughts will stray out of your dark eyes like birds from
  their nests.
Your veil will drop to your feet.
Come, O come to my lake if you must sit idle.

If you would leave off your play and dive in the water, come, O
  come to my lake.
Let your blue mantle lie on the shore; the blue water will cover
  you and hide you.
The waves will stand a-tiptoe to kiss your neck and whisper in
  your ears.
Come, O come to my lake, if you would dive in the water.

If you must be mad and leap to your death, come, O come to my
  lake.
It is cool and fathomlessly deep.
It is dark like a sleep that is dreamless.
There in its depths nights and days are one, and songs are
  silence.
Come, O come to my lake, if you would plunge to your death.


13


I asked nothing, only stood at the edge of the wood behind the
  tree.
Languor was still upon the eyes of the dawn, and the dew in the
  air.
The lazy smell of the damp grass hung in the thin mist above the
  earth.
Under the banyan tree you were milking the cow with your hands,
  tender and fresh as butter.
And I was standing still.

I did not say a word.  It was the bird that sang unseen from the
  thicket.
The mango tree was shedding its flowers upon the village road,
  and the bees came humming one by one.
On the side of the pond the gate of _Shiva's_ temple was
  opened and the worshipper had begun his chants.
With the vessel on your lap you were milking the cow.
I stood with my empty can.

I did not come near you.
The sky woke with the sound of the gong at the temple.
The dust was raised in the road from the hoofs of the driven
  cattle.
With the gurgling pitchers at their hips, women came from the
  river.
Your bracelets were jingling, and foam brimming over the jar.
The morning wore on and I did not come near you.


14


I was walking by the road, I do not know why, when the noonday
  was past and bamboo branches rustled in the wind.
The prone shadows with their out-stretched arms clung to the feet
  of the hurrying light.
The _koels_ were weary of their songs.
I was walking by the road, I do not know why.

The hut by the side of the water is shaded by an overhanging
  tree.
Some one was busy with her work, and her bangles made music in
  the corner.
I stood before this hut, I know not why.

The narrow winding road crosses many a mustard field, and many a
  mango forest.
It passes by the temple of the village and the market at the
  river landing place.
I stopped by this hut, I do not know why.

Years ago it was a day of breezy March when the murmur of the
  spring was languorous, and mango blossoms were dropping on the
  dust.
The rippling water leapt and licked the brass vessel that stood
  on the landing step.
I think of that day of breezy March, I do not know why.

Shadows are deepening and cattle returning to their folds.
The light is grey upon the lonely meadows, and the villagers are
  waiting for the ferry at the bank.
I slowly return upon my steps, I do not know why.


15


I run as a musk-deer runs in the shadow of the forest mad with
  his own perfume.
The night is the night of mid-May, the breeze is the breeze of
  the south.
I lose my way and I wander, I seek what I cannot get, I get what
  I do not seek.

From my heart comes out and dances the image of my own desire.
The gleaming vision flits on.
I try to clasp it firmly, it eludes me and leads me astray.
I seek what I cannot get, I get what I do not seek.


16


Hands cling to hands and eyes linger on eyes: thus begins the
  record of our hearts.
It is the moonlit night of March; the sweet smell of _henna_
  is in the air; my flute lies on the earth neglected and your
  garland of flowers in unfinished.
This love between you and me is simple as a song.

Your veil of the saffron colour makes my eyes drunk.
The jasmine wreath that you wove me thrills to my heart like
  praise.
It is a game of giving and withholding, revealing and screening
  again; some smiles and some little shyness, and some sweet
  useless struggles.
This love between you and me is simple as a song.

No mystery beyond the present; no striving for the impossible; no
  shadow behind the charm; no groping in the depth of the dark.
This love between you and me is simple as a song.

We do not stray out of all words into the ever silent; we do not
  raise our hands to the void for things beyond hope.
It is enough what we give and we get.
We have not crushed the joy to the utmost to wring from it the
  wine of pain.
This love between you and me is simple as a song.


17


The yellow bird sings in their tree and makes my heart dance with
  gladness.
We both live in the same village, and that is our one piece of
  joy.
Her pair of pet lambs come to graze in the shade of our garden
  trees.
If they stray into our barley field, I take them up in my arms.
The name of our village is Khanjan\u0101, and Anjan\u0101 they call our
  river.
My name is known to all the village, and her name is Ranjan\u0101.

Only one field lies between us.
Bees that have hived in our grove go to seek honey in theirs.
Flowers launched from their landing-stairs come floating by the
  stream where we bathe.
Baskets of dried _kusm_ flowers come from their fields to
  our market.
The name of our village is Khanjan\u0101, and Anjan\u0101 they call our
  river.
My name is known to all the village, and her name is Ranjan\u0101.

