"I'll say I know something! A sight more than Whit Monk dreams I
know--as he'll find out to his sorrow before he's finished with Tom
Mussey."

"But"--obliquely Lanyard struck again at the heart of the mystery which
he found so baffling--"you seem so well satisfied with the bona fides
of your informant?"

There was a sound of stertorous breathing as the intelligence behind
the mutter grappled with this utterance. Then, as if the hint had
proved too fine--"I'm playing my hand face up with you, Mr. Lanyard. I
guess you can tell I know what I'm talking about."

"But what I cannot see is why you should talk about it to me,
monsieur."

"Why, because I and you are both in the same boat, in a manner of
speaking. We're both on the outside--shut out--looking in."

In a sort of mental aside, Lanyard reflected that mixed bathing for
metaphors was apparently countenanced under the code of cynics.

"Does one gather that you feel aggrieved with Captain Monk for not
making you a partner in his new associations?"

"For trying to put one over on me, an old pal... stood by him through
thick and thin... would've gone through fire for Whit Monk, and in my
way I have, many's the time. And now he hooks up with Phinuit and this
Delorme woman, and leaves me to shuffle my feet on the doormat... and
thinks I'll let him get away with it."

The voice in the dark gave a grunt of infinite contempt: "Like hell..."

"I understand your feelings, monsieur; and I ask you to believe in my
sympathy. But you said--if I remember--that we were in the same boat,
you and I; whereas I assure you Captain Monk has not abused my
friendship, since he has never had it."

"I know that well enough," said the mutter. "I don't mean you've got my
reasons for feeling sore; but I do mean you've got reason enough of
your own--"

"On what grounds do you say that?"

Another deliberate pause prefaced the reply: "You said a while ago I
knew something. Well--you said it. I and you've both been frozen out of
this deal and we're both meaning to take a hand whether they like it or
not. If that don't put us in the same boat I don't know..."

Perceiving he would get no more satisfaction, Lanyard schooled himself
to be politic for the time being.

"Say it is so, then... But I think you have something to propose."

"It's simple enough: When two people find themselves in the same boat
they've got to pull together if they want to get anywhere."

"You propose, then, an alliance?"

"That's the answer. Without you I can't do anything but kick over the
applecart for Whit Monk; and that sort of revenge is mighty
unsatisfactory. Without me--well: what can you do? I know you can get
that tin safe of Whit's open, when you feel like it, get the jewels and
all; but what show do you stand to get away with them? That is, unless
you've got somebody working in with you on board the ship. See here..."

The mutter sank into a husky whisper, and in order to be heard the
speaker bent so low over Lanyard that fumes of whiskey almost
suffocated the poor man in his bed.

"You've got a head, you've had experience, you know how... Well, go to
it: make your plans, consult with me, get everything fixed, lift the
loot; I'll stand by, fix up everything so's your work will go through
slick, see that you don't get hurt, stow the jewels where they won't be
found; and when it's all over, we'll split fifty-fifty. What d'you say?"

"Extremely ingenious, monsieur, but unfortunately impracticable."

"That's the last thing," stated the disappointed whisper, "I ever
thought a man like you would say."

"But it is obvious. We do not know each other."

"You mean, you can't trust me?"

"For that matter: how can you be sure you can trust me?"

"Oh, I guess I can size up a square guy when I see him."

"Many thanks. But why should I trust you, when you will not even be
quite frank with me?"

"How's that? Haven't I----"

"One moment: you refuse to name the source of your astonishingly
detailed information concerning this affair--myself included. You wish
me to believe you simply assume I am at odds with Captain Monk and his
friends. I admit it is true. But how should you know it? Ah, no, my
friend! either you will tell me how you learned this secret, or I must
beg you to let me get my sleep."

"That's easy. I heard Whit and Phinuit talking about you the other
night, on deck, when they didn't think anybody was listening."

Lanyard smiled into the darkness: no need to fret about fair play
toward this one! The truth was not in him, and by the same token the
traditional honour that obtains among thieves could not be.

He said, as if content, in the manner of a practical man dismissing all
immaterial considerations:

"As you say, the time is brief..."

"It'll have to be pulled off to-morrow night or not at all," the mutter
urged with an eager accent.

"My thought, precisely. For then we come to land, do we not?"

"Yes, and it'll have to be not long after dark. We ought to drop the
hook at midnight. Then"--the mutter was broken with hopeful
anxiety--"then you've decided you'll stand in with me, Mr. Lanyard?"

"But of course! What else can one do? As you have so fairly pointed
out: what is either of us without the other?"

"And it's understood: you're to lift the stuff, I'm to take care of it
till we can slip ashore, we're to make our getaway together--and the
split's to be fifty-fifty, fair and square?"

"I ask nothing better."

"Where's your hand?"

Two hands found each other blindly and exchanged a firm and inspiring
clasp--while Lanyard gave thanks for the night that saved his face from
betraying his mind.

Another deep sigh sounded a note of apprehensions at an end. A gruff
chuckle followed.

"Whit Monk! He'll learn something about the way to treat old friends."
And all at once the mutter merged into a vindictive hiss: "Him with his
airs and graces, his fine clothes and greasy manners, putting on the
lah-de-dah over them that's stood by him when he hadn't a red and was
glad to cadge drinks off spiggoties in hells like the Colonel's at
Colon--him!"

But Lanyard had been listening only with his ears; he hadn't the
slightest interest in Mr. Mussey's resentment of the affectations of
Captain Monk. For now his mad scheme had suddenly assumed a complexion
of comparative simplicity; given the co-operation of the chief
engineer, all Lanyard would need to contribute would be a little
headwork, a little physical exertion, a little daring--and complete
indifference, which was both well warranted and already his, to abusing
the confidence of Mr. Mussey.

"But about this affair to-morrow night," he interrupted impatiently:
"attend to me a little, if you please, my friend. Can you give me any
idea where we are, or will, approximately, at midnight to-night?"

"What's that go to do----?"

"Perhaps I ask only for my own information. But it may be that I have a
plan. If we are to work together harmoniously, Mr. Mussey, you must
learn to have a little confidence in me."

"Beg your pardon," said an humble mutter. "We ought to be somewhere off
Nantucket Shoals Lightship."

"And the weather: have you sufficient acquaintance with these latitudes
to foretell it, even roughly?"

"Born and brought up in Edgartown, made my first voyage on a tramp out
of New Bedford: guess I know something about the weather in these
latitudes! The wind's been hauling round from sou'west to south all
day. If it goes on to sou'east, it'll likely be thick to-morrow, with
little wind, no sea to speak of, and either rain or fog."

"So! Now to do what I will have to do, I must have ten minutes of
absolute darkness. Can that be arranged?"

"Absolute darkness?" The mutter had a rising inflexion of dubiety. "How
d'you mean?"

"Complete extinguishing of every light on the ship."

"My God!" the mutter protested. "Do you know what that means? No lights
at night, under way, in main-travelled waters! Why, by nightfall we ought
to be off Block Island, in traffic as heavy as on Fifth Avenue! No: that's
too much."

"Too bad," Lanyard uttered, philosophic. "And the thing could have been
done."

"Isn't there some other way?"

"Not with lights to hamper my operations. But if some temporary
accident were to put the dynamoes out of commission--figure to yourself
what would happen."

"There'd be hell to pay."

"Ah! but what else?"

"The engines would have to be slowed down so as to give no more than
steerage-way until oil lamps could be substituted for the binnacle,
masthead, and side-lights, also for the engine room."

"And there would be excitement and confusion, eh? Everybody would make
for the deck, even the captain would leave his cabin unguarded long
enough..."

"I get you"--with a sigh. "It's wrong, all wrong, but--well, I suppose
it's got to be done."

Lanyard treated himself to a smile of triumph, there in the darkness.


XXVI

THE BINNACLE


It would have been ungrateful (Lanyard reflected over his breakfast) to
complain of a life so replete with experiences of piquant contrast.

It happened to one to lie for hours in a cubicle of blinding night,
hearkening to a voice like that of some nightmare weirdly become
articulate, a ghostly mutter that rose and fell and droned, broken by
sighs, grunts, stifled oaths, mean chuckles, with intervals of husky
whispering and lapses filled with a noise of wheezing respiration, all
wheedling and cajoling, lying, intimating and evading, complaining,
snarling, rambling, threatening, protesting, promising, and in the end
proposing an unholy compact for treachery and evil-doing--a voice that
might have issued out of some damned soul escaped for a little space of
time from the Pits of Torment, so utterly inhuman it sounded, so
completely discarnate and divorced from all relationship to any mortal
personality that even that reek of whiskey in the air, even that one
contact with a hard, hot hand, could not make it seem real.

And then it ceased and was no more but as a thing of dream that had
passed. And one came awake to a light and wholesome world furnished
with such solidly comforting facts as soaps and razors and hot and cold
saltwater taps; and subsequently one left one's stateroom to see, at
the breakfast table, leaden-eyed and flushed of countenance, an
amorphous lump of humid flesh in shapeless garments of soiled white
duck, the author of that mutter in the dark; who, lounging over a plate
of broken food and lifting a coffee cup in the tremulous hand of an
alcoholic, looked up with lacklustre gaze, gave a surly nod, and
mumbled the customary matutinal greeting:

"'Morning, Monseer Delorme."

It was all too weird....

To add to this, the chief engineer paid Lanyard no further heed at all,
though they were alone at table, and having noisily consumed his
coffee, rubbed his stubbled lips and chin with an egg-stained napkin,
rose, and without word or glance rolled heavily up the companionway.

The conduct of a careful man, accustomed to mind his eye. And
indisputably correct. One never knew who might be watching, what
slightest sign of secret understanding might not be seized upon and
read. Furthermore, Mr. Mussey had not stilled his mutter in the night
until their joint and individual lines of action had been elaborately
mapped out and agreed upon down to the smallest detail. It now remained
only for Lanyard to fill in somehow the waste time that lay between
breakfast and the hour appointed, then take due advantage of the
opportunity promised him.

He found the day making good Mr. Mussey's forecast. Under a dull, thick
sky the sea ran in heavy swells, greasy and grey. The wind was in the
south, and light and shifty. The horizon was vague. Captain Monk,
encountered on the quarterdeck, had an uneasy eye, and cursed the
weather roundly when Lanyard made civil enquiry as to the outlook. Ça
va bien!

Lanyard killed an hour or two in the chartroom, acquainting himself
with the coast they were approaching and tracing the Sybarite's
probable course toward the spot selected from the smuggling
transaction. His notion of the precise location of the owner's estate
was rather indefinite; he had gathered from gossip that it was on the
Connecticut shore of Long Island Sound, between New London and New
Haven, where a group of small islands--also the property of Mister
Whitaker Monk--provided fair anchorage between Sound and shore as well
as a good screen from offshore observation.

It was not vital to know more: Lanyard had neither hope nor fear of
ever seeing that harbour. It was the approach alone that interested
him; and when he had puzzled out that there were only two practicable
courses for the Sybarite to take--both bearing in a general
north-westerly direction from Nantucket Shoals Light Vessel, one
entering Block Island Sound from the east, between Point Judith and
Block Island, the other entering the same body of water from the south,
between Block Island and Montauk Point--and had satisfied himself that
manifold perils to navigation hedged about both courses, more
especially their prolongation into Long Island Sound by way of The
Race: Lanyard told himself it would be strange indeed if his plans
miscarried ... always providing that Mr. Mussey could be trusted to
hold to his overnight agreement.

But as to that, one entertained few fears. One felt quite sure that Mr.
Mussey would perform duly to the letter of his covenant. It had
required only an hour of weighing and analysing with a clear head his
overtures and utterances as a whole, to persuade Lanyard that he
himself, no less than the chief engineer, in the phrase of the latter's
boast, "knew something."

It seemed unbelievably stupid and childish, what he imagined was behind
the gratuitous intermeddling of Mr. Mussey; but then, he reminded
himself, if there is anything more stupid than to plot a criminal act,
it is to permit oneself to be influenced by that criminal stupidity
whose other name is jealousy.

Well, whether he were right or wrong, the night would declare it; and
in any event there was no excuse whatever for refusing to profit by the
stupidity of men whose minds are bent on vicious mischief....

The weather thickened as the day grew older. Towards noon the wind, as
if weary and discouraged with vain endeavour to make up its mind to
blow from this quarter or that, died away altogether. At the same time
the horizon appeared to close in perceptibly; what little definition it
had had in earlier hours was erased; and the Sybarite, shearing the
oily and lifeless waters of a dead calm, seemed less to make progress
than to struggle sullenly in a pool of quicksilver at the bottom of a
slowly revolving sphere of clouded glass, mutinously aware that all her
labouring wrought no sort of gain.

After an hour of this, Captain Monk, on the bridge with Mr. Swain,
arrived at a decision of exasperation. Through the engine-room
ventilators a long jingle of the telegraph was heard; and directly the
Sybarite's pulses began to beat in quicker tempo, while darker volutes
of smoke rolled in dense volume from her funnel and streamed away
astern, resting low and preserving their individuality as long as
visible, like a streak of oxidization on a field of frosted silver. For
the first time since she had left the harbour of Cherbourg the yacht
was doing herself something like justice in the matter of speed--and
this contrary to all ethics of seamanship, on such a day.

At the luncheon table, Phinuit ventured a light-headed comment on this
dangerous procedure; whereupon Monk turned on him in a cold fury.

"As long as I'm master of this vessel, sir, I'll sail her according to
the counsels of my own discretion--and thank you to keep your
animadversions to yourself!"

"Animadversions!" Phinuit echoed, and made round, shocked eyes. "Oh, I
never! At least, I didn't mean anything naughty, skipper dear."

Monk snorted, and grumbled over his food throughout the remainder of
the meal; but later, coming upon a group composed of Liane Delorme,
Lanyard and Phinuit, in the saloon, he paused, looked this way and that
to make sure none of the stewards was within eavesdropping distance,
and graciously unbent a little.

"I'm making the best time we can while we can see at all," he
volunteered. "No telling when this misbegotten fog will close in and
force us to slow down to half-speed or less--in crowded waters, too!"

"And very sensible, I'm sure," Phinuit agreed heartily. "Whatever
happens, we musn't be late for our date with Friend Boss, must we?"

"We'll keep it," Monk promised grimly, "if we have to feel every inch
of our way in with the lead. I don't mind telling you, this fog may
save our skins at that. Wireless has been picking up chatter all
morning between a regular school of revenue cutters patrolling this
coast on the lookout for just such idiots as we are. So we'll carry on
and trust to luck till we make Monk Harbour or break our fool necks."

Liane Delorme gave a start of dismay.

"There is danger, then?"

"Only if we run afoul of a cutter, Liane." Monk tried to speak
reassuringly. "And that's not likely in this weather. As for the fog,
it's a dirty nuisance to any navigator but, as I said, may quite
possibly prove our salvation. I know these waters like a book, I've
sailed them ever since I was old enough to tell a tiller from a
mainsheet. I can smell my way in, if it comes to that, through the
blindest fog the Atlantic ever brewed."

"Then you do things with your nostrils, too?" Phinuit enquired
innocently. "I've often wondered if all the intellect was located in
the eyebrows."

Monk glared, growled, and hastily sought the air of the deck. Liane
Delorme eyed Phinuit with amused reproach.

"Really, my young friend!"

"I can't help it, mademoiselle," Phinuit asserted sulkily. "Too much is
enough. I've watched him making faces with the top of his head so long
I dream of geometrical diagrams laid out in eyebrows--and wake up
screaming. And they call this a pleasure craft!"

With an aggrieved air he sucked at his pipe for a few minutes.
"Besides," he added suddenly, "somebody's got to be comic relief, and I
don't notice anybody else in a sweat to be the Life and Soul of the
ship."

He favoured Lanyard with a morose stare. "Why don't you ever put your
shoulder to the wheel, Lanyard? Why leave it all to me? Come on; be a
sport, cut a caper, crack a wheeze, do something to get a giggle!"

"But I am by no means sure you do not laugh at me too much, as it is."

"Rot!... Tell you what." Phinuit sat up with a gleaming eye of
inspiration. "You can entertain mademoiselle and me no end, if you
like. Spill the glad tidings."

"Glad tidings?"

"Now don't monkey with the eyebrows--_please!_ It gives me the
willies... I merely mean to point out, to-day's the day you promised to
come through with the awful decision. And there's no use waiting for
Monk to join us; he's too much worried about his nice little ship. Tell
mademoiselle and me now."

Lanyard shook his head, smiling. "But the time I set was when we made
our landfall."

"Well, what's the matter with Martha's Vineyard over there? You could
see if it was a clear day."

"But it is not a clear day."

"Suppose it gets thicker, a sure-enough fog? We may not see land before
midnight."

"Then till midnight we must wait. No, Monsieur Phinuit, I will not be
hurried. I have been thinking, I am still thinking, and there is still
much to be said before I can come to any decision that will be fair to
you, mademoiselle, the captain on the one hand, myself on the other."

"But at midnight, if the skipper's promise holds good, we'll be going
ashore."

"The objection is well taken. My answer will be communicated when we
see land or at eleven o'clock to-night, whichever is the earlier
event."

Some further effort at either persuasion or impudence--nobody but
Phinuit ever knew which--was drowned out by the first heart-broken
bellow of the whistle sounding the fog signal.

Liane Delorme bounded out of her chair, clapping hands to ears, and
uttered an unheard cry of protest; and when, the noise suspending
temporarily, she learned that it was to be repeated at intervals of two
minutes as long as the fog lasted and the yacht was under way, she flung
up piteous hands to an uncompassionate heaven and fled to her stateroom,
slamming the door as if she thought thereby to shut out the offending din.

One fancied something inhumanly derisive in the prolonged hoot which
replied.

Rather than languish under the burden of Mr. Phinuit's spirited
conversation for the rest of the afternoon, Lanyard imitated Liane's
example, and wasted the next hour and a half flat on his bed, with eyes
closed but mind very much alive. Now and again he consulted his watch,
as one might with an important appointment to keep. At two minutes to
four he left his stateroom, and as the first stroke of eight bells rang
out--in one of the measured intervals between blasts of the
whistle--ending the afternoon watch, he stepped out on deck, and paused
for a survey of the weather conditions.

There was no perceptible motion in the air, witnessing that the wind
had come in from astern, that is to say approximately from the
southeast, and was blowing at about the speed made by the yacht itself.
The fog clung about the vessel, Lanyard thought, like dull grey cotton
wool. Yet, if the shuddering of her fabric were fair criterion, the
pace of the Sybarite was unabated, she was ploughing headlong through
that dense obscurity using the utmost power of her engines. From time
to time, when the whistle was still, the calls of seamen operating the
sounding machine could be heard; but their reports were monotonously
uniform, the waters were not yet shoal enough for the lead to find
bottom at that pace.

The watch was being changed as Lanyard started forward, with the tail
of an eye on the bridge. Mr. Collison relieved Mr. Swain, and the
latter came down the companion-ladder just in time to save Lanyard a
nasty spill as his feet slipped on planking greasy with globules of
fog. There's no telling how bad a fall he might not have suffered had
not Mr. Swain been there for him to catch at; and for a moment or two
Lanyard was, as Mr. Swain put it with great good-nature, all over him,
clinging to the first officer in a most demonstrative manner; and it
was with some difficulty that he at length recovered his equilibrium.
Then, however, he laid hold of the rail for insurance against further
mishaps, thanked Mr. Swain heartily, added his apologies, and the two
parted with expressions of mutual esteem.

The incident seemed to have dampened Lanyard's ardour for exercise. He
made a rather gingerly way back to the quarterdeck, loafed restlessly
in a deck-chair for a little while, then went below once more.

Some time after, supine again upon his bed, he heard Mr. Swain in the
saloon querulously interrogating one of the stewards. It appeared that
Mr. Swain had unaccountably mislaid his keys, and he wanted to know if
the steward had seen anything of them. The steward hadn't, he said; and
Lanyard for one knew that he spake sooth, since at that moment the
missing keys were resting on the bottom of the sea several miles
astern--all but one.

There was no dressing for dinner that night. Liane Delorme, her nerves
rasped almost beyond endurance by the relentless fog signal, preferred
the seclusion of her stateroom. Lanyard wasn't really sorry; the bosom
of a white shirt is calculated to make some impression upon the human
retina even on the darkest night; whereas his plain lounge suit of blue
serge was sure to prove entirely inconspicuous. So, if he missed the
feminine influence at table, he bore up with good fortitude.

And after dinner he segregated himself as usual in his favourite chair
near the taffrail. The fog, if anything denser than before,
manufactured an early dusk of a peculiarly depressing violet shade.
Nevertheless, evenings are long in that season of the year, and to
Lanyard it seemed that the twilight would never quite fade out
completely, true night would never come.

Long before it did, speed was slackened: the yacht was at last in
soundings; the calls of the leadsmen were as monotonous as the whistle
blasts, and almost as frequent. Lanyard could have done without both,
if the ship could not. He remarked a steadily intensified exacerbation
of nerves, and told himself he was growing old and no mistake. He could
remember the time when he could have endured a strain of waiting
comparable to that which he must suffer now, and have turned never a
hair.

How long ago it seemed!...

Another sign that the Sybarite had entered what are technically
classified as inland waters, where special rules of the road apply, was
to be remarked in the fact that the fog signal was now roaring once
each minute, whereas Lanyard had grown accustomed to timing the
intervals between the sounding of the ship's bell, upon which all his
interest hung, at the rate of fifteen blasts to the half hour.

If you asked him, once a minute seemed rather too much of a good thing,
even in busy lanes of sea traffic. Still, it was better perhaps than
unpremeditated disaster; one was not keen about having the Sybarite
ground on a sandbank, pile up on a rock, or dash her brains out against
the bulk of another vessel--before eleven o'clock at earliest.

In retrospect he counted those two hours between dinner and ten-thirty
longer than the fortnight which had prefaced them. So is the heart of
man ever impatient when the journey's-end draws near, though that end
be but the beginning, as well, of that longer journey which men call
Death.

Lest he betray his impatience by keeping the tips of his cigarette too
bright (one never knows when one is not watched) he smoked sparingly.
But on the twenty-eighth blare of the whistle after the ringing of four
bells, he drew out his cigarette case and, as the thirtieth raved out,
synchronous with two double strokes and a single on brazen metal, he
placed a cigarette between his lips.

At the same time he saw Captain Monk, who had been on the bridge with
the officer of the watch for several hours, come aft with weary
shoulders sagging, and go below by the saloon companionway. And Lanyard
smiled knowingly and assured himself that went well--ça va bien!--his
star held still in the ascendant.

There remained on the bridge only Mr. Collison and the man at the
wheel.

At the fourth blast after five bells Lanyard put a match to his
cigarette. But he did not puff more than to get the tobacco well
alight. He even held his breath, and felt his body shaken by the
pulsations of his anxious heart precisely as the body of the Sybarite
was shaken by the pulsations of her engines.

With the next succeeding fog signal darkness absolute descended upon
the vessel, shrouding it from stem to stern like a vast blanket of
blackness.

Mr. Mussey had not failed to keep his pact of treachery.

Lanyard was out of his chair before the first call of excited
remonstrance rang out on deck--to be echoed in clamour. His cigarette
stopped behind, on the taffrail, carefully placed at precisely the
height of his head, its little glowing tip the only spot of light on
the decks. No matter whether or not it were noted; no precaution is too
insignificant to be important when life and death are at issue.

There was nothing of that afternoon's unsureness of foot in the way
Lanyard moved forward. Passing the engine-room ventilators he heard the
telegraph give a single stroke; Mr. Collison had only then recovered
from, his astonishment sufficiently to signal to slow down. A squeal of
the speaking-tube whistle followed instantly; and Lanyard set foot upon
the bridge in time to hear Mr. Collison demanding to know what the
sanguinary hades had happened down there. Whatever reply he got seemed
to exasperate him into incoherence. He stuttered with rage, gasped, and
addressed the man at the wheel.

"I've got a flash-lamp in my cabin. That'll show us the compass card at
least. Stand by while I run down and get it."

The man mumbled an "Aye, aye, sir." Retreating footsteps were just
audible.

Neither speaker had been visible to Lanyard. By putting out a hand he
could have touched the helmsman, but his body made not even the shadow
of a silhouette against the sky. The fog was rendering the night the
simple and unqualified negation of light.

And in that time of Stygian gloom violence was done swiftly, surely,
and without mercy; with pity, yes, and with regret. Lanyard was sorry
for the man at the wheel. But what was to be done could not be done in
any other way.

The surprise aided him, for the fellow offered barely a show of
opposition. His astounded faculties had no more than recognised the
call for resistance when he was powerless in Lanyard's hands. Swung
bodily away from the wheel, he went over the rail to the forward deck
like a bag of sugar. Immediately Lanyard turned to the binnacle.

Sensitive fingers located the key-hole in the pedestal, the one key
saved from the ring which Mr. Swain had so unfortunately and
unaccountably lost opened the door--the key, of course, that Mr. Swain
had used under Lanyard's eyes when demonstrating the functions of the
binnacle to Liane Delorme.

Thrusting a hand into the opening, Lanyard groped for the adjustable
magnets in their racks, and one by one removed and dropped them to the
grating at the foot of the binnacle.

He worked with hands amazingly nimble and sure, and was closing and
relocking the door when Mr. Collison tumbled up the ladder with his
flash-light. So when the second mate arrived upon the bridge, Lanyard
was waiting for him; and in consequence of a second act of deplorable
violence, Mr. Collison returned to the deck backwards and lay quite
still while Lanyard returned to the wheel.

Collecting the abstracted magnets he carried them to the rail, cast
them into the sea and threw in the key to the little door to keep them
company. Then, back at the binnacle, he unscrewed the brass caps of the
cylindrical brass tube which housed the Flinders bar, removed that
also, replaced the caps, and consigned the bar to the sea in its turn.

By choice he would have made a good job of it and abolished the
quadrantal correctors as well; but he judged he had done mischief
enough to secure his ends, as it was. The compass ought now to be just
as constant to the magnetic pole as a humming-bird to one especial
rose.

Guiding himself by a hand that lightly touched the rail, Lanyard
regained his chair, carefully composing himself in the position in
which he had been resting when the lights went out. His cigarette was
still aglow; good Turkish has this virtue among many others, that left
to itself it will burn on to the end of its roll.

The next instant, however, he was on his feet again. A beam of light
had swept across the saloon skylight, coming from below, the beam of a
portable electric torch. It might have been the signal for the first
piercing scream of Liane Delorme. A pistol shot with a vicious accent
cut short the scream. After a brief pause several more shots rippled in
the saloon. A man shouted angrily. Then the torch-light found and
steadied upon the mouth of the companionway. Against that glare, a
burly figure was instantaneously relieved, running up to the deck. As
it gained the topmost step a final report sounded in the saloon, and
the figure checked, revolved slowly on a heel, tottered, and plunged
headforemost down the steps again.

A moment later (incredible that the stipulated ten minutes should have
passed so swiftly!) the lights came on, and with a still-fuming stump
of cigarette between his fingers Lanyard went below.

His bewildered gaze discovered first Liane Delorme, drawn up
rigidly--she seemed for some reason to be standing tiptoe--against the
starboard partition, near her stateroom door. Her fingers were clawing
her cheeks, her eyes widely dilate with horror and fright, her mouth
was agape, and from it issued, as by some mechanical impulse, shriek
upon hollow shriek--cries wholly flat and meaningless, having no
character of any sort, mere automatic reflexes of hysteria.

On the opposite side of the saloon, not far from the door to his own
quarters, Monk lay semi-prone with a purple face and protruding
eyeballs, far gone toward death through strangulation. Phinuit, on his
knees, was removing a silk handkerchief that had been twisted about
that scrawney throat.

At the foot of the companionway steps, Popinot, no phantom but the
veritable Apache himself, was writhing and heaving convulsively; and
even as Lanyard looked, the huge body of the creature lifted from the
floor in one last, heroic spasm, then collapsed, and moved no more.

Viewing this hideous tableau, appreciating what it meant--that
Popinot, forearmed with advice from a trusted quarter, had stationed
himself outside the door to Monk's stateroom, to waylay and garotte the
man whom he expected to emerge therefrom laden with the plunder of
Monk's safe--Lanyard appreciated further that he had done Mr. Mussey a
great wrong.

For he had all the time believed that the chief engineer was laying a
trap for him on behalf of his ancient shipmate, that unhappy victim of
groundless jealousy, Captain Whitaker Monk.


XXVII

ÇA VA BIEN!


Fearful lest, left to herself, Liane Delorme would do an injury to his
eardrums as well as to her own vocal chords, Lanyard stepped across the
dead bulk of the Apache and planted himself squarely in front of the
woman. Seizing her forearms with his two hands, he used force to drag
them down to the level of her waist, and purposely made his grasp so
strong that his fingers sank deep into the soft flesh. At the same
time, staring fixedly into her vacant eyes, he smiled his most winning
smile, but with the muscles of his mouth alone, and said quietly:

"Shut up, Liane! Stop making a fool of yourself! Shut up--do you hear?"

The incongruity of his brutal grasp with his smile, added to the
incongruity of an ordinary conversational tone with his peremptory and
savage phrases had the expected effect.

Sanity began to inform the violet eyes, a shrill, empty scream was cut
sharply in two, the woman stared for an instant with a look of
confusion; then her lashes drooped, her body relaxed, she fell limply
against the partition and was quiet save for fits of trembling that
shook her body from head to foot; still, each successive seizure was
sensibly less severe. Lanyard let go her wrists.

"There!" he said--"that's over, Liane. The beast is done for--no more
to fear from him. Now forget him--brace up, and realise the debt you
owe good Monsieur Phinuit."

With a grin, that gentleman looked up from his efforts to revive
Captain Monk.

"I'm a shy, retiring violet," he stated somewhat superfluously, "but if
the world will kindly lend its ears, I'll inform it coyly that was
_some_ shootin'. Have a look, will you, Lanyard, like a good fellow,
and make sure our little friend over there isn't playing 'possum on us.
Seems to me I've heard of his doing something like that before--maybe
you remember. And, mademoiselle, if you'll be kind enough to fetch me
that carafe of ice water, I'll see if we can't bring the skipper to his
senses, such as they are."

His tone was sufficiently urgent to rouse Liane out of the lassitude
into which reaction from terror had let her slip. She passed a hand
over still dazed eyes, looked uncertainly about, then with perceptible
exertion of will power collected herself, stood away from the partition
and picked up the carafe.

Lanyard adopted the sensible suggestion of Phinuit, dropping on a knee
to rest his hand above the heart of Popinot. To his complete
satisfaction, if not at all to his surprise, no least flutter of life
was to be detected in that barrel-like chest.

A moment longer he lingered, looking the corpse over with inquisitive
eyes. No sign that he could see suggested that Popinot had suffered
hardship during his two weeks of close sequestration; he seemed to have
fared well as to food and drink, and his clothing, if nothing to boast
of in respect of cut or cloth, and though wrinkled and stretched with
constant wear, was tolerably clean--unstained by bilge, grease, or coal
smuts, as it must have been had the man been hiding in the hold or
bunkers, those traditional refuges of your simon-pure stowaway.

No: Monsieur Popinot had been well taken care of--and Lanyard could
name an officer of prestige ponderable enough to secure his quarters,
wherein presumably Popinot had lain perdu, against search when the
yacht has been "turned inside out," according to its commander.

So this was the source of Mr. Mussey's exact understanding of the
business!

As to the question of how the Apache had been smuggled aboard, and
when, Lanyard never learned the truth. Circumstances were to prevent
his interrogating Mr. Mussey, and he could only assume that--since
Popinot could hardly have been in the motor car wrecked on the road
from Paris--he must have left that pursuit to trusted confrères, and,
anticipating their possible failure, have hurried on to Cherbourg by
another route to make precautionary arrangements with Mr. Mussey.

Ah, well! no fault could be found with the fellow for lack of
determination and tenacity. On the point of rising, Lanyard
reconsidered and, bending over the body, ran clever hands rapidly
through the clothing, turning out every pocket and heaping the
miscellany of rubbish thus brought to light upon the floor--with a
single exception; Popinot had possessed a pistol, an excellent
automatic. Why he hadn't used it to protect himself, Heaven only knew.
Presumably he had been too thoroughly engrossed in the exercise of his
favourite sport to think of the weapon up to the time when Phinuit had
opened fire on him; and then, thrown into panic, he had been able to
entertain one thought only, that of escape.

Lanyard entertained for a moment a vivid imaginary picture of the scene
in the saloon when Phinuit had surprised the Apache in the act of
strangling Monk; a picture that Phinuit subsequently confirmed
substantially in every detail....

One saw the garroter creeping through the blackness of the saloon from
his hiding place, forward in the cabin of the chief engineer;
stationing himself at the door to Monk's quarters, with his chosen
weapon, that deadly handkerchief of his trade, ready for the throat of
the Lone Wolf when he should emerge, in accordance with his agreement
with Mr. Mussey, the spoils of the captain's safe in his hands. Then
one saw Monk, alarmed by the sudden failure of the lights, hurrying out
to return to the bridge, the pantherish spring upon the victim's back,
the swift, dextrous noosing of the handkerchief about his windpipe, the
merciless tightening of it--all abruptly illuminated by the white glare
of Phinuit's electric torch. And then the truncated crimson of the
first pistol flash, the frantic effort to escape, the hunting of that
gross shape of flesh by the beam of light and the bullets as Popinot
doubled and twisted round the saloon like a rat in a pit, the last mad
plunge for the companionway, the flight up its steps that had by the
narrowest margin failed to save him...

Phinuit and Liane Delorme were too busy to heed; quietly Lanyard
slipped the pistol into a pocket and got to his feet. Then Swain came
charging down the steps to find out what all the row was about, and to
report--which he did as soon as Monk was sufficiently recovered to
understand--those outrageous and darkly mysterious assaults upon the
helmsman and Mr. Collison. Both men, he stated, were unfit for further
duty that night, though neither (Lanyard was happy to learn) had
suffered any permanent injury.

But what--in the name of insanity!--could have inspired such a
meaningless atrocity? What could its perpetrator have hoped to gain?
What--!

Monk, stretched out upon a leather couch in his sitting-room, levelled
eyebrows of suspicion at Lanyard, who countered with a guilelessness so
perfect as to make it appear that he did not even comprehend the
insinuation.

"If I may offer a suggestion..." he said with becoming diffidence.

"Well?" Monk demanded with a snap, despite his languors. "What's on
your mind?"

"It would seem to a benevolent neutral like myself... You understand I
was in my deck-chair by the taffrail throughout all this affair. The
men at the sounding machine nearby can tell you I did not move before
the shots in the saloon----"

"How the devil could they know that in the dark?"

"I was smoking, monsieur; they must, if they looked, have seen the fire
of my cigarette... As I was about to suggest: It would seem to me that
there must be some obscure but not necessarily unfathomable connection
between the three events; else how should they synchronise so
perfectly? How did Popinot know the lights would go out a few minutes
after five bells? He was prepared, he lost no time. How did the other
miscreant, whoever he was, know it would be safe to commit that
wickedness, whatever its purpose, upon the bridge at precisely that
time? For plainly he, too, was prepared to act upon the instant--that
is, if I understand Mr. Swain's report correctly. And how did it happen
that the dynamo went out of commission just then? What _did_ happen in
the engine-room? Does anybody know? I think, messieurs, if you find out
the answer to that last question you will have gone some way toward
solving your mystery."

Captain Monk addressed Mr. Swain curtly: "It's the chief's watch in the
engine-room?"

"Yes, sir."

"I'll have a talk with him presently, and go further into this affair.
In the meantime, how does she stand?"

"Under steerage way only"--Mr. Swain consulted the tell-tale compass
affixed to the deck-beam overhead--"sou'west-by-south, sir."

"Must've swung off during that cursed dark spell. When I came below,
two or three minutes before, we were heading into The Race,
west-nor'west, having left Cerberus Shoal whistling buoy to port about
fifteen minutes earlier. Get her back on that course, if you please,
Mr. Swain, and proceed at half-speed. Don't neglect your soundings.
I'll join you as soon as I feel fit."

"Very good, sir."

Mr. Swain withdrew. Captain Monk let his head sink back on its pillows
and shut his eyes. Liane Delorme solicitously stroked his forehead. The
captain opened his eyes long enough to register adoration with the able
assistance of the eyebrows. Liane smiled down upon him divinely.
Lanyard thought that affection was a beautiful thing, but preserved a
duly concerned countenance.

"I could do with a whiskey and soda," Monk confessed feebly. "No, not
you, please"--as Liane offered to withdraw the compassionate
hand--"Phin isn't busy."

Mr. Phinuit hastened to make himself useful.

A muted echo of the engine-room telegraph was audible then, and the
engines took up again their tireless chant. Lanyard cocked a sly eye at
the tell-tale; it designated their course as west-by-north a quarter
west. He was cheered to think that his labours at the binnacle were
bearing fruit, and grateful that Monk was so busy being an invalid
waited upon and pitied by a beautiful volunteer nurse that he was
willing to trust the navigation to Mr. Swain and had no time to observe
by the tell-tale whether or not the course he had prescribed was being
followed.

Liane's exquisite and tender arm supported the suffering head of
Captain Monk as he absorbed the nourishment served by Phinuit. The
eyebrows made an affectingly faint try at a gesture of gratitude. The
eyes closed, once more Monk's head reposed upon the pillow. He sighed
like a weary child.

From the saloon came sounds of shuffling feet and mumbling voices as
seamen carried away all that was mortal of Monsieur Popinot.

Between roars of the fog signal, six bells vibrated on the air. Phinuit
cocked his head intelligently to one side, ransacked his memory, and
looked brightly to Lanyard.

"Ar-har!" he murmured--"the fatal hour!"

Lanyard gave him a gracious smile.

In attenuated accents Captain Monk, without opening his eyes or
stirring under the caresses of that lovely hand, enquired:

"What say, Phin?"

"I was just reminding Monsieur Lanyard the fatal hour has struck, old
thing."

The eyebrows knitted in painful effort to understand. When one has
narrowly escaped death by strangulation one may be pardoned some slight
mental haziness. Besides, it makes to retain sympathy, not to be too
confoundedly clear-headed.

"Fatal hour?"

"The dear man promised to turn in his answer to our unselfish little
proposition at six bells to-night and not later."

"Really?" The voice was interested, and so were the eyebrows; but Monk
was at pains not to move. "And has he?"

"Not yet, old egg."

Monk opened expectant eyes and fixed them upon Lanyard's face, the
eyebrows acquiring a slant of amiable enquiry.

"There is much to be said," Lanyard temporised. "That is, if you feel
strong enough..."

"Oh, quite," Monk assured him in tones barely audible.

"Must it be a blow to the poor dear?" Phinuit enquired.

"I hope not, very truly."

(The tell-tale now betrayed a course northwest-by-north. Had the
binnacle compass, then, gone out of its head altogether, on finding
itself bereft of its accustomed court of counter-attractions?)

"Well, here we all are, sitting forward on the edges of our chairs,
holding onto the seats with both hands, ears pricked forward, eyes
shining... The suspense," Phinuit avowed, "is something fierce!"

"I am sorry."

"What d'you mean, you're sorry? You're not going to back out?"

"Having never walked into the arrangement you propose, it would be
difficult to back out--would it not?"

Monk forgot that he was suffering acutely, forgot even the beautiful
and precious hand that was soothing his fevered brow, and rudely
shaking it off, sat up suddenly. The eyebrows were distinctly minatory
above eyes that loosed ugly gleams.

"You refuse?"

Lanyard slowly inclined his head: "I regret I must beg to be excused."

"You damned fool!"

"Pardon, monsieur?"

A look of fury convulsed Liane's face. Phinuit, too, was glaring, no
longer a humourist. Monk's mouth was working, and his eyebrows had got
out of hand altogether.

"I said you were a damned fool--"

"But is not that a matter of personal viewpoint? At least, the question
would seem to be open to debate."

"If you think arguments will satisfy us--!"

"But, my dear Captain Monk, I am really not at all concerned to satisfy
you. However, if you wish to know my reasons for declining the honour
you would thrust upon me, they are at your service."

"I'll be glad to hear them," said Monk grimly.

"One, I fancy, will do as well as a dozen. It is, then, my considered
judgment that, were I in the least inclined to resume the evil ways of
my past--as I am not--I would be, as you so vividly put it, a damned
fool to associate myself with people of a low grade of intelligence,
wanting even enough to hold fast that which they have thieved!"

"By God!" Monk brought down a thumping fist. "What are you getting at?"

"Your hopeless inefficiency, monsieur.... Forgive my bluntness."

"Come through," Phinuit advised in a dangerous voice. "Just what do you
mean?"

"I mean that you, knowing I have but one object in submitting to
association with you in any way, to wit, the recovery of the jewels of
Madame de Montalais and their restoration to that lady, have not had
sufficient wit to prevent my securing those jewels under your very
noses."

"You mean to say you've stolen them?"

Lanyard nodded. "They are at present in my possession--if that
confesses an act of theft."

Monk laughed discordantly. "Then I say you're a liar, Monsieur the Lone
Wolf, as well as a fool!" His fist smote the desk again. "The Montalais
jewels are here."

Lanyard shrugged.

"When did you lift them?" Phinuit demanded with sarcasm. "Tell us
that!"

Lanyard smiled an exasperating smile, lounged low in his chair, and
looked at the deck beams--taking occasion to note that the tell-tale
had swung to true northwest. Ça va bien!

"Why, you insane impostor!" Monk stormed--"I had that box in my own
hands no later than this afternoon."

Without moving, Lanyard directed his voice toward the ceiling.

"Did you by any chance open it and see what was inside?"

There was no answer, and though he was careful not to betray any
interest by watching them, he was well aware that looks of alarm and
suspicion were being exchanged by those three. So much for enjoying the
prestige of a stupendously successful criminal past! A single thought
was in the mind of Liane Delorme, Captain Monk, and Mr. Phinuit: With
the Lone Wolf, nothing was impossible.

Liane Delorme said abruptly, in a choking voice: "Open the safe,
please, Captain Monk."

"I'll do nothing of the sort."

"Go on," Phinuit advised--"make sure. If it's true, we get them back,
don't we? If it isn't, we show him up for a pitiful bluff."

"It's a dodge," Monk declared, "to get the jewels where he can lay
hands on them. The safe stays shut."

"Open it, I beg you!" Liane implored in tremulous accents.

"No--"

"Why not?" Phinuit argued. "What can he do? I've got him covered."

"And I," Lanyard interjected softly, "as you all know, am unarmed."

"Please!" Liane insisted.

There was a pause which ended in a sullen grunt from Monk. Lanyard
smiled cheerfully and sat up in his chair, watching the captain while
he unlocked the door in the pedestal and with shaking fingers
manipulated the combination dial. Liane Delorme left her chair to stand
nearby, in undissembled anxiety. Only Phinuit remained as he had been,
lounging back and watching Lanyard narrowly, his automatic pistol
dangling between his knees.

Lanyard offered him a pleasant smile. Phinuit scowled forbiddingly in
response.

Monk swung open the safe-door, seized the metal despatch-box by the
handle, and set it upon the desk with a bang. Then, extracting his
pocket key-ring, he selected the proper key and made several attempts
to insert it in the slot of the lock. But his confidence was so shaken,
his morale so impaired by Lanyard's sublime effrontery added to his
recent shocking experience, that the gaunt hands trembled beyond his
control, and it was several seconds before he succeeded.

Lanyard gave no sign, but his heart sank. He had exhausted his last
resource to gain time, he was now at his wits' ends. Only his star
could save him now....

Monk turned the keys, but all at once forgot his purpose, and with
hands stayed upon the lid of the box paused and cocked his ears
attentively to rumours of excitement and confusion on the deck. The
instinct of the seafaring man uppermost, Monk stiffened, grew rigid
from head to foot.

One heard hurried feet, outcries, a sudden jangle of the engine-room
telegraph...

"Monsieur! monsieur!" Liane implored. "Open that box!"

The words were on her lips when she was thrown off her feet by a
frightful shock which stopped the Sybarite dead in full career, before
the screw, reversed in obedience to the telegraph, could grip the water
and lessen her momentum. The woman cannoned against Monk, shouldering
him bodily aside. Instinctively snatching at the box, Monk succeeded
only in dragging it to the edge of the desk before a second shock,
accompanied by a grinding crash of steel and timbers, seemed to make
the yacht leap like a live thing stricken mortally. She heeled heavily
to starboard, the despatch-box went to the floor with a thump lost in
the greater din, Liane Delorme was propelled headlong into a corner,
Monk thrown to his knees, Phinuit lifted out of his chair and flung
sprawling into the arms of Lanyard, who, pinned down by the other's
weight in his own chair, felt this last slide backwards to starboard
and bring up against a partition with a bang that drove the breath out
of him in one enormous gust.

He retained, however, sufficient presence of mind neatly to disarm
Phinuit before that one guessed what he was about.

After that second blow, the Sybarite remained at a standstill, but the
continued beating of her engines caused her to quiver painfully from
trucks to keelson, as if in agonies of death such as those which had
marked the end of Popinot. Of a sudden the engines ceased, and there
was no more movement of any sort, only an appalling repose with silence
more dreadful still.

Lanyard had no means to measure how long that dumb suspense lasted
which was imposed by the stunned faculties of all on board. It seemed
interminable. Eventually he saw Monk pick himself up and, making
strange moaning noises, like a wounded animal, throw himself upon the
door, jerk it open, and dash out.

As if he had only needed that vision of action to animate him, Lanyard
threw Phinuit off, so that he staggered across the slanting floor
toward the door. When he brought himself up by catching hold of its
frame, he was under the threat of his own pistol in Lanyard's hands. He
lingered for a moment, showing Lanyard a distraught and vacant face,
then apparently realising his danger faded away into the saloon.

With a roughness dictated by the desperate extremity, Lanyard strode
over to Liane Delorme, where she still crouched in her corner, staring
witlessly, caught her by one arm, fairly jerked her to her feet, and
thrust her stumbling out into the saloon. Closing the door behind her,
he shot its bolts.

He went to work swiftly then, in a fever of haste. In his ears the
clamour of the shipwrecked men upon the decks was only a distant
droning, hardly recognised for what it was by him who had not
one thought other than to make all possible advantage of every precious
instant; and so with the roar of steam from the escape-valves.

Stripping off coat and waistcoat, he took from the pocket of the latter
the wallet that held his papers, then ripped open his shirt and
unbuckled the money belt round his waist. Its pockets were ample and
fitted with trustworthy fastenings; and all but one, that held a few
English sovereigns, were empty. The jewels of Madame de Montalais went
into them as rapidly as his fingers could move.

Thus engaged, he heard a pistol explode in the saloon, and saw the
polished writing-bed of the captain's desk scored by a bullet. His gaze
shifting to the door, he discovered a neat round hole in one of its
rosewood panels. At the same time, to the tune of another report, a
second hole appeared, and the bullet, winging above the desk, buried
itself in the after-bulkhead, between the dead-lights. A stream of
bullets followed, one after another boring the stout panels as if their
consistency had been that of cheese.

Lanyard stepped out of their path and hugged the partition while he
finished stuffing the jewels into the belt and, placing the thin wallet
beneath it, strapped it tightly round him once more....

That would be Phinuit out there, no doubt, disdaining to waste time
breaking in the door, or perhaps fearing his reception once it was
down. An innocent and harmless amusement, if he enjoyed it, that it
seemed a pity to interrupt. At the same time it grew annoying. The door
was taking on the look of a sieve, and the neighbourhood of the
deadlights, Lanyard's sole avenue of escape, was being well peppered.
Something would have to be done about it...

Lanyard completed his preparations by kicking off his shoes and taking
up another notch in the belt that supported his trousers. If the swim
before him proved a long one, he could get rid of his garments in the
water readily enough; if on the other hand the shore proved to be close
at hand, it would be more convenable to land at least half clothed.

Then--the fusillade continuing without intermission save when the man
outside stopped long enough to extract an empty clip and replace it
with one loaded--Lanyard edged along the partition to the door,
calculated the stand of the lunatic in the saloon from the angle at
which the bullets were coming through, and emptied the pistol he had
taken from Phinuit at the panels as fast as he could pull trigger.

There was no more firing...

He tossed aside the empty weapon, made sure of Popinot's on his hip,
approached one of the deadlights, placed a chair, climbed upon it, and
with infinite pains managed to wriggle and squirm head and shoulders
through the opening. It was very fortunate for him indeed that the
Sybarite happened to have been built for pleasure yachting, with
deadlights uncommonly large for the sake of air and light, else he
would have been obliged to run the risk of opening the door to the
saloon and fighting his way out and up to the deck.

As it was, the business was difficult enough. He had to work one of his
arms out after his shoulders and then, twisting round, strain and claw
at the smooth overhang of the stern until able to catch the outer lip
of the scuppers above.

After that he had to lift and drag the rest of him out through the
deadlight and, hanging by fingertips, work his way round, inch by inch,
until it seemed possible to drop into the sea and escape hitting the
screw.

In point of fact, he barely missed splitting himself in two on the
thing, and on coming to the surface clung to it while taking such
observations as one might in that befogged blackness.

Impossible to guess which way to strike out: the fog hung low upon the
water, greying its smooth, gently heaving black surface, he could see
nothing on either beam.

At length, however, he heard through the hissing uproar of escaping
steam a mournful bell somewhere off to port, which he at first took for
a buoy, then perceived to be tolling with a regularity inconsistent
with the eccentric action of waves. Timed by pulsebeats, it struck once
every fifteen seconds or thereabouts: undoubtedly the fog signal of some
minor light-house.

In confirmation of this conclusion, Lanyard heard, from the deck above,
the resonant accents of Captain Monk, clearly articulate in that riot
of voices, apparently storming at hapless Mr. Swain.

"Don't you hear that bell, you ass? Doesn't that tell you what you've
done? You've piled us on the rocks off the eastern end of Plum Island.
And God in Heaven only knows how you managed to get so far off the
course!"

Breathing to the night air thanks which would have driven Captain Monk
mad could he have heard them, Lanyard let go the bronze blade and
struck out for the melancholy bell.

Ten minutes later the fingers of one hand--he was swimming on his
side--at the bottom of its stroke touched pebbles.

He lowered his feet and waded through extensive shallows to a wide and
sandy beach.


XXVIII

FINALE


The window of the living-room in his suite at the Walpole, set high in
cliff-like walls, commanded a southward vista of Fifth Avenue whose
enchantment, clothed in ever changing guises of light and shade, was so
potent that Lanyard, on the first day of his tenancy, thought it could
never tire. Yet by noon of the third he was viewing it with the eyes of
soul-destroying ennui, though the disfavour it had so quickly won in
his sight was, he knew, due less to cloying familiarity than to the
uncertainty and discontent that were eating out his heart.

Three days before, immediately on arriving in New York and installing
himself in this hotel, to whose management he was well known from other
days, he had cabled Eve de Montalais and Wertheimer.

The response to the latter--a cheerful request that credit be arranged
for him by cable--was as prompt and satisfactory as he had expected it
to be.

But from Madame de Montalais he heard nothing.

"Mission successful," he had wired--"returning France by La Savoie in
five days having arranged safe transportation your property--please
advise if you can meet me in Paris to receive same or your commands
otherwise."

And to this, silence only!--silence to him to whom words of her
dictation, however few and terse and filtered through no matter how
many indifferent mediums of intelligence, would have been precious
beyond expression.

So it was that, as hour followed hour and the tale of them lengthened
into days, he fell into a temper of morbid brooding that was little
like the man, and instead of faring abroad and seeking what amusement
he might find in the most carefree city of the post-War world, shut
himself up in his rooms and moped, indifferent to all things but the
knocks at his door, the stridulation of the telephone bell that might
announce the arrival of the desired message.

And so it was that, when the telephone did ring--at last!--towards noon
of that third day, he fairly stumbled over himself in his haste to
reach the instrument. But the animation with which he answered the
professional voice at the other end of the wire faded very quickly, the
look of weariness returned, his accents voiced an indifference fairly
desolating.

"Yes?...Oh, yes...Very well...Yes, at once."

He returned to his view from the window, and was hating it with all his
heart when a stout knuckling on his door announced his callers.

They filed into the room with a cheerfulness of mien in striking
contrast to the weary courtesy with which Lanyard received them: Liane
Delorme first, then Monk, then Phinuit, rather bleached of colour and
wearing one arm in a sling; all very smart in clothes conspicuously new
and as costly as the Avenue afforded, striking figures of contentment
in prosperity.

"It is a pleasure indeed," Lanyard gravely acknowledged their several
salutations--"not, I must confess, altogether unexpected, but a
pleasure none the less."

"So you didn't think we'd be long spotting you in the good little old
town?" Phinuit enquired. "Had a notion you thought the best way to lose
us would be to put up at this well-known home of the highest prices."

"No," Lanyard replied. "I never thought to be rid of you without one
more meeting--"

"Then there's good in the old bean yet," Phinuit interrupted in wasted
irony.

"One cherishes that hope, monsieur....But the trail I left for you to
follow! I would be an ass indeed if I thought you would fail to find
it. When one borrows a rowboat at Plum Island Light without asking
permission--government property, too--and leaves it moored to a dock
on the Greenport waterfront; when one arrives in Greenport clothed in
shirt and trousers only, and has to bribe its pardonably suspicious
inhabitants with handfuls of British gold--which they are the more
loath to accept in view of its present depreciation--in order to secure
a slopchest coat and shoes and transportation by railway to New York;
when a taxicab chauffeur refuses a sovereign for his fare from the
Pennsylvania Station to this hotel, and one is constrained to borrow
from the management--why, I should say the trail was fairly broad and
well blazed, mes amis."

"Be that as it may," said Phinuit--"here in a manner of speaking we all
are, at least, the happy family reunited and ready to talk business."

"And no hard feelings, Monsieur Phinuit?"

"There will be none"--Monk's eyebrows were at once sardonic and
self-satisfied; which speaks volumes for their versatility--"at least,
none on our side--when we are finished."

"That makes me more happy still. And you, Liane?"

The woman gave a negligent movement of pretty shoulders.

"One begins to see how very right you are, Michael," she said
wearily--"and always were, for that matter. If one wishes to do wrong,
one should do it all alone... and escape being bored to death by the...
Oh! the unpardonable stupidity of associates.

"But no, messieurs!" she insisted with temper as Monk and Phinuit
simultaneously flew signals of resentment. "I mean what I say. I wish I
had never seen any of you, I am sick of you all! What did I tell you
when you insisted on coming here to see Monsieur Lanyard? That you
would gain nothing and perhaps lose much. But you would not listen to
me, you found it impossible to believe there could be in all the world
a man who keeps his word, not only to others but to himself. You are so
lost in admiration of your own cleverness in backing that poor little
ship off the rocks and letting her fill and sink, so that there could
be no evidence of wrong-doing against you, that you must try to prove
your wits once more where they have always failed"--she illustrated
with a dramatic gesture--"against his! You say to yourselves: Since we
are wrong, he must be wrong; and since that is now clearly proved, that
he is as wrong in every way as we, then it follows naturally that he
will heed our threats and surrender to us those jewels...Those jewels!"
she declared bitterly, "which we would have been fortunate never to
have heard of!"

She threw herself back in her chair and showed them a scornful
shoulder, compressing indignant lips to a straight, unlovely line, and
beating out the devil's tattoo with her slipper.

Lanyard watched her with a puzzled smile. How much of this was acting?
How much, if anything, an expression of true feeling? Was she actually
persuaded it was waste of time to contend against him? Or was she
shrewdly playing upon his not unfriendly disposition toward her in the
hope that it would spare her in the hour of the grand débâcle?

He could be sure of one thing only: since she was a woman, he would
never know...

Monk had been making ominous motions with the eyebrows, but Phinuit
made haste to be beforehand with him.

"You said one thing, mademoiselle, one thing anyway that meant
something: that Monsieur Lanyard would give up those jewels to us.
That's all arranged."

Lanyard turned to him with genuine amusement. "Indeed, monsieur?"

"Indeed and everything! We don't want to pull any rough stuff on you,
Lanyard, and we won't unless you force us to--"

"Rough stuff, monsieur? You mean, physical force?"

"Not exactly. But I think you'll recall my telling you I stand in well
with the Police Department in the old home town. Maybe you thought that
was swank. Likely you did. But it wasn't. I've got a couple of friends
of mine from Headquarters waiting downstairs this very minute, ready
and willing to cop out the honour of putting the Lone Wolf under arrest
for stealing the Montalais jewels."

"But is it possible," Lanyard protested, "you still do not understand
me? Is it possible you still believe I am a thief at heart and
interested in those jewels only to turn them to my own profit?"

He stared unbelievingly at the frosty eyes of Monk beneath their
fatuously stubborn brows, at the hard, unyielding eyes of Phinuit.

"You said it," this last replied with brevity.

"It was a good bluff while it lasted, Monsieur Lanyard," Monk added;
"but it couldn't last forever. You can't get away with it. Why not give
in gracefully, admit you're licked for once, be a good fellow?"

"My God!" Lanyard pronounced in comic despair--"it passes
understanding! It is true, then--and true especially of such as you are
to-day, as I was in my yesterday--that 'Whom Fortune wishes to destroy
she first makes mad'! For, I give you my word of honour, you seem to me
quite mad, messieurs, too mad to be allowed at large. And in proof of
my sincerity, I propose that you shall not longer remain at large."

"What's that?" Monk demanded, startled.

"Why, you have not hesitated to threaten me with the police. So now I,
in my turn, have the honour to inform you that, anticipating this call,
I have had relays of detectives waiting in this hotel day and night,
with instructions to guard the doors as soon as you were shown up to my
rooms. Be advised, Mr. Phinuit, and forget your pistol. Even to show it
in this city would make matters infinitely worse for you than they
are."

"He's lying," Monk insisted, putting a restraining hand on Phinuit's
arm as that one started from his chair in rage and panic. "He wouldn't
dare."

"Would I not? Then, since you believe nothing till it is proved to you,
messieurs, permit me..."

Lanyard crossed rapidly to the hall door and flung it open--and fell
back a pace with a cry of amazement.

At the threshold stood, not the detective whom he had expected to see,
but a woman with a cable message form in one hand, the other lifted to
knock.

"Madame!" Lanyard gasped--"Madame de Montalais!"

The cable-form fluttered to the floor as she entered with a gladness
in her face that was carried out by the impulsive gesture with which
she gave him her hands.

"My dear friend!" she cried happily--"I am so glad! And to think we
have been guests of the same hotel for three livelong days and never
knew it. I arrived by La Touraine Saturday, but your message,
telegraphed back from Combe-Redonde, reached me not five minutes ago. I
telephoned the desk, they told me the number of your room and--here I
am!"

"But I cannot believe my senses!"

With unanimous consent Jules, Phinuit and Monk uprose and made for the
door, only to find it blocked by the substantial form of a plain
citizen with his hands in his pockets and understanding in his eyes.

"Steady, gents!" he counselled coolly. "Orders are to let everybody in
and nobody out without Mr. Lanyard says so."

For a moment they hung in doubt and consternation, consulting one
another with dismayed stares. Then Phinuit made as if to shoulder the
man aside. But for the sake of the moral effect the latter casually
exhibited a pistol; and the moral effect of that was stupendous. Mr.
Phinuit disconsolately slouched back into the room.

Grasping the situation, Eve de Montalais turned to the quartet eyes
that glimmered in a face otherwise quite composed.

"But how surprising!" she declared. "Madame la Comtesse de
Lorgnes--Monsieur Monk--Mr. Phinuit--how delightful to see you all
again!"

The civility met with inadequate appreciation.

"Nothing could be more opportune," Lanyard declared; "for it is to this
lady, Madame de Montalais, and to these gentlemen that you owe the
recovery of your jewels."

"Truly?"

"As I am telling you. But for them, their charming hospitality in
inviting me to cruise aboard their yacht, but for the assistance they
lent me, though sometimes unconsciously, I admit--I should never have
been able to say to you to-day: Your jewels are in a safe place,
madame, immediately at your disposal."

"But how can I thank them?"

"Well," said Lanyard, "if you ask me, I think we have detained them
long enough, I believe they would be most grateful to be permitted to
leave and keep their numerous and pressing appointments elsewhere."

"I am entirely of your mind, monsieur."

Lanyard nodded to the man in the doorway--"All right, Mr. Murray"--and
he stood indifferently aside.

In silence the three men moved to the door and out, Phinuit with a
brazen swagger, Jules without emotion visible, Monk with eyebrows
adroop and flapping.

But Lanyard interposed when Liane Delorme would have followed.

"A moment, Liane, if you will be so good."

She paused, regarding him with a sombre and inscrutable face while he
produced from his coat-pocket a fat envelope without endorsement.

"This is yours."

The woman murmured blankly: "Mine?"

He said in a guarded voice: "Papers I found in the safe in your
library, that night. I had to take them for use in event of need.
Now...they are useless. But you are unwise to keep such papers, Liane.
Good-bye."

The envelope was unsealed. Lifting the flap, the woman half withdrew
the enclosure, recognised it at a glance, and crushed it in a
convulsive grasp, while the blood, ebbing swiftly from her face, threw
her rouge into livid relief. For an instant she seemed about to speak,
then bowed her head in dumb acknowledgment, and left the room.

Lanyard nodded to Mr. Murray, who amiably closed the door, keeping
himself on the outside of it.

Eve de Montalais was eyeing him with an indulgent and amused glance. As
he turned to her, she shook her head slowly in mockery of reproof.

"That woman loves you, monsieur," she stated quietly.

He succeeded admirably in looking as if the thought was strange to him.

"One is sure madame must be mistaken."

"Ah, but I am not!" said Eve de Montalais. "Who should know better the
signs that tell of woman's love for you, my dear?"

THE END