It might be thought a natural conclusion of the history of Menie Gray,
that she should have married Hartley, to whom she stood much indebted
for his heroic interference in her behalf. But her feelings were too
much and too painfully agitated, her health too much shattered, to
permit her to entertain thoughts of a matrimonial connexion, even with
the acquaintance of her youth, and the champion of her freedom. Time
might have removed these obstacles, but not two years, after their
adventures in Mysore, the gallant and disinterested Hartley fell a
victim to his professional courage, in withstanding the progress of a
contagious distemper, which he at length caught, and under which he
sunk. He left a considerable part of the moderate fortune which he had
acquired to Menie Gray, who, of course, did not want for many
advantageous offers of a matrimonial character. But she respected the
memory of Hartley too much, to subdue in behalf of another the reasons
which induced her to refuse the hand which he had so well deserved--nay,
it may be thought, had so fairly won.

Scott Fitzgerald
BREAK-NECK HILL. By Esther Forbes
BLACK ART AND AMBROSE. By Guy Gilpatric
THE JUDGMENT OF VULCAN. By Lee Foster Hartman
THE ARGOSIES. By Alexander Hull 
ALMA MATER. By O. F. Lewis
SLOW POISON. By Alice Duer Miller 
THE FACE IN THE WINDOW.Two or
three persons with whom she was intimate, could trace in her character
that generous and disinterested simplicity and affection, which were the
ground-work of her character. To the world at large her habits seemed
those of the ancient Roman matron, which is recorded on her tomb in
these four words,

  DOMUM MANSIT--LANAM FECIT.


MR. CROFTANGRY'S CONCLUSION


  If you tell a good jest,
    And please all the rest,
  Comes Dingley, and asks you, "What was it?"
    And before she can know,
  Away she will go
    To seek an old rag in the closet.
                          Dean Swift.


While I was inditing the goodly matter which my readers have just
perused, I might be said to go through a course of breaking-in to stand
criticism, like a shooting-pony to stand fire. By some of those venial
breaches of confidence, which always take place on the like occasions,
my private flirtations with the Muse of Fiction became a matter
whispered in Miss Fairscribe's circle, some ornaments of which were, I
suppose, highly interested in the progress of the affair, while others
"really thought Mr. Chrystal Croftangry might have had more wit at his
time of day." Then came the sly intimation, the oblique remark, all that
sugar-lipped raillery which is fitted for the situation of a man about
to do a foolish thing, whether it be to publish or to marry, and that
accompanied with the discreet nods and winks of such friends as are in
the secret, and the obliging eagerness of others to know all about it.

At length the affair became so far public, that I was induced to face a
tea-party with my manuscript in my pocket, looking as simple and modest
as any gentleman of a certain age need to do upon such an occasion. When
tea had been carried round, handkerchiefs and smelling bottles prepared,
I had the honour of reading the Surgeon's Daughter for the entertainment
of the evening. It went off excellently; my friend Mr. Fairscribe, who
had been seduced from his desk to join the literary circle, only fell
asleep twice, and readily recovered his attention by help of his
snuff-box. The ladies were politely attentive, and when the cat, or the
dog, or a next neighbour, tempted an individual to relax, Katie
Fairscribe was on the alert, like an active whipper-in, with look,
touch, or whisper, to recall them to a sense of what was going on.