"And how do you suppose these by-gones feel about what is going on
around them?" he rattled on, tapping the wet slab of a tomb with
the end of his umbrella. "And not only these sturdy patriots who
lie here, but the queer old ghosts who live in the steeple?" he
added, waving his hand upward to the slender spire, its cross lost
in the fog. "Yes, ghosts and goblins, my boy. You don't believe
it?--I do--or I persuade myself I do, which is better. Sometimes I
can see them straddling the chimes when they ring out the hours,
or I catch them peeping out between the slats of the windows away
up near the cross. Very often in the hot afternoons when you are
stretching your lazy body under the tents of the mighty--" (Peter
referred to some friends of mine who owned a villa down on Long
Island, and were good enough to ask me down for a week in August)
"I come up here out of the rush and sit on these old tombstones
and talk to these old fellows--both kinds--the steeple boys and
the old cronies under the sod. You never come, I know. You will
when you're my age."

I had it in my mind to tell him that the inside of a dry tent had
some advantages over the outside of a damp tomb, so far as
entertaining one's friends, even in hot weather, was concerned,
but I was afraid it might stop the flow of his thoughts, and
checked myself.

"It is not so much the rest and quiet that delights me, as the
feeling that I am walled about for the moment and protected;
jerked out of the whirlpool, as it were, and given a breathing
spell. On these afternoons the old church becomes a church once
more--not a gate to bar out the rush of commercialism. See where
she stands--quite out to the very curb, her warning finger
pointing upward. 'Thus far shalt thou come, and no farther,' she
cries out to the Four Per Cents. 'Hug up close to me, you old
fellows asleep in your graves; get under my lea. Let us fight it
out together, the living and the dead!' And now hear these
abominable Four Per Cents behind their glass windows: 'No place
for a church,' they say. 'No place for the dead! Property too
valuable. Move it up town. Move it out in the country--move it any
where so you get it out of our way. We are the Great Amalgamated
Crunch Company. Into our maw goes respect for tradition, reverence
for the dead, decency, love of religion, sentiment, and beauty.
These are back numbers. In their place, we give you something real
and up-to-date from basement to flagstaff, with fifty applicants
on the waiting list. If you don't believe it read our
prospectus!'"

Peter had straightened and was standing with his hand lifted above
his head, as if he were about to pronounce a benediction. Then he
said slowly, and with a note of sadness in his voice:

"Do you wonder, now, my boy, why I touch my hat to His
Excellency?"


CHAPTER II


All the way up Broadway he kept up his good-natured tirade,
railing at the extravagance of the age, at the costly dinners,
equipages, dress of the women, until we reached the foot of the
dilapidated flight of brown-stone steps leading to the front door
of his home on Fifteenth Street. Here a flood of gas light from
inside a shop in the basement brought into view the figure of a
short, squat, spectacled little man bending over a cutting-table,
a pair of shears in his hand.

"Isaac is still at work," he cried. "If we were not so late we'd
go in and have a word with him. Now there's a man who has solved
the problem, my boy. Nobody will ever coax Isaac Cohen up to Fifth
Avenue and into a 'By appointment to His Majesty' kind of a tailor
shop. Just pegs away year after year--he was here long before I
came--supporting his family, storing his mind with all sorts of
rare knowledge. Do you know he's one of the most delightful men
you will meet in a day's journey?"

"No--never knew anything of the kind. Thought he was just plain
tailor."

"And an intimate friend of many of the English actors who come
over here?" continued Peter.

"I never heard a word about it" I answered meekly; Peter's
acquaintances being too varied and too numerous for me to keep
track of. That he should have a tailor among them as learned and
wise as Solomon, and with friends all over the globe, was quite to
be expected.

"Well, he is," answered Peter. "They always hunt him up the first
thing they do. He lived in London for years and made their
costumes. There's no one, I assure you, I am more glad to see when
he makes an excuse to rap at my door. You'll come up, of course,
until I read my letters."

"No, I'll keep on to my rooms and meet you later at the club."

"You'll do nothing of the kind, you restless mortal. You'll come
upstairs with me until I open my mail. It's really like touching
the spring of a Jack-in-the-box, this mail of mine--all sorts of
things pop out, generally the unexpected. Mighty interesting, I
tell you," and with a cheery wave of the hand to his friend Isaac,
whose eyes had been looking streetward at the precise moment,
Peter pushed me ahead of him up the worn marble steps flanked by
the rust-eaten iron railing which led to the hallway and stairs,
and so on up to his apartment.

It was just the sort of house Peter, of all men in the world,
would have picked out to live in--and he had been here for twenty
years or more. Not only did the estimable Isaac occupy the
basement, but Madame Montini, the dress-maker, had the first floor
back; a real-estate agent made free with the first floor front,
and a very worthy teacher of music, whose piano could be heard at
all hours of the day, and far into the night, was paying rent for
the second, both front and back. Peter's own apartments ran the
whole length of the third floor, immediately under the slanting,
low-ceiled garret, which was inhabited by the good Mrs. McGuffey,
the janitress, who, in addition to her regular duties, took
especial care of Peter's rooms. Adjoining these was a small
apartment consisting of two rooms, connecting with Peter's suite
by a door cut through for some former lodger. These were also
under Mrs. McGuffey's special care and very good care did she take
of them, especially when Peter's sister, Miss Felicia Grayson,
occupied them for certain weeks in the year.

These changes had all taken place in the time the old fellow had
mounted the quaint stairs with the thin mahogany banisters, and
yet Peter stayed on. "The gnarled pear tree in the back yard is so
charming," he would urge in excuse, "especially in the spring,
when the perfume of its blossoms fills the air," or, "the view
overlooking Union Square is so delightful," or, "the fireplace has
such a good draught." What mattered it who lived next door, or
below, or overhead, for that matter, so that he was not disturbed
--and he never was. The property, of course, had gone from bad to
worse since the owner had died; the neighborhood had run down, and
the better class of tenants down, up, and even across the street--
had moved away, but none of these things had troubled Peter.

And no wonder, when once you got inside the two rooms and looked
about!

There was a four-post bedstead with chintz curtains draped about
the posts, that Martha Washington might have slept in, and a
chintz petticoat which reached the floor and hid its toes of
rollers, which the dear lady could have made with her own hands;
there was a most ancient mahogany bureau to match, all brass
fittings. There were easy chairs with restful arms within reach of
tables holding lamps, ash receivers and the like; and rows and
rows of books on open shelves edged with leather; not to mention
engravings of distinguished men and old portraits in heavy gilt
frames: one of his grandfather who fought in the Revolution, and
another of his mother--this last by Rembrandt Peale--a dear old
lady with the face of a saint framed in a head of gray hair, the
whole surmounted by a cluster of silvery curls. There were quaint
brass candelabra with square marble bases on each end of the
mantel, holding candles showing burnt wicks in the day time and
cheery lights at night; and a red carpet covering both rooms and
red table covers and red damask curtains, and a lounge with a red
afghan thrown over it; and last, but by no means least--in fact it
was the most important thing in the sitting-room, so far as
comfort was concerned--there was a big open-hearth Franklin, full
of blazing red logs, with brass andirons and fender, and a draught
of such marvellous suction that stray scraps of paper, to say
nothing of uncommonly large sparks, had been known more than once
to have been picked up in a jiffy and whirled into its capacious
throat.

Just the very background for dear old Peter, I always said,
whenever I watched him moving about the cheery interior, pushing
up a chair, lighting a fresh candle, or replacing a book on the
shelf. What a half-length the great Sully would have made of him,
with his high collar, white shirt-front and wonderful neck-cloth
with its pleats and counterpleats, to say nothing of his rosy
cheeks and bald head, the high light glistening on one of his big
bumps of benevolence. And what a background of deep reds and warm
mahoganys with a glint of yellow brass for contrast!

Indeed, I have often thought that not only Peter's love of red,
but much of Peter's quaintness of dress, had been suggested by
some of the old portraits which lined the walls of his sitting-
room--his grandfather, by Sully, among them; and I firmly believe,
although I assure you I have never mentioned it to any human being
before, that had custom permitted (the directors of his bank,
perhaps), Peter would not only have indulged in the high coat-
collar and quaint neck-cloths of his fathers, but would also have
worn a dainty cue tied with a flowing black ribbon, always
supposing, of course, that his hair had held out, and, what is
more important, always supposing, that the wisp was long enough to
hold on.

The one article, however, which, more than any other one thing in
his apartment, revealed his tastes and habits, was a long, wide,
ample mahogany desk, once the property of an ancestor, which stood
under the window in the front room. In this, ready to his hand,
were drawers little and big, full of miscellaneous papers and
envelopes; pigeon-holes crammed full of answered and unanswered
notes, some with crests on them, some with plain wax clinging to
the flap of the broken envelopes; many held together with the gum
of the common world. Here, too, were bundles of old letters tied
with tape; piles of pamphlets, quaint trays holding pens and
pencils, and here too was always to be found, in summer or in
winter, a big vase full of roses or blossoms, or whatever was in
season--a luxury he never denied himself.

To this desk, then, Peter betook himself the moment he had hung
his gray surtout on its hook in the closet and disposed of his hat
and umbrella. This was his up-town office, really, and here his
letters awaited him.

First came a notice of the next meeting of the Numismatic Society
of which he was an honored member; then a bill for his semi-annual
dues at the Century Club; next a delicately scented sheet inviting
him to dine with the Van Wormleys of Washington Square, to meet an
English lord and his lady, followed by a pressing letter to spend
Sunday with friends in the country. Then came a long letter from
his sister, Miss Felicia Grayson, who lived in the Genesee Valley
and who came to New York every winter for what she was pleased to
call "The Season" (a very remarkable old lady, this Miss Felicia
Grayson, with a mind of her own, sections of which she did not
hesitate to ventilate when anybody crossed her or her path, and of
whom we shall hear more in these pages), together with the usual
assortment of bills and receipts, the whole an enlivening record
not only of Peter's daily life and range of taste, but of the
limitations of his purse as well.

One letter was reserved for the last. This he held in his hand
until he again ran his eye over the pile before him. It was from
Holker Morris the architect, a man who stood at the head of his
profession.

"Yes, Holker's handwriting," he said as he inserted the end of the
paper cutter. "I wonder what the dear fellow wants now?" Here he
ran his eye over the first page. "Listen, Major. What an
extraordinary man ... He's going to give a dinner, he says, to his
draughtsmen ... in his offices at the top of his new building, six
stories up. Does the rascal think I have nothing to do but crawl
up his stairs? Here, I'll read it to you."

"'You, dear Peter:' That's just like Holker! He begins that way
when he wants me to do something for him. 'No use saying you won't
come, for I shall be around for you at seven o'clock with a club--
'No, that's not it--he writes so badly--'with a cab.' Yes, that's
it--'with a cab.' I wonder if he can drive me up those six flights
of stairs? I looked very attentively upon this kind homely
Benefactor, and forgive me, _Mr._ SPECTATOR, if I own to you I
took him for your self. We were no sooner entered, but we were
sprinkled three times with the Water of the Fountain _Aganippe_,
which had Power to deliver us from all Harms, but only Envy, which
reached even to the End of our Journey.

We had not proceeded far in the middle Path when we arrived at
the Summit of the Hill, where there immediately appeared to
us two Figures, which extremely engaged my Attention: the one was
a young Nymph in the Prime of her Youth and Beauty; she had Wings
on her Shoulders and Feet, and was able to transport herself to the
most distant Regions in the smallest Space of Time.

She was continually varying her Dress, sometimes into the most
natural and becoming Habits in the World, and at others into the
most wild and freakish Garb that can be imagined.
There stood by her a Man full-aged, and of great Gravity, who
corrected her Inconsistences, by shewing them in his Mirror, and
still flung her affected and unbecoming Ornaments down the Mountain,
which fell in the Plain below, and were gathered up and wore with
great Satisfaction by those that inhabited it.

The Name of the Nymph was _Fancy_, the Daughter of _Liberty_, the
most beautiful of all the Mountain-Nymphs. The other was
_Judgment_, the Off-spring of _Time_, and the only Child he
acknowledged to be his.

A Youth, who sat upon a Throne just between them, was their genuine
Offspring; his Name was _Wit_, and his Seat was composed
of the Works of the most celebrated Authors. I could not but see
with a secret Joy, that though the _Greeks_ and _Romans_ made the
Majority, yet our own Countrymen were the next both in Number and
Dignity.

I was now at Liberty to take a full Prospect of that delightful
Region.

I was inspired with new Vigour and Life, and saw every thing in
nobler and more pleasing Views than before; I breathed a purer
Æther in a Sky which was a continued Azure, gilded with perpetual
Sunshine.

"Take the Major with you, that's a good fellow, and let me drop in
about eleven o'clock," he pleaded, an expression on his face seen
only when two men understand and love each other. "There's a
letter from Felicia to attend to; she writes she is coming down
for a couple of weeks, and then I've really had a devil of a day
at the bank."

"No, you old fraud, you can't wheedle me that way. I want you
before everybody sits down, so my young chaps can look you over.
Why, Peter, you're better than a whole course of lectures, and you
mean something, you beggar! I tell you" (here he lifted himself
from the depths of the chair and scrambled to his feet) "you've
got to go if I have to tie your hands and feet and carry you
downstairs on my back! And you, too, Major--both of you. Here's
your overcoat--into it, you humbug! ... the other arm. Is this
your hat? Out you go!" and before I had stopped laughing--I had
refused to crowd the cab--Morris had buttoned the surtout over
Peter's breast, crammed the straight-brimmed hat over his eyes,
and the two were clattering downstairs.


CHAPTER III


Long before the two had reached the top floor of the building in
which the dinner was to be given, they had caught the hum of the
merrymakers, the sound bringing a smile of satisfaction to Peter's
face, but it was when he entered the richly colored room itself,
hazy with cigarette smoke, and began to look into the faces of the
guests grouped about him and down the long table illumined by
myriads of wax candles that all his doubts and misgivings faded
into thin air. Never since his school days, he told me afterwards,
had he seen so many boisterously happy young fellows grouped
together. And not only young fellows, with rosy cheeks and bright
eyes, but older men with thoughtful faces, who had relinquished
for a day the charge of some one of the important buildings
designed in the distinguished architect's office, and had spent
the night on the train that they might do honor to their Chief.

But it was when Morris, with his arm fast locked in his, began
introducing him right and left as the "Guest of Honor of the
Evening," the two shaking hands first with one and then another,
Morris breaking out into joyous salvos of welcome over some
arrival from a distant city, or greeting with marked kindness and
courtesy one of the younger men from his own office, that the old
fellow's enthusiasm became uncontrollable.

"Isn't it glorious, Holker!" he cried joyously, with uplifted
hands. "Oh, I'm so glad I came! I wouldn't have missed this for
anything in the world. Did you ever see anything like it? This is
classic, my boy--it has the tang and the spice of the ancients."

Morris's greeting to me was none the less hearty, although he had
left me but half an hour before.

"Late, as I expected, Major," he cried with out-stretched hand,
"and serves you right for not sitting in Peter's lap in the cab.
Somebody ought to sit on him once in a while. He's twenty years
younger already. Here, take this seat alongside of me where you
can keep him in order--they were at table when I entered. Waiter,
bring back that bottle--Just a light claret, Major--all we allow
ourselves."

As the evening wore away the charm of the room grew upon me.
Vistas hazy with tobacco smoke opened up; the ceiling lost in the
fog gave one the impression of out-of-doors--like a roof-garden at
night; a delusion made all the more real by the happy uproar. And
then the touches here and there by men whose life had been the
study of color and effects; the appointments of the table, the
massing of flowers relieving the white cloth; the placing of
shaded candles, so that only a rosy glow filtered through the
loom, softening the light on the happy faces--each scalp crowned
with chaplets of laurel tied with red ribbons: an enchantment of
color, form and light where but an hour before only the practical
and the commonplace had held sway.

No vestige of the business side of the offices remained. Peter
pointed out to me a big plaster model of the State House, which
filled one end of the room, and two great figures, original
plaster casts, heroic in size, that Harding, the sculptor, had
modelled for either side of the entrance of the building; but
everything that smacked of T-square or scale was hidden from
sight. In their place, lining the walls, stood a row of standards
of red and orange silk, stretched on rods and supported by poles;
the same patterns of banners which were carried before Imperial
Caesars when they took an airing; and now emblazoned with the
titles of the several structures conceived in the brain of Holker
Morris and executed by his staff: the Imperial Library in Tokio;
the great Corn Exchange covering a city block; the superb Art
Museum crowning the highest hill in the Park; the beautiful
chateau of the millionaire surrounded by thousands of acres of
virgin forest; the spacious warehouses on the water front, and
many others.

With the passing of the flagons an electric current of good
fellowship flashed around the circle. Stories that would have been
received with but a bare smile at the club were here greeted with
shouts of laughter. Bon-mots, skits, puns and squibs mouldy with
age or threadbare with use, were told with a new gusto and
welcomed with delight.

Suddenly, and without any apparent reason, these burst forth a
roar like that of a great orchestra with every instrument played
at its loudest--rounds of applause from kettle-drums, trombones
and big horns; screams of laughter from piccolos, clarionettes and
flutes, buzzings of subdued talk by groups of bass viols and the
lesser strings, the whole broken by the ringing notes of a song
that soared for an instant clear of the din, only to be overtaken
and drowned in the mighty shout of approval. This was followed by
a stampede from the table; the banners were caught up with a
mighty shout and carried around the room; Morris, boy for the
moment, springing to his feet and joining in the uproar.

The only guest who kept his chair, except Peter and myself, was a
young fellow two seats away, whose eyes, brilliant with
excitement, followed the merrymaking, but who seemed too much
abashed, or too ill at ease, to join in the fun. I had noticed how
quiet he was and wondered at the cause. Peter had also been
watching the boy and had said to me that he had a good face and
was evidently from out of town.

"Why don't you get up?" Peter called to him at last. "Up with you,
my lad. This is one of the times when every one of you young
fellows should be on your feet." He would have grabbed a banner
himself had any one given him the slightest encouragement.

"I would, sir, but I'm out of it," said the young man with a
deferential bow, moving to the empty seat next to Peter. He too
had been glancing at Peter from time to time.

"Aren't you with Mr. Morris?"

"No, I wish I were. I came with my friend, Garry Minott, that
young fellow carrying the banner with 'Corn Exchange' marked on
it."

SPECTATOR, are the Swingers.

You are to know these careless pretty Creatures are very
Innocents again; and it is to be no matter what they do, for
'tis all harmless Freedom. They get on Ropes, as you must have seen
the Children, and are swung by their Men Visitants.Garry says that I might as well work in a faro bank."

Peter leaned forward. For the moment the hubbub was forgotten as
he scrutinized the young man, who seemed scarcely twenty-one, his
well-knit, well-dressed body, his soft brown hair curled about his
scalp, cleanly modelled ears, steady brown eyes, white teeth--
especially the mobile lips which seemed quivering from some
suppressed emotion--all telling of a boy delicately nurtured.

"And do you really work in a faro bank?" Peter's knowledge of
human nature had failed him for once.

"Oh, no sir, that is only one of Garry's jokes. I'm clerk in a
stock broker's office on Wall Street. Arthur Breen & Company. My
uncle is head of the firm."

"Oh, that's it, is it?" answered Peter in a relieved tone.

"And now will you tell me what your business is, sir?" asked the
young man. "You seem so different from the others."

"Me! Oh, I take care of the money your gamblers win," replied
Peter, at which they both laughed, a spark of sympathy being
kindled between them.

Then, seeing the puzzled expression on the boy's face, he added
with a smile: "I'm Receiving Teller in a bank, one of the oldest
in Wall Street."

A look of relief passed over the young fellow's face.

"I'm very glad, sir," he said, with a smile. "Do you know, sir,
you look something like my own father--what I can remember of
him--that is, he was--" The lad checked himself, fearing he might
be discourteous. "That is, he had lost his hair, sir, and he wore
his cravats like you, too. I have his portrait in my room."

Peter leaned still closer to the speaker. This time he laid his
hand on his arm. The tumult around him made conversation almost
impossible. "And now tell me your name?"

"My name is Breen, sir. John Breen. I live with my uncle."

The roar of the dinner now became so fast and furious that further
confidences were impossible. The banners had been replaced and
every one was reseated, talking or laughing. On one side raged a
discussion as to how far the decoration of a plain surface should
go--"Roughing it," some of them called it. At the end of the table
two men were wrangling as to whether the upper or the lower half
of a tall structure should have its vertical lines broken; and, if
so, by what. Further down high-keyed voices were crying out
against the abomination of the flat roof on the more costly
buildings; wondering whether some of their clients would wake up
to the necessity of breaking the sky-line with something less
ugly--even if it did cost a little more. Still a third group were
in shouts of laughter over a story told by one of the staff who
had just returned from an inspection trip west.

Young Breen looked down the length of the table, watched for a
moment a couple of draughtsmen who stood bowing and drinking to
each other in mock ceremony out of the quaint glasses filled from
the borrowed flagons, then glanced toward his friend Minott, just
then the centre of a cyclone that was stirring the group midway
the table.

"Come over here, Garry," he called, half rising to his feet to
attract his friend's attention.

_Mr._ SPECTATOR,
'I am a young Widow of a good Fortune and Family, and just come to
Town; where I find I have Clusters of pretty Fellows come already
to visit me, some dying with Hopes, others with Fears, tho' they
never saw me.

Sits right next to me."

"What, that old fellow that looks like a billiard ball in a high
collar?" muttered Minott with a twinkle in his eye. "We've been
wondering where Mr. Morris dug him up."

"Hush," said Breen--"he'll hear you."

"All right, but hurry up. I must say he doesn't look near so bad
when you get close to him."

"Mr. Grayson, I want you to know my friend Garry Minott."

Peter rose to his feet. "I DO know him," he said, holding out his
hand cordially. "I've been knowing him all the evening. He's made
most of the fun at his end of the table. You seem to have flaunted
your Corn Exchange banner on the smallest provocation, Mr.
Minott," and Peter's fingers gripped those of the young man.

"That's because I've been in charge of the inside work. Great
dinner, isn't it, Mr. Grayson. But it's Britton who has made the
dinner. He's more fun than a Harlem goat with a hoopskirt. See
him--that's Brit with a red head and blue neck-tie. He's been all
winter in Wisconsin looking after some iron work and has come back
jam full of stories." The dignity of Peter's personality had
evidently not impressed the young man, judging from the careless
tone with which he addressed him. "And how are you getting on,
Jack--glad you came, arn't you?" As he spoke he laid his hand
affectionately on the boy's shoulder. "Didn't I tell you it would
be a corker? Out of sight, isn't it? Everything is out of sight
around our office." This last remark was directed to Peter in the
same casual way.

"I should say that every stopper was certainly out," answered
Peter in graver tones. He detested slang and would never
understand it. Then again the bearing and air of Jack's friend
jarred on him. "You know, of course, the old couplet--'When the
wine flows the--'"

