Scanner's Notes: What this is and isn't.  This was taken from
a copy of Shakespeare's first folio and it is as close as I can
come in ASCII to the printed text.

The elongated S's have been changed to small s's and the
conjoined ae have been changed to ae.  I have left the spelling,
punctuation, capitalization as close as possible to the
printed text.  I have corrected some spelling mistakes (I have put
together a spelling dictionary devised from the spellings of the
Geneva Bible and Shakespeare's First Folio and have unified
spellings according to this template), typo's and expanded
abbreviations as I have come across them.  Everything within
brackets [] is what I have added.  So if you don't like that
you can delete everything within the brackets if you want a
purer Shakespeare.

Another thing that you should be aware of is that there are textual
differences between various copies of the first folio.  So there may
be differences (other than what I have mentioned above) between
this and other first folio editions.  This is due to the printer's
habit of setting the type and running off a number of copies and
then proofing the printed copy and correcting the type and then
continuing the printing run.  The proof run wasn't thrown away but
incorporated into the printed copies.  This is just the way it is.
The text I have used was a composite of more than 30 different
First Folio editions' best pages.

If you find any scanning errors, out and out typos, punctuation
errors, or if you disagree with my spelling choices please feel
free to email me those errors.  I wish to make this the best
etext possible.  My email address for right now are haradda@aol.com
and davidr@inconnect.com.  I hope that you enjoy this.

David Reed

The Tragedie of Romeo and Juliet

Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.

Enter Sampson and Gregory, with Swords and Bucklers, of the
House of
Capulet.

  Sampson. Gregory: A my word wee'l not carry coales

   Greg. No, for then we should be Colliars

   Samp. I mean, if we be in choller, wee'l draw

   Greg. I, While you liue, draw your necke out
o'th Collar

   Samp. I strike quickly, being mou'd

   Greg. But thou art not quickly mou'd to strike

   Samp. A dog of the house of Mountague, moues me

   Greg. To moue, is to stir: and to be valiant, is to stand:
Therefore, if thou art mou'd, thou runst away

   Samp. A dogge of that house shall moue me to stand.
I will take the wall of any Man or Maid of Mountagues

   Greg. That shewes thee a weake slaue, for the weakest
goes to the wall

   Samp. True, and therefore women being the weaker
Vessels, are euer thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
Mountagues men from the wall, and thrust his Maides to
the wall

   Greg. The Quarrell is betweene our Masters, and vs their men

   Samp. 'Tis all one, I will shew my selfe a tyrant: when
I haue fought with the men, I will bee ciuill with the
Maids, and cut off their heads

   Greg. The heads of the Maids?
  Sam. I, the heads of the Maids, or their Maiden-heads,
Take it in what sence thou wilt

   Greg. They must take it sence, that feele it

   Samp. Me they shall feele while I am able to stand:
And 'tis knowne I am a pretty peece of flesh

   Greg. 'Tis well thou art not Fish: If thou had'st, thou
had'st beene poore Iohn. Draw thy Toole, here comes of
the House of the Mountagues.
Enter two other Seruingmen.

  Sam. My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I wil back thee
  Gre. How? Turne thy backe, and run

   Sam. Feare me not

   Gre. No marry: I feare thee

   Sam. Let vs take the Law of our sides: let them begin

   Gr. I wil frown as I passe by, & let the[m] take it as they list
  Sam. Nay, as they dare. I wil bite my Thumb at them,
which is a disgrace to them, if they beare it

   Abra. Do you bite your Thumbe at vs sir?
  Samp. I do bite my Thumbe, sir

   Abra. Do you bite your Thumb at vs, sir?
  Sam. Is the Law of our side, if I say I?
  Gre. No

   Sam. No sir, I do not bite my Thumbe at you sir: but
I bite my Thumbe sir

   Greg. Do you quarrell sir?
  Abra. Quarrell sir? no sir

   Sam. If you do sir, I am for you, I serue as good a man as you
  Abra. No better?
  Samp. Well sir.
Enter Benuolio.

  Gr. Say better: here comes one of my masters kinsmen

   Samp. Yes, better

   Abra. You Lye

   Samp. Draw if you be men. Gregory, remember thy
washing blow.

They Fight.

  Ben. Part Fooles, put vp your Swords, you know not
what you do.
Enter Tibalt.

  Tyb. What art thou drawne, among these heartlesse
Hindes? Turne thee Benuolio, looke vpon thy death

   Ben. I do but keepe the peace, put vp thy Sword,
Or manage it to part these men with me

   Tyb. What draw, and talke of peace? I hate the word
As I hate hell, all Mountagues, and thee:
Haue at thee Coward.

Fight.

Enter three or foure Citizens with Clubs.

  Offi. Clubs, Bils, and Partisons, strike, beat them down
Downe with the Capulets, downe with the Mountagues.
But tomb? No, bright bulge, Jungerschlagner!

  For here lies Juliet: her beauty makes This grave to celebrate hall
full of light.

   Toter, is located there, dead man buried! (He lays
  down Paris in the funeral.) How often are
people who have the death robbery, was
still happy! Their keepers name the last flash.

  Well now this is like a hot flash to me .-- O my
  heart! My wife! The death, the so-called balm of thy
breath, has nothing on your beauty managed.

  You're not yet defeated, and the beauty of purple
flags flying or on lips and cheeks dir;
planted here is not the death of his pale banners
lying you .-- da, Tybalt, which blutgen cloth?
O what greater service can you I do, as with the
hand, which come to your youth, of youth, the
enemy was to rip? Forgive me, cousin! - Dear
Juliet, Why are you still so beautiful? Should
I think of corporeal death entbrenn in love
and the hated, hagre fiend When his
Buhle think here in the dark you? From fear of
you I will never want to leave And
out of this palace denser soft night Never
again. Here, here will I remain With
worms, so you are maids. Bau O here I ewge
Ruhstatt And shake me from the body of
life The yoke hostile stars .-- eyes, look your
last! Arms, take the last hug! And, O
lips, her, the doors of breath, sealed
with a kiss rechtmäßgem The contract
with the eternal Wuchrer death. Come, bittrer
leaders, adverse vehicle, desperate pilot! Now
driving at once your diseased vessel in stormy surf rock!

This on your well-being, where thou mayest also stranded, this my
dears!

  - (He drinks.) O wackrer pharmacist, your drink is
quickly .-- And so the kiss I die. (He dies,
  brother Lorenzo comes from the other end of the
churchyard with a lantern crowbars and spades.)
LORENZO St. Francis help me! How many
graves are not my old feet gestolpert today.
Who's there? Who ists, still too late to
go dead? ( "Who is it that Consort, so late,
the dead?" This verse is found in the version
of the "Project Gutenberg Shakespeare Team's',
but lacking in all other known expenditures me.)
BALTHASAR A friend, and one that your well known.

   LORENZO God bless you! Tell me, my good friend,
What a torch ists, there you Freely light lends the worms and blind
skulls?

   It seems to me it burns in Capulets funeral.
BALTHASAR Yes, würdger Father and my Lord
is there, A friend of you. LORENZO Who is
it? BALTHASAR Romeo. LORENZO How long?
BALTHASAR full half an hour. LORENZO go with
me to the tomb! BALTHASAR I can not,
Sir. My Lord knows no different, when I was
away, And the terrible threat of death
me, Did I get his intent auszuspähn.
LORENZO To stay, I go alone .-- A Graun affects me,
Oh, I fear a very bad accident! BALTHASAR
Meanwhile under this yew I slept, I
dreamed, my Lord, and yet another föchten, And those he erschlüge.

   LORENZO Romeo? (He goes on to the front.) Woe, woe
to me! What kind of blood stained the stones
here in this tomb threshold? What do these orphan swords,
discolored That they are here at the site
of peace?
I neither know it, nor can learne of him

   Ben. Haue you importun'd him by any meanes?
  Moun. Both by my selfe and many other Friends,
But he his owne affections counseller,
Is to himselfe (I will not say how true)
But to himselfe so secret and so close,
So farre from sounding and discouery,
As is the bud bit with an enuious worme,
Ere he can spread his sweete leaues to the ayre,
Or dedicate his beauty to the same.
Could we but learne from whence his sorrowes grow,
We would as willingly giue cure, as know.
Enter Romeo.

  Ben. See where he comes, so please you step aside,
Ile know his greeuance, or be much denide

   Moun. I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,
To heare true shrift. Come Madam let's away.

Exeunt.

  Ben. Good morrow Cousin

   Rom. Is the day so young?
  Ben. But new strooke nine

   Rom. Aye me, sad houres seeme long:
Was that my Father that went hence so fast?
  Ben. It was: what sadnes lengthens Romeo's houres?
  Ro. Not hauing that, which hauing, makes them short
  Ben. In loue

   Romeo. Out

   Ben. Of loue

   Rom. Out of her fauour where I am in loue

   Ben. Alas that loue so gentle in his view,
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proofe

   Rom. Alas that loue, whose view is muffled still,
Should without eyes, see path-wayes to his will:
Where shall we dine? O me: what fray was heere?
Yet tell me not, for I haue heard it all:
Heere's much to do with hate, but more with loue:
Why then, O brawling loue, O louing hate,
O any thing, of nothing first created:
O heauie lightnesse, serious vanity,
Mishapen Chaos of welseeming formes,
Feather of lead, bright smoake, cold fire, sicke health,
Still waking sleepe, that is not what it is:
This loue feele I, that feele no loue in this.
Doest thou not laugh?
  Ben. No Coze, I rather weepe

   Rom. Good heart, at what?
  Ben. At thy good hearts oppression

   Rom. Why such is loues transgression.
Griefes of mine owne lie heauie in my breast,
Which thou wilt propagate to haue it preast
With more of thine, this loue that thou hast showne,
Doth adde more griefe, to too much of mine owne.
Loue, is a smoake made with the fume of sighes,
Being purg'd, a fire sparkling in Louers eyes,
Being vext, a Sea nourisht with louing teares,
What is it else? a madnesse, most discreet,
A choking gall, and a preseruing sweet:
Farewell my Coze

   Ben. Soft I will goe along.
And if you leaue me so, you do me wrong

   Rom. Tut I haue lost my selfe, I am not here,
This is not Romeo, hee's some other where

   Ben. Tell me in sadnesse, who is that you loue?
  Rom. What shall I grone and tell thee?
  Ben. Grone, why no: but sadly tell me who

   Rom. A sicke man in sadnesse makes his will:
A word ill vrg'd to one that is so ill:
In sadnesse Cozin, I do loue a woman

   Ben. I aym'd so neare, when I suppos'd you lou'd

   Rom. A right good marke man, and shee's faire I loue
  Ben. A right faire marke, faire Coze, is soonest hit

   Rom. Well in that hit you misse, sheel not be hit
With Cupids arrow, she hath Dians wit:
And in strong proofe of chastity well arm'd:
From loues weake childish Bow, she liues vncharm'd.
Shee will not stay the siege of louing tearmes,
Nor bid th' encounter of assailing eyes.
Nor open her lap to Sainct-seducing Gold:
O she is rich in beautie, onely poore,
That when she dies, with beautie dies her store

   Ben. Then she hath sworne, that she will still liue chast?
  Rom. She hath, and in that sparing make huge wast?
For beauty steru'd with her seuerity,
Cuts beauty off from all posteritie.
She is too faire, too wise: wisely too faire,
To merit blisse by making me dispaire:
She hath forsworne to loue, and in that vow
Do I liue dead, that liue to tell it now

   Ben. Be rul'd by me, forget to thinke of her

   Rom. O teach me how I should forget to thinke

   Ben. By giuing liberty vnto thine eyes,
Examine other beauties,
  Ro. 'Tis the way to cal hers (exquisit) in question more,
These happy maskes that kisse faire Ladies browes,
Being blacke, puts vs in mind they hide the faire:
He that is strooken blind, cannot forget
The precious treasure of his eye-sight lost:
Shew me a Mistresse that is passing faire,
What doth her beauty serue but as a note,
Where I may read who past that passing faire.
Farewell thou can'st not teach me to forget,
  Ben. Ile pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.

Exeunt.

Enter Capulet, Countie Paris, and the Clowne.

  Capu. Mountague is bound as well as I,
In penalty alike, and 'tis not hard I thinke,
For men so old as wee, to keepe the peace

   Par. Of Honourable reckoning are you both,
And pittie 'tis you liu'd at ods so long:
But now my Lord, what say you to my sute?
  Capu. But saying ore what I haue said before,
My Child is yet a stranger in the world,
Shee hath not seene the change of fourteene yeares,
Let two more Summers wither in their pride,
Ere we may thinke her ripe to be a Bride

   Pari. Younger then she, are happy mothers made

   Capu. And too soone mar'd are those so early made:
Earth hath swallowed all my hopes but she,
Shee's the hopefull Lady of my earth:
But wooe her gentle Paris, get her heart,
My will to her consent, is but a part,
And shee agree, within her scope of choise,
Lyes my consent, and faire according voice:
This night I hold an old accustom'd Feast,
Whereto I haue inuited many a Guest,
Such as I loue, and you among the store,
One more, most welcome makes my number more:
At my poore house, looke to behold this night,
Earth-treading starres, that make darke heauen light,
Such comfort as do lusty young men feele,
When well apparrel'd Aprill on the heele
Of limping Winter treads, euen such delight
Among fresh Fennell buds shall you this night
Inherit at my house: heare all, all see:
And like her most, whose merit most shall be:
Which one more veiw, of many, mine being one,
May stand in number, though in reckning none.
Come, goe with me: goe sirrah trudge about,
Through faire Verona, find those persons out,
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
My house and welcome, on their pleasure stay.
Enter.

  Ser. Find them out whose names are written. Heere it
is written, that the Shoo-maker should meddle with his
Yard, and the Tayler with his Last, the Fisher with his
Pensill, and the Painter with his Nets. But I am sent to
find those persons whose names are writ, & can neuer find
what names the writing person hath here writ (I must to
the learned) in good time.
Enter Benuolio, and Romeo.

  Ben. Tut man, one fire burnes out anothers burning,
One paine is lesned by anothers anguish:
Turne giddie, and be holpe by backward turning:
One desparate greefe, cures with anothers languish:
Take thou some new infection to the eye,
And the rank poyson of the old wil die

   Rom. Your Plantan leafe is excellent for that

   Ben. For what I pray thee?
  Rom. For your broken shin

   Ben. Why Romeo art thou mad?
  Rom. Not mad, but bound more then a mad man is:
Shut vp in prison, kept without my foode,
Whipt and tormented: and Godden good fellow,
  Ser. [Note A: This sacred word of the parser
  or the Zend-Avesta, which in the Zend-or proto-nations of the earth
is written, consists of 21 Theilen, of which the Vendidad still
exists, and in which the rules to all public and private acts of
worship, the sacrifices and the frequent cleanings are recorded.

   Of the remaining 20 Theilen are only fragments
because the loud prayers and solemn hymns,
  as a day before the holy fire of worship of all beings in performance
should be included.

   These include the Jeschts or torn fragments of larger Zendschriften
which is full of solemn invocations, and our Perikopen arising from
the new testaments are made equal.

   This Zend-Avesta, or sacred word, which in the Zendsprache is
written, of which Pohl Rische and Parsische language descended, and
to this day by the priests of those nations have learned and studirt
must be in itself to hymns and praises of the supreme being from
that book absingen you is Anquetil du Perron in the French and
German Kleuker translated.

When in 1723 some Theile this book came to England, it was not a
scholar daselbst to find only one Sylbe or from the same point would
enträthseln can.

Diess prompted the fiery and foreground languishing youth
Anquetil du Perron too bold with the many dangers and
difficulties associated decision, with the countries
hinzueilen and Oerter reside, where he managed the Zend-Avesta,
or the holy, living word of Zoroaster from the source
itself could learn. In this intention, he
went to his body to the extreme abzuhärten,
  gave him cheese, milk and water for food, and slept the night on
a mattress without spring beds.

   And because the promised
  support him on his long journey to materialize, so he settled as
a common soldier of the Company in the list of recruits to enroll,
and went in November 1754 after starting from the Orient.

   Even before he
  einschiffte, he received a pension from the king of 500 livres,
the Company gave him the free trip, and when he arrived at Pondichery,
certain of his that a substantial support.

   With the liveliest enthusiasm, he is now his intention to durchreisete
walk in different directions and a large portion of the peninsula,
acquired many important language skills, and made the acquaintance
of Surat with two American Indian law scholars, took lessons in
both languages, sacred and Zend Pohlri, and Theil took it by cunning
and some by force then that it their secrets and even Zoroaster's
holy books ablockte.

   With these and many other manuscripts in almost all
languages of India 1761, he came to Europe, first by reisete
Oxford, for his manuscript with those on the local
university
to compare, and from there to his homeland, where he Theil
literärischen its treasures of the Royal .

  Library donated. He now lived in Paris as a
French interpreter for the oriental languages,
became a member of the Academy of
Inscriptions and in his last years
of the National Institute, which he but a few
months before his death from Mißvergnügen with the then situation
of political affairs, left.

   He died in 1805 in the 74th Years of his
age.] [Note B: Noah was just 365 days in his ark for
this length of his descendants, as it seems
important to do what he as a Heiligthum,
received from his ancestors, dear.] [Note
C: The Brahmins do not know one time, how these phenomena arise
believe the sun was closer to us than the moon.

   The formulas for the calculations are wrapped in
verses, which they hersagen and they will
most likely not invented, but from their ancestors
received. P. my little work "Urvolk About
the Earth."] In this holy book is in fact
given, "that a natural enemy," which afterwards dragon tail star
or star is called, "come from the south and on the ground there and
that he did want to destroy the same [A].

   In the south, he broke the earth entirely,
everything was a blackness, like a night,
covered.

  Glutheißes water fell on the trees down, which in moments verdorreten
and to root out burnt.

   The earth itself was burnt, and there was still
little.
Peace I haue done: God marke thee too his grace
thou wast the prettiest Babe that ere I nurst, and I might
liue to see thee married once, I haue my wish

   Old La. Marry that marry is the very theame
I came to talke of, tell me daughter Iuliet,
How stands your disposition to be Married?
  Iuli. It is an houre that I dreame not of

   Nur. An houre, were I not thine onely Nurse, I would
say thou had'st suckt wisedome from thy teat

   Old La. Well thinke of marriage now, yonger then you
Heere in Verona, Ladies of esteeme,
Are made already Mothers. By my count
I was your Mother, much vpon these yeares
That you are now a Maide, thus then in briefe:
The valiant Paris seekes you for his loue

   Nurse. A man young Lady, Lady, such a man as all
the world. Why hee's a man of waxe

   Old La. Veronas Summer hath not such a flower

   Nurse. Nay hee's a flower, infaith a very flower

   Old La. What say you, can you loue the Gentleman?
This night you shall behold him at our Feast,
Read ore the volume of young Paris face,
And find delight, writ there with Beauties pen:
Examine euery seuerall liniament,
And see how one another lends content:
And what obscur'd in this faire volume lies,
Find written in the Margent of his eyes.
This precious Booke of Loue, this vnbound Louer,
To Beautifie him, onely lacks a Couer.
The fish liues in the Sea, and 'tis much pride
For faire without, the faire within to hide:
That Booke in manies eyes doth share the glorie,
That in Gold claspes, Lockes in the Golden storie:
So shall you share all that he doth possesse,
By hauing him, making your selfe no lesse

   Nurse. No lesse, nay bigger: women grow by men

   Old La. Speake briefly, can you like of Paris loue?
  Iuli. Ile looke to like, if looking liking moue.
But no more deepe will I endart mine eye,
Then your consent giues strength to make flye.
Enter a Seruing man.

  Ser. Madam, the guests are come, supper seru'd vp, you
cal'd, my young Lady askt for, the Nurse cur'st in the Pantery,
and euery thing in extremitie: I must hence to wait, I
beseech you follow straight.
Enter.

  Mo. We follow thee, Iuliet, the Countie staies

   Nurse. Goe Gyrle, seeke happie nights to happy daies.

Exeunt.

Enter Romeo, Mercutio, Benuolio, with fiue or sixe other Maskers,
Torch-bearers.

  Rom. What shall this spech be spoke for our excuse?
Or shall we on without Apologie?
  Ben. The date is out of such prolixitie,
Weele haue no Cupid, hood winkt with a skarfe,
Bearing a Tartars painted Bow of lath,
Skaring the Ladies like a Crow-keeper.
But let them measure vs by what they will,
Weele measure them with a Measure, and be gone

   Rom. Giue me a Torch, I am not for this ambling.
Being but heauy I will beare the light

   Mer. Nay gentle Romeo, we must haue you dance

   Rom. Not I beleeue me, you haue dancing shooes
With nimble soles, I haue a soale of Lead
So stakes me to the ground, I cannot moue

   Mer. You are a Louer, borrow Cupids wings,
And soare with them aboue a common bound

   Rom. I am too sore enpearced with his shaft,
To soare with his light feathers, and to bound:
I cannot bound a pitch aboue dull woe,
Vnder loues heauy burthen doe I sinke

   Hora. And to sinke in it should you burthen loue,
Too great oppression for a tender thing

   Rom. Is loue a tender thing? it is too rough,
Too rude, too boysterous, and it pricks like thorne

   Mer. If loue be rough with you, be rough with loue,
Pricke loue for pricking, and you beat loue downe,
Giue me a Case to put my visage in,
A Visor for a Visor, what care I
What curious eye doth quote deformities:
Here are the Beetle-browes shall blush for me

   Ben. Come knocke and enter, and no sooner in,
But euery man betake him to his legs

   Rom. A Torch for me, let wantons light of heart
Tickle the sencelesse rushes with their heeles:
For I am prouerb'd with a Grandsier Phrase,
Ile be a Candle-holder and looke on,
The game was nere so faire, and I am done

   Mer. Tut, duns the Mouse, the Constables owne word,
If thou art dun, weele draw thee from the mire.
Or saue your reuerence loue, wherein thou stickest
Vp to the eares, come we burne day-light ho

   Rom. Nay that's not so

   Mer. I meane sir I delay,
We wast our lights in vaine, lights, lights, by day;
Take our good meaning, for our Iudgement sits
Fiue times in that, ere once in our fiue wits

   Rom. And we meane well in going to this Maske,
But 'tis no wit to go

   Mer. Why may one aske?
  Rom. I dreampt a dreame to night

   Mer. And so did I

   Rom. Well what was yours?
  Mer. That dreamers often lye

   Ro. In bed a sleepe while they do dreame things true

   Mer. O then I see Queene Mab hath beene with you:
She is the Fairies Midwife, & she comes in shape no bigger
then Agat-stone, on the fore-finger of an Alderman,
drawne with a teeme of little Atomies, ouer mens noses as
they lie asleepe: her Waggon Spokes made of long Spinners
legs: the Couer of the wings of Grashoppers, her
Traces of the smallest Spiders web, her coullers of the
Moonshines watry Beames, her Whip of Crickets bone,
the Lash of Philome, her Waggoner, a small gray-coated
Gnat, not halfe so bigge as a round little Worme, prickt
from the Lazie-finger of a man. Her Chariot is an emptie
Haselnut, made by the Ioyner Squirrel or old Grub, time
out a mind, the Faries Coach-makers: & in this state she
gallops night by night, through Louers braines: and then
they dreame of Loue. On Courtiers knees, that dreame on
Cursies strait: ore Lawyers fingers, who strait dreampt on
Fees, ore Ladies lips, who strait on kisses dreame, which
oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues, because their
breath with Sweet meats tainted are. Sometime she gallops
ore a Courtiers nose, & then dreames he of smelling
out a sute: & somtime comes she with Tith pigs tale, tickling
a Parsons nose as a lies asleepe, then he dreames of
another Benefice. Sometime she driueth ore a Souldiers
necke, & then dreames he of cutting Forraine throats, of
Breaches, Ambuscados, Spanish Blades: Of Healths fiue
Fadome deepe, and then anon drums in his eares, at which
he startes and wakes; and being thus frighted, sweares a
prayer or two & sleepes againe: this is that very Mab that
plats the manes of Horses in the night: & bakes the Elklocks
in foule sluttish haires, which once vntangled, much
misfortune bodes,
This is the hag, when Maides lie on their backs,
That presses them, and learnes them first to beare,
Making them women of good carriage:
This is she

   Rom. Peace, peace, Mercutio peace,
Thou talk'st of nothing

   Mer. True, I talke of dreames:
Which are the children of an idle braine,
Begot of nothing, but vaine phantasie,
Which is as thin of substance as the ayre,
And more inconstant then the wind, who wooes
Euen now the frozen bosome of the North:
And being anger'd, puffes away from thence,
Turning his side to the dew dropping South

   Ben. This wind you talke of blowes vs from our selues,
Supper is done, and we shall come too late

   Rom. I feare too early, for my mind misgiues,
Some consequence yet hanging in the starres,
Shall bitterly begin his fearefull date
With this nights reuels, and expire the tearme
Of a despised life clos'd in my brest:
By some vile forfeit of vntimely death.
But he that hath the stirrage of my course,
Direct my sute: on lustie Gentlemen

   Ben. Strike Drum.

They march about the Stage, and Seruingmen come forth with
their napkins.

Enter Seruant.

  Ser. Where's Potpan, that he helpes not to take away?
He shift a Trencher? he scrape a Trencher?
  1. When good manners, shall lie in one or two mens
hands, and they vnwasht too, 'tis a foule thing

   Ser. Away with the Ioynstooles, remoue the Courtcubbord,
looke to the Plate: good thou, saue mee a piece
of Marchpane, and as thou louest me, let the Porter let in
Susan Grindstone, and Nell, Anthonie and Potpan

   2. I Boy readie

   Ser. You are lookt for, and cal'd for, askt for, & sought
for, in the great Chamber

   1. We cannot be here and there too, chearly Boyes,
Be brisk awhile, and the longer liuer take all.

Exeunt.

Enter all the Guests and Gentlewomen to the Maskers.

  1. Capu. Welcome Gentlemen,
Ladies that haue their toes
Vnplagu'd with Cornes, will walke about with you:
Ah my Mistresses, which of you all
Will now deny to dance? She that makes dainty,
She Ile sweare hath Cornes: am I come neare ye now?
Welcome Gentlemen, I haue seene the day
That I haue worne a Visor, and could tell
A whispering tale in a faire Ladies eare:
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone,
You are welcome Gentlemen, come Musitians play:

Musicke plaies: and they dance.

A Hall, Hall, giue roome, and foote it Girles,
More light you knaues, and turne the Tables vp:
And quench the fire, the Roome is growne too hot.
Ah sirrah, this vnlookt for sport comes well:
Nay sit, nay sit, good Cozin Capulet,
For you and I are past our dauncing daies:
How long 'ist now since last your selfe and I
Were in a Maske?
  2. Capu. Berlady thirty yeares

   1. Capu. What man: 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much,
'Tis since the Nuptiall of Lucentio,
Come Pentycost as quickely as it will,
Some fiue and twenty yeares, and then we Maskt

   2. Cap. 'Tis more, 'tis more, his Sonne is elder sir:
His Sonne is thirty

   3. Cap. Will you tell me that?
His Sonne was but a Ward two yeares agoe

   Rom. What Ladie is that which doth inrich the hand
Of yonder Knight?
  Ser. I know not sir

   Rom. O she doth teach the Torches to burne bright:
It seemes she hangs vpon the cheeke of night,
As a rich Iewel in an aethiops eare:
Beauty too rich for vse, for earth too deare:
So shewes a Snowy Doue trooping with Crowes,
As yonder Lady ore her fellowes showes;
The measure done, Ile watch her place of stand,
And touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
Did my heart loue till now, forsweare it sight,
For I neuer saw true Beauty till this night

   Tib. This by his voice, should be a Mountague.
Fetch me my Rapier Boy, what dares the slaue
Come hither couer'd with an antique face,
To fleere and scorne at our Solemnitie?
Now by the stocke and Honour of my kin,
To strike him dead I hold it not a sin

   Cap. Why how now kinsman,
Wherefore storme you so?
  Tib. Vncle this is a Mountague, our foe:
A Villaine that is hither come in spight,
To scorne at our Solemnitie this night

   Cap. Young Romeo is it?
  Tib. 'Tis he, that Villaine Romeo

   Cap. Content thee gentle Coz, let him alone,
A beares him like a portly Gentleman:
And to say truth, Verona brags of him,
To be a vertuous and well gouern'd youth:
I would not for the wealth of all the towne,
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Therfore be patient, take no note of him,
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
Shew a faire presence, and put off these frownes,
An ill beseeming semblance for a Feast
  Tib. It fits when such a Villaine is a guest,
Ile not endure him

   Cap. He shall be endur'd.
What goodman boy, I say he shall, go too,
Am I the Maister here or you? go too,
Youle not endure him, God shall mend my soule,
Youle make a Mutinie among the Guests:
You will set cocke a hoope, youle be the man

   Tib. Why Vncle, 'tis a shame

   Cap. Go too, go too,
You are a sawcy Boy, 'ist so indeed?
This tricke may chance to scath you, I know what,
You must contrary me, marry 'tis time.
Well said my hearts, you are a Princox, goe,
Be quiet, or more light, more light for shame,
Ile make you quiet. What, chearely my hearts

   Tib. Patience perforce, with wilfull choler meeting,
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting:
I will withdraw, but this intrusion shall
Now seeming sweet, conuert to bitter gall.
Enter.

  Rom. If I prophane with my vnworthiest hand,
This holy shrine, the gentle sin is this,
My lips to blushing Pilgrims did ready stand,
To smooth that rough touch, with a tender kisse

   Iul. Good Pilgrime,
You do wrong your hand too much.
Which mannerly deuotion shewes in this,
For Saints haue hands, that Pilgrims hands do tuch,
And palme to palme, is holy Palmers kisse

   Rom. Haue not Saints lips, and holy Palmers too?
  Iul. I Pilgrim, lips that they must vse in prayer

   Rom. O then deare Saint, let lips do what hands do,
They pray (grant thou) least faith turne to dispaire

   Iul. Saints do not moue,
Though grant for prayers sake

   Rom. Then moue not while my prayers effect I take:
Thus from my lips, by thine my sin is purg'd

   Iul. Then haue my lips the sin that they haue tooke

   Rom. Sin from my lips? O trespasse sweetly vrg'd:
Giue me my sin againe

   Iul. You kisse by'th' booke

   Nur. Madam your Mother craues a word with you

   Rom. What is her Mother?
  Nurs. Marrie Batcheler,
Her Mother is the Lady of the house,
And a good Lady, and a wise, and Vertuous,
I Nur'st her Daughter that you talkt withall:
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her,
Shall haue the chincks

   Rom. Is she a Capulet?
O deare account! My life is my foes debt

   Ben. Away, be gone, the sport is at the best

   Rom. I so I feare, the more is my vnrest

   Cap. Nay Gentlemen prepare not to be gone,
We haue a trifling foolish Banquet towards:
Is it e'ne so? why then I thanke you all.
I thanke you honest Gentlemen, good night:
More Torches here: come on, then let's to bed.
Ah sirrah, by my faie it waxes late,
Ile to my rest

   Iuli. Come hither Nurse,
What is yond Gentleman:
  Nur. The Sonne and Heire of old Tyberio

   Iuli. What's he that now is going out of doore?
  Nur. Marrie that I thinke be young Petruchio

   Iul. What's he that follows here that would not dance?
  Nur. I know not

   Iul. Go aske his name: if he be married,
My graue is like to be my wedded bed

   Nur. His name is Romeo, and a Mountague,
The onely Sonne of your great Enemie

   Iul. My onely Loue sprung from my onely hate,
Too early seene, vnknowne, and knowne too late,
Prodigious birth of Loue it is to me,
That I must loue a loathed Enemie

   Nur. What's this? whats this?
  Iul. A rime, I learne euen now
Of one I dan'st withall.

One cals within, Iuliet.

  Nur. Anon, anon:
Come let's away, the strangers all are gone.

Exeunt.

  Chorus. Now old desire doth in his death bed lie,
And yong affection gapes to be his Heire,
That faire, for which Loue gron'd for and would die,
With tender Iuliet matcht, is now not faire.
Now Romeo is beloued, and Loues againe,
A like bewitched by the charme of lookes:
But to his foe suppos'd he must complaine,
And she steale Loues sweet bait from fearefull hookes:
Being held a foe, he may not haue accesse
To breath such vowes as Louers vse to sweare,
And she as much in Loue, her meanes much lesse,
To meete her new Beloued any where:
But passion lends them Power, time, meanes to meete,
Temp'ring extremities with extreame sweete.
Enter Romeo alone.

  Rom. Can I goe forward when my heart is here?
Turne backe dull earth, and find thy Center out.
Enter Benuolio, with Mercutio.

  Ben. Romeo, my Cozen Romeo, Romeo

   Merc. He is wise,
And on my life hath stolne him home to bed

   Ben. He ran this way and leapt this Orchard wall.
Call good Mercutio:
Nay, Ile coniure too

   Mer. Romeo, Humours, Madman, Passion, Louer,
Appeare thou in the likenesse of a sigh,
Speake but one time, and I am satisfied:
Cry me but ay me, Prouant, but Loue and day,
Speake to my goship Venus one faire word,
One Nickname for her purblind Sonne and her,
Young Abraham Cupid he that shot so true,
When King Cophetua lou'd the begger Maid,
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moueth not,
The Ape is dead, I must coniure him,
I coniure thee by Rosalines bright eyes,
By her High forehead, and her Scarlet lip,
By her Fine foote, Straight leg, and Quiuering thigh,
And the Demeanes, that there Adiacent lie,
That in thy likenesse thou appeare to vs

   Ben. And if he heare thee thou wilt anger him

   Mer. This cannot anger him, t'would anger him
To raise a spirit in his Mistresse circle,
Of some strange nature, letting it stand
Till she had laid it, and coniured it downe,
That were some spight.
My inuocation is faire and honest, & in his Mistris name,
I coniure onely but to raise vp him

   Ben. Come, he hath hid himselfe among these Trees
To be consorted with the Humerous night:
Blind is his Loue, and best befits the darke

   Mer. If Loue be blind, Loue cannot hit the marke,
Now will he sit vnder a Medler tree,
And wish his Mistresse were that kind of Fruite,
As Maides cal Medlers when they laugh alone,
O Romeo that she were, O that she were
An open, or thou a Poprin Peare,
Romeo goodnight, Ile to my Truckle bed,
This Field-bed is to cold for me to sleepe,
Come shall we go?
  Ben. Go then, for 'tis in vaine to seeke him here
That meanes not to be found.

Exeunt.

  Rom. He ieasts at Scarres that neuer felt a wound,
But soft, what light through yonder window breaks?
It is the East, and Iuliet is the Sunne,
Arise faire Sun and kill the enuious Moone,
Who is already sicke and pale with griefe,
That thou her Maid art far more faire then she:
Be not her Maid since she is enuious,
Her Vestal liuery is but sicke and greene,
And none but fooles do weare it, cast it off:
It is my Lady, O it is my Loue, O that she knew she were,
She speakes, yet she sayes nothing, what of that?
Her eye discourses, I will answere it:
I am too bold 'tis not to me she speakes:
Two of the fairest starres in all the Heauen,
Hauing some businesse do entreat her eyes,
To twinckle in their Spheres till they returne.
What if her eyes were there, they in her head,
The brightnesse of her cheeke would shame those starres,
As day-light doth a Lampe, her eye in heauen,
Would through the ayrie Region streame so bright,
That Birds would sing, and thinke it were not night:
See how she leanes her cheeke vpon her hand.
O that I were a Gloue vpon that hand,
That I might touch that cheeke

   Iul. Ay me

   Rom. She speakes.
Oh speake againe bright Angell, for thou art
As glorious to this night being ore my head,
As is a winged messenger of heauen
Vnto the white vpturned wondring eyes
Of mortalls that fall backe to gaze on him,
When he bestrides the lazie puffing Cloudes,
And sailes vpon the bosome of the ayre

   Iul. O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?
Denie thy Father and refuse thy name:
Or if thou wilt not, be but sworne to my Loue,
And Ile no longer be a Capulet

   Rom. Shall I heare more, or shall I speake at this?
  Iu. 'Tis but thy name that is my Enemy:
Thou art thy selfe, though not a Mountague,
What's Mountague? it is nor hand nor foote,
Nor arme, nor face, O be some other name
Belonging to a man.
What? in a names that which we call a Rose,
By any other word would smell as sweete,
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo cal'd,
Retaine that deare perfection which he owes,
Without that title Romeo, doffe thy name,
And for thy name which is no part of thee,
Take all my selfe

   Rom. I take thee at thy word:
Call me but Loue, and Ile be new baptiz'd,
Hence foorth I neuer will be Romeo

   Iuli. What man art thou, that thus bescreen'd in night
So stumblest on my counsell?
  Rom. By a name,
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
My name deare Saint, is hatefull to my selfe,
Because it is an Enemy to thee,
Had I it written, I would teare the word

   Iuli. My eares haue yet not drunke a hundred words
Of thy tongues vttering, yet I know the sound.
Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?
  Rom. Neither faire Maid, if either thee dislike

   Iul. How cam'st thou hither.
Tell me, and wherefore?
The Orchard walls are high, and hard to climbe,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
If any of my kinsmen find thee here,
  Rom. With Loues light wings
Did I ore-perch these Walls,
For stony limits cannot hold Loue out,
And what Loue can do, that dares Loue attempt:
Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me

   Iul. If they do see thee, they will murther thee

   Rom. Alacke there lies more perill in thine eye,
Then twenty of their Swords, looke thou but sweete,
And I am proofe against their enmity

   Iul. I would not for the world they saw thee here

   Rom. I haue nights cloake to hide me from their eyes
And but thou loue me, let them finde me here,
My life were better ended by their hate,
Then death proroged wanting of thy Loue

   Iul. By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
  Rom. By Loue that first did prompt me to enquire,
He lent me counsell, and I lent him eyes,
I am no Pylot, yet wert thou as far
As that vast-shore-washet with the farthest Sea,
I should aduenture for such Marchandise

   Iul. Thou knowest the maske of night is on my face,
Else would a Maiden blush bepaint my cheeke,
For that which thou hast heard me speake to night,
Faine would I dwell on forme, faine, faine, denie
What I haue spoke, but farewell Complement,
Doest thou Loue? I know thou wilt say I,
And I will take thy word, yet if thou swear'st,
Thou maiest proue false: at Louers periuries
They say Ioue laught, oh gentle Romeo,
If thou dost Loue, pronounce it faithfully:
Or if thou thinkest I am too quickly wonne,
Ile frowne and be peruerse, and say thee nay,
So thou wilt wooe: But else not for the world.
HERNANDO. So, speaking as Mr ... [They
talk apart doña doña ANARDA and JULIA] ANARDA. Say,
Julia, we continue, as that leaves you. JULIA.
(Your fire it burns me.) Apart Come to our
house know that I talk. HERNANDO. Harel well. [Vans
ladies] Pobretilla ¡! You love me? Weapons
of love costume, a man came to kill and have
killed two women. [See HERNANDO] LEONARDO.
The car took. Fleeing from you, sir.

   CONDE. Watch me, Leonardo, the
servant. You see how you follow? LEONARDO.

   What determines? CONDE. Knowing who is the owner and
his attempt, which I love how the wind a
thousand fears that vision.

   [The Vans CONDE and Leonardo.
  Leave the Prince, with Gabán
and crossbow, and don JUAN GARCIA] [SCENE IX]
GARCIA. Course, is forced to obey
your Highness, Oya who exercised over the sword that language.

   Garci Ruiz de Alarcón's my name on the borders that most fearsome
Berber known yours.

   Vassals I have in the Channel, my inherited from
the past Zavalla, which opened Castilla
de Alarcón doors. ciñéndome in the sword,
went to serve in war, that is ventura inherit
honor, and courage is merecella. I want to be
silent because it exploits the fame he has,
and on earth write rivers of blood agarena. There
will, therefore, sir, six years in the bloody
battle we had with the Moors in Jerez de la Frontera, a member of
Don Juan Luna, whose rays of the sun could envy for fire the bolts,
because his valiant sword was turned on a comet that threatens the
fire and blood Berber power.

   When the lock skirmish with a lively force
  rammed the hosts of Africa, that of Castile affront.
  thwarting our forgot his pride, and even back again, this is true,
if shame.

   I, though never used to see as weakness, atájelos with
the sword castiguélos with the language.

   O is due to my reasons, or Dell
to be the value, run
  the Castilians repaired the race, and again
turned on Mars, stir with such violence,
that seemed to escape the artifice that
weakness. You, sir, at long last vencistes;
that planets are kings and vassal of the
works are due to its influence.

Well as I was the reason for our return, author of the entire field
vitoria welcomes me: that some cowardly envy tósigo mind, that the
pension of such emulation is that result.

Together, therefore, the envious to make
my affronts, Don Juan de Luna chosen instrument for the dell.

   Just rely on your courage, confidence and
succeed, because as he dared, no one without
it dared.

   Dícenle for a incitallo revenge
that try to value your
sword and I have spoken ill in his
absence, I said that behind his, were the first
who saw the enemies in the last skirmish.
One grievance complaint, the other answered him,
with false information and he rightly
condemns me.

   And being in a
circle up with other soldiers, he determined
Don Juan, a desta
  saying: - I am
Don Juan, the Moon,
rays of glorious full, the honor of my past,
with be huge, growing, you have said about me that I am a coward
in the war, knowing that you courage expires, as in nobility. - lie
at all!

   I said, but just Hubel said, when he threw in a glove a bolt in my
honor, that although I arrived, the misfortune is our honor so
delicate, that the attempt was bankrupt.

   I took the sword to avenge, and
he his in his defense, that two human Joves two rays vibration
were not stopped many, I do not say how he died, which is due to
luck, if you are fighting with courage.

  At last, I could not break swords opposing walls,
that even exceeds the value, not equal power. Ausentóseme
Don Juan, and I, knowing who were the perpetrators of the
deception that was my offense, two, three, threw into the sea from
a boat: I am offended by the mouths, and death came by them.

  The third absent, and me looking at me wrong
Don Juan de Luna by several land and sea,
determined to kill or die, and their fields
has six laps the sun while I return to a world.
I knew I was in Madrid, and came hanging on
the banks of Manzanares agora; embestí to avenge my shame, came
with me to the arms, where the son of the land exceeds the value
and strength, but I honor of Thebes. dagaa arm and get up, burning
rage that governs; and he, seeing that already in the soil is left
no choice, ¡Válgame the Virgin!

   says, worth, say, and the verdict overturned
in the same instant it started to blow subtraction.
This is the case, Don Juan, as I have spoken in his presence, I
can amend it now that my memory is wrong.

   JOHN.

   This, sir, is the case.

   PRINCIPE. Garcia-Ruiz de
Alarcón, your actions
  are clear, from the east at sunset da envy your opinion.

   The most famous stories in your high Vitoria _NONE
plus ultra_ have, but which today ganais was _plus ultra_ of human
glory.

   You this is so strange that I would live!

   God have made the feat more than today, García , did
you, to be Prince of Spain.

   I said Alejandro (¡ved as it strongly!) that if one
was more proud surrendered forgave, that if a surrender rule.

   That brave breasts, enough by itself to undertake
the difficult cases The reach and venture
is to be overcome, but they forgive a man,
and being the winner, who was stripped of
the honor, no fortune brings, it's all due to
the value.

   If you kill, Garcia, you have so much custom, What would kill feat?

   Your courage is more to
be no kill. In win is glory, not kill, that
is vile action followed the angry passion, and tarnish the victory
the villain performance.

   Whoever won, it could kill; But who
killed it is not certain he could win, so that it happens to strong,
without being beaten, being killed.

   And so, you can not deny who seeks more biting, more honored that
you came to give up and not kill, that kill and not win.

   Give death to the enemy, is the argument temello;
despreciallo is punishment, as a living witness
against himself, the expiration. vitoria shorten the
killer, and it has forgiven , makes it more,
because while the loser live, beating is the winner.
And where cowardice can not interpret the
emulation forgiveness. It has the world, Garcia,
as you pleased, give me your arms.

GARCIA.

  Lord, with your feet down premiáis me my greatest
achievement. PRINCIPE. These calls vassalage, and I
esotros value. GARCIA. Know as king honor.
PRINCIPE. Lift up, Alarcón, soil, soil that is not
to be who has the same force Queen of
heaven. And I believe that by paying libranza
yours, to say that you want the honor,
which is the king a treasurer (the _Échale brazos_)
with God on earth. (_Abrázale_) Free to be
demolished now I judge myself, that I will
be well supported by an arm, who raised no
such fury demolished. And so, in my
house, Garcia, he is, from this
day the two walk together, that I learn
from your courage and piety. gentleman of
my mouth I do. GARCIA. Give me the feet. PRINCIPE.
The use of vos is little mercy for you, because
my own interest. And I do not intend Desto award
or benefit, for the office or the office, no rewards
to the king who has a need for service. Choose
a habit of the three. GARCIA. When, sir, will
serve both market? (_Arrodíllase Don
Juan_) PRINCIPE.

Aquesta your value and not to me, very grateful.
It served no a lot, a habit she says. So
what will have mercy on me that cost me nothing and you
have earned? - Why are Don Juan, well? JUAN.
These honors that you give Garcia-Ruiz for
me, thank you. PRINCIPE. I have more to those
who today has given me to you. To pay
warned me that I live with this life, which today, Don Juan, you
gave, you are, buddy, alter ego, and you get life.

   All of you know honor.

   [SCENE X] Exit the
Paje GERARDO; PRINCIPE apart with Paje,
speaking separately and GARCIA DON JUAN.
[GERARDO .-- EL PRINCIPE, GARCIA, DON
JUAN] PRINCIPE. What, Gerardo? GERARDO. A
separate your Highness would like to talk.
[Prince _Desvíase with Paje, speaking separately
and Don Garcia Juan_.] JUAN. Nobility deserve your place
as a sovereign. GARCIA. A debtor in me
the honor that you receive today. JOHN.
When you live at the mercy, by law you
owe nothing to your captive.

   But where the subject is such, not so much the spirit estiméis
implement liberal Prince Don Enrique to grant the same, because the
real person that made the sky nobility kindness and largess, now
you give her crown, to take it into his head.

   PRINCIPE. (_Ap_.) I'm Confused. What should I
  do? At that point I am now honored to ignite?
Well stop obeying Anarda, how can I?

   Oh love fuero unfair! To make such a man as heroic wrong
  is right, just like the light of a woman for
no reason? prendello But what matter if
I drop it then, and I came to rid his
prison liviana a long and short of anger
and grief? But I have to better, by showing
little lover suffer Anarda rigor, to
give a note of inconstant value of such a man.

   But I say if the cause or excuse EFET. I will be
discreet, even if they do not start to be my friend when you trust
a secret.

   But I know what I do .-- Vedme tonight Garcia. GARCIA.
I'm Yours. PRINCIPE. You have to see
my father, who would want to put your
person in the state that fits the value that
you see. GARCIA. I will serve with. PRINCIPE.
Tonight my father's habits catch up. (_Vase_.)
John. Now I watch you with him, that the
King Don Juan to his Highness never denied anything, that he
inherited from his father the Prince largess.

   (_Vase_.) GARCIA. Cruel sea of bloody vengeance, of
rage, of anger and full of courage, ran
storm, hope to reach others in my state to
do good. And a sudden accident, moving a chest
pound of deadly poison, and that
my grievance to my fury I condemn, in the
hope my forgiveness occurs. No, I moved
the privacy future, that mixed fortunes
in his works of merit do not report, but I have
my pity this venture, and at least in such feats,
action is the kind of glory. (_Vase_.) [SCENE
XI] [_Calle living in Anarda .-- It noche_.]
Sale HERNANDO with old coat and hat; INÉS. HERNANDO.
I want to know your name. INÉS. Inés. HERNANDO.
Can tell me as I do not know how I feel after I see
you. Just love you, Agnes. INÉS.

   At least not tell because you've already said, I will tell you later.

   HERNANDO.

   The language is more daring in love and blissfully rope, because
the mule is Lerda afternoon reached the inn.

   Enfermo it is for love,
and is the doctor's beloved, then what will it be cured who shut
her out to Dotor?

   [ SCENE XII] Salen EL CONDE and Leonardo night
.-- [HERNANDO, INÉS.] LEONARDO. Busy is the
door. CONDE.

   Recognize certain.
LEONARDO. The jealous your unreasonable actions
baffled. CONDE. I do not replicate. Who
is it? INÉS. [_Ap_] (This is the Count.)
Inés am that I am enjoying the cool.
CONDE. I do not speak with you, Agnes, but with aquese hidalgo.

   INÉS. One soldier, who arrived as he saw me at the door, to ask God.

   HERNANDO.

Give something to pay the inn, gentlemen, a soldier desvergonzante
and honest, which brings the leg hanging and has a bent arm, for
love of ...

LEONARDO. Sorry. HERNANDO.

  The need to look at that, by God, I ask. CONDE. Is
it not silly?
  HERNANDO. So a poor response? (Is this _Ap_.

   Count Yes: it hides the quality and money.) (_Vase_.)
[SCENE XIII] [EL CONDE, Leonardo INÉS.]

   CONDE. Sister Agnes, did not reach agreement with the honor
desta home to see who spends hours on this, men talking to your
door.

   INÉS.

   A patched beggar who comes to God to ask what can be said?

   CONDE.

   A third party, disguised as a beggar, seeking the
opportunity to your message, and this time the suit is not bad,
and man it, and be you, as is rightly locked in your house, the
beggar and the passing quitárades the occasion.

   INÉS. I do not know me, my life, how long you here or
where he has played, Mr Conde, the post of Warden
vueseñoría or guardadamas desta home. What husband or
father is trouserpress admitted some of my love, to store
well?
  CONDE. Live heaven, not
  to be home and aquesta woman! ... LEONARDO. Calla,
Agnes, are you in you? "So you dare to Count?
INÉS. And at the same king dared me, if so give me time.
Whoever answered by its owner dares very fairly. But I tell
her that the Earl Anarda door guard, to try the remedy.
(_Vase_.) [SCENE XIV] [EL CONDE, Leonardo.] LEONARDO. Missed
you. CONDE.

   I am jealous of
  such disdain and, already in desperate attempts to give
new. Since I can not oblige, just want revenge, that
these visions that I see, I have the art of giving. The guy who
today spoke on the river and followed the later
to find the door to talk to both Agnes and verve; Anarda
of the angry
frown today because I got to the car: everything
he says, or nothing, which has owned this house. LEONARDO.
Does
that question?

  CONDE. To inquire and give them grief treatment.

   LEONARDO. You will not very cheap, if you pursue
dasen, to favor the poor lover. CONDE. Take the trouble
to have weight. LEONARDO. For that God made you so much
sir, to you who come to pay him so. CONDE. It is for
these events, wearing steel breasts. LEONARDO. Who wants
to give grief has to live with care. CONDE. Come for weapons,
that the day has to be here a spy, Leonardo, to be avenged.
(_Vanse_.) [SCENE XV] Salen HERNANDO GARCIA and at
night.

   GARCIA. Continues. HERNANDO. Llegóse to me on that
count Mauritius,
  as I see the car, and ask who to serve. I say that
  to anybody. He replied: I know where those ladies who
spoke, and why I keep the occasion.

   That neither I nor know him and certify answer .-- Well I do not
stop again to view the car (he said), or sticks I will kill you
.-- I am away, and a beggar who asked alms walked between the cars
in the river, I give my hat and coat, and these rags I ask, that
if you see me the day, Bear fool yourself .

   That, and the night also helps us, the continued and entered his
house, so we are neighbors, this is you're watching, which publishes
the magnificent building stingy hidden treasures.

   I talked with them, and in the end, be Lucrecia said, to have you
love me, if honest, clear signs.

   Question your house, and I with me decilla dismissal; to say they
like my humor, but I am your love it applies, I dressed to the toast
"to see more" understanding.

   Ines, secretary yours, send it to me leave me in the street, something
good out of style, but not the intention, and found that I presume
that was because I Inés inform me of the way in what they denied
me: love lance known.

   I knew that was the name Anarda and Giron's name which I named Doña
Lucrecia Chacon said.

   The other is his cousin Julia your name, and an old uncle is the
curator and the Argos of these two orphan Ios, both for married and
have two mayorazgo very rich who can make everyone happy with her
husband. mías gave some hope with that in vacuum and Agnes, wrapped
in grace, shot an arrow of love.

   And so we come to the door, where a jealous spirit came to recognize,
identify, Mauritius.

   He says I am a beggar Inés; fínjolo I live. He replied:
no give you, me, outside of poor, obstinacy. Enfadóse,
we were, Hallet in the inn, we left, they told me the grants, which
the Prince did today: got here, we stopped at a glance ...

   With that amount I said what
I have from the fact that I left off in the river.

   GARCIA. Anarda of favor with the jealousy of Mauritius and I are
thinking a confusing maze.

   Hernando, I'm lost. I
do not know what divine power has Anarda, which at one point I
caught the senses.

   That I am happy that I do not favor Today made me Your
Highness, that I just want to Anarda only believe.
Judge then what I have licenses for Mauritius, which has
a lot of so bold owner who
  cela. HERNANDO. A window warns that two people
have left.

   [SCENE XVI] Salen ANARDA and the ventana_ INÉS _A.

   

   
Farewell, be trustie and Ile quite thy paines:
Farewell, commend me to thy Mistresse

   Nur. Now God in heauen blesse thee: harke you sir,
  Rom. What saist thou my deare Nurse?
  Nurse. Is your man secret, did you nere heare say two
may keepe counsell putting one away

   Ro. Warrant thee my man is true as steele

   Nur. Well sir, my Mistresse is the sweetest Lady, Lord,
Lord, when 'twas a little prating thing. O there is a Noble
man in Towne one Paris, that would faine lay knife aboard:
but she good soule had as leeue see a Toade, a very
Toade as see him: I anger her sometimes, and tell her that
Paris is the properer man, but Ile warrant you, when I say
so, shee lookes as pale as any clout in the versall world.
Doth not Rosemarie and Romeo begin both with a letter?
  Rom. I Nurse, what of that? Both with an R
  Nur. A mocker that's the dogs name. R. is for the no,
I know it begins with some other letter, and she hath the
prettiest sententious of it, of you and Rosemary, that it
would do you good to heare it

   Rom. Commend me to thy Lady

   Nur. I a thousand times. Peter?
  Pet. Anon

   Nur. Before and apace.

Exit Nurse and Peter.

Enter Iuliet.

  Iul. The clocke strook nine, when I did send the Nurse,
In halfe an houre she promised to returne,
Perchance she cannot meete him: that's not so:
Oh she is lame, Loues Herauld should be thoughts,
Which ten times faster glides then the Sunnes beames,
Driuing backe shadowes ouer lowring hils.
Therefore do nimble Pinion'd Doues draw Loue,
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings:
Now is the Sun vpon the highmost hill
Of this daies iourney, and from nine till twelue,
Is three long houres, yet she is not come.
Had she affections and warme youthfull blood,
She would be as swift in motion as a ball,
My words would bandy her to my sweete Loue,
And his to me, but old folkes,
Many faine as they were dead,
Vnwieldie, slow, heauy, and pale as lead.
Enter Nurse.

O God she comes, O hony Nurse what newes?
Hast thou met with him? send thy man away

   Nur. Peter stay at the gate

   Iul. Now good sweet Nurse:
O Lord, why lookest thou sad?
Though newes, be sad, yet tell them merrily.
If good thou sham'st the musicke of sweet newes,
By playing it to me, with so sower a face

   Nur. I am a weary, giue me leaue awhile,
Fie how my bones ake, what a iaunt haue I had?
  Iul. I would thou had'st my bones, and I thy newes:
Nay come I pray thee speake, good good Nurse speake

   Nur. Iesu what hast? can you not stay a while?
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
  Iul. How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breth
To say to me, that thou art out of breath?
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay,
Is longer then the tale thou dost excuse.
Is thy newes good or bad? answere to that,
Say either, and Ile stay the circumstance:
Let me be satisfied, ist good or bad?
  Nur. Well, you haue made a simple choice, you know
not how to chuse a man: Romeo, no not he though his face
be better then any mans, yet his legs excels all mens, and
for a hand, and a foote, and a body, though they be not to
be talkt on, yet they are past compare: he is not the flower
of curtesie, but Ile warrant him as gentle a Lambe: go thy
waies wench, serue God. What haue you din'd at home?
  Iul. No no: but all this did I know before
What saies he of our marriage? what of that?
  Nur. Lord how my head akes, what a head haue I?
It beates as it would fall in twenty peeces.
My backe a tother side: o my backe, my backe:
Beshrew your heart for sending me about
To catch my death with iaunting vp and downe

   Iul. Ifaith: I am sorrie that thou art so well.
Sweet sweet, sweet Nurse, tell me what saies my Loue?
  Nur. Your Loue saies like an honest Gentleman,
And a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome,
And I warrant a vertuous: where is your Mother?
  Iul. Where is my Mother?
Why she is within, where should she be?
How odly thou repli'st:
Your Loue saies like an honest Gentleman:
Where is your Mother?
  Nur. O Gods Lady deare,
Are you so hot? marrie come vp I trow,
Is this the Poultis for my aking bones?
Henceforward do your messages your selfe

   Iul. Heere's such a coile, come what saies Romeo?
  Nur. Haue you got leaue to go to shift to day?
  Iul. I haue

   Nur. Then high you hence to Frier Lawrence Cell,
There staies a Husband to make you a wife:
Now comes the wanton bloud vp in your cheekes,
Thei'le be in Scarlet straight at any newes:
Hie you to Church, I must an other way,
To fetch a Ladder by the which your Loue
Must climde a birds nest Soone when it is darke:
I am the drudge, and toile in your delight:
But you shall beare the burthen soone at night.
Go Ile to dinner, hie you to the Cell

   Iul. Hie to high Fortune, honest Nurse, farewell.

Exeunt.

Enter Frier and Romeo.

  Fri. So smile the heauens vpon this holy act,
That after houres, with sorrow chide vs not

   Rom. Amen, amen, but come what sorrow can,
It cannot counteruaile the exchange of ioy
That one short minute giues me in her sight:
Do thou but close our hands with holy words.
Then Loue-deuouring death do what he dare,
It is inough. I may call her mine

   Fri. These violent delights haue violent endes,
And in their triumph: die like fire and powder;
Which as they kisse consume. The sweetest honey
Is loathsome in his owne deliciousnesse,
And in the taste confoundes the appetite.
Therefore Loue moderately, long Loue doth so,
Too swift arriues as tardie as too slow.
Enter Iuliet.

Here comes the Lady. Oh so light a foot
Will nere weare out the euerlasting flint,
A Louer may bestride the Gossamours,
That ydles in the wanton Summer ayre,
And yet not fall, so light is vanitie

   Iul. Good euen to my ghostly Confessor

   Fri. Romeo shall thanke thee Daughter for vs both

   Iul. As much to him, else in his thanks too much

   Fri. Ah Iuliet, if the measure of thy ioy
Be heapt like mine, and that thy skill be more
To blason it, then sweeten with thy breath
This neighbour ayre, and let rich musickes tongue,
Vnfold the imagin'd happinesse that both
Receiue in either, by this deere encounter

   Iul. Conceit more rich in matter then in words,
Brags of his substance, not of Ornament:
They are but beggers that can count their worth,
But my true Loue is growne to such excesse,
I cannot sum vp some of halfe my wealth

   Fri. Come, come with me, & we will make short worke,
For by your leaues, you shall not stay alone,
Till holy Church incorporate two in one.
Enter Mercutio, Benuolio, and men.

  Ben. I pray thee good Mercutio lets retire,
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad:
And if we meet, we shal not scape a brawle, for now these
hot dayes, is the mad blood stirring

   Mer. Thou art like one of these fellowes, that when he
enters the confines of a Tauerne, claps me his Sword vpon
the Table, and sayes, God send me no need of thee: and by
the operation of the second cup, drawes him on the Drawer,
when indeed there is no need

   Ben. Am I like such a Fellow?
  Mer. Come, come, thou art as hot a Iacke in thy mood,
as any in Italie: and assoone moued to be moodie, and assoone
moodie to be mou'd

   Ben. And what too?
  Mer. Nay, and there were two such, we should haue
none shortly, for one would kill the other: thou, why thou
wilt quarrell with a man that hath a haire more, or a haire
lesse in his beard, then thou hast: thou wilt quarrell with a
man for cracking Nuts, hauing no other reason, but because
thou hast hasell eyes: what eye, but such an eye,
would spie out such a quarrell? thy head is full of quarrels,
as an egge is full of meat, and yet thy head hath bin
beaten as addle as an egge for quarreling: thou hast quarrel'd
with a man for coffing in the street, because he hath
wakened thy Dog that hath laine asleepe in the Sun. Did'st
thou not fall out with a Tailor for wearing his new Doublet
before Easter? with another, for tying his new shooes
with old Riband, and yet thou wilt Tutor me from quarrelling?
  Ben. And I were so apt to quarell as thou art, any man
should buy the Fee-simple of my life, for an houre and a
quarter

   Mer. The Fee-simple? O simple.
Enter Tybalt, Petruchio, and others.

  Ben. By my head here comes the Capulets

   Mer. By my heele I care not

   Tyb. Follow me close, for I will speake to them.
Gentlemen, Good den, a word with one of you

   Mer. And but one word with one of vs? couple it with
something, make it a word and a blow

   Tib. You shall find me apt inough to that sir, and you
will giue me occasion

   Mercu. Could you not take some occasion without
giuing?
  Tib. Mercutio thou consort'st with Romeo

   Mer. Consort? what dost thou make vs Minstrels? &
thou make Minstrels of vs, looke to heare nothing but discords:
heere's my fiddlesticke, heere's that shall make you
daunce. Come consort

   Ben. We talke here in the publike haunt of men,
Either withdraw vnto some priuate place,
Or reason coldly of your greeuances:
Or else depart, here all eies gaze on vs

   Mer. Mens eyes were made to looke, and let them gaze.
I will not budge for no mans pleasure I.
Enter Romeo.

  Tib. Well peace be with you sir, here comes my man

   Mer. But Ile be hang'd sir if he weare your Liuery.
Marry go before to field, heele be your follower,
Your worship in that sense, may call him man

   Tib. Romeo, the loue I beare thee, can affoord
No better terme then this: Thou art a Villaine

   Rom. Tibalt, the reason that I haue to loue thee,
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
To such a greeting: Villaine am I none;
Therefore farewell, I see thou know'st me not

   Tib. Boy, this shall not excuse the iniuries
That thou hast done me, therefore turne and draw

   Rom. I do protest I neuer iniur'd thee,
But lou'd thee better then thou can'st deuise:
Till thou shalt know the reason of my loue,
And so good Capulet, which name I tender
As dearely as my owne, be satisfied

   Mer. O calme, dishonourable, vile submission:
Alla stucatho carries it away.
Tybalt, you Rat-catcher, will you walke?
  Tib. What wouldst thou haue with me?
  Mer. Good King of Cats, nothing but one of your nine
liues, that I meane to make bold withall, and as you shall
vse me hereafter dry beate the rest of the eight. Will you
pluck your Sword out of his Pilcher by the eares? Make
hast, least mine be about your eares ere it be out

   Tib. I am for you

   Rom. Gentle Mercutio, put thy Rapier vp

   Mer. Come sir, your Passado

   Rom. Draw Benuolio, beat downe their weapons:
Gentlemen, for shame forbeare this outrage,
Tibalt, Mercutio, the Prince expresly hath
Forbidden bandying in Verona streetes.
Hold Tybalt, good Mercutio.

Exit Tybalt.

  Mer. I am hurt.
A plague a both the Houses, I am sped:
Is he gone and hath nothing?
  Ben. What art thou hurt?
  Mer. I, I, a scratch, a scratch, marry 'tis inough,
Where is my Page? go Villaine fetch a Surgeon

   Rom. Courage man, the hurt cannot be much

   Mer. No: 'tis not so deepe as a well, nor so wide as a
Church doore, but 'tis inough, 'twill serue: aske for me to
morrow, and you shall find me a graue man. I am pepper'd
I warrant, for this world: a plague a both your houses.
What, a Dog, a Rat, a Mouse, a Cat to scratch a man to
death: a Braggart, a Rogue, a Villaine, that fights by the
booke of Arithmeticke, why the deu'le came you betweene
vs? I was hurt vnder your arme

   Rom. I thought all for the best

   Mer. Helpe me into some house Benuolio,
Or I shall faint: a plague a both your houses.
They haue made wormesmeat of me,
I haue it, and soundly to your Houses.
Enter.

  Rom. This Gentleman the Princes neere Alie,
My very Friend hath got his mortall hurt
In my behalfe, my reputation stain'd
With Tibalts slaunder, Tybalt that an houre
Hath beene my Cozin: O Sweet Iuliet,
Thy Beauty hath made me Effeminate,
And in my temper softned Valours steele.
Enter Benuolio.


  Ben. O Romeo, Romeo, braue Mercutio's is dead,
That Gallant spirit hath aspir'd the Cloudes,
Which too vntimely here did scorne the earth

   Rom. This daies blacke Fate, on mo daies depend,
This but begins, the wo others must end.
Enter Tybalt.

  Ben. Here comes the Furious Tybalt backe againe

   Rom. He gon in triumph, and Mercutio slaine?
Away to heauen respectiue Lenitie,
And fire and Fury, be my conduct now.
Now Tybalt take the Villaine backe againe
That late thou gau'st me, for Mercutios soule
Is but a little way aboue our heads,
Staying for thine to keepe him companie:
Either thou or I, or both, must goe with him

   Tib. Thou wretched Boy that didst consort him here,
Shalt with him hence

   Rom. This shall determine that.

They fight. Tybalt falles.

  Ben. Romeo, away be gone:
The Citizens are vp, and Tybalt slaine,
Stand not amaz'd, the Prince will Doome thee death
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away

   Rom. O! I am Fortunes foole

   Ben. Why dost thou stay?

Exit Romeo.

Enter Citizens.

  Citi. Which way ran he that kild Mercutio?
  Tibalt that Murtherer, which way ran he?
  Ben. There lies that Tybalt

   Citi. Vp sir go with me:
I charge thee in the Princes names obey.
Enter Prince, old Montague, Capulet, their Wiues and all.

  Prin. Where are the vile beginners of this Fray?
  Ben. O Noble Prince, I can discouer all
The vnluckie Mannage of this fatall brall:
There lies the man slaine by young Romeo,
That slew thy kinsman braue Mercutio

   Cap. Wi. Tybalt, my Cozin? O my Brothers Child,
O Prince, O Cozin, Husband, O the blood is spild
Of my deare kinsman. Prince as thou art true,
For bloud of ours, shed bloud of Mountague.
O Cozin, Cozin

   Prin. Benuolio, who began this Fray?
  Ben. Tybalt here slaine, whom Romeo's hand did slay,
Romeo that spoke him faire, bid him bethinke
How nice the Quarrell was, and vrg'd withall
Your high displeasure: all this vttered,
With gentle breath, calme looke, knees humbly bow'd
Could not take truce with the vnruly spleene
Of Tybalts deafe to peace, but that he Tilts
With Peircing steele at bold Mercutio's breast,
Who all as hot, turnes deadly point to point,
And with a Martiall scorne, with one hand beates
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
Hold Friends, Friends part, and swifter then his tongue,
His aged arme, beats downe their fatall points,
And twixt them rushes, vnderneath whose arme,
An enuious thrust from Tybalt, hit the life
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled.
But by and by comes backe to Romeo,
Who had but newly entertained Reuenge,
And too't they goe like lightning, for ere I
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slaine:
And as he fell, did Romeo turne and flie:
This is the truth, or let Benuolio die

   Cap. Wi. He is a kinsman to the Mountague,
Affection makes him false, he speakes not true:
Some twenty of them fought in this blacke strife,
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
Since this information in the _Zend-Avesta_ the
situation of Urlandes so clearly described, and what will be the
legends of Hindu and Chinese are supported, so you can aim at the
accuracy of the above situation in that country not a moment doubt.

   Moreover, throughout Asia, no country
suited to a nation against such a mighty revolution, like the above
was thus most likely the entire surface of the earth covered with
Meeresfluthen and the whole living creation has been destroyed, to
protect, as these high-level of Tibet, by those over 8000 feet above
sea level is elevated [A], and mountains, what more the height of
a Chimborasso's in America, Paris 20148 feet high, surpass.

   Because the white Mountain or _Tschumulari_ this
country, according to the trigonometrical measurement
of the Lord _Teigmouth_ what happened a few years ago, a height
of 27,552 English feet, [B] another summit of this mountain range,
on which one stands out, is, according to the Measurement of the
majors _Crawford_, 25000 English feet high - and so are two other
peaks of the mountains of this country because, with an altitude
of 23-24000 feet towering, with only regret is that the amount of
_Albordy_ not has measured.

   [Note A: Ritter's Erdkunde
1st Th S. 566th] [Note B: These make
26000 foot from Paris.] These high mountains
are therefore most likely the asylum of this nation
have been, what it is against the mighty
Meeresfluthen has protected. However, these
same non-protected on the other hand, if
the tail star, who came from the south to get united
with the earth would, because then the
Wasserfluthen on the highest peaks of the
mountain would be dahingeströmt. From the
previously mentioned indication from the _Zend-Avesta_ on the
amount of water, which fell to earth, and the country here on this
plateau, the 8,000 foot high, covered up man, it follows that such
over 8000 feet high, from the seas to this effect, the countries
must now and then covered and that, therefore, the tail star very
near the earth must come, because otherwise he does not in itself
could have resulted.

And because through him the climatic constitution of this country
and also throughout the northern temperate zone has been modified,
it is necessary to get somewhere with the earth, on its northern
half, have united.

Particularly striking is that through the many peaks and land
promontory at the south side of Asia and Africa, and by the formation
of the shape of this Erdtheils, as well as from America, such a
Fluthenzug, once from the south to the north and went over the of
the comet is followed, will bestätiget.

  Therefore, the geologists have long been such
a train in the direction from the
just-mentioned figure, and that education
Erdtheile adopted, and the allegation
that this great country the animals from south
to north, in our temperate zone, where they
are buried, had been led, as I already mentioned
above, and with sufficient reasons, I believe,
have refuted. In this way, therefore, agree with
the natural phenomena with the legends and
tales of the holy books of Hindu and
parsers agree , and thus in the same case-great
revolution of the earth and also the existence
of a Urvolkes or before the same people, which
this great change has ever seen. How long now but
this Urvolk lived on Earth and how far
it had spread out on the same , as we can while
not specific, but up hypothesis, which is
no small degree of probability to themselves.
What the people of this age, it erhellet from the
same religious concepts, which include
Zendschriften that the same author in the
third millennium after the creation of the
human race believed to live. Hereby agree with
the chronologies of the new Persian
agree whether they are just below and
in consideration of the history of the
Zendbüchern very different from those
which the creation of the people to
_Zoroaster_, the author of _Zendbücher_,
under the kings of Iran, _Veschtasp_ lived [A],
rarely more than 3000 years.

And this period for the Zendvolk is not too long,
when we look at the remains of knowledge,
especially in astronomy, the oldest peoples
of our common history and a message
  had Heiligthümer revered, and which they, as I mentioned right in
the beginning had only by the Urvolke may have received view.

   [Note A: How long _Dsjemschid_
and his descendants in the castle of insurance or Per (Persis)
have prevailed, is not from the Zendschriften subjects.

   However, in the same _Athvian_ and his
son _Feridun_ mentioned. This had
several children, who were divided among themselves, and the kingdom
into two great empires, in _Tur_ and _Ari_ (_Iran_) theilten, through
which the river _Oxus_ were separated from each other.

   In _Iran_ was _Veschtasp_ the
  fifth king, who
after the Persian newer writers his
residence after _Balkh_ or _Baktra_ relocated to be closer to the
borders of Tur to be.

   Diess Bactrian kingdom was
last enslaved by the
Assyrians, the date from which our ordinary
historical messages only increase. As the
Zendbüchern no mention of this subjugation
is done, not even the slightest allusion
to the great cities of Nineveh and
Babylon in the same is made, and the names of
the two peoples, Medes and Persians,
although the neighbors in Tur and India frequently occur in the
same not mentioned, it follows that but want to, _daß the authors
of the Zendschriften in the old Bactrian empires have lived and the
history of their people by telling the time before such enslaved
by the Assyrians were ist_.

   Read more in _Rhode's_: "About the age and the
Oriental instrument Werth, p. 36, etc."] And
if this Urvolk in the possession of such
knowledge was, as the district Thierstein
assume the same has invented, such as most likely is it because
no other nation has received, and the length of the solar year,
knew how the _Zend-Avesta_ erhellet, including solar and lunar
eclipses could calculate how the calculations of Braminen prove
such it can only have received, so there must be a geraumvolle time
on earth have lived through painstaking observation of the sky, and
through conscious reflection on the course of the Worlds at the
same then gradually came to be.

   How far but Diess people
before the last major revolution
in the world had expanded, it can be
found in the _Zend-Avesta_ no instruction. *
* * Before I but the results of the religious concepts of the
parser and Hindu, which from the Urvolke are expected, may, I must
advance from the Writings both peoples following observations: first
the Zendschriften what the parser is concerned, these are full of
historical events, but they contain absolutely no allusion to the
major events during and after the Assyrian subjugation, but as the
Zendvolk independently and one under a onlyborn King Live dar.

   It follows therefore that the whole of Zendschriften
writing before the time of the
conquest of the country by the Assyrians must be set.

   Because of the Assyrian subjugation heard that the
existence of that state and nation, and
was divided into three Satrapi, Baktra,
Media and Persis getheilt. In Media was formed
by the interference of the Assyrian language
  Pehlvi or Pehlvische voice, and interference
by Persis Indian dialects, the Parsi.

   After the
Assyrian Abschüttelung Yoke Meder
was among the kings Pehlvi _Haupt-_ and _Hofsprache_, and after
the Parsi Cyrus came to the place.

   In this respect, as we see are the Zendschriften very important for
the earlier history, but their Werth is still magnified by the
representation of religious education in the earliest Alterthume.

   The Zendvolk whose writings we have just
mentioned, is the ancient Hindu, sowol
because of the original homeland,
as well as through its
language, as _Anquetil du Perron_ has
shown close related, so must also the
religions of both peoples, if they are
also known as cults differ from each other,
much in common with each other. The sources
from which our system of Hindu religion
along with the Veda's [A], which of the
Braminen held just as sacred, as the Persians
their Zendschriften hold.

   Moreover, they share the same sowol same in respect
of form, because it comes from the prayers, hymns and talks
between a _Seher_ and the deity, as in the
_Zend-Avesta_ exist, as well as in view of the objects
of veneration by the hymns and prayers, as in the _Zend-Avesta_
to the sun, the moon, fire, water, etc. are addressed.

   And even the tone in which the
prayers are written, etc, has two scripts
in the most surprising similarity.
Besides these, the Veda's nor the Hindu Code
of _Menu's_, but which, as Mr _Rhode_
thoroughly has shown, not as old
  as the Veda's are, and finally
they still possess the
  fragments from the _Shastak_ of Brahma, which
_Holwell_ known has [B], and the _Kleuker_ and _Rhode_
for outlaw, and the oldest Indian writings
counted. [Note A: The best news about the Veda's,
thanks to Colebrook.] [Note B: Holwell's strange
news from Hindostan & c. translated by Kleuker, Vol
1ster] From all these sources is,
therefore, the main duties of the
whole religion of both peoples fairly fully
inferred as such by Mr _Rhode_ in the following
sentences has happened, and what you ersiehet
clear that these rates are the cornerstone of
all revealed religions are: 1) It is an
eternal, ultimate, necessary,
holy, omnipotent beings, Brahma, or _Zervane
Akerene_, of the Eternal, Anbeginnlose
called from everything that is there,
its origin, in which everything has its latest
reason. 2) The infinite nature brought
in the beginning, several big shows
divine beings who are so much of its size,
its characteristics, its power and glory
mittheilte as possible. 3) One or more
of the first beings were created by abuse
of their freedom from their Creator, were
angry, Urquell and everything evil in
the world. 4) The infinite being decided
now, the visible material world by his
first leaders to create, and it was created.
5) The purpose of the creation of the world body
is none other than through them by its
  creator beings fallen back due to the well
again, and so all evil will disappear forever to make. 6) The
Eternal has the duration of the world body a period of twelve
thousand years ago determined that in four age abgetheilt.

   In the first era is the good (received) Princip alone,
the second is the bad (destructive) Princip
been effective, but subordinate in the third reign
both jointly, in the fourth, the
villain (destroying) the upper hand,
and leads the end of the world of
guilt. 7) The Government of the world hangs
in the general from the infinite beings, which all goes according
to his Rathschlusse and in its wisdom determines the specific
administrative, however, is initially to the first great care and
restore a lot of mediating beings, archangels, angels and ghosts
to protect, to each other and are subordinate to, and where many
of nature and natural forces can not be denied. 8) The souls of the
people are from the beginning of creation, when intellectual,
independent, freihandelnde care available.

   You must simply on the ground with a body
unite to create a migration test, in the
battle against evil to make. After the death,
where she continued to live forever, the good in the homes of the
blessed spirits, heaven, rewarded and the evil in the apartments,
however, the devil, hell, punished. 9) What the people their fight
on the ground difficult, The Devs, devil or evil spirits, which she
notes in circulation the day and night in order for evil to seduce.

   But the Creator has mercy to the weak people, and
him in his will, enlightened prophets of Revelation kund writing
done.

Followed this man will of his creator, so he wins by force, not
just the temptations of the devil to resist, but also by holiness
in this life to an intimate union with the deity to rise. 10) In
the last period, against the end of the world where the evil Princip
has the upper hand, and the good of the whole world seems to disappear
will be the people God sent the Redeemer, who is fighting the evil,
religion, virtue and justice is dominantly again, and the kingdom
of the evil Ghost destroyed by the kingdom of God is glorified. 11)
Is now the time to the world some twelve thousand years verflossen,
then the earth will be destroyed by fire, but a newer beautiful
earth occurs in its place [A].

For these religious movements, of which there are traces of all the
religions in the Asian peoples and also for those who live in other
Erdtheilen is at hand, as well as from the knowledge of the animal
to whom, by the Urvolke invented and then everywhere is expected,
so we use it almost for all peoples of the earth to find, and where
he was in view of the sequence of characters is quite unchanged,
but want to follow that all peoples of the earth by the Urvolke
must be expected, and these skills at the same time with you.

  [Note A: These rates ,
though not all, were in the
schools of the ancient philosophers
as secrets and taught the people
  denied, as such also by
the Essenern happened, of
which a portion of the Philosophiren on these
rates, but with another
  of its underlying
moral employed. S. Richter 's Christenthum
and the oldest religions of the Orient, 1819.]

   This out of the peoples of the
Urstamme or Urvolke
  is also clear and determined in the federal
Dehesch (+ XV +) above, which states that all peoples of Asia
emerged from the Urstamme .

   The number of Urstämme will daselbst set to
fifteen. Of these fifteen tribes migrated
_neun_ on the Indian ocean, and _sechs_ remained in Asia.

   Among those considered the _Arier_ [A] as
the main people or Urvolk continuing.

   The tribe _Mazendr_ populated the upper portion
of Tur, ie the area around the sources
of the Oxus and Indus, and Awir or Ophir,
which according to Moses the real India.
In addition, the tribe populated _Tschines_,
_Dai_ and _Satat_, of which the first strain
with Kathai a difference, and China's means.

   
Well, we were borne to die.
'Tis very late, she'l not come downe to night:
I promise you, but for your company,
I would haue bin a bed an houre ago

   Par. These times of wo, affoord no times to wooe:
Madam goodnight, commend me to your Daughter

   Lady. I will, and know her mind early to morrow,
To night, she is mewed vp to her heauinesse

   Cap. Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
Of my Childes loue: I thinke she will be rul'd
In all respects by me: nay more, I doubt it not.
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed,
Acquaint her here, of my Sonne Paris Loue,
And bid her, marke you me, on Wendsday next,
But soft, what day is this?
  Par. Monday my Lord

   Cap. Monday, ha ha: well Wendsday is too soone,
A Thursday let it be: a Thursday tell her,
She shall be married to this Noble Earle:
Will you be ready? do you like this hast?
Weele keepe no great adoe, a Friend or two,
For harke you, Tybalt being slaine so late,
It may be thought we held him carelesly,
Being our kinsman, if we reuell much:
Therefore weele haue some halfe a dozen Friends,
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
  Paris. My Lord,
I would that Thursday were to morrow

   Cap. Well, get you gone, a Thursday, be it then:
Go you to Iuliet ere you go to bed,
Prepare her wife, against this wedding day.
Farewell my Lord, light to my Chamber hoa,
Afore me, it is so late, that we may call it early by and by,
Goodnight.

Exeunt.

Enter Romeo and Iuliet aloft.

  Iul. Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet neere day:
It was the Nightingale, and not the Larke,
That pier'st the fearefull hollow of thine eare,
Nightly she sings on yond Pomgranet tree,
Beleeue me Loue, it was the Nightingale

   Rom. It was the Larke the Herauld of the Morne:
No Nightingale: looke Loue what enuious streakes
Do lace the seuering Cloudes in yonder East:
Nights Candles are burnt out, and Iocond day
Stands tipto on the mistie Mountaines tops,
I must be gone and liue, or stay and die

   Iul. Yond light is not daylight, I know it I:
It is some Meteor that the Sun exhales,
To be to thee this night a Torch-bearer,
And light thee on thy way to Mantua.
Therefore stay yet, thou need'st not be gone,
  Rom. Let me be tane, let me be put to death,
I am content, so thou wilt haue it so.
Ile say yon gray is not the mornings eye,
'Tis but the pale reflexe of Cinthias brow.
Nor that is not Larke whose noates do beate
The vaulty heauen so high aboue our heads,
I haue more care to stay, then will to go:
Come death and welcome, Iuliet wills it so.
How ist my soule, lets talke, it is not day

   Iuli. It is, it is, hie hence be gone away:
It is the Larke that sings so out of tune,
Straining harsh Discords, and vnpleasing Sharpes.
Some say the Larke makes sweete Diuision;
This doth not so: for she diuideth vs.
Some say, the Larke and loathed Toad change eyes,
O now I would they had chang'd voyces too:
Since arme from arme that voyce doth vs affray,
Hunting thee hence, with Hunts-vp to the day,
O now be gone, more light and it light growes

   Rom. More light & light, more darke & darke our woes.
Enter Madam and Nurse.

  Nur. Madam

   Iul. Nurse

   Nur. Your Lady Mother is comming to your chamber,
The day is broke, be wary, looke about

   Iul. Then window let day in, and let life out

   Rom. Farewell, farewell, one kisse and Ile descend

   Iul. Art thou gone so? Loue, Lord, ay Husband, Friend,
I must heare from thee euery day in the houre,
For in a minute there are many dayes,
O by this count I shall be much in yeares,
Ere I againe behold my Romeo

   Rom. Farewell:
I will omit no oportunitie,
That may conuey my greetings Loue, to thee

   Iul. O thinkest thou we shall euer meet againe?
  Rom. I doubt it not, and all these woes shall serue
For sweet discourses in our time to come

   Iuliet. O God! I haue an ill Diuining soule,
Me thinkes I see thee now, thou art so lowe,
As one dead in the bottome of a Tombe,
Either my eye-sight failes, or thou look'st pale

   Rom. And trust me Loue, in my eye so do you:
Drie sorrow drinkes our blood. Adue, adue.
Enter.

  Iul. O Fortune, Fortune, all men call thee fickle,
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him
That is renown'd for faith? be fickle Fortune:
For then I hope thou wilt not keepe him long,
But send him backe.
Enter Mother.

  Lad. Ho Daughter, are you vp?
  Iul. Who ist that calls? Is it my Lady Mother.
Is she not downe so late, or vp so early?
What vnaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
  Lad. Why how now Iuliet?
  Iul. Madam I am not well

   Lad. Euermore weeping for your Cozins death?
What wilt thou wash him from his graue with teares?
And if thou could'st, thou could'st not make him liue:
Therefore haue done, some griefe shewes much of Loue,
But much of griefe, shewes still some want of wit

   Iul. Yet let me weepe, for such a feeling losse

   Lad. So shall you feele the losse, but not the Friend
Which you weepe for

   Iul. Feeling so the losse,
I cannot chuse but euer weepe the Friend

   La. Well Girle, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
As that the Villaine liues which slaughter'd him

   Iul. What Villaine, Madam?
  Lad. That same Villaine Romeo

   Iul. Villaine and he, be many miles assunder:
God pardon, I doe with all my heart:
And yet no man like he, doth grieue my heart

   Lad. That is because the Traitor liues

   Iul. I Madam from the reach of these my hands:
Would none but I might venge my Cozins death

   Lad. We will haue vengeance for it, feare thou not.
Then weepe no more, Ile send to one in Mantua,
Where that same banisht Run-agate doth liue,
Shall giue him such an vnaccustom'd dram,
That he shall soone keepe Tybalt company:
And then I hope thou wilt be satisfied

   Iul. Indeed I neuer shall be satisfied
With Romeo, till I behold him. Dead
Is my poore heart so for a kinsman vext:
Madam, if you could find out but a man
To beare a poyson, I would temper it;
That Romeo should vpon receit thereof,
Soone sleepe in quiet. O how my heart abhors
To heare him nam'd, and cannot come to him,
To wreake the Loue I bore my Cozin,
Vpon his body that hath slaughter'd him

   Mo. Find thou the meanes, and Ile find such a man.
But now Ile tell thee ioyfull tidings Gyrle

   Iul. And ioy comes well, in such a needy time,
What are they, beseech your Ladyship?
  Mo. Well, well, thou hast a carefull Father Child?
One who to put thee from thy heauinesse,
Hath sorted out a sudden day of ioy,
That thou expects not, nor I lookt not for

   Iul. Madam in happy time, what day is this?
  Mo. Marry my Child, early next Thursday morne,
The gallant, young, and Noble Gentleman,
The Countie Paris at Saint Peters Church,
Shall happily make thee a ioyfull Bride

   Iul. Now by Saint Peters Church, and Peter too,
He shall not make me there a ioyfull Bride.
I wonder at this hast, that I must wed
Ere he that should be Husband comes to woe:
I pray you tell my Lord and Father Madam,
I will not marrie yet, and when I doe, I sweare
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate
Rather then Paris. These are newes indeed

   Mo. Here comes your Father, tell him so your selfe,
And see how he will take it at your hands.
Enter Capulet and Nurse.

  Cap. When the Sun sets, the earth doth drizzle deaw
But for the Sunset of my Brothers Sonne,
It raines downright.
How now? A Conduit Gyrle, what still in teares?
Euermore showring in one little body?
Thou counterfaits a Barke, a Sea, a Wind:
For still thy eyes, which I may call the Sea,
Do ebbe and flow with teares, the Barke thy body is
Sayling in this salt floud, the windes thy sighes,
Who raging with the teares and they with them,
Without a sudden calme will ouer set
Thy tempest tossed body. How now wife?
Haue you deliuered to her our decree?
  Lady. I sir;
But she will none, she giues you thankes,
I would the foole were married to her graue

   Cap. Soft, take me with you, take me with you wife,
How, will she none? doth she not giue vs thanks?
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
Vnworthy as she is, that we haue wrought
So worthy a Gentleman, to be her Bridegroome
  Iul. Not proud you haue,
But thankfull that you haue:
Proud can I neuer be of what I haue,
But thankfull euen for hate, that is meant Loue

   Cap. How now?
How now? Chopt Logicke? what is this?
Proud, and I thanke you: and I thanke you not.
Thanke me no thankings, nor proud me no prouds,
But fettle your fine ioints 'gainst Thursday next,
To go with Paris to Saint Peters Church:
Or I will drag thee, on a Hurdle thither.
Out you greene sicknesse carrion, out you baggage,
You tallow face

   Lady. Fie, fie, what are you mad?
  Iul. Good Father, I beseech you on my knees
Heare me with patience, but to speake a word

   Fa. Hang thee young baggage, disobedient wretch,
I tell thee what, get thee to Church a Thursday,
Or neuer after looke me in the face.
Speake not, reply not, do not answere me.
My fingers itch, wife: we scarce thought vs blest,
That God had lent vs but this onely Child,
But now I see this one is one too much,
And that we haue a curse in hauing her:
Out on her Hilding

   Nur. God in heauen blesse her,
You are too blame my Lord to rate her so

   Fa. And why my Lady wisedome? hold your tongue,
Good Prudence, smatter with your gossip, go

   Nur. I speak no treason,
Father, O Godigoden,
May not one speake?
  Fa. Peace you mumbling foole,
Vtter your grauitie ore a Gossips bowles
For here we need it not

   La. You are too hot

   Fa. Gods bread, it makes me mad:
Day, night, houre, ride, time, worke, play,
Alone in companie, still my care hath bin
To haue her matcht, and hauing now prouided
A Gentleman of Noble Parentage,
Of faire Demeanes, Youthfull, and Nobly Allied,
Stuft as they say with Honourable parts,
Proportion'd as ones thought would wish a man,
And then to haue a wretched puling foole,
A whining mammet, in her Fortunes tender,
To answer, Ile not wed, I cannot Loue:
I am too young, I pray you pardon me.
But, and you will not wed, Ile pardon you.
Graze where you will, you shall not house with me:
Looke too't, thinke on't, I do not vse to iest.
Thursday is neere, lay hand on heart, aduise,
And you be mine, Ile giue you to my Friend:
And you be not, hang, beg, starue, die in the streets,
For by my soule, Ile nere acknowledge thee,
Nor what is mine shall neuer do thee good:
Trust too't, bethinke you, Ile not be forsworne
Enter.

  Iuli. Is there no pittie sitting in the Cloudes,
That sees into the bottome of my griefe?
O sweet my Mother cast me not away,
Delay this marriage, for a month, a weeke,
Or if you do not, make the Bridall bed
In that dim Monument where Tybalt lies

   Mo. Talke not to me, for Ile not speake a word,
Do as thou wilt, for I haue done with thee.
Enter.

  Iul. O God!
O Nurse, how shall this be preuented?
My Husband is on earth, my faith in heauen,
How shall that faith returne againe to earth,
Vnlesse that Husband send it me from heauen,
By leauing earth? Comfort me, counsaile me:
Alacke, alacke, that heauen should practise stratagems
Vpon so soft a subiect as my selfe.
What saist thou? hast thou not a word of ioy?
Some comfort Nurse

   Nur. Faith here it is,
Romeo is banished, and all the world to nothing,
That he dares nere come backe to challenge you:
Or if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
Then since the case so stands as now it doth,
I thinke it best you married with the Countie,
O hee's a Louely Gentleman:
Romeos a dish-clout to him: an Eagle Madam
Hath not so greene, so quicke, so faire an eye
As Paris hath, beshrow my very heart,
I thinke you are happy in this second match,
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
Your first is dead, or 'twere as good he were,
As liuing here and you no vse of him

   Iul. Speakest thou from thy heart?
  Nur. And from my soule too,
Or else beshrew them both

   Iul. Amen

   Nur. What?
  Iul. Well, thou hast comforted me marue'lous much,
Go in, and tell my Lady I am gone,
Hauing displeas'd my Father, to Lawrence Cell,
To make confession, and to be absolu'd

   Nur. Marrie I will, and this is wisely done

   Iul. Auncient damnation, O most wicked fiend!
It is more sin to wish me thus forsworne,
Or to dispraise my Lord with that same tongue
Which she hath prais'd him with aboue compare,
So many thousand times? Go Counsellor,
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twaine:
Ile to the Frier to know his remedie,
If all else faile, my selfe haue power to die.

Exeunt.

Enter Frier and Countie Paris.

  Fri. On Thursday sir? the time is very short

   Par. My Father Capulet will haue it so,
And I am nothing slow to slack his hast

   Fri. You say you do not know the Ladies mind?
Vneuen is the course, I like it not

   Pa. Immoderately she weepes for Tybalts death,
And therfore haue I little talke of Loue,
For Venus smiles not in a house of teares.
Now sir, her Father counts it dangerous
That she doth giue her sorrow so much sway:
And in his wisedome, hasts our marriage,
To stop the inundation of her teares,
Which too much minded by her selfe alone,
May be put from her by societie.
Now doe you know the reason of this hast?
  Fri. I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.
Looke sir, here comes the Lady towards my Cell.
Enter Iuliet.

  Par. Happily met, my Lady and my wife

   Iul. That may be sir, when I may be a wife

   Par. That may be, must be Loue, on Thursday next

   Iul. What must be shall be

   Fri. That's a certaine text

   Par. Come you to make confession to this Father?
  Iul. To answere that, I should confesse to you

   Par. Do not denie to him, that you Loue me

   Iul. I will confesse to you that I Loue him

   Par. So will ye, I am sure that you Loue me

   Iul. If I do so, it will be of more price,
Being spoke behind your backe, then to your face

   Par. Poore soule, thy face is much abus'd with teares

   Iul. The teares haue got small victorie by that:
For it was bad inough before their spight

   Pa. Thou wrong'st it more then teares with that report

   Iul. That is no slaunder sir, which is a truth,
And what I spake, I spake it to thy face

   Par. Thy face is mine, and thou hast slaundred it

   Iul. It may be so, for it is not mine owne.
Are you at leisure, Holy Father now,
Or shall I come to you at euening Masse?
  Fri. My leisure serues me pensiue daughter now.
My Lord you must intreat the time alone

   Par. Godsheild: I should disturbe Deuotion,
Iuliet, on Thursday early will I rowse yee,
Till then adue, and keepe this holy kisse.

Exit Paris.

  Iul. O shut the doore, and when thou hast done so,
Come weepe with me, past hope, past care, past helpe

   Fri. O Iuliet, I alreadie know thy griefe,
It streames me past the compasse of my wits:
I heare thou must and nothing may prorogue it,
On Thursday next be married to this Countie

   Iul. Tell me not Frier that thou hearest of this,
Vnlesse thou tell me how I may preuent it:
If in thy wisedome, thou canst giue no helpe,
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
And with this knife, Ile helpe it presently.
God ioyn'd my heart, and Romeos, thou our hands,
And ere this hand by thee to Romeo seal'd:
Shall be the Labell to another Deede,
Or my true heart with trecherous reuolt,
Turne to another, this shall slay them both:
Therefore out of thy long experien'st time,
Giue me some present counsell, or behold
Twixt my extreames and me, this bloody knife
Shall play the vmpeere, arbitrating that,
Which the commission of thy yeares and art,
Could to no issue of true honour bring:
Be not so long to speak, I long to die,
If what thou speak'st, speake not of remedy

   Fri. Hold Daughter, I doe spie a kind of hope,
Which craues as desperate an execution,
As that is desperate which we would preuent.
If rather then to marrie Countie Paris
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thy selfe,
Then is it likely thou wilt vndertake
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
That coap'st with death himselfe, to scape fro it:
And if thou dar'st, Ile giue thee remedie

   Iul. Oh bid me leape, rather then marrie Paris,
From of the Battlements of any Tower,
Or walke in theeuish waies, or bid me lurke
Where Serpents are: chaine me with roaring Beares
Or hide me nightly in a Charnell house,
Orecouered quite with dead mens ratling bones,
With reckie shankes and yellow chappels sculls:
Or bid me go into a new made graue,
And hide me with a dead man in his graue,
Things that to heare them told, haue made me tremble,
And I will doe it without feare or doubt,
To liue an vnstained wife to my sweet Loue

   Fri. Hold then: goe home, be merrie, giue consent,
To marrie Paris: wensday is to morrow,
To morrow night looke that thou lie alone,
Let not thy Nurse lie with thee in thy Chamber:
Take thou this Violl being then in bed,
And this distilling liquor drinke thou off,
When presently through all thy veines shall run,
A cold and drowsie humour: for no pulse
Shall keepe his natiue progresse, but surcease:
No warmth, no breath shall testifie thou liuest,
The Roses in thy lips and cheekes shall fade
To many ashes, the eyes windowes fall
Like death when he shut vp the day of life:
Each part depriu'd of supple gouernment,
Shall stiffe and starke, and cold appeare like death,
And in this borrowed likenesse of shrunke death
Thou shalt continue two and forty houres,
And then awake, as from a pleasant sleepe.
Now when the Bridegroome in the morning comes,
To rowse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
Then as the manner of our country is,
In thy best Robes vncouer'd on the Beere,
Be borne to buriall in thy kindreds graue:
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault,
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie,
In the meane time against thou shalt awake,
Shall Romeo by my Letters know our drift,
And hither shall he come, and that very night
Shall Romeo beare thee hence to Mantua.
And this shall free thee from this present shame,
If no inconstant toy nor womanish feare,
Abate thy valour in the acting it

   Iul. Giue me, giue me, O tell me not of care

   Fri. Hold get you gone, be strong and prosperous:
In this resolue, Ile send a Frier with speed
To Mantua with my Letters to thy Lord

   Iu. Loue giue me strength,
And the strength shall helpe afford:
Farewell deare father.

Exit

Enter Father Capulet, Mother, Nurse, and Seruing men, two or
three.

  Cap. So many guests inuite as here are writ,
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning Cookes

   Ser. You shall haue none ill sir, for Ile trie if they can
licke their fingers

   Cap. How canst thou trie them so?
  Ser. Marrie sir, 'tis an ill Cooke that cannot licke his
owne fingers: therefore he that cannot licke his fingers
goes not with me

   Cap. Go be gone, we shall be much vnfurnisht for this
time: what is my Daughter gone to Frier Lawrence?
  Nur. I forsooth

   Cap. Well he may chance to do some good on her,
A peeuish selfe-wild harlotry it is.
Enter Iuliet.

  Nur. See where she comes from shrift
With merrie looke

   Cap. How now my headstrong,
Where haue you bin gadding?
  Iul. Where I haue learnt me to repent the sin
Of disobedient opposition:
To you and your behests, and am enioyn'd
By holy Lawrence, to fall prostrate here,
To beg your pardon: pardon I beseech you,
Henceforward I am euer rul'd by you

   Cap. Send for the Countie, goe tell him of this,
Ile haue this knot knit vp to morrow morning

   Iul. I met the youthfull Lord at Lawrence Cell,
And gaue him what becomed Loue I might,
Not stepping ore the bounds of modestie

   Cap. Why I am glad on't, this is well, stand vp,
This is as't should be, let me see the County:
I marrie go I say, and fetch him hither.
Now afore God, this reueren'd holy Frier,
All our whole Cittie is much bound to him

   Iul. Nurse will you goe with me into my Closet,
To helpe me sort such needfull ornaments,
As you thinke fit to furnish me to morrow?
  Mo. No not till Thursday, there's time inough

   Fa. Go Nurse, go with her,
Weele to Church to morrow.

Exeunt. Iuliet and Nurse.

  Mo. We shall be short in our prouision,
'Tis now neere night

   Fa. Tush, I will stirre about,
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee wife:
Go thou to Iuliet, helpe to decke vp her,
Ile not to bed to night, let me alone:
Ile play the huswife for this once. What ho?
They are all forth, well I will walke my selfe
To Countie Paris, to prepare him vp
Against to morrow, my heart is wondrous light,
Since this same way-ward Gyrle is so reclaim'd.

Exeunt. Father and Mother.

Enter Iuliet and Nurse.

  Iul. I those attires are best, but gentle Nurse
I pray thee leaue me to my selfe to night:
For I haue need of many Orysons,
To moue the heauens to smile vpon my state,
Which well thou know'st, is crosse and full of sin.
Enter Mother.

  Mo. What are you busie ho? need you my help?
  Iul. No Madam, we haue cul'd such necessaries
As are behoouefull for our state to morrow:
So please you, let me now be left alone;
And let the Nurse this night sit vp with you,
For I am sure, you haue your hands full all,
In this so sudden businesse

   Mo. Goodnight.
Get thee to bed and rest, for thou hast need.

Exeunt.

  Iul. Farewell:
God knowes when we shall meete againe.
I haue a faint cold feare thrills through my veines,
That almost freezes vp the heate of fire:
Ile call them backe againe to comfort me.
Nurse, what should she do here?
My dismall Sceane, I needs must act alone:
Come Viall, what if this mixture do not worke at all?
Shall I be married then to morrow morning?
No, no, this shall forbid it. Lie thou there,
What if it be a poyson which the Frier
Subtilly hath ministred to haue me dead,
Least in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
Because he married me before to Romeo?
I feare it is, and yet me thinkes it should not,
For he hath still beene tried a holy man.
How, if when I am laid into the Tombe,
I wake before the time that Romeo
Come to redeeme me? There's a fearefull point:
Shall I not then be stifled in the Vault?
To whose foule mouth no healthsome ayre breaths in,
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes.
Or if I liue, is it not very like,
The horrible conceit of death and night,
Together with the terror of the place,
As in a Vaulte, an ancient receptacle,
Where for these many hundred yeeres the bones
Of all my buried Auncestors are packt,
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but greene in earth,
Lies festring in his shrow'd, where as they say,
At some houres in the night, Spirits resort:
Alacke, alacke, is it not like that I
So early waking, what with loathsome smels,
And shrikes like Mandrakes torne out of the earth,
That liuing mortalls hearing them, run mad.
O if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
Inuironed with all these hidious feares,
And madly play with my forefathers ioynts?
And plucke the mangled Tybalt from his shrow'd?
And in this rage, with some great kinsmans bone,
As (with a club) dash out my desperate braines.
O looke, me thinks I see my Cozins Ghost,
Seeking out Romeo that did spit his body
Vpon my Rapiers point: stay Tybalt, stay;
Romeo, Romeo, Romeo, here's drinke: I drinke to thee.
Enter Lady of the house, and Nurse.

  Lady. Hold,
Take these keies, and fetch more spices Nurse

   Nur. They call for Dates and Quinces in the Pastrie.
Enter old Capulet.

  Cap. Come, stir, stir, stir,
The second Cocke hath Crow'd,
The Curphew Bell hath rung, 'tis three a clocke:
Looke to the bakte meates, good Angelica,
Spare not for cost

   Nur. Go you Cot-queane, go,
Get you to bed, faith youle be sicke to morrow
For this nights watching

   Cap. No not a whit: what? I haue watcht ere now
All night for lesse cause, and nere beene sicke

   La. I you haue bin a Mouse-hunt in your time,
But I will watch you from such watching now.

Exit Lady and Nurse.

  Cap. A iealous hood, a iealous hood,
Now fellow, what there?
Enter three or foure with spits, and logs, and baskets.

  Fel. Things for the Cooke sir, but I know not what

   Cap. Make hast, make hast, sirrah, fetch drier Logs.
Call Peter, he will shew thee where they are

   Fel. I haue a head sir, that will find out logs,
And neuer trouble Peter for the matter

   Cap. Masse and well said, a merrie horson, ha,
Thou shalt be loggerhead; good Father, 'tis day.

Play Musicke

The Countie will be here with Musicke straight,
For so he said he would, I heare him neere,
Nurse, wife, what ho? what Nurse I say?
Enter Nurse.

Go waken Iuliet, go and trim her vp,
Ile go and chat with Paris: hie, make hast,
Make hast, the Bridegroome, he is come already:
Make hast I say

   Nur. Mistris, what Mistris? Iuliet? Fast I warrant her she.
Why Lambe, why Lady? fie you sluggabed,
Why Loue I say? Madam, sweet heart: why Bride?
What not a word? You take your peniworths now.
Sleepe for a weeke, for the next night I warrant
The Countie Paris hath set vp his rest,
That you shall rest but little, God forgiue me:
Marrie and Amen: how sound is she a sleepe?
I must needs wake her: Madam, Madam, Madam,
I, let the Countie take you in your bed,
Heele fright you vp yfaith. Will it not be?
What drest, and in your clothes, and downe againe?
I must needs wake you: Lady, Lady, Lady?
Alas, alas, helpe, helpe, my Ladyes dead,
Oh weladay, that euer I was borne,
Some Aqua-vitæ ho, my Lord, my Lady?
  Mo. What noise is heere?
Enter Mother.

  Nur. O lamentable day

   Mo. What is the matter?
  Nur. Looke, looke, oh heauie day

   Mo. O me, O me, my Child, my onely life:
Reuiue, looke vp, or I will die with thee:
Helpe, helpe, call helpe.
Enter Father.

  Fa. For shame bring Iuliet forth, her Lord is come

   Nur. Shee's dead: deceast, shee's dead: alacke the day

   M. Alacke the day, shee's dead, shee's dead, shee's dead

   Fa. Ha? Let me see her: out alas shee's cold,
Her blood is setled and her ioynts are stiffe:
Life and these lips haue long bene seperated:
Death lies on her like an vntimely frost
Vpon the swetest flower of all the field

   Nur. O Lamentable day!
  Mo. O wofull time

   Fa. Death that hath tane her hence to make me waile,
Ties vp my tongue, and will not let me speake.
Enter Frier and the Countie.

  Fri. Come, is the Bride ready to go to Church?
  Fa. Ready to go, but neuer to returne.
O Sonne, the night before thy wedding day,
Hath death laine with thy wife: there she lies,
Flower as she was, deflowred by him.
Death is my Sonne in law, death is my Heire,
My Daughter he hath wedded. I will die,
And leaue him all life liuing, all is deaths

   Pa. Haue I thought long to see this mornings face,
And doth it giue me such a sight as this?
  Mo. Accur'st, vnhappie, wretched hatefull day,
Most miserable houre, that ere time saw
In lasting labour of his Pilgrimage.
But one, poore one, one poore and louing Child,
But one thing to reioyce and solace in,
And cruell death hath catcht it from my sight

   Nur. O wo, O wofull, wofull, wofull day,
Most lamentable day, most wofull day,
That euer, euer, I did yet behold.
O day, O day, O day, O hatefull day,
Neuer was seene so blacke a day as this:
O wofull day, O wofull day

   Pa. Beguild, diuorced, wronged, spighted, slaine,
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
By cruell, cruell thee, quite ouerthrowne:
O loue, O life; not life, but loue in death

   Fat. Despis'd, distressed, hated, martir'd, kil'd,
Vncomfortable time, why cam'st thou now
To murther, murther our solemnitie?
O Child, O Child; my soule, and not my Child,
Dead art thou, alacke my Child is dead,
And with my Child, my ioyes are buried

   Fri. Peace ho for shame, confusions: Care liues not
In these confusions, heauen and your selfe
Had part in this faire Maid, now heauen hath all,
And all the better is it for the Maid:
Your part in her, you could not keepe from death,
But heauen keepes his part in eternall life:
The most you sought was her promotion,
For 'twas your heauen, she shouldst be aduan'st,
And weepe ye now, seeing she is aduan'st
Aboue the Cloudes, as high as Heauen it selfe?
The truth comes in and gives her ticket just
praise. The Baron is a marvel of economy
and settlement. Does not conceal his poverty, but
neither regrets. In the most elegant circles is
always with the decorum of his own class. Does
not play, or drink. It does not have any
defect, do not smoke, and also because
smoking seems commoner, smelly, an improper
and Castell-Bourdac full odds with the ideal of the noble and
elegant courtier of the old regime as it it represents.

   The Baron does not owe anything to anyone
and no one can boast that he has borrowed
money. Every day eat at a different
house. It is highly sought after and is
invited to the best tables, and for his fun
conversation, for his outstanding reputation
as a deep and knowledgeable expert in all the arts of pleasure.

   Baron through the most delicate _gourmet_ now
lives in France paladea and sniffs.
Is not rich to pay for some treats with
others, nor is either to pay zafio otherwise
without the least dissimulation, but perhaps without thinking,
paying and receiving gifts is not to tick him _pique-assiette_ or
parasite.

Birthdays, weddings and other festivities offer opportunity, he
takes advantage of those gifts is fully paid.

  In sum, in my opinion, that I founded, Baron is a model of cortesanía.

   Maldicientes have only been able to get in the
face of a defect, which, in my view, has been corrected.

   The defect, if it is, is its extreme gallantry,
strongly disagree with many elderly age reached.

  Censors his critics grant that
he, in his youth, he made
brilliant achievements and captivated many hearts indomitable and
proud, but added that for over twenty years to be picked Baron
reposarse and a good living on their laurels. disto Much like I
seem to follow.

   Since I met the Baron,
  thirteen or fourteen
years has, he thinks otherwise.

   There is beauty, elegance and distinction to all ages, providing
they do not miss the health and cleanliness.

   And Baron is healthy and
  is neat and tidy, I found him always and find him very pleasant
person and a beautiful man.

   Moreover, as the human soul is immortal, there is no age that is
worth her while not destroyed or damaged in the extreme that the
aircraft and the bodies placed in relation to the world and serve
as a medium for thinking and feeling and express what they think
and feel while the body is enclosed.

   Whatever the case, and so
  that I do not say that bankruptcy subtle
dispense the more clarification, and I will tell you that simplicity
with the Baron is turned to me and made me very respectful and
finely court.

   I did not have lisonjeo never certain defects which are attributed
and to callers in France _parvenus_ as well as those in Spain called
kitsch.

   No doubt the appearance of these defects in me has
opposed pride. I have not sought nor desired tone to give
me treatment and lofty
  friendship of people by birth, education and wealth.

   Naturally I found myself and I'm
so distinguished as
if I had been born in the purple and I would not be tossed to the
world Pascuala, God knows what zahurda.

   I could not expect, therefore, that the influence
of subjects or aristocratic
leaning came to borrow
as a reflection of its worth. I thought and I have very
light, let us say, and
does not need loans. I do not know whether or applaud
censorship is my vanity.
  Then she is well, and nothing can be ill.
Her body sleepes in Capels Monument,
And her immortall part with Angels liue,
I saw her laid low in her kindreds Vault,
And presently tooke Poste to tell it you:
O pardon me for bringing these ill newes,
Since you did leaue it for my office Sir

   Rom. Is it euen so?
Then I denie you Starres.
Thou knowest my lodging, get me inke and paper,
And hire Post-Horses, I will hence to night

   Man. I do beseech you sir, haue patience:
Your lookes are pale and wild, and do import
Some misaduenture

   Rom. Tush, thou art deceiu'd,
Leaue me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
Hast thou no Letters to me from the Frier?
  Man. No my good Lord.

Exit Man.

  Rom. No matter: Get thee gone,
And hyre those Horses, Ile be with thee straight,
Well Iuliet, I will lie with thee to night:
Lets see for meanes, O mischiefe thou art swift,
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men:
I do remember an Appothecarie,
And here abouts dwells, which late I noted
In tattred weeds, with ouerwhelming browes,
Culling of Simples, meager were his lookes,
Sharp miserie had worne him to the bones:
And in his needie shop a Tortoyrs hung,
An Allegater stuft, and other skins
Of ill shap'd fishes, and about his shelues,
A beggerly account of emptie boxes ,
Greene earthen pots, Bladders, and mustie seedes,
Remnants of packthred, and old cakes of Roses
Were thinly scattered, to make vp a shew.
Noting this penury, to my selfe I said,
An if a man did need a poyson now,
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Here liues a Caitiffe wretch would sell it him.
O this same thought did but fore-run my need,
And this same needie man must sell it me.
As I remember, this should be the house,
Being holy day, the beggers shop is shut.
What ho? Appothecarie?
Enter Appothecarie.

  App. Who call's so low'd?
  Rom. Come hither man, I see that thou art poore,
Hold, there is fortie Duckets, let me haue
A dram of poyson, such soone speeding geare,
As will disperse it selfe through all the veines,
That the life-wearie-taker may fall dead,
And that the Trunke may be discharg'd of breath,
As violently, as hastie powder fier'd
Doth hurry from the fatall Canons wombe

   App. Such mortall drugs I haue, but Mantuas law
Is death to any he, that vtters them

   Rom. Art thou so bare and full of wretchednesse,
And fear'st to die? Famine is in thy cheekes,
Need and opression starueth in thy eyes,
Contempt and beggery hangs vpon thy backe:
The world is not thy friend, nor the worlds law:
The world affords no law to make thee rich.
Then be not poore, but breake it, and take this

   App. My pouerty, but not my will consents

   Rom. I pray thy pouerty, and not thy will

   App. Put this in any liquid thing you will
And drinke it off, and if you had the strength
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight

   Rom. There's thy Gold,
Worse poyson to mens soules,
Doing more murther in this loathsome world,
Then these poore compounds that thou maiest not sell.
I sell thee poyson, thou hast sold me none,
Farewell, buy food, and get thy selfe in flesh.
Come Cordiall, and not poyson, go with me
To Iuliets graue, for there must I vse thee.

Exeunt.

Enter Frier Iohn to Frier Lawrence.

  Iohn. Holy Franciscan Frier, Brother, ho?
Enter Frier Lawrence.

  Law. This same should be the voice of Frier Iohn.
Welcome from Mantua, what sayes Romeo?
Or if his mind be writ, giue me his Letter

   Iohn. Going to find a bare-foote Brother out,
One of our order to associate me,
Here in this Citie visiting the sick,
And finding him, the Searchers of the Towne
Suspecting that we both were in a house
Where the infectious pestilence did raigne,
Seal'd vp the doores, and would not let vs forth,
So that my speed to Mantua there was staid

   Law. Who bare my Letter then to Romeo?
  Iohn. I could not send it, here it is againe,
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
So fearefull were they of infection

   Law. Vnhappie Fortune: by my Brotherhood
The Letter was not nice; but full of charge,
Of deare import; and the neglecting it
May do much danger: Frier Iohn go hence,
Get me an Iron Crow, and bring it straight
Vnto my Cell

   Iohn. Brother Ile go and bring it thee.
Enter.

  Law. Now must I to the Monument alone,
Within this three houres will faire Iuliet wake,
Shee will beshrew me much that Romeo
Hath had no notice of these accidents:
But I will write againe to Mantua,
And keepe her at my Cell till Romeo come,
Poore liuing Coarse, clos'd in a dead mans Tombe,
Enter.

Enter Paris and his Page.

  Par. Giue me thy Torch Boy, hence and stand aloft,
Yet put it out, for I would not be seene:
Vnder yond young Trees lay thee all along,
Holding thy eare close to the hollow ground,
So shall no foot vpon the Churchyard tread,
Being loose, vnfirme with digging vp of Graues,
But thou shalt heare it: whistle then to me,
As signall that thou hearest some thing approach,
Giue me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go

   Page. I am almost afraid to stand alone
Here in the Churchyard, yet I will aduenture

   Pa. Sweet Flower with flowers thy Bridall bed I strew:
O woe, thy Canopie is dust and stones,
Which with sweet water nightly I will dewe,
Or wanting that, with teares destil'd by mones;
The obsequies that I for thee will keepe,
Nightly shall be, to strew thy graue, and weepe.

Whistle Boy.

The Boy giues warning, something doth approach,
What cursed foot wanders this wayes to night,
To crosse my obsequies, and true loues right?
What with a Torch? Muffle me night a while.
Enter Romeo, and Peter.

  Rom. Giue me that Mattocke, & the wrenching Iron,
Hold take this Letter, early in the morning
See thou deliuer it to my Lord and Father,
Giue me the light; vpon thy life I charge thee,
What ere thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloofe,
And do not interrupt me in my course.
Why I descend into this bed of death,
Is partly to behold my Ladies face:
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger,
A precious Ring, a Ring that I must vse,
In deare employment, therefore hence be gone:
But if thou iealous dost returne to prie
In what I further shall intend to do,
By heauen I will teare thee ioynt by ioynt,
And strew this hungry Churchyard with thy limbs:
The time, and my intents are sauage wilde:
More fierce and more inexorable farre,
Them emptie Tygers, or the roaring Sea

   Pet. I will be gone sir, and not trouble you
  Ro. So shalt thou shew me friendship: take thou that,
Liue and be prosperous, and farewell good fellow

   Pet. For all this same, Ile hide me here about,
His lookes I feare, and his intents I doubt

   Rom. Thou detestable mawe, thou wombe of death,
Gorg'd with the dearest morsell of the earth:
Thus I enforce thy rotten Iawes to open,
And in despight, Ile cram thee with more food

   Par. This is that banisht haughtie Mountague,
That murdred my Loues Cozin; with which griefe,
It is supposed the faire Creature died,
And here is come to do some villanous shame
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
Stop thy vnhallowed toyle, vile Mountague:
Can vengeance be pursued further then death?
Condemned villaine, I do apprehend thee.
Obey and go with me, for thou must die,
  Rom. I must indeed, and therfore came I hither:
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man,
Flie hence and leaue me, thinke vpon those gone,
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee Youth,
Put not an other sin vpon my head,
By vrging me to furie. O be gone,
By heauen I loue thee better then my selfe,
For I come hither arm'd against my selfe:
Stay not, be gone, liue, and hereafter say,
A mad mans mercy bid thee run away

   Par. I do defie thy commisseration,
And apprehend thee for a Fellon here

   Ro. Wilt thou prouoke me? Then haue at thee Boy

   Pet. O Lord they fight, I will go call the Watch

   Pa. O I am slaine, if thou be mercifull,
Open the Tombe, lay me with Iuliet

   Rom. In faith I will, let me peruse this face:
Mercutius kinsman, Noble Countie Paris,
What said my man, when my betossed soule
Did not attend him as we rode? I thinke
He told me Paris should haue married Iuliet.
Said he not so? Or did I dreame it so?
Or am I mad, hearing him talke of Iuliet,
To thinke it was so? O giue me thy hand,
One, writ with me in sowre misfortunes booke.
Ile burie thee in a triumphant graue.
A Graue; O no, a Lanthorne; slaughtred Youth:
For here lies Iuliet, and her beautie makes
This Vault a feasting presence full of light.
Death lie thou there, by a dead man inter'd,
How oft when men are at the point of death,
Haue they beene merrie? Which their Keepers call
A lightning before death? Oh how may I
Call this a lightning? O my Loue, my Wife,
Death that hath suckt the honey of thy breath,
Hath had no power yet vpon thy Beautie:
Thou are not conquer'd: Beauties ensigne yet
Is Crymson in thy lips, and in thy cheekes,
And Deaths pale flag is not aduanced there.
Tybalt, ly'st thou there in thy bloudy sheet?
O what more fauour can I do to thee,
Then with that hand that cut thy youth in twaine,
To sunder his that was thy enemie?
Forgiue me Cozen. Ah deare Iuliet:
Why art thou yet so faire? I will beleeue,
Shall I beleeue, that vnsubstantiall death is amorous?
And that the leane abhorred Monster keepes
Thee here in darke to be his Paramour?
For feare of that, I still will stay with thee,
And neuer from this Pallace of dym night
Depart againe: come lie thou in my armes,
Heere's to thy health, where ere thou tumblest in.
O true Appothecarie!
Thy drugs are quicke. Thus with a kisse I die.
Depart againe; here, here will I remaine,
With Wormes that are thy Chambermaides: O here
Will I set vp my euerlasting rest:
And shake the yoke of inauspicious starres
From this world-wearied flesh: Eyes looke your last:
Armes take your last embrace: And lips, O you
The doores of breath, seale with a righteous kisse
A datelesse bargaine to ingrossing death:
Come bitter conduct, come vnsauory guide,
Thou desperate Pilot, now at once run on
The dashing Rocks, thy Sea-sicke wearie Barke:
Heere's to my Loue. O true Appothecary:
Thy drugs are quicke. Thus with a kisse I die.
Enter Frier with a Lanthorne, Crow, and Spade.

  Fri. St. Francis be my speed, how oft to night
Haue my old feet stumbled at graues? Who's there?
  Man. Here's one, a Friend, & one that knowes you well

   Fri. Blisse be vpon you. Tell me good my Friend
What Torch is yond that vainely lends his light
To grubs, and eyelesse Sculles? As I discerne,
It burneth in the Capels Monument

   Man. It doth so holy sir,
And there's my Master, one that you loue

   Fri. Who is it?
  Man. Romeo

   Fri. How long hath he bin there?
  Man. Full halfe an houre

   Fri. Go with me to the Vault

   Man. I dare not Sir.
My Master knowes not but I am gone hence,
And fearefully did menace me with death,
If I did stay to looke on his entents

   Fri. Stay, then Ile go alone, feares comes vpon me.
O much I feare some ill vnluckie thing

   Man. As I did sleepe vnder this young tree here,
I dreamt my maister and another fought,
And that my Maister slew him

   Fri. Romeo.
Alacke, alacke, what blood is this which staines
The stony entrance of this Sepulcher?
What meane these Masterlesse, and goarie Swords
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
Romeo, oh pale: who else? what Paris too?
And steept in blood? Ah what an vnkind houre
Is guiltie of this lamentable chance?
The Lady stirs

   Iul. O comfortable Frier, where's my Lord?
I do remember well where I should be:
And there I am, where is my Romeo?
  Fri. I heare some noyse Lady, come from that nest
Of death, contagion, and vnnaturall sleepe,
A greater power then we can contradict
Hath thwarted our entents, come, come away,
Thy husband in thy bosome there lies dead:
And Paris too: come Ile dispose of thee,
Among a Sisterhood of holy Nunnes:
Stay not to question, for the watch is comming.
Come, go good Iuliet, I dare no longer stay.
Enter.

  Iul. Degrees North latitude to 10 feet, on the
coasts of Portugal and Spain until around the
43rd Degrees North latitude to 12 feet,
from the promontory Finis + terrae + until the
manifestation of the Garonne, ie until
46th Degrees North latitude 15 feet & c.
rises. This takes this amount after
the 48th Degrees
North latitude again, and the Fluthen until after the North Pole
to ever lower, where they finally stop.]

  [Note B: When the moon is
  leaving its
location and could fall to earth,
he would, if it is 7740 miles away from us would be, the sea is
256 feet hinan collect, and 1016 miles when he came close to us
would be the same as it would be 15,000 feet up to collect, and
therefore such a force on the highest mountains in almost
hinüberzufluthen.]

[Note C: Delüc at the Savoy Alps, at an altitude of 7844 feet above
sea level elevated, ammonites encountered.

  And after the insurance
of Don Ulloa will be built on a
  limestone in Peru, at an
altitude of 14000 feet, and
on another, at an altitude of 13,200 feet,
Pektiniten and ammonites have been found.] In
the whole nature, we find where we our
eyes only hinwerfen, misdemeanors, and
emergence of rejuvenation and beautification
of that. Because if the worm and the tree,
their identification, such as a tree and that
a worm has been achieved, so then they die,
dissolve into their stock Theile, and
thereby serve the beautiful nature for rejuvenation and beautification.

  That is also the mighty
cliffs of the teeth of time subjected, as the peaks of the Pyrenees,
passing through their show.

   So now how everything on our planet vergehet, which
rejuvenates the nature, so also pass worlds and world regions, and
new for them to come renewal and glorification of the great re-creation
shows, thus also the world body has passed, and have settled in
smaller masses, consistent with Ceres, Pallas, Juno and Vesta have
been the case seems to be aufgelöset, and so will the other once
world body of our solar territory and gradually the whole creation
zone pass, and new world umgeschaffen masses if they are the big
tarp over the world no longer can afford and what it afterwards,
and should deliver, namely _einer best large quantity of living
beings to the living - and to serve Wonneplatze_.

  It is also our home once the stay is not what he is now,
but will either dissolve into smaller masses,
or by the Aufsturz of another mass on it to enlarge.

   But when will happen this time? The time when
our home is no longer the abundance of food substance his creatures
living on it is presentation, and where therefore no longer the
amount of creatures on it will look may be, will then take place
if the earth axis a vertical position against the sun's body is
received, then where a constant spring in the temperate and cold
zones of the world prevail, and where everything green in this and
want to flourish, but not mature, and where, therefore, only the
hot zone can be inhabited.

  Taking after Piazzi and the newer astronomers
the annual decrease in the inclined position
against the sun's body, which in the year 1800 23 ° 27 '56 "was
to 0443, it makes this in 100 years, 44' from which this vertical
position after 192,000 years is to be completed.

  So geraumvolle what time is of the earth nor to their
  current states enjoy! And what geraumvolle
time mankind has yet to develop its loftiest
soul forces!

   What great progress, it will be in the arts and sciences,
  especially in the earth and sky customer, and in which
this related, not even you!
Then comes she to me,
And (with wilde lookes) bid me deuise some meanes
To rid her from this second Marriage,
Or in my Cell there would she kill her selfe.
Then gaue I her (so Tutor'd by my Art)
A sleeping Potion, which so tooke effect
As I intended, for it wrought on her
The forme of death. Meane time, I writ to Romeo,
That he should hither come, as this dyre night,
To helpe to take her from her borrowed graue,
Being the time the Potions force should cease.
But he which bore my Letter, Frier Iohn,
Was stay'd by accident; and yesternight
Return'd my Letter backe. Then all alone,
At the prefixed houre of her waking,
Came I to take her from her Kindreds vault,
Meaning to keepe her closely at my Cell,
Till I conueniently could send to Romeo.
But when I came (some Minute ere the time
Of her awaking) heere vntimely lay
The Noble Paris, and true Romeo dead.
Shee wakes, and I intreated her come foorth,
And beare this worke of Heauen, with patience:
But then, a noyse did scarre me from the Tombe,
And she (too desperate) would not go with me,
But (as it seemes) did violence on her selfe.
All this I know, and to the Marriage her Nurse is priuy:
And if ought in this miscarried by my fault,
Let my old life be sacrific'd, some houre before the time,
Vnto the rigour of seuerest Law

   Prin. We still haue knowne thee for a Holy man.
Where's Romeo's man? What can he say to this?
  Boy. I brought my Master newes of Iuliets death,
And then in poste he came from Mantua
To this same place, to this same Monument.
This Letter he early bid me giue his Father,
And threatned me with death, going in the Vault,
If I departed not, and left him there

   Prin. Falstaff. This can hardly Seyn, Mr
Schallow. Do not worry on this, he will send for
me secret, you see, before he had the people
  so like thun. Seyde without concern for your transportation,
but I want the man Seyn that you do
great. Schallow. Begreiffen I can not like
the approach would have, except if you
give me your dewlap, and me with straw ausstopft.

   I ask you, good Sir John, just give me at least five
hundred pounds. Falstaff.
Where be these Enemies? Capulet, Mountague,
See what a scourge is laide vpon your hate,
That Heauen finds meanes to kill your ioyes with Loue;
And I, for winking at your discords too,
Haue lost a brace of Kinsmen: All are punish'd

   Cap. O Brother Mountague, giue me thy hand,
This is my Daughters ioynture, for no more
Can I demand

   Moun. He has. Lancaster. I wanted
to bet that we, eh DISS year end, our civil
Schwerdt for France will bear. I heard a
bird so sing, whose music, like me däuchte,
want the king liked. Come, we want to go?

   
A glooming peace this morning with it brings,
The Sunne for sorrow will not shew his head;
Go hence, to haue more talke of these sad things,
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished.
For neuer was a Storie of more Wo,
Then this of Iuliet, and her Romeo.

Exeunt. omnes

FINIS. THE TRAGEDIE OF ROMEO and IVLIET