It was during these hours that superstitious terrors gained upon
her. Could it be possible that all those women whom she had seen
gathered together in Miss Avies's room really expected God to come
when the clock struck twelve on the last night of the year? It was
like some old story of ghosts and witches that her nurse used to
tell her when she was a little girl at St. Dreot's. And yet, in that
dark dreary room, almost anything seemed possible. After all, if
there was a God, why should He not, one day, suddenly appear? And if
He wished to spare certain of His servants, why should He not
prepare them first before He came? There were things just as strange
in the Old and New Testament. But if He did come, what would His
Coming be like? Would every one be burnt to death or would they all
be summoned before some judgment and punished for the wicked things
they had done? Would her father perhaps return and give evidence
against her? And poor Uncle Mathew, how would he fare with all his
weaknesses? Her efforts at laughing at herself rescued her from some
of the more incredible of these pictures. Nevertheless the
uncertainty remained and only increased her loneliness. Had Martin
been there in five minutes they would, together, have chased all
these ghosts away. But he was not there. And at the thought of him
she would have to set her mouth very firmly, indeed, to prevent her
lips from trembling. She took out her ring and kissed it, and looked
at the already tattered copy of the programme of the play to which
they had been, and recalled every minute of their walks together.

Christmas Day was a very miserable affair. There were no presents
and no festivities. They went to Chapel and Mr. Thurston preached
the sermon. Maggie did, however, receive one letter. It was from
Uncle Mathew. He wrote to her from some town in the north. He didn't
seem very happy, and asked her whether she could possibly lend him
five pounds. Alluding with a characteristic vagueness to "business
plans of the first importance that were likely to mature very
shortly."

She told Aunt Anne that she wanted five pounds of her money, but she
did not say for what she needed them.

Aunt Anne gave her the money at once without a word--as though she
said: "We have given up all control of you except to see that you
behave decently whilst you are still with us."

When the fog arrived it seemed to penetrate every nook and corner of
the house. The daily afternoon walk that Maggie took with Aunt
Elizabeth was cancelled because of the difficulty of finding one's
way from street to street and "because some rude man might steal
one's money in the darkness," and Maggie was not sorry. Those walks
had not been amusing, Aunt Elizabeth having nothing to say and being
fully occupied with keeping an eye on Maggie, her idea apparently
being that the girl would suddenly dash off to freedom and
wickedness and be lost for ever. Maggie had no such intention and
developed during these weeks a queer motherly affection for both the
aunts, so lost they were and helpless and ignorant of the world! "My
dear," said Maggie to herself, "you're a bit of a fool as far as
common-sense goes, but you're nothing to what they are, poor dears."
She tried to improve herself in every way for their benefit, but her
memory was no better. She forgot all the things that were, in their
eyes, the most important--closing doors, punctuality for meals, neat
stitches, careful putting away of books and clothes.

Once, during a walk, she said to Aunt Elizabeth:

"I am trying, Aunt Elizabeth. Do you think Aunt Anne sees any
improvement?"

And all Aunt Elizabeth said was:

"It was a great shock to her, what you did. Maggie--a great shock
indeed!"

When the last day of the year arrived Maggie was surprised at the
strange excitement that she felt. It was excitement, not only
because of the dim mysterious events that the evening promised, but
also because she was sure that this day would settle the loneliness
of herself and Martin. After this they would know where they stood
and what they must do. Old Warlock loomed in front of her as the
very arbiter of her destiny. On his action everything turned. Oh! if
only after this he were well enough for Martin to be happy and at
ease about him! She was tempted to hate him as she thought of all
the trouble that he had made for her. Then her mind went back to
that first day long ago when he had spoken to her so kindly and
bidden her come and see him as often as she could. How little she
had known then what the future held for her! And now around his tall
mysterious figure not only her own fate but that of every one else
seemed to hang. Her aunts, Amy, Miss Pyncheon, Miss Avies, Thurston,
that strange girl at the meeting, with them all his destiny was
involved and they with his.

As the day advanced and the silver fog blew in little gusts about
the house, making now this corner now that obscure, drifting, so
that suddenly, when the door opened, the whole passage seemed full
of smoke, clearing, for a moment, in the street below, showing lamp-
posts and pavements and windows, and then blowing down again and
once more hiding the world, she felt, in spite of herself, that she
was playing a part in some malignant dream. "It can't be like this
really," she told herself. "If I were to go to tea now with Mrs.
Mark and sit in her pretty drawing-room and talk to that clergyman I
wouldn't believe a word of it." And yet it was true enough, her
share in it. As the afternoon advanced her sensations were very
similar to those that she had had when about to visit the St.
Dreot's dentist, a fearsome man with red hair and hands like a dog's
paws. She saw him now standing over her as she sat trembling in the
chair, a miserable little figure in a short untidy frock. She used
to repeat to herself then what Uncle Mathew had once told her: "This
time next year you'll have forgotten all about this," but when it
was a question of facing the immensities of the Last Day that
consolation was strangely inapt. It was dusk very early and she
longed for Martha to bring the lamp.

At last it came and tea and Aunt Elizabeth. Aunt Anne had not
appeared all day. Then long dreary hours followed until supper, and
after that hours again until ten o'clock.

She had not been certain, all this time, whether the aunts meant to
take her to the service with them. She had supposed that her
introduction to the meeting at Miss Avies's meant that they intended
to include her in this too, but now, as the evening advanced, in a
fit of nervous terror she prayed within herself that they would not
take her. If the end of the world were coming she would like to meet
it in her bed. To go out into those streets and that ugly unfriendly
Chapel was a horrible thing to do. If this were to be the end of the
world how she did wish that she might have been allowed to know
nothing about it. And those others--Miss Pyncheon and the rest who
devoutly believed in the event--how were they passing these last
hours?

"Oh, it isn't true! It can't be true!" she said to herself. "It's a
shame to frighten them so!"

By eleven o'clock the excitement of the day had wearied her so that
she fell fast asleep in the arm-chair beside the fire. She woke to
find Aunt Anne standing over her.

"It's a quarter past eleven. It's time to put on your things," she
said. So she was to go! She rose and, in spite of herself, her limbs
were trembling and her teeth chattered. To her surprise Aunt Anne
bent forward and kissed her on the forehead.

"Maggie," she said, "if I've been harsh to you during these weeks
I'm sorry. I've done what I thought my duty, but I wouldn't wish on
this night that we should have any unkindness in our hearts towards
one another."

"Oh, that's all right," Maggie said awkwardly.

She went up to put on her things; then the three of them went out
into the dark foggy street together.

Because it was New Year's Eve there were many people about, voices
laughing and shouting through the mist and then some one running
with a flaring light, then some men walking singing in chorus. The
aunts said nothing as they went. Maggie's thoughts were given now to
wondering whether Martin would be there. She tied her mind to that,
but behind it was the irritating knowledge that her teeth were
chattering and her knees trembling and that she did not maintain her
courage as a Cardinal should.

As they entered the Chapel the hoarse ugly clock over the door
grunted out half-past eleven. The Chapel seemed on Maggie's entering
it to be half in darkness, there was a thin splutter of gas over the
reading-desk at the far end and some more light by the door, but the
centre of the building was a shadowy pool. Only a few were present,
gathered together in the middle seats below the desk, perhaps in all
a hundred persons. Of these three-quarters were women. The aunts and
Maggie went into their accustomed seat some six rows from the front.
When Maggie rose from her knees and looked about her she recognised
at once that only the Inside Saints were here.

Amongst the men she recognised Mr. Smith, Caroline's father, two old
men, brothers, who had followed Mr. Warlock from their youth, and a
young pale man who had once been to tea with her aunts. Martin she
saw at once was not there.

For some time, perhaps for ten minutes, they all sat in silence, and
only the gruff comment of the clock sounded in the building. Then
the lights went up with a flare and Thurston, followed by Mr.
Warlock, entered. It was at that moment that Maggie had a
revelation. The faces around her seemed to be suddenly gathered in
front of her, and it was with a start of surprise that she suddenly
realised: "Oh, but they don't believe in this any more than I do!"
The faces around her were agitated, with odd humble beseeching
looks, as though they were helpless utterly and were hoping that
some one would suddenly come and lead them somewhere that they might
be comfortable again and at ease.

There was not to-night, as there had been on other occasions (and
especially during that service that Mr. Crashaw had conducted), any
sign of religious and mystical excitement. The people seemed huddled
together in the cold and draughty place against their will, and the
very fact that the Chapel was only half full chilled the blood. No
drama of exultation here, no band of God's servants gloriously
preparing to meet Him, only the frightened open-mouthed gaze of a
little gathering of servant girls and old maids. That was Maggie's
first impression; then, when the service began, when the first hymn
had been sung and Thurston had stumbled into his extempore prayer.
Maggie found herself caught into a strange companionship with the
people around her. Not now ecstasy nor the excitement of religious
fanaticism nor the superstitious preparation for some awful events--
none of these emotions now lifted her into some strained unnatural
sphere--no, nothing but a strange sympathy and kindness and
understanding that she had never known in all her life before. She
felt the hunger, the passionate appeal: "Oh God come! Prove Thy-
self! We have waited so long. We have resisted unbelievers, we have
fought our own doubts and betrayals, give us now a Sign! something
by which we may know Thee!" and with that appeal the conviction in
the hearts of almost all present that nothing would happen, that God
would give no sign, that the age of miracles was past.

"Oh, why did He want to be so definite," she thought. "Why couldn't
He have left them as they were without forcing them to this."

They were sitting down now, and Thurston, with his cheap sense of
the dramatic and false emphasis, was reading from the New Testament.
Maggie looked to where Mr. Warlock was, a little to the right of
Thurston, in his black gown, his head a little lowered, his hands on
his lap.

When she saw him she was touched to the very heart. Why, he had aged
in the last month a hundred years! He looked, sitting there, so
frail and helpless that it seemed wonderful that he should have been
able to get there at all.

His hair seemed to have an added intensity of whiteness to-night,
and his beard lay against the black cloth of his gown with a
contrast so sharp that it was unreal. Maggie fancied, as she watched
him, that he was bewildered and scarcely knew where he was. Once he
looked up and round about him; he put his hand to his brow and then
let it fall as though he had no longer any control over it.

She was now so touched by the pathos of his helplessness that she
could think of nothing else and longed to go to him and comfort him.
Time stole on and it was now ten minutes to twelve. They sang
another hymn, but the voices were very weak and feeble and the words
quivered round the building in a ghostly whisper. Then Thurston came
to the Master and gave him his arm and led him to the reading-desk.
The old man seemed for a moment as though he would fall, then,
holding to the front of the desk, he spoke in a very weak and
faltering voice. Maggie could not catch many of his words: "My
children--only a little time--Our preparation now is finished . . .
God has promised . . . Not the least of these His little ones shall
perish . . . Let us not fear but be ready to meet Him as our Friend
. . . our Friend . . . God our Father . . ." Then in a stronger
voice: "Now during these last minutes let us kneel in silent
prayer."

They all knelt down. Maggie had no thoughts, no desire except that
the time might pass; she seemed to kneel there asleep waiting for
the moment when some one should tell her that the time had gone and
she was safe. The moments dragged eternally; a thrilling suspense
like a flood of water pouring into an empty space had filled the
Chapel. No one moved. Suddenly into the heart of the silence there
struck the first note of the clock tolling the hour. With Maggie it
was as though that sound liberated her from the spell that had been
upon her. She looked up; she saw the master standing, his hands
stretched out, his face splendid with glory and happiness.

He looked beyond them all, beyond the Chapel, beyond the world. He
gave one cry:

"My God, Thou art come." Some other words followed but were caught
up and muffled. He fell forward, collapsing in a heap against the
desk. His head struck the wood and then he lay there perfectly
still.

Maggie could only dimly gather what happened after the sound of that
fall. There seemed to her to be a long and terrible silence during
which the clock continued remorselessly to strike. The Chapel
appeared to be a place of shadows as though the gas had suddenly
died to dim haloes; she was conscious that people moved about her,
that Aunt Anne had left them, and that Aunt Elizabeth was saying to
her again and again: "How terrible! How terrible! How terrible!"

Then as though it were some other person, Maggie found herself very
calmly speaking to Aunt Elizabeth.

"Are we to wait for Aunt Anne?" she whispered.

"Anne said we were to go home."

"Then let's go," whispered Maggie.

They went to the door, pushing, it seemed, through shadows who
whispered and forms that vanished as soon as one looked at them.

Out in the open air Maggie was aware that she was trembling from
head to foot, but a determined idea that she must get Aunt Elizabeth
home at once drove her like a goad. Very strange it was out here,
the air ringing with the clamour of bells. The noise seemed
deafening, whistles blowing from the river, guns firing and this
swinging network of bells echoing through the fog. Figures, too, ran
with lights, men singing, women laughing, all mysteriously in the
tangled darkness.

They were joined at once by Aunt Anne, who said:

"God has called him home," by which Maggie understood that Mr.
Warlock was dead.

They went home in silence. Inside the hall Aunt Elizabeth began to
cry. Aunt Anne put her arm around her and led her away; they seemed
completely to forget Maggie, leaving her standing in the dark hall
by herself.

She found a candle and went up to her room. The noise in the streets
had ceased quite suddenly as though some angry voice had called the
world to order.

Maggie undressed and lay down in her bed. She lay there staring in
front of her without closing her eyes. She watched the grey dawn,
then the half-light, then, behind her blind, bright sunshine. The
fog was no more.

The strangest fancies and visions passed through her brain during
that time. She saw Mr. Warlock hanging forward like a sack of
clothes, the blood trickling stealthily across his beard. Poor old
man! What were the others all thinking now? Were they sorry or glad?
Were they disappointed or relieved? After all, he had, perhaps,
spoken the truth so far as he was himself concerned. God had come
for him. He was now it might be happy somewhere at peace and at
rest. Then like a flash of lightning across the darkness came the
thought of Martin. What had he said? "If anything happened to his
father--"

The terror of that made her heart stop beating. She wanted instantly
to go to him and see what he was doing. She even rose from her bed,
stumbled in the darkness towards her dressing-table, then remembered
where she was and what time and went back and sat upon her bed.

She sat there, her fingers tightly pressed together, staring in
front of her until the morning came. She felt at her heart a
foreboding worse than any pain that she had ever known. She
determined that, directly after breakfast, whatever the aunts would
say, she would go to his house and demand to see him. She did not
mind who might try to prevent her, she would fight her way through
them all. Only one look, one word of assurance from him, and then
she could endure anything. That she must have or she would die.

At last Martha knocked on the door; she had her bath, dressed, still
with this terrible pain at her heart.

She was alone at breakfast, she drank some coffee, then went up to
the drawing-room to think for a moment what course she should
pursue. The room was flooded with sunlight that struck the fire into
a dead, lifeless yellow.

As she stood there she heard through the open door voices in the
hall. But before she had heard the voices she knew that it was
Martin.

Martha was expostulating, her voice following his step up the hall.

"I shall go and tell my mistress," Maggie heard.

Then Martin came in.

When she saw him she stood speechless where she was. The change in
him terrified her so that her heart seemed to leap into her throat
choking her. The colour had drained from his face, leaving it dry
and yellow. He had an amazing resemblance to his father, his eyes
had exactly the same bewildered expression as though he were lost
and yet he seemed quite calm, his only movement was one hand that
wandered up and down his waistcoat feeling the buttons one after the
other.

He looked at her as though he did not know her, and yet he spoke her
name.

"Maggie," he said, "I've come to say good-bye. You know what I said
before. Well, it's come true. Father is dead, and I killed him."

With a terrible effort, beating down a terror that seemed personally
to envelop her, she said:

"No, Martin. I saw him die. It wasn't you, Martin dear."

"It was I," he answered. "You don't know. I came into the house
drunk and he heard what I said to Amy. He nearly died then. The
doctor in the evening said he must have had some shock."

She tried to come to him then. She was thinking: "Oh, if I've only
got time I can win this. But I must have time. I must have time."

He moved away from her, as he had done once before.

"Anyway, it doesn't matter," he said. "I've killed him by the way
I've been behaving to him all these months. I'm going away where I
can't do any harm."

She desperately calmed herself, speaking very quietly.

"Listen, Martin. You haven't done him any harm. He's happier now
than he's been for years. I know he is. And that doesn't touch us.
You can't leave me now. Where you go I must go."

"No," he answered. "No, Maggie. I ought to have gone before. I knew
it then, but I know it absolutely now. Everything I touch I hurt, so
I mustn't touch anything I care for."

She put her hands out towards him; words had left her. She would
have given her soul for words and she could say nothing.

She was surrounded with a hedge of fright and terror and she could
not pass it.

He seemed to see then in her eyes her despair. For an instant he
recognised her. Their eyes met for the first time; she felt that she
was winning. She began eagerly to speak: "Listen, Martin dear. You
can't do me any harm. You can only hurt me by leaving me. I've told
you before. Just think of that and only that."

The door opened and Aunt Anne came in.

He turned to her very politely. "I beg your pardon for coming, Miss
Cardinal," he said. "I know what you must think of me, but it's all
right. I've only come to say good-bye to Maggie. It's all right.
Neither you nor Maggie will be bothered with me again."

He turned to the open door. Aunt Anne stood aside to let him pass.
Maggie said:

"Martin, don't go! Martin, don't leave me! Don't leave me, Martin!"

He seemed to break then in his resolution.

"It's better. It's better," he cried, as though he were shouting
himself down, and then pushing Aunt Anne with his arm he hurried out
almost running, his steps stumbling down the stairs.

Maggie ran to the door. Her aunt stopped her, holding her back.

"It's better, Maggie dear," she said very gently, repeating Martin's
words.

The sound of the hall door closing echoed through the house.

Maggie struggled, crying again and again: "Let me go! Let me go! I
must go with him! I can't live without him! Let me go!"

She fought then, and with one hand free hit Aunt Anne's face,
twisting her body. Then, suddenly weak, so that she saw faintness
coming towards her like a cloak, she whispered:

"Oh, Aunt Anne, let me go! Oh, Aunt Anne, let me go! Please, please,
let me go!"

Suddenly the house was darkened, at her feet was a gulf of
blackness, and into it she tumbled, down, far down, with a last
little gasping sigh of distress.


PART III

THE WITCH


CHAPTER I

THE THREE VISITS


On a spring day, early in March of the next year, 1908, Mathew
Cardinal thought that he would go and discover how his niece was
prospering. He had seen nothing of her for a very long time.

He did not blame himself for this, but then he never blamed himself
for anything. A fate, often drunken and always imbecile, was to
blame for everything that he did, and he pitied himself sincerely
for having to be in the hands of such a creature. He happened to be
just now very considerably frightened about himself, more frightened
than he had been for a very long time, so frightened in fact that he
had drunk nothing for weeks. For many years he had been leading a
see-saw existence, and the see-saw had been swung by that mysterious
force known as Finance. He had a real gift for speculation, and had
he been granted from birth a large income he might have ended his
days as a Justice of the Peace and a Member of Parliament.
Unfortunately he had never had any private means, and he had never
been able to make enough by his mysterious speculations to float him
into security--"Let me once get so far," he would say to himself,
"and I am a made man." But drink, an easy tolerance of bad company,
and a rather touching conceit had combined to divorce him from so
fine a destiny. He had risen, he had fallen, made a good thing out
of this tip, been badly done over that, and missed opportunity after
opportunity through a fuddled brain and an overweening self-
confidence.

Last year for several months everything had succeeded; it was during
that happy period that he had visited Maggie. Perhaps it was well
for his soul that success had not continued. He was a man whom
failure improved, having a certain childish warmth of heart and
simplicity of outlook when things went badly with him. Success made
him abominably conceited, and being without any morality self-
confidence drove him to disastrous lengths. Now once more he was
very near destruction and he knew it, very near things like forging
and highway robbery, and other things worse than they. He knew that
he was very near; he peered over into the pit and did not wish to
descend. He was not a bad man, and had he not believed himself to be
a clever one all might yet have been well. The temptation of his
cleverness lured him on. A stroke of the pen was a very simple thing
. . .

To save his soul he thought that he would go and see Maggie. His
affection for her, conceited and selfish though it was, was the most
genuine thing in him. For three-quarters of the year he forgot her,
but when life went badly he thought of her again--not that he
expected to get anything out of her, but she was good to him and she
knew nothing about his life, two fine bases for safety.

"What have they been doing to her, those damned hypocrites, I
wonder," was his thought. He admired, feared, and despised his
sisters. "All that stuff about God" frightened him in spite of
himself, and he knew, in his soul, that Anne was no hypocrite.

He rang the bell and faced Martha. He had dressed himself with some
care and was altogether more tidy just then, having a new mistress
who cared about outside appearances. Also, having been sober for
nearly two months, he looked a gentleman.

"Is my niece at home?" he asked, blinking because he was frightened
of Martha.

She did not seem to be prepared to let him in.

"Miss Maggie has been very ill," she said, frowning at him.

"Ill?" That really hurt him. He stammered, "Why? . . . When?"

She moved aside then for him to pass into the hall. He came into the
dark stuffy place.

"Yes," said Martha. "Just after Christmas. Brain-fever, the doctors
said. They thought she'd die for weeks. Had two doctors . . . You
can't see her, sir," she ended grumpily.

Then Aunt Anne appeared, coming through the green-baize door.

"Why, Mathew," she said. Mathew thought how ill she looked.

"They're all ill here," he said to himself.

"So Maggie's ill," he said, dropping his eyes before her as he
always did.

"Yes," Aunt Anne answered. "She was very ill indeed, poor child. I'm
glad to see you, Mathew. It's a long time since you've been."

He thought she was gentler to him than she had been, so, mastering
his fear of her, fingering his collar, he said:

"Can't I see her?"

"Well, I'm not . . . I think you might. It might do her good. She
wants taking out of herself. She comes down for an hour or two every
day now. I'll go and see." She left him standing alone there. He
looked around him, sniffing like a dog. How he hated the house and
everything in it! Always had . . . You could smell that fellow
Warlock's trail over everything. The black cat, Tom, came slipping
along, looked for a moment as though he would rub himself against
Mathew's stout legs, then decided that he would not. Mysterious this
place like a well, with its green shadows. No wonder the poor child
had been ill here. At the thought of her being near to death Mathew
felt a choke in his throat. Poor child, never had any fun all her
life and then to die in a green well like this. And his sisters
wouldn't care if she did, hard women, hard women. Funny how religion
made you hard, darn funny. Good thing he'd been irreligious all his
life. Think of his brother Charles! There was religion for you,
living with his cook and preaching to her next morning. Bad thing
religion!

Aunt Anne returned, coming down the stairs with that queer halting
gait of hers.

"Maggie's in the drawing-room," she said. "She'll like to see you."

As they went up, Aunt Anne said: "Be careful with her, Mathew. She's
still very weak. Don't say anything to upset her?"

He mumbled something in his throat. Couldn't trust him. Of course
they couldn't. Never had . . . Fine sort of sisters they were.

Maggie was sitting by the fire, a shawl over her shoulders. By God,
but she looked ill. Mathew had another gulp in his throat. Poor kid,
but she did look ill. Poor kid, poor kid.

"Sorry you've been bad, Maggie," he said.

She looked up, smiling with pleasure, when she saw who it was. Yes,
she was really pleased to see him. But how different a smile from
the old one! No blood behind it, none of that old Maggie
determination. He was filled with compassion. He took a chair close
beside her and sat down, leaning towards her, his large rather
sheepish eye gazing at her.

"What's been the matter?" he asked.

"I don't know," Maggie said. "I was suddenly ill one day, and after
that I didn't know any more for weeks. But I'm much better now."

"Well, I'm delighted to hear that anyway," he said heartily. He was
determined to cheer her up. "You'll be as right as rain presently."

"Of course I shall. I've felt so lazy, as though I didn't want to do
anything. Now I must stir myself."

"Have the old women been good to you?" he asked, dropping his voice.

"Very," she answered.

"Not bothering you about all their religious tommy-rot?"

She looked down at her hands.

"No," she said.

"And that hypocritical minister of theirs hasn't been at you again?"

"Mr. Warlock's dead," she answered very quietly.

"Warlock dead!" Uncle Mathew half rose from his chair in his
astonishment. "That fellow dead! Well, I'm damned, indeed I am. That
fellow--! Well, there's a good riddance! I know it isn't good form
to speak about a man who's kicked the bucket otherwise than kindly,
but he was a weight on my chest that fellow was, with his long white
beard and his soft voice . . . Well, well. To be sure! Whatever will
my poor sisters do? And what's happened to that young chap, his son,
nice lad he was, took dinner with us that day last year?"

"He's gone away," said Maggie. Mathew, stupid though he was, heard
behind the quiet of Maggie's voice a warning. He flung her a hurried
surreptitious look. Her face was perfectly composed, her hands still
upon her lap. Nevertheless he said to himself, "Danger there, my
boy! Something's happened there!"

And yet his curiosity drove him for a moment further.

"Gone, has he? Where to?"

"He went abroad," said Maggie, "after his father's death. I don't
know where he's gone."

"Oh, did he? Pity! Restless, I expect--I was at his age."

There was a little pause between them when Maggie sat very quietly
looking at her hands. Then, smiling, she glanced up and said:

"But tell me about yourself, Uncle Mathew. You've told me nothing."

He fidgeted a little, shifting his thick legs, stroking his nose
with his finger.

"I don't know that I've anything very good to tell you, my dear.
Truth is, I haven't been doing so very well lately."

"Oh, Uncle, I'm sorry!"

"It's nothing to make yourself miserable about, my dear. I always
turn my corners. Damn rocky ones they are sometimes too.
Everything's turned itself wrong these last weeks, either too soon
or too late. I don't complain, all the same it makes things a bit
inconvenient. Thank you for that five pounds you sent me, my dear,
very helpful it was I can tell you."

"Do you want another five pounds?" she asked him. He struggled with
himself. His hesitation was so obvious that it was quite touching.
She put her hand on his knee.

"Do have another five pounds, Uncle. It won't be difficult for me at
all. I've been spending nothing all these weeks when I've been ill.
Please do."

He shook his head firmly.

"No, my dear, I won't. As I came along I said to myself, 'Now,
you'll be asking Maggie for money, and when she says "Yes" you're
not to take it'--and so I'm not going to. I may be a rotter--but I'm
not a rotten rotter."

He clung to his decision with the utmost resolve as though it were
his last plank of respectability.

"I can't believe," he said to her with great solemnity, "that things
can really go wrong. I know too much. It isn't men like me who go
under. No. No."

He saw then her white face and strange grey ghostly eyes as though
her soul had gone somewhere on a visit and the house was untenanted.
He felt again the gulp in his throat. He bent forward, resting his
fat podgy hand on her knee.

"Don't you worry, Maggie dear. I've always noticed that things are
never bad for long. You've still got your old uncle, and you're
young, and there are plenty of fish in the sea . . . there are
indeed. You cheer up! It will be all right soon."

She put her hands on his.

"Oh I'm not--worrying." But as she spoke a strange strangled little
sob had crept unbidden into her throat, choking her.

He thought, as he got up, "It's that damned young feller I gave
dinner to. I'd like to wring his neck."

But he said no more, bent closer and kissed her, said he was soon
coming again, and went away.

After he had gone the house sank into its grey quiet again. What was
Maggie thinking? No one knew. What was Aunt Anne thinking? No one
knew . . . But there was something between these two, Maggie and
Aunt Anne. Every one felt it and longed for the storm to burst. Bad
enough things outside with Mr. Warlock dead, members leaving right
and left, and the Chapel generally going to wrack and ruin, but
inside!

Old Martha, who had never liked Maggie, felt now a strange,
uncomfortable pity for her. She didn't want to feel pity, no, not
she, pity for no one, and especially not for an ugly untidy girl
like that, but there it was, she couldn't help herself! Such a child
that girl, and she'd been as nearly dead as nothing, and now she was
suffering, suffering awful . . . Any one could see . . . All that
Warlock boy. Martha had seen him come stumbling down the stairs that
day and had heard Maggie's cry and then the fall. Awful noise it
made. Awful. She'd stood in the hall, looking up the stairs, her
heart beating like a hammer. Yes, just like a hammer! Then she'd
gone up. It wasn't a nice sight, the poor girl all in a lump on the
floor and Miss Anne just as she always looked before one of her
attacks, as though she were made of grey glass from top to toe . . .

But Martha hadn't pitied Maggie then. Oh, no. Might as well die as
not. Who wanted her? No one. Not even her young man apparently.

