
   Now, scarce three paces measured from the mound,
   We stumbled on a stationary voice,
   And 'Stand, who goes?'  'Two from the palace' I.
   'The second two:  they wait,' he said, 'pass on;
   His Highness wakes:' and one, that clashed in arms,
   By glimmering lanes and walls of canvas led
   Threading the soldier-city, till we heard
   The drowsy folds of our great ensign shake
   From blazoned lions o'er the imperial tent
   Whispers of war.
                   Entering, the sudden light
   Dazed me half-blind:  I stood and seemed to hear,
   As in a poplar grove when a light wind wakes
   A lisping of the innumerous leaf and dies,
   Each hissing in his neighbour's ear; and then
   A strangled titter, out of which there brake
   On all sides, clamouring etiquette to death,
   Unmeasured mirth; while now the two old kings
   Began to wag their baldness up and down,
   The fresh young captains flashed their glittering teeth,
   The huge bush-bearded Barons heaved and blew,
   And slain with laughter rolled the gilded Squire.

        At length my Sire, his rough cheek wet with tears,
   Panted from weary sides 'King, you are free!
   We did but keep you surety for our son,
   If this be he,--or a dragged mawkin, thou,
   That tends to her bristled grunters in the sludge:'
   For I was drenched with ooze, and torn with briers,
   More crumpled than a poppy from the sheath,
   And all one rag, disprinced from head to heel.
   Then some one sent beneath his vaulted palm
   A whispered jest to some one near him, 'Look,
   He has been among his shadows.'  'Satan take
   The old women and their shadows! (thus the King
   Roared) make yourself a man to fight with men.
   Go:  Cyril told us all.'
                           As boys that slink
   From ferule and the trespass-chiding eye,
   Away we stole, and transient in a trice
   From what was left of faded woman-slough
   To sheathing splendours and the golden scale
   Of harness, issued in the sun, that now
   Leapt from the dewy shoulders of the Earth,
   And hit the Northern hills.  Here Cyril met us.
   A little shy at first, but by and by
   We twain, with mutual pardon asked and given
   For stroke and song, resoldered peace, whereon
   Followed his tale.  Amazed he fled away
   Through the dark land, and later in the night
   Had come on Psyche weeping:  'then we fell
   Into your father's hand, and there she lies,
   But will not speak, or stir.'
                                He showed a tent
   A stone-shot off:  we entered in, and there
   Among piled arms and rough accoutrements,
   Pitiful sight, wrapped in a soldier's cloak,
   Like some sweet sculpture draped from head to foot,
   And pushed by rude hands from its pedestal,
   All her fair length upon the ground she lay:
   And at her head a follower of the camp,
   A charred and wrinkled piece of womanhood,
   Sat watching like the watcher by the dead.

        Then Florian knelt, and 'Come' he whispered to her,
   'Lift up your head, sweet sister:  lie not thus.
   What have you done but right? you could not slay
   Me, nor your prince:  look up:  be comforted:
   Sweet is it to have done the thing one ought,
   When fallen in darker ways.'  And likewise I:
   'Be comforted:  have I not lost her too,
   In whose least act abides the nameless charm
   That none has else for me?'  She heard, she moved,
   She moaned, a folded voice; and up she sat,
   And raised the cloak from brows as pale and smooth
   As those that mourn half-shrouded over death
   In deathless marble.  'Her,' she said, 'my friend--
   Parted from her--betrayed her cause and mine--
   Where shall I breathe? why kept ye not your faith?
   O base and bad! what comfort? none for me!'
   To whom remorseful Cyril, 'Yet I pray
   Take comfort:  live, dear lady, for your child!'
   At which she lifted up her voice and cried.

        'Ah me, my babe, my blossom, ah, my child,
   My one sweet child, whom I shall see no more!
   For now will cruel Ida keep her back;
   And either she will die from want of care,
   Or sicken with ill-usage, when they say
   The child is hers--for every little fault,
   The child is hers; and they will beat my girl
   Remembering her mother:  O my flower!
   Or they will take her, they will make her hard,
   And she will pass me by in after-life
   With some cold reverence worse than were she dead.
   Ill mother that I was to leave her there,
   To lag behind, scared by the cry they made,
   The horror of the shame among them all:
   But I will go and sit beside the doors,
   And make a wild petition night and day,
   Until they hate to hear me like a wind
   Wailing for ever, till they open to me,
   And lay my little blossom at my feet,
   My babe, my sweet Aglaïa, my one child:
   And I will take her up and go my way,
   And satisfy my soul with kissing her:
   Ah! what might that man not deserve of me
   Who gave me back my child?'  'Be comforted,'
   Said Cyril, 'you shall have it:' but again
   She veiled her brows, and prone she sank, and so
   Like tender things that being caught feign death,
   Spoke not, nor stirred.
                          By this a murmur ran
   Through all the camp and inward raced the scouts
   With rumour of Prince Arab hard at hand.
   We left her by the woman, and without
   Found the gray kings at parle:  and 'Look you' cried
   My father 'that our compact be fulfilled:
   You have spoilt this child; she laughs at you and man:
   She wrongs herself, her sex, and me, and him:
   But red-faced war has rods of steel and fire;
   She yields, or war.'
                       Then Gama turned to me:
   'We fear, indeed, you spent a stormy time
   With our strange girl:  and yet they say that still
   You love her.  Give us, then, your mind at large:
   How say you, war or not?'
                            'Not war, if possible,
   O king,' I said, 'lest from the abuse of war,
   The desecrated shrine, the trampled year,
   The smouldering homestead, and the household flower
   Torn from the lintel--all the common wrong--
   A smoke go up through which I loom to her
   Three times a monster:  now she lightens scorn
   At him that mars her plan, but then would hate
   (And every voice she talked with ratify it,
   And every face she looked on justify it)
   The general foe.  More soluble is this knot,
   By gentleness than war.  I want her love.
   What were I nigher this although we dashed
   Your cities into shards with catapults,
   She would not love;--or brought her chained, a slave,
   The lifting of whose eyelash is my lord,
   Not ever would she love; but brooding turn
   The book of scorn, till all my flitting chance
   Were caught within the record of her wrongs,
   And crushed to death:  and rather, Sire, than this
   I would the old God of war himself were dead,
   Forgotten, rusting on his iron hills,
   Rotting on some wild shore with ribs of wreck,
   Or like an old-world mammoth bulked in ice,
   Not to be molten out.'
                         And roughly spake
   My father, 'Tut, you know them not, the girls.
   Boy, when I hear you prate I almost think
   That idiot legend credible.  Look you, Sir!
   Man is the hunter; woman is his game:
   The sleek and shining creatures of the chase,
   We hunt them for the beauty of their skins;
   They love us for it, and we ride them down.
   Wheedling and siding with them!  Out! for shame!
   Boy, there's no rose that's half so dear to them
   As he that does the thing they dare not do,
   Breathing and sounding beauteous battle, comes
   With the air of the trumpet round him, and leaps in
   Among the women, snares them by the score
   Flattered and flustered, wins, though dashed with death
   He reddens what he kisses:  thus I won
   You mother, a good mother, a good wife,
   Worth winning; but this firebrand--gentleness
   To such as her! if Cyril spake her true,
   To catch a dragon in a cherry net,
   To trip a tigress with a gossamer
   Were wisdom to it.'
                      'Yea but Sire,' I cried,
   'Wild natures need wise curbs.  The soldier?  No:
   What dares not Ida do that she should prize
   The soldier?  I beheld her, when she rose
   The yesternight, and storming in extremes,
   Stood for her cause, and flung defiance down
   Gagelike to man, and had not shunned the death,
   No, not the soldier's:  yet I hold her, king,
   True woman:  you clash them all in one,
   That have as many differences as we.
   The violet varies from the lily as far
   As oak from elm:  one loves the soldier, one
   The silken priest of peace, one this, one that,
   And some unworthily; their sinless faith,
   A maiden moon that sparkles on a sty,
   Glorifying clown and satyr; whence they need
   More breadth of culture:  is not Ida right?
   They worth it? truer to the law within?
   Severer in the logic of a life?
   Twice as magnetic to sweet influences
   Of earth and heaven? and she of whom you speak,
   My mother, looks as whole as some serene
   Creation minted in the golden moods
   Of sovereign artists; not a thought, a touch,
   But pure as lines of green that streak the white
   Of the first snowdrop's inner leaves; I say,
   Not like the piebald miscellany, man,
   Bursts of great heart and slips in sensual mire,
   But whole and one:  and take them all-in-all,
   Were we ourselves but half as good, as kind,
   As truthful, much that Ida claims as right
   Had ne'er been mooted, but as frankly theirs
   As dues of Nature.  To our point:  not war:
   Lest I lose all.'
                    'Nay, nay, you spake but sense'
   Said Gama.  'We remember love ourself
   In our sweet youth; we did not rate him then
   This red-hot iron to be shaped with blows.
   You talk almost like Ida:  _she_ can talk;
   And there is something in it as you say:
   But you talk kindlier:  we esteem you for it.--
   He seems a gracious and a gallant Prince,
   I would he had our daughter:  for the rest,
   Our own detention, why, the causes weighed,
   Fatherly fears--you used us courteously--
   We would do much to gratify your Prince--
   We pardon it; and for your ingress here
   Upon the skirt and fringe of our fair land,
   you did but come as goblins in the night,
   Nor in the furrow broke the ploughman's head,
   Nor burnt the grange, nor bussed the milking-maid,
   Nor robbed the farmer of his bowl of cream:
   But let your Prince (our royal word upon it,
   He comes back safe) ride with us to our lines,
   And speak with Arac:  Arac's word is thrice
   As ours with Ida:  something may be done--
   I know not what--and ours shall see us friends.
   You, likewise, our late guests, if so you will,
   Follow us:  who knows? we four may build some plan
   Foursquare to opposition.'
                             Here he reached
   White hands of farewell to my sire, who growled
   An answer which, half-muffled in his beard,
   Let so much out as gave us leave to go.

