It was such Democrats as Mahoney, who yelled out indignantly in
the beginning at every measure which was taken to protect us
against the enemy, who, when they had nearly ruined our cause by
their efforts, attributed the results of their treason to the
Administration, and who now, changing their cry, instead of clamoring
for more vigor against the rebels, boldly hurrah for the rebellion
itself. It is strange that they cannot see that they are now
bringing themselves out distinctly as tories, and men to be
branded in history. Do they suppose that such a revolution as this--a
revolution of human rights and free labor against the last great
form of tyranny--is going _backward_?

[That is exactly what I stated above--a case of narcotism. How is it
possible that the author, recognizing the narcotism, feels it
incumbent to give other explanations?]

"Just as the affection had suddenly developed to its full height at
the onset of the disease, and much more swiftly than, for example,
is the case in phlegmon of the external walls, so with extraordinary
rapidity did the clinical picture assume a new type. In this respect
we must consider the very great area of the peritoneal folds, their
numerous lymphstomata, and their intimate relation to the
circulation, and we are impressed with the fact that fluids and
solubles, as well as formed products, are rapidly absorbed by the
peritoneum.

"Somewhat less rapidly than this, but nevertheless in the course of
a few hours, another change took place, a favorable turn following
the rupture of pus into the intestine. Here we were dealing with a
well known and familiar phenomenon; if this occurs in the peritoneum
the effects are particularly well marked; similarly as in the case
of a phlegmon which rapidly disappears with the discharge of pus
even although the inflammation extend beyond the pus focus, the
symptoms of diffuse peritonitis promptly disappeared after the
rupture. Very likely, as has already been stated, the symptoms of
diffuse peritonitis in the first stages of the disease are to be
referred to a chemical inflammation of the serosa, i. e., one due to
toxins and without the ingress of bacteria; and it must be
remembered that the clinical picture of this chemical peritonitis
cannot be differentiated from that of the severe bacterial form.
With the rupture of the abscess, the entrance of poisons into the
free peritoneal cavity, and their resorption by the extensive
peritoneal surfaces, as well as the vomiting and the intestinal
paralysis, ceased. The taking of nourishment again be came possible.

"The point of rupture formed adhesions, the natural drainage of the
peritoneal ichorous focus ceased, perhaps a new influx of
inflammatory material from the perforated appendix also took; place.
There was a fresh relapse of the local peritonitis which extended
beyond the boundaries of the limiting adhesions, and permitted the
invasion by bacteria of the free abdominal cavity. This, time the
severe toxic picture of collapse immediately followed, and with
marked decrease in cardiac strength led to death.

"Doubtless the patient might have been saved in the first stages of
the disease by the evacuation of the abscess; the incision would at
first have acted similarly to spontaneous rupture into the
intestine, but the relapse would have been prevented by permanent
drainage, and a radical cure might have been brought about by the
immediate or subsequent removal of the appendix.

Russell could have done a great work in these letters--he leaves
the impression on our minds that in _his_ opinion his boots and
his breakfast were to him matters of much more importance than the
future of all North America.
[All of which is positively not true, as I have witnessed for
years.]

"If, as it unfortunately happened, the point of rupture had not
immediately closed again, if it had remained open until suppuration
ceased and contraction and healing of the perforated appendix had
taken place, opium would have been regarded as instrumental in
saving the patient, and unquestionably, at least to some extent,
justly so. Among other factors in the treatment, the relief to the
intestine by the suspension of nourishment was of paramount
importance. The subcutaneous saline infusion had an obvious but,
naturally, only a transitory effect."

The subcutaneous saline infusion is another ridiculous habit. It
would really be amusing if it were not so tragic, to see patients
driven to the edge of the great divide and then see the innocent
doctor throw out an impotent life line.

The absolute innocence displayed by this professional man, from
first to last, his belief in himself and the mechanism of his theory
and practice exculpate him from the charge of carelessness, neglect
of duty or even that he didn't know what he is doing. He does know
what he is doing in a way. He works as exactly as a Waltham watch
and he thinks about as much as the stem that winds the watch.

I cannot agree to the summing up of this case. There was not at any
time, previous to the relapse and death of this patient, what we
understand as peritonitis. A post-mortem examination might have
shown the intra-peritoneal covering, of that portion of the cecum
involved in the inflammation, slightly inflamed, but it is not
reasonable to believe that the inflammation was of a toxic character
unless adhesive inflammations can be so called.

Inflammation is always the same, it matters not what the _exciting
cause _may be. It is an exaggerated physiological process. If there
is inflammation of any part of the body it means that there is an
exaggeration of function. Its intensity will be in keeping with the
exciting cause. If the cause is intense heat or cold, or a corroding
acid or alkali, the local action may be great enough to destroy the
part; the inflammation following will be of the contiguous structure
outside of the killing range of the cause, and it will be a
simple--non-toxic--inflammation unless the secretions thrown out in
excess of the reparative need are retained by dressings or prevented
in some other way from draining away. If these secretions are kept
bound on the raw surface by dressings until they decompose--yes,
until the fermentation causes germs--the wound will become infected,
and to what extent will depend upon the amount of
malpractice--carelessness or ignorance--to which the case is
subjected.

If the inflammation is caused by decomposition or a toxic agent, the
extent of the process will depend upon the integrity of the part
infected and the state of the general health, also upon the local
environment--such as pressure interfering with the circulation of
the blood.

In this fatal case there was the constitutional derangement and the
toxic state of the alimentary canal; then there was the exciting
cause, sufficient to create a local infection the symptoms of which
were given at the beginning of this description, and which lasted
for a few days; during which time the patient, no doubt, was eating
and possibly taking home remedies to move the bowels, etc. These
preliminary symptoms were followed by a severe pain in the right
lower abdominal region, followed with chills, fever, nausea,
vomiting and later by painful movements from the bowels, small in
character, and soon after this distention of the bowels from gas.

During the few days of preliminary symptoms nature was going through
the usual preparation of fixing the parts. The muscles were becoming
rigid, which is one of nature's plans for protecting an inflamed
part; the infection was striking deeper and arousing all the
defenses. Possibly there had been a local inflammation of long
standing, gradually degenerating into a fecal ulcer, which means
that there was a spot of ulceration deep enough for fecal
accumulation and the accumulation created fresh infection, which
lighted up an active inflammation setting all the parts into
defensive activity. The muscles of the abdomen--the bowels and all
involved and contiguous parts--became set or fixed; and when this
rigid state became established, the bowels below the cecum refused
to receive the contents of the small intestine; hence when the
peristaltic movement started at the head of the small intestine it
found that an embargo had been laid on the cecum and lower bowels so
that nothing could pass. This embargo took effect "about midday; he
was seized with very severe pain." What was this pain? What is the
pain that always attends obstruction of any kind? It is the desire
for the bowels to move when they are unable, on account of the
stoppage, to do so. Is there a reader who can't conceive of the
terrible suffering that must come from such a state of the bowels,
The pain is not from the spot inflamation, or ulceration, or the
forming abscess, whichever is the exciting cause of all this
trouble; for, if it wore, the pain would not stop in three days, or
after the patient has been fasted long enough for the peristaltic
movements to subside side. No, the local inflammation is not
sufficient within itself to cause any more pain than this patient
had the few days before he went to bed; it takes obstruction to
bring suffering, and even obstruction will not cause pain _per se,
_for this is proven in all cases rightly treated. As soon as the
stomach and upper bowels are rested from food and drugs, all pain is
gone and will never return unless the patient is badly handled.

In this case opium and morphine were given; this was very bad
treatment, for these drugs always produce nausea and vomiting,
exactly what was not desired because of the evil effect the retching
had on the forming abscess. It is true that these cases frequently
vomit the first three days after the obstruction, but there is
practically no danger from retching that early in the disease.
Again, the opium masked the case dreadfully; for it produced
vomiting at that stage of the case when there should have been no
trouble with the stomach at all, and induced a tympanites that was
mistaken for the same state brought on by peritonitis.

In this case the doctor was in a mental mist from the beginning to
the end; notwithstanding he was so confident that he knew all about
his patient, that he has given the case a careful summing up so that
it may be put with the medical classics.

The doctor is in error when he gives the name of "Acute, Diffuse
Peritonitis." The case could not have been peritoneal perforation at
the start, for the symptoms do not justify the diagnosis. A
perforation causing diffuse peritonitis so early would have a higher
pulse and temperature, and death would have followed within a few
hours.

I can believe that there might have been an ulcer extending to the
peritoneal covering, and this set up local peritonitis; but there
was not at any time before the fatal relapse, a toxic inflammation
within the peritoneal cavity; hence there was not diffuse
peritonitis, and there could not have been without complete
perforation which would have ended the case in death very soon.

In this case the point of infection was walled in, as all such cases
are, with exudates and whether the appendix was primarily affected
or not doesn't matter; it was within this enclosure and found to be
ruptured, which is common; but its rupture was of no consequence
because the escaped contents were in the abscess cavity that finally
emptied into the cecum, the natural outlet in all these cases if
they are left to nature and not officiously fingered--thumbed and
punched to death.

The distinction drawn by this author between toxic and bacterial
peritonitis is, to my mind, a distinction without a difference.

In this case the tympanites following the obstruction was due to the
fact that the gas in the bowels was retained for a few days because
of the completeness of the obstruction, and would have passed off in
three days had it not been for the paralyzing effect of the opium;
hence the distention that came from gas was succeeded by the
distention peculiar to opium and caused the doctor to believe that
he had a case of diffuse peritonitis when, in fact, he had a case
of gas distention due to morphine paralysis. The morphine directly
and indirectly weakened the heart. The distention of the bowels was
a constant interference. The pulse at the start was fine at 112, but
in six days it had increased to 140 and finally reached 160.


CHAPTER VIII


The following case comes to my mind, for some of the initial
symptoms are similar to those of the case just described: M. B., age
42, farmer, was taken sick with the usual symptoms of appendicitis
as near as I could get the history from his wife, who was his nurse.
He lived twenty miles from Denver. When he was taken sick he called
a local physician who treated him for _bilious diarrhea. _The drugs
used, as near as the wife could remember, were small doses of
calomel followed with salts to correct the I liver, morphine for
pain, and bismuth and pepsin for digestion and diarrhea, and quinine
to break the fever; also hot applications on the bowels.

The pain was so great that morphine had been given quite freely. At
the end of one week the sick man, being no better, declared that he
would go to Denver and consult another physician. When he told his
physician what his intentions were, the doctor advised him not to
attempt the trip himself, for he was too sick, but to send for the
physician. The sick man was willful and forceful, and he was also
afraid of the cost; and, being a plucky fellow, he declared that he
could go just as well as not and that he would and he did.

His wife was a large, strong woman and gave him valuable assistance,
but I never have understood how it was possible for so sick a man to
make the journey from his home to my office. He was obliged to help
himself a great deal in climbing in and out of ordinary conveyances
to reach the train and, when in Denver, with his wife's assistance,
he walked a half block to the street car; then from the car to my
office he was obliged to walk one block and at last climb one flight
of stairs. When they came into my office the wife was almost
carrying him. I saw at a glance that he was a desperately sick man,
and before I attempted to examine him I had him lie down for a
while.

He had no history of any previous sickness; he had always been very
healthy, and his life had been spent in hard work in the open air.

The general appearance of the man was that of one suffering from
diffuse peritonitis. The abdomen was enormously distended; this
symptom more than any other caused me to fear and wonder--fear that
rupture would take place before he could be put to bed, and wonder
how it was possible for a man to be out of bed and go through what
he had gone through that morning without causing a fatal injury of
some kind. Louis Railroad, a distance of nearly 200 miles, is well
adapted to Winter.

~WHEAT, CORN, COTTON, TOBACCO.~

Peaches, Pears, Tomatoes, and every variety or fruit and vegetables
is grown in great abundance, from which Chicago and other Northern
markets are furnished from four to six weeks earlier than their
immediate vicinity.

Between the Terre Haute, Alton & St. Louis Railway and the Kankakee
and Illinois Rivers, (a distance of 115 miles on the Branch, and
136 miles on the Main Trunk,) lies the great Corn and Stock raising
portion of the State.

~THE ORDINARY YIELD~

of Corn is from 50 to 80 bushels per acre. Cattle, Horses, Mules,
Sheep and Hogs are raised here at a small cost, and yield large
profits.

It is believed that no section of country presents greater inducements
for Dairy Farming than the Prairies of Illinois, a branch of farming
to which but little attention has been paid, and which must yield
sure profitable results. Between the Kankakeee and Illinois
Rivers, and Chicago and Dunleith, (a distance of 56 miles
on the Branch and 147 miles by the Main Trunk,) Timothy Hay, Spring
Wheat, Corn, &c., are produced in great abundance.

~AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.~

The Agricultural products of Illinois are greater than those of any
other State. The Wheat crop of 1861 was estimated at 85,000,000
bushels, while the Corn crop yields not less than 140,000,000 bushels
besides the crop of Oats, Barley, Rye, Buckwheat, Potatoes, Sweet
Potatoes, Pumpkins, Squashes, Flax, Hemp, Peas, Clover, Cabbage,
Beets, Tobacco, Sorgheim, Grapes, Peaches, Apples, &c., which go
to swell the vast aggregate of production in this fertile region.
Over Four Million tons of produce were sent out the State of Illinois
during the past year.The history that the patient and his wife gave me from memory was
that the urine had been scant, and at times painful to pass. There
had been from the start severe pain in the lower bowels, but neither
the patient nor his wife could remember if there had been more pain
on right, lower frontal region than anywhere else; they both
declared that the pain was all through the bowels and that there was
much bearing down like unto the pain of a diarrhea.

Breathing was shallow, of course; it never is otherwise in severe
abdominal distention.

I scarcely touched the abdomen, for I knew I dare not press, in
percussing, enough to distinguish any sound except the tympanitic.
It has never been my custom to allow my curiosity to run away with
my judgment, and cause me to make needless examinations.

All examinations are needless when, it matters not what the
diagnosis can or must be, the treatment will be the same. All
possible bowel troubles which present the same general symptoms of
the disease I am here describing, must receive a like general
treatment. This being true, it matters not what the difference is,
there cannot be a variation requiring a bimanual examination to
differentiate it that will justify the risk. All examinations are
needless and criminal when there is a possibility of rupturing an
abscess. Especially is this true when it is a_ positive fact _that
all typhlitic and appendicular abscesses will open into the bowels
if allowed to do so.

In this ease I reasoned as follows: This must be a case of abscess,
for the signs of obstruction are not those of complete obstruction,
such as are seen in hernias, volvulus, constricting bands and many
other causes not necessary to mention. If there were complete
obstruction there would be increasing nausea and vomiting, ending in
collapse and death. This tympanites cannot be from peritonitis for
perforation would be necessary to cause it and nothing would stop
the progress after it had once started except to open the cavity
wash and drain. Hence this cannot be peritonitis, for there has been
no operation and the patient still lives. It can be distention from
the effects of morphine, but there must be more than morphine
paralysis, for there is a temperature of 102 degree to 103 degree
F., and there has been, so the wife says, a temperature of 104
degree F. The pulse rate being 130 does not indicate fever nor
exhaustion, and is not in keeping with the temperature nor physical
strength, hence the rapidity must be partly due to pressure on the
diaphragm from the gas distention and partly from the paralyzing
effect that opium has on the heart.

The professional reader will see that I have by my analysis
eliminated much of the formidableness that the physical appearance
gives to this case, but I would not have you believe that this man
was not a desperately sick man even if I have accounted for the
dangerous symptoms. The fact is, if the pronounced symptoms had been
what they appeared to be, the man would have been saved his trip to
me, for he would have been dead.

The farmer had learned from experience that the less he put in his
stomach the better he felt; hence, for a day or two before he left
his home to consult me, he had refused food and drugs and had taken
very little water.

After giving the sick man a rest in my office I had his wife take
him to the home of a friend with whom they had arranged to stay
while in the city. But let us not by the fairness of the sky
be lulled into a false sense of security; let us not be again
deceived by the _ignis fatuus_ glare which plays around our banners,
and which has already so often lured us to forgetfulness and defeat.
For the storm may again break forth in a moment when we think
not of it, and from a quarter where we seemed the most secure. A
single week may reverse every move upon the great chess board
of strategy. There should be no relaxation of the sinews of war
until the end is accomplished.If nauseated, enough water to control thirst was to be used
by enema; if the stomach was all right all the water desired by
mouth.

I called the second day; the patient had slept some--he thought
about three hours of broken rest--feeling fairly comfortable; pulse
120, temperature 101 degree F. at 9:00 a.m.; 102 degree F. at 5:00
p. m. Third day: Temperature 100 degree F. at 9:00 a. m.; 101 degree
F. at 5:00 p. m.; one-third of the tympanites gone; slept six hours;
hungry and demanding food. I said, "No, you get no food until the
bowels move." The ice was taken off the bowels; hot cloths were
substituted.

The fourth day the temperature in the morning was 100 degree F.; in
the afternoon 101 degree F., pulse 100; slept well, hungry, bowel
distention reduced fifty per cent. I touched him very lightly and
found enough to confirm my diagnosis of typhlitic abscess; this was
the first time I had felt that I was justified in attempting to
confirm my suspicions, and even this examination could not be called
a palpation, for I put no weight upon the abdomen. See, then, the
issue involved: in our success lie all our hopes of future stability
and prosperity; in our failure lies simply--inevitable ruin. With
such a prospect before them--with existence itself hanging in the
balance--why are the people of the North asleep?Fifth day about the same, a little better; very ugly because I would
not allow him food. He said: "I don't believe there is anything the
matter with me; you are holding me down."

Sixth day about the same, feeling fine, sleeping fine and _starving
to death. _He made himself so unpleasant by his clamoring for food
that I permitted his wife to give him a half dozen Tokay grapes. He
had scarcely swallowed the sixth when he had all the pain he wanted.
His wife came to my office in great excitement: "Doctor, please come
at once to see my husband; he is much worse, he is in agony with his
bowels." My answer was: "Go back and renew your hot applications to
the bowels and tell your husband I permitted him to eat the grapes
because he had been so unkind and ungrateful for the comfort that
had been given him; tell him that I knew the grapes would give him
pain and that the pain will not wear off entirely for twelve hours,
and that I will not see him before tomorrow morning."

