"Gentlemen, I said to you before," angrily replied the young officer,
"that I was sure that Capuchin Joseph, who meddles in everything, was
mistaken in telling us to charge, upon the part of the Cardinal.  But
would you have been satisfied if those who have the honor of commanding
you had refused to charge?"

"No, no, no!" answered all the young men, at the same time forming
themselves quickly into ranks.

"I said," interposed the old Marquis de Coislin, who, despite his white
head, had all the fire of youth in his eyes, "that if you were commanded
to mount to the assault on horseback, you would do it."

"Bravo!  bravo!"  cried all the men-at-arms, clapping their hands.

"Well, Monsieur le Marquis," said Cinq-Mars, approaching, "here is an
opportunity to execute what you have promised.  I am only a volunteer;
but an instant ago these gentlemen and I examined this bastion, and I
believe that it is possible to take it."

"Monsieur, we must first examine the ditch to see--"

At this moment a ball from the rampart of which they were speaking struck
in the head the horse of the old captain, laying it low.

"Locmaria, De Mouy, take the command, and to the assault!"  cried the two
noble companies, believing their leader dead.

"Stop a moment, gentlemen," said old Coislin, rising, "I will lead you,
if you please.  Guide us, Monsieur volunteer, for the Spaniards invite us
to this ball, and we must reply politely."

Hardly had the old man mounted another horse, which one of his men
brought him, and drawn his sword, when, without awaiting his order, all
these ardent youths, preceded by Cinq-Mars and his friends, whose horses
were urged on by the squadrons behind, had thrown themselves into the
morass, wherein, to their great astonishment and to that of the
Spaniards, who had counted too much upon its depth, the horses were in
the water only up to their hams; and in spite of a discharge of grape-
shot from the two largest pieces, all reached pell-mell a strip of land
at the foot of the half-ruined ramparts.  In the ardor of the rush, Cinq-
Mars and Fontrailles, with the young Locmaria, forced their horses upon
the rampart itself; but a brisk fusillade killed the three animals, which
rolled over their masters.

"Dismount all, gentlemen!"  cried old Coislin; "forward with pistol and
sword!  Abandon your horses!"

All obeyed instantly, and threw themselves in a mass upon the breach.

Meantime, De Thou, whose coolness never quitted him any more than his
friendship, had not lost sight of the young Henri, and had received him
in his arms when his horse fell.  He helped him to rise, restored to him
his sword, which he had dropped, and said to him, with the greatest
calmness, notwithstanding the balls which rained on all sides:

"My friend, do I not appear very ridiculous amid all this skirmish, in my
costume of Counsellor in Parliament?"

"Parbleu!"  said Montresor, advancing, "here's the Abbe, who quite
justifies you."

And, in fact, little Gondi, pushing on among the light horsemen, was
shouting, at the top of his voice: "Three duels and an assault.  I hope
to get rid of my cassock at last!"

Saying this, he cut and thrust at a tall Spaniard.

The defence was not long.  The Castilian soldiers were no match for the
French officers, and not one of them had time or courage to recharge his
carbine.

"Gentlemen, we will relate this to our mistresses in Paris," said
Locmaria, throwing his hat into the air; and Cinq-Mars, De Thou, Coislin,
De Mouy, Londigny, officers of the red companies, and all the young
noblemen, with swords in their right hands and pistols in their left,
dashing, pushing, and doing each other by their eagerness as much harm as
they did the enemy, finally rushed upon the platform of the bastion, as
water poured from a vase, of which the opening is too small, leaps out in
interrupted gushes.

My Great Captain has her no more; he has what they call a 'Scotch Keel'
which is come into fashion:
her too I see: and him too steering her, broader and taller than all the
rest: fit to be a Leader of Men, Body and Soul; looking now
Ulysses-like.

Two or three years ago he had a run of constant bad luck; and, being
always of a grand convivial turn, treating Everybody, he got deep
in Drink, against all his Promises to me, and altogether so lawless,
that I brought things to a pass between us.

'He should go on with me if he would take the Tee-total Pledge for one
year'--'No--he had broken his word,' he said, 'and he would not pledge
it again,' much as he wished to go on with me.

That, you see, was very fine in him; he is altogether fine--A Great
Man, I maintain it: like one of Carlyle's old Norway Kings, with
a wider morality than we use; which is very good and fine (as this
Captain said to me) 'for you who are born with a silver spoon in
your mouths.'

I did not forget what Carlyle too says about Great Faults in Great Men:
even in David, the Lord's Anointed.

But I thought best to share the Property with him and let him go his
way. He had always resented being under any Control, and was very glad
to be his own sole Master again: and yet clung to me in a wild and pathetic
way. He has not been doing better since: and I fear is sinking into
disorder.

This is a long story about one you know nothing about except what little I
have told you. But the Man is a very remarkable Man indeed, and you
may be interested--you must be--in him.

'Ho! parlons d'autres choses, ma Fille,' as my dear Sevigne says. She now
occupies Montaigne's place in my room: well--worthily: she herself
a Lover of Montaigne, and with a spice of his free thought and
speech in her.

I am sometimes vext I never made her acquaintance till last year:
but perhaps it was as well to have such an acquaintance reserved
for one's latter years.

The fine Creature!
I will give you four thousand ducats if you will let me
escape."

That gentle face, those girlish features, became infused with the purple
of fury; those blue eyes shot forth lightning; and, exclaiming, "Money to
me!  away, fool!" the young man gave the Spaniard a ringing box on the
ear.  The latter, without hesitating, drew a long poniard from his
breast, and, seizing the arm of the Frenchman, thought to plunge it
easily into his heart; but, nimble and vigorous, the youth caught him by
the right arm, and, lifting it with force above his head, sent it back
with the weapon it held upon the head of the Spaniard, who was furious
with rage.

"Eh! eh! Softly, Olivier!"  cried his comrades, running from all
directions; "there are Spaniards enough on the ground already."

And they disarmed the hostile officer.

"What shall we do with this lunatic?"  said one.

"I should not like to have him for my valet-dechambre," returned
another.

"He deserves to be hanged," said a third; "but, faith, gentlemen, we
don't know how to hang.  Let us send him to that battalion of Swiss which
is now passing across the plain."

And the calm and sombre Spaniard, enveloping himself anew in his cloak,
began the march of his own accord, followed by Ambrosio, to join the
battalion, pushed by the shoulders and urged on by five or six of these
young madcaps.

Meantime, the first troop of the besiegers, astonished at their success,
had followed it out to the end; Cinq-Mars, so advised by the aged
Coislin, had made with him the circuit of the bastion, and found to their
vexation that it was completely separated from the city, and that they
could not follow up their advantage.  They, therefore, returned slowly to
the platform, talking by the way, to rejoin De Thou and the Abbe de
Gondi, whom they found laughing with the young light-horsemen.

"We have Religion and justice with us, gentlemen; we could not fail to
triumph."

"No doubt, for they fought as hard as we."

There was silence at the approach of Cinq-Mars, and they remained for an
instant whispering and asking his name; then all surrounded him, and took
his hand with delight.

"Gentlemen, you are right," said their old captain; "he is, as our
fathers used to say, the best doer of the day.  He is a volunteer, who is
to be presented today to the King by the Cardinal."

"By the Cardinal!  We will present him ourselves.  Ah, do not let him be
a Cardinalist; he is too good a fellow for that!"  exclaimed all the
young men, with vivacity.

"Monsieur, I will undertake to disgust you with him," said Olivier
d'Entraigues, approaching Cinq-Mars, "for I have been his page.  Rather
serve in the red companies; come, you will have good comrades there."

The old Marquis saved Cinq-Mars the embarrassment of replying, by
ordering the trumpets to sound and rally his brilliant companies.
The cannon was no longer heard, and a soldier announced that the King and
the Cardinal were traversing the lines to examine the results of the day.
He made all the horses pass through the breach, which was tolerably wide,
and ranged the two companies of cavalry in battle array, upon a spot
where it seemed impossible that any but infantry could penetrate.


CHAPTER X

THE RECOMPENSE

Cardinal Richelieu had said to himself, "To soften the first paroxysm of
the royal grief, to open a source of emotions which shall turn from its
sorrow this wavering soul, let this city be besieged; I consent.  Let
Louis go; I will allow him to strike a few poor soldiers with the blows
which he wishes, but dares not, to inflict upon me.  Let his anger drown
itself in this obscure blood; I agree.  But this caprice of glory shall
not derange my fixed designs; this city shall not fall yet.  It shall not
become French forever until two years have past; it shall come into my
nets only on the day upon which I have fixed in my own mind.  Thunder,
bombs, and cannons; meditate upon your operations, skilful captains;
hasten, young warriors.  I shall silence your noise, I shall dissipate
your projects, and make your efforts abortive; all shall end in vain
smoke, for I shall conduct in order to mislead you."

This is the substance of what passed in the bald head of the Cardinal
before the attack of which we have witnessed a part.  He was stationed on
horseback, upon one of the mountains of Salces, north of the city; from
this point he could see the plain of Roussillon before him, sloping to
the Mediterranean.  Perpignan, with its ramparts of brick, its bastions,
its citadel, and its spire, formed upon this plain an oval and sombre
mass on its broad and verdant meadows; the vast mountains surrounded it,
and the valley, like an enormous bow curved from north to south, while,
stretching its white line in the east, the sea looked like its silver
cord.  On his right rose that immense mountain called the Canigou, whose
sides send forth two rivers into the plain below.  The French line
extended to the foot of this western barrier.  A crowd of generals and of
great lords were on horseback behind the minister, but at twenty paces'
distance and profoundly silent.

Cardinal Richelieu had at first followed slowly the line of operations,
but had later returned and stationed himself upon this height, whence his
eye and his thought hovered over the destinies of besiegers and besieged.
The whole army had its eyes upon him, and could see him from every point.
All looked upon him as their immediate chief, and awaited his gesture
before they acted.  France had bent beneath his yoke a long time; and
admiration of him shielded all his actions to which another would have
been often subjected.  At this moment, for instance, no one thought of
smiling, or even of feeling surprised, that the cuirass should clothe the
priest; and the severity of his character and aspect suppressed every
thought of ironical comparisons or injurious conjectures.  This day the
Cardinal appeared in a costume entirely martial: he wore a reddish-brown
coat, embroidered with gold, a water-colored cuirass, a sword at his
side, pistols at his saddle-bow, and he had a plumed hat; but this he
seldom put on his head, which was still covered with the red cap.  Two
pages were behind him; one carried his gauntlets, the other his casque,
and the captain of his guards was at his side.

As the King had recently named him generalissimo of his troops, it was to
him that the generals sent for their orders; but he, knowing only too
well the secret motives of his master's present anger, affected to refer
to that Prince all who sought a decision from his own mouth.  It happened
as he had foreseen; for he regulated and calculated the movements of that
heart as those of a watch, and could have told with precision through
what sensations it had passed.  Louis XIII came and placed himself at his
side; but he came as a pupil, forced to acknowledge that his master is in
the right.  His air was haughty and dissatisfied, his language brusque
and dry.  The Cardinal remained impassible.  I believe this was no Joke
of his: whether it were or not, here you have it for what you may think
it worth.

I should be glad to hear that you think Donne looking and seeming
well.

Archdeacon Groome, who saw him lately, thought he looked very
jaded:
which I could not wonder at. Donne, however, writes as if in good
Spirits--brave Man as he is--and I hope you will be able to tell
me that he is not so much amiss.

He said that he was to be at the Wedding.

You will tell me too how long you remain in England; I fancy, till
Winter: and then you will go to Rome again, with its new Dynasty
installed in it.

I fancy I should not like that so well as the old; but I suppose
it's better for the Country.
I see my Namesake (Percy) Fitzgerald advertizes a Book about the
Kembles.I think so, too.  I will
go and give my orders myself; I wish to do everything myself.  Schomberg,
Schomberg!  in a quarter of an hour I wish to hear the signal-gun; I
command it."

And Schomberg, taking the command of the right wing, gave the order, and
the signal was made.

The batteries, arranged long since by the Marechal de la Meilleraie,
began to batter a breach, but slowly, because the artillerymen felt that
they had been directed to attack two impregnable points; and because,
with their experience, and above all with the common sense and quick
perception of French soldiers, any one of them could at once have
indicated the point against which the attack should have been directed.
My Brother had heard my Mother's History of the Picture, but could
not recall it.

I fancy it was before your Mother's Marriage. The Figure is very beautiful,
and the Face also: like your Sister Adelaide, and your Brother
Henry both.

They had looked toward the Cardinal, who
remained as immovable as an equestrian statue, and they imitated his
example.  The answer must have been that the fault was not with the
soldiers, but with him who had ordered this false disposition of the
batteries; and this was Richelieu himself, who, pretending to believe
them more useful in that position, had stopped the remarks of the chiefs.

The King, astonished at this silence, and, fearing that he had committed
some gross military blunder by his question, blushed slightly, and,
approaching the group of princes who had accompanied him, said, in order
to reassure himself:

"D'Angouleme, Beaufort, this is very tiresome, is it not?  We stand here
like mummies."

Charles de Valois drew near and said:

"It seems to me, Sire, that they are not employing here the machines of
the engineer Pompee-Targon."

