When the Queen and the fairies heard this they stopped and the Goblin
thought they wished to hear more, so he went to them and said he would
help them hunt for the wand, if they would come to the dell.

The Queen put her finger on her lips to warn the fairies not to speak,
and back they went to the dell, following the Goblin, who was hopping
and jumping along before them.

"Here it is," he said, stooping to pick up a little gold wand.

"Hold!" cried the Queen; "do not touch it.  I will pick it up, and now
that you have told us the secret you shall have your reward."

The Goblin hopped with delight, for he was sure the Queen would touch
him with the wand and he would have a new red coat at once.

"You shall wear the silver cap the rest of your life," she said, and
before the Goblin could jump away the Queen tapped him on the head, and
in place of the tell-tale Goblin there stood a silver thistle, all
prickly and shining among the leaves and bushes.

"Your sister has left us, and we must forget her," said the Queen as
the fairies followed her home.  "Let her be forgotten by you all; her
wand shall be saved for a more worthy sister."

The Little Fairy never regretted marrying her River God, for she lived
happy ever after, and sometimes when they come up from the river bottom
to sit in the moonlight she will say to the River God: "What do you
suppose became of the Goblin?  Do you think he ever told the Queen?"

"Of course he did," replied the River God.  "He ran as fast as he could
to the Queen, but the silver cap was so uncomfortable for him to wear
that I am sure he has discarded it long before this.  So he gained
nothing for playing the spy."

"Perhaps his conscience pricked him and he is sorry," said the Little
Fairy.

The Little Fairy was right.  The Goblin was sorry when it was too late,
and the silver thistle swayed in the breeze.  It tried to tell the
breeze it was sorry for telling tales, but even the breeze did not wish
to listen to a prickly thistle, so there it had to bloom unloved and
alone the rest of its life.


DAME CRICKET'S STORY

[Illustration: Dame Cricket]

"Come, children, it is time to get up," said Dame Cricket to her ten
little crickets.

"Hurry, now, and take your bath and put on your little black caps and
your little brown suits.  The sun has almost gone down over the hill
and the birds will soon be asleep."

But the little crickets snuggled under the bedclothes just as if they
did not hear their mother's words.

"Come, come," she said, a few minutes later, "you will sleep all night
if you don't hurry.  Some of our cousins are already singing, and it
will soon be dark."

"Oh dear! why do we have to get up?" said one little cricket, poking
his head over the clothes.  "Lots of bugs sleep all night."

"Yes, but they are up all the daytime," answered Dame Cricket, "and
they run a great risk, I can assure you, my dear.  Our family used to
sing in the daytime, but if we had kept on there would be no cricket
family.  There is a reason for our sleeping days and singing at night."

"Oh, mother, is it a story?" asked all the little crickets, jumping out
of bed with a bound and gathering about their mother.

"Yes, there is a story about our family, and if you will all hurry and
dress I will tell it to you," she said.

Very quietly all the little crickets began to dress, and their mother
began the story:

"Once, long, long ago," she said, "our family sang in the daytime and
slept at night; but one day the Great-grandfather Cricket noticed that
our singing was not as loud as usual, so he called all the children,
big and little, about him and looked at their throats.

"'Strange, strange!' he remarked.  'You all have fine-looking throats,
as fine as ever crickets had, and yet our singing is very faint; there
is not as much volume to it as in the old days.  I will call on Doctor
Frog this very day, and see what he thinks about it.'

"Doctor Frog thought awhile and then he asked, 'How many have you in
your family, now, Mr. Cricket?'

"Great-grandfather called us all about him and began to count, and to
his amazement he found our family was only about half the size it
should be.

"'Just as I thought,' said Dr. Frog, 'the voices are as good as ever,
but there are not so many of you, and, of course, the singing is not so
loud as it was once.

"'Shall I tell you the reason for this?' asked Dr. Frog.

"Great-grandfather said that was why he called on him, so Dr. Frog told
him that the birds were eating our family, and if they kept it up we
soon would be out of existence.

"'Horrors! horrors!' chirped Great-grandfather Cricket.  'Whatever will
we do to preserve the family?'

"'Easy enough to do that,' said Dr. Frog.  'Sleep days and sing at
night as our family do; little chance we would have if we came out and
sang in the daytime.'

"So that is the reason we sleep days and sing nights, so the birds and
chickens and bug-eating animals cannot catch us.

"Of course, sometimes they do get a cricket, but it is always one who
has stayed out too late or gotten up too early, usually a very young
cricket who thinks he knows more than his mother or father.

"But the good little crickets who mind and get up when they are called
are pretty sure to live to a good old age."

When Madam Cricket stopped talking all the little crickets stood
looking at her with very curious expressions on their faces.

"We are good little crickets, aren't we, mother?" they asked.

"Of course you are.  Here you are all ready to go out and sing and the
sun has just dropped behind the hill," she said.

"Chirp, chirp, chirp, chirp," they sang as they scampered after their
mother out into the night.


THE PLAYROOM WEDDING

[Illustration: The Playroom Wedding]

Paper Doll had been the maid of honor, but she did not at all approve
of the match.  "It will never be a happy marriage," she told Teddy Bear
the night of the wedding.  "Such marriages never are.  How I should
feel married to a man who wore dresses."

Yes, he did look as if he wore a dress, for he was a Japanese gentleman
doll, you see, and when he came to the playroom to live everybody,
including French Doll Marie, thought he was very queer looking.

But after a while they became used to Takeo, for that was his name, and
when the little mistress announced that Marie was to marry Takeo she
did not make the least objection.

"What difference does it make?" she said to Frieda, the Dutch doll, who
lived next to her.  "I suppose I shall have to marry someone, and truly
I could never live with Jumping Jack; that fellow makes me so nervous."

"He seems very quiet," said Frieda Doll, meaning Takeo, "and perhaps
you can get him to dress in men's clothes after you are married."

"Yes, he is quiet and I cannot understand a word he says, so we shall
not quarrel," said Marie Doll.

And so they were married.  Jack-in-the-box was the minister, because
the little mistress thought he stood better than anyone else.  She put
a black cape on him and a white collar, and Jack behaved in the most
dignified manner.

Little Paper Doll wore a dress that quite outshone the bride's dress,
only no one noticed it; but it was all lace and had tiny little pink
buds caught in the flounces, and she wore a beautiful hat with white
feathers.

The bride wore a white dress and a long white veil, and there were tiny
white flowers all around her head which held the veil in place.

But Takeo was far from looking the bridegroom, to Paper Doll's way of
thinking, though Marie Doll gave him no thought at all, for she thought
the bride was the important one, and as she told Frieda Doll, "You have
to have a bridegroom to be a bride, of course; but really he is not of
any importance that I can see."

They had been married a week, and, while Marie talked to Takeo, he, of
course, did not take the least notice of what she said.  "Poor fellow,
he cannot understand," said Marie Doll.  "He won't be any trouble,
though, because I shall be able to do as I like.  He cannot tell me not
to."

"These foreigners, my dear," said Paper Doll, "are sometimes unpleasant
to live with.  I cannot see how you came to marry him.  Do make him
wear men's clothes."

"Oh, I think he looks quite out of the ordinary, and everyone stares at
him when we go out riding in the park with the little mistress," said
Marie Doll.  "As I am French, you see we both are foreigners, so that
does not matter; and then, dear, Takeo is so comfortable to live with.
He is no bother at all."

But one night Marie Doll awoke to find her husband quite a different
man from what she thought, for beside her sat two little Japanese dolls.

When the clock struck twelve Marie Doll called to everyone: "Come quick
and see my baby girls!"

"Oh, dear! they look just like Takeo," said Paper Doll.  "This place
will be filled with foreigners.  It is too bad."

"I shall change their clothes at once," said Marie Doll.

And then it was Marie Doll and all the toys got the surprise of their
lives, for from the corner where he sat came Takeo, and when he stood
in front of his wife, he said, "Madam will not change the clothes of
our sons."

When Marie recovered from her surprise, she gasped: "Sons!  They are
daughters!"

"They are sons, madam, and sons they will remain!" said Takeo, looking
at Marie very steadily.

"I thought you could not understand or speak our language," said Marie,
while all the others stood looking at Takeo in astonishment.

"I was made in this country, and so were you; but I was made to
represent a Japanese gentleman and I intend to live the life of one.
As for speaking, we Japanese never speak unless we have something to
say.  I had something to say, and I said it.  You heard me, madam.
Those children are our sons and you will not change their clothes."

Takeo turned around in a very sedate manner and returned to his corner
and sat down.

"I told you it would not turn out well," said Paper Doll to Teddy Bear.
"Oh, poor Marie Doll, what a life you will lead!"

But Marie Doll was still looking at her husband, and she did not hear
what Paper Doll said.  She was smiling at Takeo.  "Such dignity," she
whispered to herself, "and how masterful he is.  I shall never dare
disobey him.

"Oh, you little darling boys!  How I love you!  You are just like your
handsome father."  And Marie Doll hugged her children to her and began
to rock them.

"She is crazy," said Teddy Bear.  "Marie would never give in if she
were in her right mind, I know."

"She is in love," said Paper Doll.  "She has found a master, and some
women love to have a master."

"You women are queer creatures," said Teddy Bear.  "I shall never
understand you."

"You are not supposed to understand us.  You are supposed to love us,"
said Paper Doll.


MORNING-GLORY

[Illustration: Morning-glory]

Once upon a time there was a very little Morning-glory that grew on the
end of a high vine, and one day when the wind was blowing a brisk
breeze passed by the little Morning-glory, making it wish it, too,
could go along and see more of the world.

The big mother vine knew what was in the heart of her little Glory, so
she whispered soft words of love to it and told the little flower that
it must never follow the breeze, for he was a wanderer and might take
it far from its home, where it would be very unhappy and perhaps die
out in the cold world.  But the silly little Morning-glory still wanted
to leave the big vine, and the next time the breeze came along it
pushed up its head and the breeze took it off the big vine and bore it
along with it far, far away.

But by and by the wind grew tired of carrying the little Glory, so it
dropped it, and when the Morning-glory looked around it found it was in
the midst of big tall trees and rocks and briers.

Vainly it tried to crawl along to a tree where it could twine itself
around and climb, but it was too small, and then the rain came and made
it cold and wet, and even the fickle wind did not come to it again.

Then the cold days came and the poor little Glory grew faded and had to
crawl under the dead leaves for protection.

When the summer came again up came the little Glory, but it was a sad
little flower.  Now it longed to climb, but it was too small to do
anything but lie on the ground.

After a while it grew near to a bush and put its weak little vine
around it, hoping to get off the ground.

"What do you mean by trying to cling to me?" said the bush.  "I have
all I can do to take care of myself."

So the poor little Morning-glory dropped back to the ground.  By and by
it grew long enough to reach a tree and slowly it climbed up the big
trunk until it came to the branches.

"Now I shall be able to see the world," it thought.  "This tree is big
and will shelter me, and I can climb to the very top."

As soon as the big tree saw what was happening it told the little
Morning-glory it would not have it climbing about its branches, because
it would spoil its leaves.

"What are you doing in our woods?" asked the tree.  "You should be
growing in a garden, on an arbor or up the side of some little house.
How came you here?"

The poor little Glory had to tell how it ran away from its mother with
the breeze and was left alone in the woods all winter.

"Please don't send me back to the ground.  I cannot see a thing there
and I am so lonely," pleaded the little Morning-glory.

"I am sorry for you," said the tree, "but I cannot have my leaves
spoiled on any account.  I'll tell you what I will do, but you must be
satisfied and never ask for more liberty.  If you do, back you go to
the ground."

The poor little Morning-glory was so lonely and sad it was ready to
promise anything to get off the ground.

"You should stay where you are, but you cannot grow up any higher.  If
you do I shall grow my twigs and leaves about you and crush you," said
the tree.

So the little Morning-glory had to promise to stay on the trunk of the
tree and never grow any higher, but it sighed for its mother vine, and,
because it could not climb, never grew any big blossoms, but tiny
little flowers which sighed because they could not stretch out their
vines and grow.  But the tree kept the little Glory to its promise and
not a vine could get above the trunk.

And then one day when the days grew cold and the Morning-glory vine was
going to sleep for the winter, the runaway Glory was heard to say to
the other blossoms: "Children, be careful of the breeze and what he may
tell you next summer.  I may not be here to care for you, but he will
surely come and tempt you to go along with him.  He is fickle and will
carry you far, far away and then drop you in a place perhaps worse than
this, for we do not belong here, but in a garden with other flowers.  I
ran away from my mother vine one day, and this is where the breeze left
me; so cling to the big tree as long as you bloom, for here you are
safe at least, even if you do not live and bloom in a garden."  And
then she went to sleep.


THE PEACOCK BUTTERFLIES

[Illustration: The Peacock Butterflies]

Plain little Miss Butterfly sat on a bush one day, when along came Mr.
Peacock, with his tail full spread.

"Oh--oh!" sighed little Miss Butterfly.  "How handsome he is!  If only
I could have a dress like the colors of Mr. Peacock's tail all the
other butterflies in the world would envy me.

"But here am I, only a plain little creature, with no color to boast
of, while all my cousins have gorgeously colored gowns.  Oh, how I do
wish he would give me two feathers from his tail that I might have them
made into a gown!"

And then this plain little Butterfly, because she was so plain and had
no beauty to speak about, began to think about handsome Mr. Peacock.
"I wonder if he is vain?" she said out loud.

"Vain!  Of course he is.  There is no one in the world so vain as he,"
said a Bee, who was sipping honey near by.

Miss Butterfly did not ask any questions, and Mr. Bee was too busy to
say more.  But when he flew away Miss Butterfly began to think, and the
more she thought the stronger became her intention to fly over to the
Peacock and speak to him.

Over she went, alighting on a flower near him.

"Mr. Peacock," she said, "I wonder you never have wished to see
yourself, you are so handsome."

"I have," replied Mr. Peacock; "often I have gazed into the pond and
beheld my handsome self."

"Oh, that is not at all what I mean," said Miss Butterfly.  "Suppose
you were to see the very pattern of your beautiful tail flying all
about you.  Then you could look at your beauty as it really is."

"I do not see at all what you mean," said Mr. Peacock, who was not very
quick at thinking.

"I mean if you would give me two tips from your beautiful tail I could
have a handsomer gown than any other butterfly in the world," said the
little flatterer, "and besides that, you would no longer hear the
yellow-and-black and those brown-and-black butterflies say that they
were the handsomest creatures in the garden.  I should outshine them
all."

Mr. Peacock stood up and strutted about, and all the time little Miss
Butterfly flew close to him and flattered him.

"Oh, how jealous they would be if I had a dress like your beautiful
tail, for there are no colors in the world so gorgeous, and they would
call me the Peacock Butterfly!  Think of that!  You would have the most
beautiful butterfly in the world named for you, Mr. Peacock!"

Mr. Peacock could not resist this flattery.  He told her she could
choose the two tips she best liked and have some one to pull them out.

It did not take Miss Butterfly a minute to fly to the tree near by
where Mr. Woodpecker was at work and ask his help, for she knew he did
not bother butterflies.  His work was to find small insects.

Before the end of the summer the garden folk saw Miss Butterfly, but
not plain little Butterfly now, for she wore the most gorgeous gown in
the garden, of blue and black, and the next year all the other
butterflies were jealous of the Peacock Butterflies, who wore the
handsomest gowns in the world.

Mr. Peacock struts more than ever every time he sees one of the
handsome creatures he helped to dress, but no one knows that it was due
to the flattery of plain little Miss Butterfly that the family name was
created.


THE REVENGE OF THE GNOMES

[Illustration: Revenge of the Gnomes]

The Fairies decided to give a party one night, and invited the Goblins,
but they did not ask the Gnomes, because they did not think of them.

The Gnomes live so deep in the earth that the Fairies seldom meet them,
and so they really forgot and did not in the least intend to slight
them.  But the Gnomes heard the Goblins talking about the party one
night and they were very angry because they were not asked also.

The woods were very beautiful, and some of the trees were wearing their
red and yellow leaves, for it was late in the summer.  When the moon
came out the green and red and yellow made a pretty picture, and the
Fairies were delighted with the setting for their party.

The Fairy Queen had a new carriage made from a petal of a white lily
and drawn by two butterflies.  The Fairies all had new dresses of pink
rose petals and they had the fireflies in all the bushes and trees
where they looked like so many tiny electric lights.

Their table was spread on a big rock; the rabbits were to wait on the
table because their coats were white, and squirrels were to do the
cooking in a little hollow.  The table cloth was spun by a spider and
was so beautiful that the Queen, when she saw it, thought it was a
shame to cover it with dishes, so she had the rabbits put the food on a
rock behind a tree and leave the beautiful cloth so the Goblins could
see it.

But when the Goblins arrived they looked at the table with dismay.
"Are not they going to have anything to eat?" they asked one another,
seating themselves at the table and looking with anxious eye.

Not a word did they say to the Queen about the beautiful cloth, and she
found that it was quite wasted on the greedy little Goblins.

There were so many Goblins that the Fairies were obliged to spread a
table on the ground for themselves, and when the rabbits appeared with
the food the Goblins jumped up and helped themselves before the rabbits
could serve them.

At last the Queen, seeing that it was of no use to have waiters for the
Goblins, told the rabbits to put the ice cream and cake and lemonade
and all the nice things on the table and let the Goblins help
themselves.

The bad Goblins spoiled the beautiful cloth the spider had taken so
much trouble to weave; they spilled the lemonade and they crumbled the
cake and the poor Queen was in despair.

The Goblins, not getting the food quick enough to suit them, had
climbed on the table, which, you remember, was spread on a rock.  Now,
this rock did not have any moss on it, and it happened that it was one
of the doors to the home of the Gnomes.

The Gnomes are little brown men and they hide under the leaves and
sticks that are so near the color of themselves that they cannot be
seen, so they had been watching all that went on at the party, and,
when they saw the Goblins on top of one of their rocks, part of their
number hurried into the earth and opened the stone where the Goblins
were.

Some of the Goblins were quick enough to escape, but most of them went
into the ground, and all the cake and candy and ice cream with them.

The Queen and her Fairies jumped up and looked around.  Everything was
changed and the Fairies shivered as they looked.

The trees were brown and the bushes and the leaves were falling from
the trees, making the ground look as though it had a brown carpet over
it.

The air was frosty and the poor little Fairies looked about in
amazement at the dreary scene before them.  The Goblins that escaped
were running around and calling on the Queen to help them rescue their
brothers.

"It is all your fault," they told her.  "If you had asked the Gnomes to
your party this would not have happened.  Now you must help us to get
our brothers out of the power of those bad Gnomes.

"What shall I do?" asked the poor Queen.  She felt that her party had
been a failure and thought if she had asked the Gnomes it could not
have been worse.

Just then a Goblin came running toward them.  He had been sent by the
Gnomes.  They told him to say that his brothers would all be held
prisoners until the Fairies sent them all the ice cream they wanted.

The Fairies and the Goblins hurried to the kitchen in the hollow, but
it was empty.  The squirrels and the rabbits had hurried off when they
felt the frosty air and saw everything turning brown.

"What is to be done?" asked the Goblins, "You ought to help us," they
told the Queen again.  "If we had not come to your party we should not
have gotten into trouble."

The Queen could not resist replying to this remark the second time.
"If your brothers and you had not climbed on the table, but kept your
seats, as well-behaved Goblins should, you would not have been in need
of help.

"We must go to work," she said to her Fairies.  "Fold your wings and
pin up your skirts.  We must make ice cream for those wicked Gnomes."

They worked all night, and just before it was light the Goblins carried
ice cream in nut shells to the rocks of the Gnomes, and by and by the
captured Goblins came out and joined their comrades.

"We lost our supper," said the Goblins to the Fairies, "and you should
give us our breakfast.  We are hungry.  If it had not been for your
party we should not have lost our supper."

This was more than the poor tired Queen and her Fairies could bear.
They took their wands from under their wings and, waving them, they
flew toward the Gnomes.

Little sparks darted from the wands, and every time a spark touched a
Goblin it left a little red mark, and at the same time it pricked them.

Such tumbling and scampering you never saw as the Goblins tried to get
away, and when a Goblin that had a red spot on his face meets a Fairy
he hides or runs, for he knows that she will point him out as one of
the greedy Goblins who tried to make the Fairies cook their breakfast
for them.


THE LITTLE CHINA SHEPHERDESS

[Illustration: The China Shepherdess]

On the parlor mantel of a farmhouse stood little China Shepherdess.  In
one hand she held a gilt crook and with the other she shaded her eyes
and gazed far away.  Probably she was looking for her sheep.  Her dress
was of red and green, and it was trimmed with gilt.  Her boots were
also gilt.

On the other end of the mantel stood a little china Flute Player.  He
was dressed in red and white, and his flute was gilt and his boots were
red.  He held his flute to his lips in a very jaunty manner, but his
eyes were on the little Shepherdess.  He had been in love with her for
a long time, but never a look did she give him.

China Cat stood near the Flute Player, and one day she heard him sigh.

"Why do you sigh?" she asked him.  He shook his head, but did not
answer.  "I know," said the Cat; "you are in love with the Shepherdess,
and she will not look at you.  Now, let me tell you how to manage.
First, you must stop looking at her.  She knows that you are always
gazing in her direction."

The Flute Player shook his head again and said, "I cannot help looking
at her, she is so pretty and I love her so dearly."

"But you must," said China Cat.  "There is the Flower Girl on the
center table.  Look at her and play your jolliest tune and see what
happens."

So the little Flute Player took China Cat's advice and began to play a
lively air.  He smiled at the little Flower Girl, who smiled in return
and made him a curtsey.  Then she began to dance, keeping time to his
music.  The Flute Player commenced to dance as he played, and China Cat
moved her head from side to side.  The little Shepherdess tapped on the
mantel with her gilt boot and looked toward the Flute Player.  But he
was gazing at the Flower Girl, and for the first time she thought him
rather good to look at.

"I cannot see what there is about that Flower Girl to attract him,"
said the Shepherdess; "she hasn't a bit of color about her; she is as
white as a piece of cloth; even her flowers are white."

By and by the little Shepherdess began to dance and she moved toward
the end of the mantel where the Flute Player stood.  China Cat rubbed
against the Flute Player's leg.

"Look," she said, "but be careful she does not catch you; the
Shepherdess is coming this way."

His heart beat very fast, but he kept on playing and fixed his eyes on
the little Flower Girl.  But the Shepherdess did not come any nearer
than the middle of the mantel, and not once did she look at him.  By
and by it was dark and the Flute Player could not see the Flower Girl,
so he stopped playing and his heart was heavy again.

China Cat, however, was bound to make a match between the Shepherdess
and the Flute Player, and she walked over to the little Shepherdess and
asked, "Don't you think that he plays well?"

"Who?" asked the artful little Shepherdess.

"The handsome Flute Player," said China Cat.

"Oh, I have not thought much about it," answered the Shepherdess.

"Wouldn't you like to hear him play again?" said China Cat.  "It would
cheer us up, the room is so dark."

Just then the moonlight streamed in the window and lighted the room.
The little Shepherdess looked into the distance again and said she
thought it would be nice to hear the music.  So China Cat trotted over
to the Flute Player.

"She wants to hear you play," she said, "and I think you can win her."

The Flute Player began playing soft music and walking toward the little
Shepherdess.  The music was so sweet and sad that by the time he
reached her side she was wiping her eyes.  He stole one arm around her
waist and told her not to cry, that he would play a jolly tune for her.

"No, those are the tunes you play for the Flower Girl," she said,
hanging her head.  "I do not want you to play them for me."

"I did not play any tunes for the Flower Girl," he said, "they were all
for you."

"But you looked at her all the time," said the now humble little
Shepherdess.

"I was thinking of you," he replied.  "Let us sit on the end of the
mantel and I will play to you.  What would you like to hear?"

"Play something sad," said the little Shepherdess, for, like all girls,
she wanted to cry when she was happiest.

"There," said the Cat, curling herself up for a nap, "I am glad that is
settled.  She never would have given in if he had not looked at the
Flower Girl.  These girls are queer creatures," she said, closing her
eyes.


HOW THE BUTTERCUP GREW YELLOW

[Illustration: How the Buttercup Grew Yellow]

Long, long ago it is told that the flowers were all white and that each
received its color by some magic power.

The little Daisy, with its yellow eye, received its golden center when
the angry elves pelted the little Fairies with sunbeams.

The Daisy grew to be very proud of her yellow eye and thought it showed
off to perfection her pure white rim.  One day she was looking about
the field where she grew and saw the little White Cups growing all
about her in abundance.

"There is too much white in this field," she told the other Daisies.
"Our beautiful white borders would show off much better if the White
Cups were golden."

"But perhaps the White Cups do not wish to become golden," said her
sisters.

"Oh, but we do, dear Daisies," said the White Cups all in chorus; "we
have always wanted to be a beautiful yellow like your eyes, but we
thought you would not like to have us that color, as we have to live in
the same field."

"Oh yes, we would," said the Daisy, "and I am sure the fields will look
much more beautiful with you a golden color than white; besides that,
we shall be seen to better advantage; so both of us will gain by the
change."

"But who will help us to change our color?" asked the White Cups.

The daisy thought a long time, and at length she said: "You might get
the Goblins to color you, but the thing is to get them to do it.  They
are such queer little fellows that if they thought they were bothering
the Fairies they would do it quick enough; but if we ask them to make
you yellow that we all may look more beautiful they would only laugh
and run off."

"Why can't we make them think they would make the Fairies angry if they
made us golden?" asked the White Cups; "I am sure we can find a way."

"That would be the very thing," said the Daisy, "but what do you
propose to do?"

"We will ask the Fairies when they come into the fields to-night for
their frolic," said the White Cups.

That night when the Fairies came flying over the field the White Cups
called to them and told them what they wanted.

"Oh, that will be beautiful," said the Fairy Queen, "and we can fool
the Goblins easy enough, as you shall see."

The Fairy Queen called her Fairies around her and whispered so low that
the field flowers could not hear what she said, but they heard the
Fairies laugh as they flew away, and each alighted on a little White
Cup and began to sing.

