Produced by Carlo Traverso, Graeme Mackreth and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team. This file was produced from images generously
made available by the Bibliothèque nationale de France (BnF/Gallica)
at http://gallica.bnf.fr.


A
PORTRAITURE OF QUAKERISM.

Acisclo won the
elections.
Don Jaime Pimentel deputy
left by large
majority. Some want to suggest
that D. Acisclo

thousand
made stage machinery and fabrications, but could prove nothing,
and therefore we should not believe it.

Don Jaime Pimentel, without leaving the court, not just write a
letter, with the greatest calm, was pleased to receive your report
almost clean therefore only had two minor protests and ill-founded.

       The joy of D. Acisclo was after the big victory.

       

_Civil government--Governors have no right to interfere in matters of
religion--Nor are the governed bound to obey, where their consciences
are oppressed by doing it--but they are to be willing to suffer the
penalties annexed to their disobedience--and they are on no account to
resist them by force of arms,_

CHAPTER II.

_Oaths--Christians are not to take civil oaths--Reasons of the Quakers
for their disuse of them,_

CHAPTER III.

SECT. I. _War--Unlawful for Christians to fight--Scriptural passages in
support of this tenet--Answers to these and replies,_

SECT. II. _These passages supported by the opinions and practice of the
early Christians,_

SECT. III. _Objection to the motive assigned for this practice--Reply to
this objection--Motive confirmed,_

SECT. IV. _Conduct of the early Christians further examined--While
Christianity continued pure, they held it unlawful to fight--As it
became less pure, their scruples against it declined--As it became
corrupt, they ceased,_

SECT. V. _Reflections of the author on the foregoing subject--Supposed
conversation with a superior being in another region--New arguments from
thence,_

SECT. VI. _Subject further considered--Erroneous conceptions of those
who argue in favor of the necessity of war--This necessary only where
the policy of the world is pursued--Nature of this policy--But not
necessary where men act on the policy of the Gospel,_

SECT. VII. _This doctrine confirmed by historical cases,_

SECT. VIII. _Final examination of the subject,_

CHAPTER IV.

SECT. I. _Maintenance of a Gospel ministry--Quakers hold it unlawful to
pay their own ministers, or those of any other denomination, for their
Gospel labours--Scriptural passages and historical facts relative to
this doctrine,_

SECT. II. _Additional reasons against the payment of those of another
denomination, as collected from a history of tithes,_

SECT. III. _A more particular statement of these reasons,_


       *       *       *       *       *

CHARACTER.

CHAPTER I.

_Character of the Quakers--Difficulties in the proper estimation of
character--These removable in the present case,_

CHAPTER II. _Character general or particular--General is that of a moral
people,_

CHAPTER III.

SECT. I. _Character particular--First of the particular traits is
benevolence to man in his temporal capacity,_

SECT. II. _Second is benevolence to man in his religious capacity,_

SECT. III. _Third is benevolence, or a tender feeling for the brute
creation,_

CHAPTER IV.

_Fourth is complacency of mind and manners,_

CHAPTER V.

_Fifth is, that they do not sacrifice their consciences, as a body of
Christians, where they believe a compliance with any law or custom to be
wrong,_

CHAPTER VI.

_Sixth is, that in political affairs they reason upon principle, and not
upon consequences,_


CHAPTER VII.

_Seventh is independence of mind,_

CHAPTER VIII.

SECT. I. _Eighth is courage in life,_

SECT. II. _Ninth is courage in death,_

CHAPTER IX.

_Tenth is punctuality to words and engagements,_

CHAPTER X.

_Imperfect traits--These are either intellectually or morally
defective--First of these is a deficiency in literature and science,
when compared with other people,_

CHAPTER XI.

_Second is superstition--Distinctions on this subject,_

CHAPTER XII.

_Third is obstinacy--No foundation for this trait,_

CHAPTER XIII.

SECT. I. _Fourth is a money-getting spirit--This spirit seldom
chargeable with avarice,_

SECT. II. _Practicable methods suggested for the extirpation of it,_

CHAPTER XIV.

Fifth is a want of animation or affection--This an appearance only.

CHAPTER XV.

Sixth is evasiveness in speech--No foundation for this trait.

CHAPTER XVI. Seventh is shyness--This an appearance only.

CHAPTER XVII.

Eighth is a disregard of truth--Inconsistency of the imputation of this
trait.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SECT. I. Character of the Quaker women--Women share in the virtues of
the men, but do not partake of all their reputed imperfections.

SECT. II. Quaker women have a public character--Influence of this upon
their minds.


       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS PARTICULARS.

CHAPTER I.

Quakers a happy people--Subordinate causes of this happiness.

CHAPTER II.

Good, which the Quakers have done as a society upon earth.

CHAPTER III.

Quakers in England on the decline in point of numbers, as a religious
society--Certain causes of this decline.

CHAPTER IV.

Supposed remedies for the diminution of some of these causes--These of
various kinds--One of these a superior education--Supposed effect of
this education.


CHAPTER V.

_Component parts of this education--Favourable state of the society for
the admission of it,_

CHAPTER VI.

_Various arguments against it--These examined,_

CHAPTER VII.

_Conclusory remarks, as they relate to those who may have had thoughts
of leaving the society,_

CHAPTER VIII.

_Conclusory remarks, as they relate to those who may be called the
world,_


GREAT TENETS
OF THE
QUAKERS.


CHAP. I.

_Civil government--First tenet is, that governors have no right to
interfere with the governed on the subject of Religion--and that if they
interfere, and insist upon things which the conscience disapproves, the
governed ought to refuse a compliance with them, and to bear patiently
all the penalties annexed to such a refusal, but never to resist the
governors by violence on this or any other account._


The Quakers hold four principles, which I shall distinguish by the name
of Great Tenets. These are considered as arising out of the implied or
positive injunctions of Christianity, and were insisted upon as
essentials on the formation of the society. The first of these is on the
subject of Civil Government.

Civil Government had existed long before the appearance of Christianity
in the world. Legislators since that era, as they have imbibed its
spirit, so they have introduced this spirit more or less into their
respective codes. But, no nation has ever professed to change its system
of jurisprudence, or to model it anew, in consequence of the new light
which Christianity has afforded: neither have the alterations been so
numerous in any nation, however high its profession of Christianity,
with respect to laws, as to enable us to say, that there is any
government in the known world, of Christian origin, or any government
wholly upon the principles of the gospel.

If all men were to become real Christians, civil government would become
less necessary. As there would be then no offences, there would be no
need of magistracy or of punishment. As men would then settle any
differences between them amicably, there would be no necessity for
courts of law. As they would then never fight, there would be no need of
armies. As they would then consider their fellow-creatures as brethren,
they would relieve them as such, and there would be no occasion of laws
for the poor. As men would then have more solicitude for the public
good, and more large and liberal notions, than at any former time, they
would of themselves conceive and raise all necessary public institutions
and works. Government then is not so necessary for real Christians. It
is necessary principally, as the apostle says, for evil-doers. But if it
be chiefly necessary for evil-doers, then governors ought to be careful
how they make laws, which may vex, harrass, and embarrass Christians,
whom they will always find to be the best part of their communities, or,
in other words, how they make laws, which Christians, on account of
their religious scruples, cannot conscientiously obey.

It is a tenet of the Quakers, on the subject of government, that the
civil magistrate has no right to interfere in religious matters, so as
either to force any particular doctrines upon men, or to hinder them
from worshipping God in their own way, provided that, by their creeds
and worship, they do no detriment to others. The Quakers believe,
however, that Christian churches may admonish such members as fall into
error, and may even cut them off from membership, but this must be done
not by the temporal, but by the spiritual sword.

This tenet the Quakers support, first, by reason. Religion, they say, is
a matter solely, between God and man, that is, between God and that man
who worships him. This must be obvious, they conceive, because man is
not accountable to man for his religious opinions, except he binds
himself to the discipline of any religious society, but to God alone. It
must be obvious again, they say, because no man can be a judge over the
conscience of another. He can know nothing of the sincerity or hypocrisy
of his heart. He can be neither an infallible judge, nor an infallible
correcter of his religious errors. "The conscience of man, says Barclay,
is the seat and throne of God in him, of which he alone is the proper
and infallible judge, who, by his power and spirit, can rectify its
mistakes." It must be obvious again, they say, from the consideration
that, if it were even possible for one man to discern the conscience of
another, it is impossible for him to bend or controul it. But conscience
is placed both out of his sight and of his reach. It is neither visible
nor tangible. It is inaccessible by stripes or torments. Thus, while the
body is in bondage, on account of the religion of the soul, the soul
itself is free, and, while it suffers under torture, it enjoys the
divinity, and feels felicity in his presence. But if all these things
are so, it cannot be within the province either of individual
magistrates or of governments, consisting of fallible men, to fetter the
consciences of those who may live under them. And any attempt to this
end is considered by the Quakers as a direct usurpation of the
prerogative of God.

This tenet the Quakers adopt again on a contemplation of the conduct and
doctrines of Jesus Christ and of his apostles. They find nothing in
these, which can give the least handle to any man to use force in the
religious concerns of another. During the life of Jesus Christ upon
earth, it is no where recorded of him, that he censured any man for his
religion. It is true that he reproved the Scribes and Pharisees, but
this was on account of their hypocrisy, because they pretended to be
what they were not. But he no where condemned the devout Jew, who was
sincere in his faith. But if he be found no where to have censured
another for a difference in religious opinions, much less was it ever
said of him, that he forced him to the adoption of his own. In the
memorable instance, where James and John were willing to have called
fire from Heaven, to burn those who refused to receive him, he rebuked
them by an assurance, that "they knew not what spirit they were of."
And, with respect to his doctrines, nothing can be more full to the
point than his saying, that "his kingdom was not of this world," by
which he meant that his dominion was wholly of a spiritual nature, and
that men must cast off all worldly imaginations, and become spiritually
minded, before, they could belong to him. But no application of outward
force, in the opinion of the Quakers, can thus alter the internal man.
Nor can even the creeds and doctrines of others produce this effect,
except they become sanctioned by the divine influence on the heart.

Neither is it recorded of any of the apostles, that they used any other
weapons than those of persuasion and the power of God in the propagation
of their doctrines, leaving such as did not choose to follow them to
their own way. They were explicit also in stating the spiritual nature
of Christ's kingdom, from whence an inference similar to the former is
deducible, namely, that no compulsory interference can be effectual in
matters of religion. And St. Paul, in particular, tells the Corinthians,
that, in his spiritual services to them, he does not consider himself
[1]"as having any dominion over their faith, but as helpers of their
joy."

[Footnote 1: 2 Cor. i. 24.]

But if neither Jesus Christ, who was the author of that religion, which
many civil governments have established, nor the apostles, who
afterwards propagated it, forced their doctrines upon other men, or
hindered them by force from worshipping in their own way, even though
the former could have called legions of angels to his support, it
certainly does not become weak, ignorant, and fallible men, because they
are placed in the situation of governors, to set up their own creeds as
supreme, and to throw penalties and restrictions in the way of the
religious exercise of others.

But if governors, contrary to the example of Jesus Christ and of his
apostles, should interfere in religious matters, and impose laws upon
the governed, of which, as Christians, they cannot but disapprove, then
the Quakers are of opinion, that the governed ought always to obey the
laws of Jesus Christ, rather than the laws of any governors, who are
only men. Thus when Peter and John were commanded by the rulers of the
Jews to speak no more in the name of Jesus, they dared not yield
obedience to their commands, reasoning thus,[2] "Whether it be right in
the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye."

[Footnote 2: Acts iv. 19.]

And as the governed in such case ought, in obedience to God, the Supreme
Ruler of the Universe, and the King of Kings, to refuse a compliance
with the laws of their own governors, so they ought to be prepared
patiently to submit to the penalties which are annexed to such refusal,
and on no account, if just representations made in the meek and quiet
spirit of their religion, are not likely to be effectual, to take up
arms or resist them by force. And this doctrine they ground, first, on
the principle, that it is not only more noble, but more consistent with
their duty as Christians, to suffer, than to give growth to the passions
of revenge, or by open resistance to become the occasion of loss of life
to others. But now, as it solely with the danger was employed, in which
he floated, he replied without a halt, "Whoever thou also be like,
help me out of this type, it wofern in your power." No sooner had these
words speaking, when the earth opened and he is outside the cave
in the place where he had led the Wizards.

Only after he is accustomed to the daylight, and when he looked up
to, he was very surprised, no opening in the earth to see it was
incomprehensible to him, in what way he was so suddenly from her
womb was hervorgekommen.

Only at the spots where the sticks had been burned, he recognized
the place again, under which the cave was located. When
he therefore brought the city hinwandte, he saw it in the middle of
the gardens and also acknowledged his way. This he turned back and
thanked God that he once saw in the world, after he already had given
up hope, then back again. So he came to the city and dragged himself up
with a great deal of effort into his apartment.

When he was in his mother entered the room, he fell from the joy of
reunion, coupled with the weakness came three days fasting, in a
fainting, which lasted some time.

His mother, who has already lost or dead beweint had let it now do not
care and do not lack resources, put it back to life. At last he recovered
himself and his first words were: "Dear Mother, above all, I ask
you, give me to eat, I've been three days of nothing by mouth brought."
His mother taught him what she had just placed it before him and said,
"Dear son, übereile you do not, because it could hurt you, eat slowly
and following your convenience and take you well into eight, so you are
ravenous. I would not even that thou shalt talk to me. You have
still time to send me your fates to tell if you're restoring. After
the great affliction, I am comforted that I just you again. "Alaeddin
followed the advice of his mother, slowly and quietly ate and drank
well. When he was finished he began to tell his mother what happened
to him since Friday was told in detail what he on his return paths in
the three large rooms, in the garden and on the terrace, view,
and how he was the magic lamp had fetched. At the same time he drew it
from his bosom and showed it to his mother with the clear and colored
fruits.

Also, he gave her two full bags from which they made but little.
However, these fruits were precious stones, whose sun shine brighter
in the glow of the lamp which lit the room, to their great attention
had to be alone Alaeddin mother understood to like things, like her
son, Alaeddin why they are behind one of the cushions of the sofa
pushed on which he sat.

Alaeddin mother had the patience, this wonderful and strange, but for a
mother that her son, despite his mistakes tenderly loved so painful
history listen to without interruption. Only if the moving bodies, where
the vileness of the African magician in the light of day came, she could
not hide their disgust. But now, as Alaeddin had ended, she let herself
in a thousand words of invective against the fraudsters out, they called
him a traitor, a rogue, a brutes, a assassinator, liar, magician, and
ruin an enemy of the human race. "Yes, my son," she added, "He is a
magician, and magicians are a veritable plague of mankind, they have
means of their magic and witchcraft with the evil spirits. God be praised,
which has prevented that his horrific end to their wickedness reached
thee.

You're him for the grace which he has done to you, big thank you guilty,
your death would have been inevitable if you do not remind him of his
help had angefleht. "Alaeddin slept the whole night and woke up next
morning at first very late. He stood up, and the first thing he said to
his mother, was that he was hungry, and he is no greater pleasure
could, as if it were a breakfast.

"Ah, my dear son," she replied, "I have not even a single morsel of bread,
thou hast yesterday the few stocks that is still at home were eaten. But
you wait a moment, so I will bring you something soon. I have spun a
little cotton, which I will sell to a lot of bread for lunch and to
purchase. "-" Dear mother, "replied Alaeddin, 'pick your cotton for another
time and give me the lamp which I brought yesterday. I want to sell, and
maybe I do it so much that we breakfast and lunch, and at the end
do something for the evening can deny. "Alaeddin mother brought the
lamp and said to her son:" Since you have them, they but very dirty. I
want it a little clean, then it will be somewhat longer applicable. "They
took water and fine sand, in order to make it blank, but hardly
had they started to rub the lamp, as a moment in the presence of
her son is a spirit of appalling riesen good shape before her stood
up and with a voice of thunder spoke to her: "What do you want?

I am ready to obey thee as thy slave and slave to all those who are
the lamp in hand, both I, as the other slaves of the lamp. "Alaeddin's
mother was unable to respond.

Your eye could the horrible and terrible form of mind not to tolerate,
and she was immediately at his first words in fear fainted. Alaeddin
on the other hand, took the lamp and quickly replied with his
mother instead of a fixed tone, "I'm hungry, bring me something to
eat. "The spirit vanished at the moment and came back with a large
silver basin on his head, in which twelve concealed from the same metal
bowls full of the best dishes along with six loaves of white flour were
most, and two bottles of delicious wines, along with two silver
bowls in their hands. He presented all together on the couch and disappeared
immediately. Alaeddin mother came back to himself. "Dear Mother,"
Alaeddin said to her, "get up and eat: there are things enough to
strengthen your heart and also my great hunger to satisfy.

We want these good foods are not cold, but eating. "The mother was surprised
when she the great basin, the twelve dishes, six loaves, the two bottles
together with the two bowls and saw inhaling the delicious fragrance
that consists of all climbed up the plates. "My son," she said to
Alaeddin, "where we have this abundance and to whom we have such a
rich gift to thank? If perhaps the Sultan of our poverty, and have
our pity? "-" Dear mother, "replied Alaeddin, 'we now want us to sit
down and eat, your question I will answer if we have free time." They
sat to tables and dined with a view to a larger appetite, as both
mother and son, never so well on a table occupied had found. Alaeddin
and his mother, who just a simple breakfast had thought, were at the
hour of lunch yet at the table. Alaeddin As a mother and removed the
meat, which had remained unaffected, had lifted, she seated herself at
her son and said, "Alaeddin, I now expect from you that you satisfy
my curiosity and promised me the information." Alaeddin told her everything
during their powerlessness between the mind and it was made. Alaeddin
mother fell in great surprise at the story of her son and the
appearance of the mind. "But, my son," she asked, "so long as I
am in the world, I have never heard tell that someone from all of my
friends had seen a ghost.

Which is a coincidence of these nasty spirit come to me? Why has he
turned to me and not you, because you he is already in the treasure
cave was once published?

"" Dear mother, "replied Alaeddin, 'the spirit, which you published,
is not the same, which appeared to me.

They have some similarity in relation to its giant size, but on the face
and clothes, they are entirely distinct from one another and are also
different to men.

You will remember that the person I saw, is a slave of the ring was
called, which I did at the finger, while the recently published
said he was a slave of the lamp that you had in your hand. "" What!

" Alaeddin mother cried, "So your lamp is to blame that this cursed mind
has turned to me instead of you?

Oh, dear son, I immediately create it from the eyes and lift it to where
you want, I may no longer touch.

Rather, I let them throw away or sell, as that I might be accused of
being in contact the same fear of dying.

Follow me and do the ring. One must not have dealings with ghosts:
they are the devil and our prophet has said. "" With your permission,
dear mother, "replied Alaeddin, 'I will now probably wary of a lamp,
which both of us can be so useful, for sale.

Seest thou not what they are before us only has a few moments gives? It
is now our livelihood and food arrange. You can think that my uncle
nasty wrong is not without reason so many hard and so long and arduous
journey, since he moved to the property sought this magic lamp, which
he principally gold and silver, which he knew in the halls and that
I, as he described it to me, with my own eyes saw was preferred. He
knew the value and characteristics of this wonderful lamp too good
to be from the rest of the rich treasures still something to be
desired.

Since the random force us her secret is discovered, we want the most
advantageous use of it, but not to attract attention so that our neighbors
and not be jealous be jealous. I want them out of the way, like the
eyes, and to cancel a place where I can find them when I need it because
you have such great fear of the ghosts did. Also throw away
the ring, I can not decide. Without this ring thou wouldst have me,
never seen again, and without him I would not either now, or at most a
few more moments to live. You will therefore permit me that I
keep him always with great caution at the finger wear. Who knows if I
do not ever zustößt another danger, which we both can not foresee,
and from which he freed me perhaps? "Then Alaeddin remark seemed very
accurate, so his mother knew nothing more to that. "Dear son," she said
to him, "you can act like you do it well, I for my part, like with ghosts
have nothing to do." On another day after the dinner was by the splendid
food, the spirit had nothing left; Alaeddin, not so long wanted to wait
until the hunger urged him, therefore, took on the third morning
of the silver dishes under his clothes and went out in order to
sell them.

He turned to a Jew, who met him, took him aside, showed him the bowl and
asked if he might really want to have. The Jew, a clever and mischievous
boy, took the dish, examined it, and as he realized that it was real
silver, Alaeddin, he asked what he would ask. Alaeddin, who did not
understand its value and never with such goods traded had told him
only that he would probably know best what the dish was worth, and
he is leaving this entirely on his honesty. The Jew fell really embarrassed
about the openness Alaeddin. Since he did not know whether Alaeddin the
value of his product really knew it or not, he put a gold piece from
his bag, the maximum zweiundsiebenzigsten the part of the true value of
the dish was, and offered it to him. Alaeddin took the gold piece
with great joyousness, and as soon as he had in his hand, he ran so
fast from the fact that the Jew, with his huge profit on this purchase
is not satisfied, very annoyed about, Alaeddin total ignorance
about the value of the bowl better not to guess and it is far less
necessary to have.

He fell into temptation, the young people according to supply, whether
it is not something of his gold pieces could be out alone Alaeddin was
already so far away that it hardly was sought.

On the way home Alaeddin remained at a bakery store, bought a stock of
bread and paid him with a gold piece, which moved him to the baker.
When he came home, he gave the remaining money his mother, who went
on the market, in order for them both the necessary food for a few days
shopping. So they lived for a time continued; Alaeddin sold all twelve
dishes, one after the other, and the money in the house was expected,
to the Jews. The Jew, the first of a gold piece had, dared not, for the
remaining few to offer, and paid all of the same coin, so a good trade
is not omit. As the money from the last bowl was issued, took Alaeddin
his refuge in the pelvis, which alone weighed ten times more than any
bowl. He wanted to bring an ordinary businessman, but it was him too
hard. So he had to the Jews and advice him to lead his house, which
examined the weight of the pelvis and paid him on the ten gold
pieces, which Alaeddin was satisfied. So long as the gold lasted, they
were for the daily expenditure of the household uses. Alaeddin had,
however, though he was accustomed to Müßiggehen, since his adventure
with the African magician no longer work with the young people his age
played. He brought his days walking to or talked with older people,
whose acquaintance he had made. Often he even stayed in the shops of the
big merchants and listened attentively to the conversations of noble
men, who were staying here or here had ordered: and these talks
gave him some paint gradually aware of the world.

As of the ten gold pieces was nothing left, Alaeddin took refuge on his
lamp. He took them in hand, examined the body, which had touched his
mother, and as he them to the impression of sand realized he rubbed them,
just as it had done. Soon appeared to him again the same spirit, which
had already been shown, but as Alaeddin gentle rubbed the lamp had
when his mother, so he said this in a milder tone same words: "What do
you want? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave and slave to all those
who are the lamp in hand, both I, as the other slaves of the lamp.
"Alaeddin answered him: 'I am hungry, bring me to eat." The spirit
disappeared and appeared again in a few moments with a similar table
stuff, like the first time, put it down and disappeared again. Alaeddin
and his mother sat down to tables, and after the meals they were still
so much left that they are the two following days could live
comfortably.

When Alaeddin saw that neither bread, nor food, nor money was more at home,
he took a silver bowl and looked at the Jews, whom he knew, in order to
sell them. On the way to him, he came to the loading of a goldsmith
passed through his venerable age, while an honest and honest man. The
goldsmith noticed him and called him, he wants hereintreten. "My son,"
he said to him, "I've been several times with the same product as now
pass, those Jews attention and soon returned with empty hands, come
see. This has led me to put the idea that you can, what you wear, anytime
to sell him. But you might not know that this Jew a fraudster, and a
cheater is annoyed when the other Jews, and that no one who
knows him, with him wants to do. In addition, I tell you this merely
from complacency. If you want to show me what you now in your hand and
you are for sale, so I will give you the true value faithfully pay
off, wofern I may need it, where not, so I want you to show other traders
who try to will not cheat. "In the hope of more money for his bowl to
solve it immediately drew Alaeddin under his dress, and showed it to the
goldsmith. The old man, at first glance saw that she was of the
finest silver, asked him if he is already similar to the Jews and
what he sold it to have received. Alaeddin candidly confessed
that he had already sold those twelve and the Jew him for any one piece
of gold paid.

"Ha, the Spitzbube," cried the goldsmith.

"My son," he added, "what is done is done, and we must no longer
remember, but if I give you now the true value of your bowl discover
that the finest of silver is that only some of us will be processed
, you will realize how much the Jew has cheated you.

"The goldsmith took the Wage, weighed the dish, and after he had
set apart Alaeddin, what a Mark Silver had made him understand
that this basin weights their gold pieces after zweiundsiebenzig worth,
which he immediately paid blank.

"Because thou hast," said he, "the true amount of your bowl. If you still
doubt, then you can wish on any other of our goldsmiths contact,
and when one tells you that it was worth more, so I make myself of
being dir twice to pay. "Alaeddin thanked the goldsmith very much for the
good advice in the result, he sold the other bowls, as well as the pelvis,
to him and received all of the full value, depending on the weights.
Although Alaeddin and his mother a unversiegbare source of their light
had they lived but also moderate, as before, only that some Alaeddin
appealed to the page to appear to be decent and various conveniences
for their small business to purchase.

His mother, on the other hand used on their clothes nothing but
what her cotton spinning revenue. In this austere way of life one
can easily think that the gold, the Alaeddin for his twelve bowls and
basins of the goldsmith who had received long enough. So they lived
for several years because of the good use made by Alaeddin from time to
time made by his lamp. During this interim period, Alaeddin, which is
not omitted, is very busy at the meetings of reputable people in the
shops of the leading merchants, the with gold, silver, silk fabrics,
the finest cloths and jewels veil acted einzufinden and sometimes even
in their parties to participate fully trained in all manners, and gradually
the world of fine people accepted.

In particular, when the gem merchants, he came from by the Irrwahn as if
the transparent fruit, which he in the garden, where the lamp stood,
picked had just colored glass, he learned here that there were
very precious gemstones.

As he daily in these stores all types of gemstones buy and sell saw
them after he learned to know their value and appreciate, because it is
nowhere so beautiful and big remarked how his, so he understood well
that he held the glass a treasure possessed of immeasurable value.
However, he was wise enough to anyone to say anything, not even his
mother, and without doubt that he owed the high silence of luck to him
in which we will subsequently rise up to see. One day when he walks
in the city went, Alaeddin heard a loud voice with a command of the
Sultan exclaim that everyone and his shop closed its doors and into
the interior of his apartment should pull back until the princess
Bedrulbudur, which means "moon of moons," the daughter of the sultan
who wanted to bathe, passed and would be returned. This public appeal
raised in Alaeddin's desire, the princess entschleiert to see. He
had to deal with this Behuf in the house of a friend and then go behind
a lattice window are alone so it was not enough, as the Princess, under
the Will, on their way to the bathroom a veil before their faces
have had. In order to satisfy his curiosity, he finally devised a means
to which he was successful. He imagined that behind the door of the
bathroom, which was set up so that he had seen them infallible. Alaeddin
had not long to wait: the princess appeared and he looked at them
through a Ritz, which was large enough so that he could see without
to be seen.

She came accompanied by a large number of their women and blended,
sometimes beside her, and partly behind her hergingen.

Three or four steps before the door of the bathroom she took the veil,
which covered her face and her very uncomfortable, and in this way
they saw Alaeddin so convenient, because they had stumbled upon him
zukam.

Alaeddin had hitherto never been a woman with a history entschleiertem
seen when his mother, who already old and never had been so pretty.

Alaeddin When the princess had seen Bedrulbudur, his heart was the
charming young girl, the highest affection not fail. Really was the
princess, the beautiful brunette who is only in the world can see.
She had big, regular, vivid and fiery eyes, a gentle and modest view,
a shapely nose without any blame, a small mouth, red and rose through
her beautiful lips Ebenmaß truly magical, with one word, all her facial
features were very graceful and regularly . What wonder that Alaeddin at
the sight of such a rare association of beauties, which were entirely
new to him, was blinded and almost beside himself fell! In addition
to these perfections the Princess had a lush growth and a majestic
attitude, the sight of which alone it due reverence einflößte. When the
princess had gone into the bathroom, Alaeddin stayed quite a while,
confused and delighted, by which he was incessantly charming picture
cried the soul that made him in his innermost heart was taken and charmed.

Secondly, that Jesus Christ seems, for
wise purposes, to have abstained from meddling with many of the civil
institutions of his time, though in themselves wicked, thinking
probably, that it was sufficient to have left behind him such general
precepts, as, when applied properly, would be subversive of them all.
And, thirdly, that he never commended the centurion on account of his
military situation, but on account of his profession of his faith.

[Footnote 11: Matt. viii. 5.]

They say farther, that they can bring an argument of a much more
positive nature than that just mentioned, from an incident which took
place, and where Jesus was again concerned. When Peter cut off the ear
of one of the servants of the high priest, who was concerned in the
apprehension of his Lord, he was not applauded, but reprimanded for the
part which he thus took in his defence in the following words:[12] "Put
up again thy sword in its place, for all they that take the sword, shall
perish by the sword." Now the Quakers conceive, that much more is to be
inferred against the use of the sword from this instance, than from the
former in favour of it.

[Footnote 12: Matt. xxvi, 52.]

The last argument, which is usually adduced against the Quakers on this
subject, is, that they have mistaken the meaning of the words of the
famous sermon upon the Mount. These words teach us the noble lesson,
that it is more consistent with the character of a Christian to forgive,
than to resist an injury. They are, it is said, wholly of private
import, and relate solely to private occurrences in life. But the
Quakers have extended the meaning of them beyond private to public
injuries or wars.

The Quakers, in answer to this observe, that they dare not give to the
words in question a less extensive meaning. They relate to every one who
reads them. They relate to the poor. They relate to the rich. They
relate to, every potentate who may be the ruler of a land. They relate
to every individual of his council. There is no exception, or
dispensation to any one, in favour of any case.

That they relate to public as well as private wars, or that they extend
themselves naturally to those which are public, the Quakers conceive it
reasonable to suppose from the following consideration. No man, they
apprehend, can possess practically the divine principle of loving an
individual enemy at home, or of doing good to the man who hates him, but
he must of necessity love his enemy in any and every other place. He
must have gone so for forward on the road to Christian perfection, as to
be unable to bear arms against any other person whatsoever, and
particularly when, according to the doctrines of the New Testament, no
geographical boundaries fix the limits of love and enmity between man
and man, but the whole human race are considered as the children of the
same parent, and therefore as brothers to one another. But who can truly
love an enemy and kill him? And where is the difference, under the
Gospel dispensation, between Jew and Gentile, Greek and Barbarian, bond
and free?

That these words were meant to extend to public as well as to private
ware, the Quakers believe again from the views which they entertain
relative to the completion of prophecy. They believe that a time will
come, in one or other of the succeeding ages, "when men shall bent their
swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks, and when
nation shall not lift up sword against nation, and they shall not learn
war any more." Now other Christians, who differ from them in the
interpretation of the words in question, believe equally with them, that
the times thus predicted will come to pass. The question then is,
whether the more enlarged interpretation of these words, as insisted
upon by the Quakers, or of the less enlarged as insisted upon by others,
be the most consistent with the belief of the future accomplishment of
the prophecy just mentioned. And in this case the Quakers are of
opinion, that if wars were ever to cease, one ought to expect that some
foundation would have been previously laid in Christianity for this
great and important end. The subjugation of the passions, which it is
the direct tendency of Christianity to effect, would produce this end.
And so far such a foundation has already been laid in this system. But
as the admission of moral precepts into the education of man, so as to
form habits of moral opinion, is another, way of influencing conduct in
life, the Quakers think it likely that some such maxim as "that
Christians should not fight," would have been introduced also, because
the adoption of such a maxim would have had a similar tendency with the
subjugation of the passions in producing the same end. For it seems
absurd, they conceive, to suppose that wars should cease, and that no
precept should have been held out that they were wrong. But the more
enlarged interpretation of the words in question furnishes such a
precept, and therefore another foundation seems to have been laid in
Christianity for the same end. They admit, therefore, the larger
interpretation as included in the less, because it comports more with
the design of Providence, who, by the mouth of his prophets wills
universal peace, that the prohibition of public as well as of private
wars should be understood as a Christian doctrine, than that the words
in question should be confined to private injuries alone.

The last reason, which the Quakers give for adopting the larger
interpretation of the words in the sermon upon the Mount, as well as the
less, is the following. They are of opinion, that, as Christians, they
ought not to lessen the number of the moral obligations of the Gospel.
They ought not to abridge its dignity, nor to put limits to its
benevolence. If it was the desire of Jesus Christ, that men should love
their enemies, it is their duty to believe, that his wish could not have
been otherwise than universal. If it was an object with him to cure
moral evil, it is their duty to suppose, that it was his desire to
destroy it, not partially, but to the utmost possible extent. If it was
his design to give happiness to man, it is their duty to determine, that
he intended to give it not in a limited proportion, but in the largest
measure. But when they consider the nature of wars, that they militate
against the law of preservation, that they include the commission of a
multitude of crimes, that they produce a complication of misery and
suffering to man, they conceive they would not be doing their duty as
Christians, or giving to Christianity its due honour, if they were not
to admit the larger meaning of the words in question as well as the
less. Reason too, pleads for the one as well as for the other.
Consistency of moral doctrine again demands both. But if we admit the
restricted interpretation, and exclude the larger, we offend reason. All
consistency is at an end. Individual responsibility for moral turpitude
will be taken from man. Crimes, clearly marked and defined in the page
of Christianity, will cease to be crimes at the will of princes. One
contradiction will rush in after another; and men will have two
different standards of morality, as they adhere to the commands of the
Gospel, or to the customs of governments or of the world.


SECT. II.

_Meaning of the scriptural passages advanced by the Quakers, supported
by the opinions and practice of the early Christians--Early Christian
writers held it unlawful for Christians to fight, as appears from
Justin--Tatian--Clemens--and others--Christians would not enter into the
armies for more than two centuries, as appears from Ireneus--Tertullian
--Celsus--Origen and others--and generally left the military service,
if they happened to be converted in it.


It may be presumed to be difficult for Christians, who have been in the
habit of seeing wars entered into and carried on by their own and other
Christian governments, and without any other censure than that they
might be politically wrong, to see the scriptural passages of
"non-resistance to evil and love of enemies," but through a vitiated
medium. The prejudices of some, the interests of others, and custom with
all, will induce a belief among them, that these have no relation to
public wars. At least they will be glad to screen themselves under such
a notion. But the question is, what a Heathen would have said to these
passages, who, on his conversion to Christianity, believed that the New
Testament was of divine origin, that it was the book of life, and that
the precepts, which it contained, were not to be dispensed with, to suit
particular cases, without the imputation of evil. Now such a trial, the
Quakers say, has been made. It was made by the first Christians, and
they affirm, that these interpreted the passages, which have been
mentioned, differently from those of most of the Christians of the
present age; for that both their opinions and their practice spoke
loudly against the lawfulness of war.

Upon this new subject I shall enter next. And I confess I shall enter
upon it willingly. First, because I know of none that is more important.
Secondly, because, though controversy may have thrown some light upon
it, much remains to be added. And, thirdly, because the assertions of
the Quakers on this point are disputed by many at the present day. -
"Mistress," answered the slave, keep laughing, "how could it be
otherwise, if a fool sees a basket full of beautiful, brand new lights
on the arm, but they do not sell, but only against old exchange wants.
But the noise that you hear comes from the children that are mocking
him. "According to this report took a different Sklavin the floor and
said," Because of old lamps are mentioned, so I do not know whether
the princess already noticed , that here on the cornice of such
stands.

The owner will probably not übelnehmen if he instead of the old a new
find. If it is accepted by the princess, it may be the fun, to test
whether this really crazy fool enough, a new lamp for an old one, which
does not demand anything. "The lamp, of the slave said, was just
the magic lamp, to the Alaeddin had given its size, and he himself had
before he went out hunting on the cornice, in order not to lose a
precaution, which he always applied. But neither the slaves nor the
blended, yet the princess herself had she ever noticed during his
absence. Except the time when he was out hunting, he carried it
always with you.

You will say now, this caution Alaeddin was pretty good, but he had his
lamp should include at least.

This is certainly true, but are similar mistake at any time been committed,
will be celebrated every day and still be committed in the future.
Bedrulbudur The Princess, by the high value of the lamp knew nothing
and could not think that it Alaeddin who never even spoke of such
high importance might be to leave it intact and keep the joke went
on and ordered a blended, and it changed.

Blending obeyed, and went down the stairs, and was hardly out of
the gates of the palace, when he said the African magician. He called
him, and when he came to him, he showed him the old lamp and
said, "Give me a new lamp for it since." The African magician does not
doubt that this was the lamp, which he examined. He took them to the
rapidly extended from the hand, pushed it in his bosom, and then handed
him his basket, so he could pick one you like. Without longer in the
vicinity of Alaeddin's Palace residence, he got completely out of the
dove unvermerkt. The African magician took the rest of the day in a
hideout on until a clock at night, where the eclipse was greatest. Now
he pulled the lamp from his bosom and rubbed them. At this cry seemed to
mind immediately. "What do you want?" He asked him, "I am ready to
obey thee as thy slave and slave of all the lamps in their hands,
and I and the other slaves of the lamp." - "I order you," replied
the African magician, "that you instantly the palace that you or
the other slaves of the lamp in the city was built, as he is, with
all its inhabitants live and simultaneously lift with me to the
place and move to Africa."

Without something to answer, provided the spirit with the help of the
other servants of the lamp ghosts in a very short time, both himself,
as the whole palace to the designated place in Africa. We want, however,
the African magician and the palace with the princess Bedrulbudur
in Africa and the only surprise of the sultan's talking about. When
the Sultan was up, he went as usual after the open bay to the pleasure
of making Alaeddin Palace view and admire, but saw only an empty
space. In the beginning he believed that he is mistaken, and rubbed
his eyes alone he saw so little, as the first, although the weather
is very sunny, the sky is pure and the dawn was already Ascended.
He looked right and left and still saw nothing. His astonishment was
so great that he long as angewurzelt at the same place remained,
his eyes fixed on the side stapled where the Palace so far, but now no
longer be seen, because it was impossible for him to understand how such
a large palace and looking at quite a trace entschwunden should be. Finally
he let in all the haste Großvezier call. The Großvezier was not long in
coming. He came in such haste that neither he nor his people have
said in passing, that Alaeddin Palace no longer stood in his place. Even
the porter had not noticed it when they heard the gates of the palace
opened. The Großvezier spake thus to the Sultan: "Sir, the haste with
which it has called me, allows me to conclude that something extraordinary
occurred which must be, because you know so well that meeting today,
and I have my duty under any in a few moments would have been terminated.
"-" Yes, "replied the Sultan," it has really been something very
extraordinary, and you'll have to admit it themselves.

Say, where is the palace Alaeddin? "-" The Palace Alaeddin?
"replied the Großvezier very surprised," I just went out over and däuchte
me, he was at his old place. So huge building like this to change their
body is not so easy. "-" Look once more, "said the Sultan," and tell me
then if you've seen him. "The Großvezier went to the open bay, and it
was him as the Sultan. "Sir," said the Großvezier, "you might remember
that I had the honor to tell you, the palace that you are familiar
with his immense wealth admire so much, could be just a work of
magic and a magician to be alone you wanted was not on my ensured.

"The sultan, who could not deny it, fell into a rage so larger
than his former unbelief was apparently on the day. "Where he is,"
cried he, "this scam, this scoundrel? I let him head off. "-" Sir,
"replied the Großvezier," we must ask him, where his palace hingekommen,
because he alone can know. "-" That would be too much for sparing
him "replied the Sultan," go and send thirty of my riders from
that in chains before him lead me.

"The Großvezier brought the riders on the command of the sultan, and
informed their leader as they had to behave so that he can not
could escape. They went and met Alaeddin five or six hours from the city
on the way home grasped. The chief rode up to him and told him that
the Sultan had great desire to see him again, and so he sent it to him
to notify him home and to accompany.

Alaeddin was not the most distant idea of the true reason why this section
of the bodyguard of the Sultan had come to him, and rode safely continue.
When he was still half an hour from the city was surrounded him, the
crowd of riders, and the same leaders took the floor and said to him:
"Prince Alaeddin, with great regret we have to explain to you that we
have command of the Sultan, thee to arrest criminals and as a state
before him to lead, we ask you, is not bad, if we fulfill our duty,
and to forgive us. "Alaeddin was very surprised, because he felt
guilty. He asked the leader if he knew what crime he was accused, but
it replied that neither he nor his people knew of it. As Alaeddin saw
that his people were much weaker than the crowd of riders, and even
left him, so he climbed of horses and said: "Here am I, vollziehet
euern command. Incidentally, I can assure you that I am aware of no
crime, either against the person of the Sultan, nor against the state.
"It threw him at once a very thick and long chain on his neck and tied
it so that even in the middle around the body, so the arms that
he had not released.

The leader was now back to the top of the train, but one of the riders
took the end of the chain and carried it behind the leader hinreitend,
Alaeddin, who had to follow on foot, with continued. In this
condition he was brought into the city. As the riders came into
the suburbs and you Alaeddin as state criminals daherführen saw
that everyone believed that it would cost him his head. Since
he was universally popular, it took a sword and other weapons, and those
who were not armed with stones and followed after the riders. Some of
the aftermost shake mine, and made them auseinanderzusprengen alone
public mass was so large that the riders are happy appreciated if
it is the palace of the sultan reached without that Alaeddin was
snatched from them.

So they finally arrived at the square before the palace, where they were
all in a line up and against the armed People's Front of mass made
up their commanders and the riders, Alaeddin which led into the palace
has been the gatekeeper and the gate behind him had closed. Alaeddin
was immediately brought before the sultan, who with the Großvezier
expected on a balcony.

As soon as he saw him, he ordered the executioner abzuhauen his head,
and does not listen to him or any indication he wanted to have. The
executioner took hold of Alaeddin, took him from the chain, a leather
spread instantly, with the blood of countless criminals was spotted on
the ground, bade him down knees and joined his eyes. Then he drew his
sword, far from won, had it three times in the air, flash and sent to
the death of String to lead by only one character to the Sultan waited
to Alaeddin's head off. In such moments said the Großvezier that the
people had overwhelmed the riders and on the stocky Schloßplatz was,
indeed, that some of the walls of the palace in several places with
ladders and erstiegen already started down it, in order to make an
opening. He said therefore to the sultan, before he gave the sign:
"Lord, I pray thee, that thou the step that you have to do in term're
mature about it. You run the risk, your palace stormed to see, and if
this accident happens, it might be making disastrous consequences. "-
The Sultan of the violent agitation among the people saw that he was
so much that the executioner, he immediately gave the command, his sword
back into the vagina to be stuck, the binding of Alaeddin eyes away
and let him go. At the same time he ordered his satellites to proclaim
that he will give grace Alaeddin, and everyone should now remove. When
the people saw that the Sultan Alaeddin justice to let him pardoned,
disarmed his anger, the rebellion ended and it all went one after
the other to go home.

Alaeddin Once again in freedom saw, he looked up from the balcony, and
when he said the Sultan, so he called him in to touching tone: "Lord,
I pray thee, me to the already proven Grace, a new gift and to let me
know what my crime is. "-" What it is, you scoundrel, "replied the
sultan," you know it yet? Come up here once, so I want you there show.
"Alaeddin went up and came before the Sultan. He led him to the open
bay. Alaeddin looked out and saw the whole place, which his palace had
otherwise received, since he could not understand how he can disappear,
so that made him strange and surprising event so dismayed that he the
Sultan is not a single word could reciprocate. The Sultan impatiently
repeated the question: "Tell me where the palace and my daughter
is?" Alaeddin finally broke the silence and said: "Sir, I see well that
the palace, the I built is gone, but you can not say where he may be.
Only so much I can assure you that I have no part in this event did. ""
I have nothing to what has become your palace, "replied the Sultan.

"My daughter gives me million times better. You must return them to me,
otherwise I leave you head off. "" Sir, "replied Alaeddin," I beseech
thee, that thou me forty days period gebest to my measures to take and
succeed me in this time so I give you my word that I own my head to
the feet of thy throne to resign, so that you wish to have. "-" I
authorize you this period of forty days, "replied the Sultan,"
but think so not that you abuse my grace and my anger can escape.
In what corner of the earth thou mayest be, I will refer you to know.
"Alaeddin went with lowered head of the courtyards of the palace and
was so ashamed that he had not ventured, his eyes aufzuschlagen. The court
distinguished, of which he is not only insulted and had previously been
his friends, were now far away, to him or approach him with a refuge
to; no, they turned their backs on him, so they do not see him and he
had them not wish to recognize. Alaeddin knew herself no more and his
mind was never powerful. Those who are in a friendly connection,
or else in a trade with him had confessed, were taken from real pity. He
stayed three days in the city, he soon after that, soon after that
page turned out and ate nothing but what his people were sympathetic,
but in fact took no decision.

At last, since it is in this miserable condition is no longer in a
city wanted to linger, where he used to make the Lord had played,
he was removed from the same and suggested the way to the box.

He avoided the big Heerstraße, and after he terrible uncertainty in several
fields durchirrt had, he came with the dawn night on the banks of a
river. Here he took an idea of despair. »Where should I seek my
palace?" He said in himself "In which province in which country,
in which parts of the world, I will him a lot and my beloved
princess once again find that the sultan of my calls? This will never
succeed me, so it is better to free me, I at once from all these
laborious and the bitter sorrow of my heart pits.

"Already he had decided to buy into the river to throw, but he
believed a good and pious Muselmann do not do this too, before he
had his prayer.

By now he wanted to prepare, he approached the edge of the water to the
local custom under the hands and face washing. However, since the body
a bit steep and wet, so he slipped out and would have fallen into the
river, if he is not even in a small rocks had been able, about two inches
high stands out. Fortunately he still had the ring which the African
magician to the finger he had made. This ring he rubbed pretty heavily
on the rocks as he held it, and instantly the same spirit stood before
him, of him in the subterranean vaults had been published, where the
African magician had detained him. "What do you want?" Said the Spirit,
"I am ready to obey thee as thy slave and slave to all those who
are on the ring finger that both I, as the other slaves of the ring."
Alaeddin, who in his Despair full situation by this phenomenon was
pleasantly surprised, replied, "spirit, save me a second life and show
me where is the palace that I built, or care, that he immediately
returned to his old place will be taken back." -- - "What you ask
here," replied the spirit, "is not effective in my circles, I'm
just a slave of the ring, so please turn to the slaves of the lamp."
- "If this is so," returned Alaeddin, "so I command you by virtue
of the ring, move me immediately to the place where my palace and
bring me at the window of the princess Bedrulbudur.

"Scarcely had he spoken these words, as the Spirit took him to Africa
and the middle of a large meadow contributed on which the palace not
far from a big town and he put him close to the windows of the princess
down and then let him alone. All this was the work of a moment. Despite
the darkness of night Alaeddin knew quite well his palace and the
rooms of the princess Bedrulbudur.

Since, however, already well into the night in the palace and everything
was quiet, so he went off and sat down under a tree. Here he gave way
to new hopes, and by making observations in place on his luck that
he owed a mere coincidence, his mind was far calmer again. He hung for a
while this pleasant thought, but since he has five or six days, no
more eye had closed, so overwhelmed him last sleep, and he slumbered at
the foot of the mountains. The next day at the dawn broke, it was very
pleasant Alaeddin awakened by the singing of the birds, partly due to the
tree under which he lay, and partly also on the dickbelaubten trees in
the garden of his palace the night had been brought. He immediately
threw his eyes on this building and admirably felt unspeakable joy
that he now had hope again to the same Lord, and on its expensive
new princess Bedrulbudur to possess. He stood up and approached the rooms
of the princess, then he went beneath their windows, walk a while and
waited until she would wake up and could see. Meanwhile, he
thought to himself about how well the cause of his misfortune may
come to be, and after a long back and forth calmly, he no longer
doubted because of his misfortune might just like this came to light
in his eyes lost. He is now allegations about his negligence,
and that he did not care to take it not a moment from the hand to leave.
What it even more embarrassing to it, was that he could not imagine who
is well on his luck was jealous. Although this would become clear to
him if he would have known that he and his palace in Africa though, serve
only the spirit of the ring had he not told him and he had not asked a
question. Otherwise it would have been the name of Africa immediately
to the African magician, canceled his enemy recalls.

The princess stood Bedrulbudur earlier than usual this time on, since
their abduction by the treachery of the African magician, whose
sight they have had to endure once a day, because he was master of
the palace, they had him, but every so brittle treated, that he
dared not yet had his domicile therein aufzuschlagen.

When she was dressed, saw one of their women randomly through the
lattice window, and said Alaeddin announced it immediately to their
mistress. The princess, the message did not believe this could quickly
ran to the window, said Alaeddin and also opened the lattice. The
noise, which thus arose, Alaeddin lifted his head up in the air, and she
greeted them with a face on the exuberant joy that abspiegelte. "In order
not to lose time," the princess said to him, "I see the secret door
open, enters through the same and come up." It is impossible to
describe the joy of the two spouses felt when she After a separation,
which they believed had forever, at last once. They hugged several
times and gave every evidence of love and tenderness that one after
such a sad and unexpected separation can only imagine. After these hugs,
the tears of joy are mixed, they sat and Alaeddin took the floor and
said, "Princess, before we talk about something other, I conjure thee
in the name of God, both to yourself than your venerable father, the
Sultan, and especially for my sake, tell me what has become of my old
lamp, which I before I went out hunting in the room with the windows on
the twenty-four cornices had? "" Oh, dear husband, "answered the
princess," I got's probably thought that our mutual misfortunes of this
lamp come from, and what makes me untröstlich is that I myself am to
blame. "-" Princess, "replied Alaeddin, 'miss you are not at fault,
it's entirely on my side because I would keep the lamp should be
careful. But now let us just remember the damage and lost so tell me how
the matter has reached and in which hands the lamp is advised. "The
princess told Bedrulbudur this Alaeddin all the circumstances under
which the old against the new lamp replacement and as set out in the
night following the transfer of the palace and noticed on the next
morning in an unknown country have found, where they now both are
hot and Africa. The latter had it from the mouth of the Rogue
even know it by his magic arts had moved here. "Princess," she
Alaeddin, "thou hast me the villains clearly enough described by me
said that I with thee am in Africa . He is repulsive to all humans,
but now is neither the time nor the place where you detail his
wickedness to tell, and I beg you just to tell me what he started
with the lamp and where he has kept. "-" He probably contributes
wrapped in his bosom, "the princess replied," I can say this with
certainty because they are in my presence is pulled and reveals,
in order thus to boast. "" princess, "she Alaeddin," I believe a
means to have found both of us by our common enemies to break free.

I shall only observe, upon this instance, that it is nearly pure and
unmixed, or that it is but little connected with idolatrous
circumstances, or rather, that the unlawfulness of fighting was
principally urged by Maximilian as a reason against entering upon a
military life. Let us now find a case, where, when a person was
converted in the army, he left it, pleading this principle, as one among
others, for his dereliction of it.

Marcellus was a centurion in the legion called "Trajana." On a festival,
given in honour of the birth-day of Galerius, he threw down his military
belt at the head of the legion, and in the face of the standards,
declared with a loud voice, that he would no longer serve in the army,
for that he had become a Christian. "I hold in detestation, said he,
addressing himself to all the soldiers, the worship of your gods: gods,
which are made of wood and stone, gods which are deaf and dumb." So far
Marcellus, it appears, seems to have been influenced in his desertion of
a military life by the idolatry connected with it. But let us hear him
farther on this subject. "It is not lawful, says he, for a Christian,
who is the servant of Christ the Lord, to bear arms for any earthly
consideration." After a delay of more than three months in prison after
this transaction, which delay was allowed for the purpose of sparing
him, he was brought before the prefect. There he had an opportunity of
correcting his former expressions. But as he persisted in the same
sentiments, he suffered. It is remarkable, that, almost immediately
after his execution, Cassian, who, was the notary to the same legion,
refused to serve any longer, by publicly throwing his pen and
accompt-book upon the ground, and declaring, at the same time, that the
sentence of Marcellus was unjust. When taken up by the order of
Aurelianus Agricolanus, he is described by the record, preserved by
Ruinart, to have avowed the same sentiments as Marcellus, and, like him,
to have suffered death.

It may not be necessary, perhaps, to cite any other instances, as
opposed to that of Marinus, to the point in question. But, as another
occurs, which may be related in few words, I will just mention it in
this place. Martin, of whom Sulpicius Severus says so much, had been
bred to the profession of arms, but, on his conversion to Christianity,
declined it. In the answer, which he gave to Julian the Apostate for his
conduct on this occasion, we find him making use only of these words, "I
am a Christian, and therefore I cannot fight."

Now this answer of Martin is detached from all notions of idolatry. The
unlawfulness of fighting is given as the only motive for his
resignation. And there is no doubt, that the unlawfulness of fighting
was as much a principle of religion in the early times of Christianity,
as the refusal of sacrifice to the Heathen gods; and that they operated
equally to prevent men from entering into the army, and to drive them
out of it on their conversion. Indeed these principles generally went
together, where the profession of arms presented itself as an occupation
for a Christian. He, who refused the profession on account of the
idolatry connected with it, would have refused it on account of the
unlawfulness of fighting. And he, who refused it on account of the guilt
of fighting, would have refused it oh account of the idolatrous services
it required. Both and each of them were impediments, in the early times
of Christianity, to a military life.


SECT. IV.

_Early Christians then declined the army on account, of one, among other
persuasions, that it was unlawful for Christians to fight--Their
practice examined farther, or into the fourth century--shewn from hence,
that while Christianity continued pure, Christians still declined the
military profession--but as it became less pure, their scruples against
it became less--and when it became corrupt, their scruples against it
ceased--Manner in which the Quakers make the practice of these early
times support the meaning of the scriptural passages, which they adduce
in favour of their tenet on war._


As it will now probably be admitted, that the early Christians refused
to enter into the army, and that they left it after their conversion, on
account of one, among other persuasions, that it was unlawful for them
to fight, I must examine their practice, as it related to this subject,
still farther, or I must trace it down to a later period, before I can
show how the Quakers make the practice of these early times support the
meaning of the scriptural passages, which they advance in favour of
their tenet on war.

It may be considered as a well founded proposition, that, as the lamp of
Christianity burnt bright, in those early times, so those, who were
illuminated by it, declined the military profession; and, that, as its
flame shone less clear, they had less objection to it. Thus, in the two
first centuries, when Christianity was the purest, there were no
Christian soldiers. In the third century, when it became less pure,
there is frequent mention of such soldiers. And in the fourth, when its
corruption was fixed, Christians entered upon the profession of arms
with as little hesitation, as they entered upon any other occupation in
life.

That there were no Christian soldiers in the first and second centuries,
has already been made apparent.

That Christianity also was purest in these times, there can be no doubt.
Let us look at the character which is given of the first Christians by
Athenagoras, Justin Martyr, Minucius Felix, and others of the early
Christian writers. According to these they were plain and neat in their
apparel, and frugal in their furniture. They were temperate in their
eating and drinking. They relinquished all the diversions of the times,
in which they saw any tendency to evil. They were chaste in their
conversation, tempering mirth with gravity. They were modest and chaste
in their deportment and manners. They were punctual to their words and
engagements. They were such lovers of the truth, that, on being asked,
if they were Christians, they never denied it, though death was the
consequence of such a religious profession. They loved each other as
brethren, and called one another by that name. They were kind, and
courteous, and charitable, beyond all example, to others. They abstained
from all manner of violence. They prayed for those who persecuted them.
They were patterns of humility and patience. They made no sacrifice of
their consciences, but would persevere in that which was right, never
refusing to die for their religion. This is the character, which is
uniformly given of them by the Christian writers of those times.

That their conduct was greatly altered in the third century, where we
are now to view it, we may collect from indisputable authority. I stated
in the former section, that a Christian soldier was punished for
refusing to wear a garland, like the rest of his comrades, on a public
occasion. This man, it appears, had been converted in the army, and
objected to the ceremony on that account. Now Tertullian tells us, that
this soldier was blamed for his unseasonable zeal, as it was called, by
some of the Christians at that time, though all Christians before
considered the wearing of such a garland as unlawful and profane. In
this century there is no question but the Christian discipline began to
relax. To the long peace the church enjoyed from the death of Antoninus
to the tenth year of Severus, is to be ascribed the corruption that
ensued. This corruption we find to have spread rapidly; for the same
Tertullian was enabled to furnish us with the extraordinary instance of
manufacturers of idols being admitted into the ecclesiastical order.
Many corruptions are also noticed in this century by other writers.
Cyprian complained of them, as they existed in the middle, and Eusebius,
as they existed at the end of it, and both attributed it to the peace,
or to the ease and plenty, which the Christians had enjoyed. The latter
gives us a melancholy account of their change. They had begun to live in
fine houses, and to indulge in luxuries. But, above all, they had begun
to be envious, and quarrelsome, and to dissemble, and to cheat, and to
falsify their word, so that they lost the character, which Pliny, an
adversary to their religion, had been obliged to give of them, and which
they had retained for more than a century, as appears by their own
writers.

That there were Christian soldiers in this more corrupt century of the
church, it is impossible to deny. For such frequent mention is made of
them in the histories, which relate to this period, that we cannot
refuse our assent to one or other of the propositions, either that there
were men in the armies, who called themselves Christians, or that there
were men in them, who had that name given them by others. That they were
Christians, however, is another question. They were probably such
Christians, as Dion mentioned to have been among the life-guards of
Dioclesian and Maximian, and of Constantius and Maximus, of whom
Maximilian observed, "These men may know what it is expedient for them
to do, but I am a Christian, and therefore I cannot fight." Indeed, that
real Christians could have been found in the army in this century is
impossible, for the military oath, which was full of idolatry, and the
adoration of the standards, and the performance of sacrifice, still
continued as services[14] not to be dispensed with by the soldiery. No
one, therefore, can believe, that men in the full practice of Pagan
idolatry, as every legionary soldier must then have been, were real
Christians, merely because it is recorded in history, that men, calling
themselves Christians, were found in the army in those times. On the
other hand, if any soldiers professed Christianity at this period, or
are related by authors to have professed it, and yet to have remained
soldiers, it may be directly pronounced, that they could only have been
nominal or corrupted Christians.

[Footnote 14: The military oath was not altered for Christians till the
next century, when they were allowed to swear "by God, by Christ, and by
the Holy Spirit, and by the majesty of the emperor, which, next to God,
is to be loved and honoured by mankind."]

That Christianity was more degenerate in the fourth than in the third
century (which is the next position) we have indubitable proof. One of
the first facts, that strikes us, is an extraordinary one related by
Lactantius, in his "Death of the persecuted," that there were Christians
at this time, who, having probably a superstitious belief, that the sign
of the Cross would be a preventive of pollution, were present, and even
assisted at some of the Heathen sacrifices. But it is not necessary to
detail these or other particulars. Almost every body knows, that more
evils sprang up to the church in this century, than in any other, some
of which remain at the present day. Indeed, the corruption of
Christianity was fixed as it were by law in the age now mentioned.
Constantine, on his conversion, introduced many of the Pagan ceremonies
and, superstitions, in which he had been brought up, into the Christian
religion. The Christians, rejoiced at seeing an emperor of their own
persuasion, under whom they had hopes of restoration to equal privileges
with others, and of freedom from persecution, submitted, in order to
please or flatter him, to his idolatrous customs and opinions, thus
sacrificing their consciences to their ease and safety. Many, on the
other hand, who had always been Heathens, professed themselves
Christians at once out of compliment to their emperor, and without any
real conversion of the heart. Thus there was a mixture of Christianity
and Paganism in the church, which had never been known before.
Constantine too did not dispense with the blasphemous titles of
Eternity, Divinity, and Pontifex Maximus, as they had been given to his
predecessors. After his death, he was considered also as a god. And if
Philostorgius is to be believed, the Christians, for so he calls them,
prayed to and worshipped him as such.

Now in this century, when the corruption of the church may be
considered to have been fixed, we scarcely find any mention of Christian
soldiers, or we find the distinction between them and others gradually
passing away. The truth is, that, when the Christians of this age had
submitted to certain innovations upon their religion, they were in a fit
state to go greater lengths; and so it happened, for as Heathens, who
professed to be Christians out of compliment to their emperor, had no
objection to the military service, so Christians, who had submitted to
Heathenism on the same principle, relaxed, in their scruples concerning
it. The latter too were influenced by the example of the former. Hence
the unlawfulness of fighting began to be given up. We find, however,
that here and there an ancient father still retained it as a religious
tenet, but these dropping off one after another, it ceased at length to
be a doctrine of the church.

Having now traced the practice of the Christians down to the fourth
century, as far as the profession of arms is concerned, I shall state in
few words the manner in which the Quakers make this practice support the
meaning of the scriptural passages, which they produce in favour of
their tenet on war.

The Quakers then lay it down as a position, that the Christians of the
first and second centuries, as we had already observed, gave the same
interpretation, as they themselves give, of the passages in question.

Now they say first, that if there were any words or expressions in the
original manuscripts of the Evangelists or Apostles, which might throw
light upon the meaning of these or other passages on the same subject,
but which words and expressions were not in the copies which came after,
then many of those who lived in the first and second centuries, had
advantages with respect to knowledge on this subject, which their
successors had not, inasmuch as the former were soon afterwards lost.

They say secondly, that if there was any thing in tradition which might
help to explain these passages more satisfactorily, those of the first
and second centuries had advantages again, because they lived nearer to
these traditions, or to the time when they were more pure, than those
Christians did, who succeeded them.

They say thirdly, that, if primitive practice be to be considered as the
best interpreter of the passages in question, then those of the first
and second centuries had their advantages again, because many of them
lived in the times of the Evangelists and the Apostles, and all of them
nearer to those who succeeded the Evangelists and Apostles, than those
in the subsequent ages of the Christian era.

But in direct inference, they conceive, is to be drawn from these
premises, namely, that the opinions of those who lived in the first and
second centuries, relative to the meaning of the passages in question,
are likely to be more correct on these several accounts, than those of
Christians in any of the ages that followed.

And as in the first and second centuries of the church, when
Christianity was purest, there were no Christian soldiers, but as in the
fourth century, when it became corrupt, Christians had lost their
objections to a military life, they conceive the opinions of the former
to be more correct than those of the latter, because the opinions of
real Christians, willing to make any sacrifice for their religion, must
be always less biassed and more pure, than those of persons calling
themselves Christians, but yet submitting to the idolatrous and other
corrupt practices of the world.

And as they conceive this to be true of the opinions of the second
century, when compared with those of the fourth, so they conceive it to
be true of the opinions of the second, when compared with those of the
moderns upon this subject, because, whatever our progress in
Christianity may be, seeing that it is not equal to that of the first
Christians, it is certain, besides the distance of time, that we have
prejudices arising from the practice of fourteen centuries, during all
which time it has been held out, except by a few individuals, as lawful
for Christians to fight.


SECT.V.

_Reflections of the author on the foregoing subject--Case of a superior
being supposed, who should reside in the planet nearest to us, and see
war carried on by men no larger than the race of ants--His enquiry as to
the origin of these wars--their duration--and other circumstances--supposed
answers to these questions--New arguments, from this supposed
conversation, against war._


I have now stated the principal arguments, by which the Quakers are
induced to believe it to be a doctrine of Christianity, that men should
abstain from war, and I intended to close the subject in the last
section. But when I consider the frequency of modern wars; when I
consider that they are scarcely over, before others rise up in their
place; when I consider again, that they come like the common diseases,
which belong to our infirm nature, and that they are considered by men
nearly in a similar light, I should feel myself criminal, if I were not
to avail myself of the privilege of an author, to add a few observations
of my own upon this subject.

Living as we do in an almost inaccessible island, and having therefore
more than ordinary means of security to our property and our persons
from hostile invasion, we do not seem to be sufficiently grateful to the
Divine Being for the blessings we enjoy. We do not seem to make a right
use of our benefits by contemplating the situation, and by feeling a
tender anxiety for the happiness of others. We seem to make no proper
estimates of the miseries of war. The latter we feel principally in
abridgments of a pecuniary nature. But if we were to feel them in the
conflagration of our towns and villages, or in personal wounds, or in
the personal sufferings of fugitive misery and want, we should be apt to
put a greater value than we do, upon the blessings of peace. And we
should be apt to consider the connexion between war and misery, and
between war and moral evil, in a light so much stronger than we do at
present, that we might even suppose the precepts of Jesus Christ to be
deficient, unless they were made to extend to wars, as well as to
private injuries.

I wonder what a superior being, living in the nearest planet to our
earth, and seeing us of the size of ants, would say, if he were enabled
to get any insight into the nature of modern wars.

It must certainly strike him, if he were to see a number of such
diminutive persons chasing one another in bodies over different parts of
the hills and vallies of the earth, and following each other in little
nut-shells, as it were upon the ocean, as a very extraordinary sight,
and as mysterious, and hard to be explained. He might, at first,
consider them as occupied in a game of play, or as emigrating for more
food, or for a better climate. But when he saw them stop and fight, and
destroy one another, and was assured that they were actually engaged in
the solemn game of death, and this at such a distance from their own
homes, he would wonder at the causes of these movements, and the reason
of this destruction, and, not knowing that they possessed rational
faculties, he would probably consider them as animals, destined by
nature to live upon one another.

I think the first question he would ask would be, And from whence do
these fightings come? It would be replied of course, that they came from
their lusts; that these beings, though diminutive in their appearance,
were men; that they had pride, and ambition; that they had envy and
jealousy; that they indulged also hatred, and malice, and avarice, and
anger; and that, on account of some or other of these causes, they
quarrelled and fought with one another.

Well, but the superior being would say, is there no one on the earth,
which I see below me, to advise them to conduct themselves better, or
are the passions you speak of eternally uppermost, and never to be
subdued? The reply would of course be, that in these little beings,
called men, there had been implanted the faculty of reason, by the use
of which they must know that their conduct was exceptionable, but that,
in these cases, they seldom minded it. It would also be added in reply,
that they had a religion, which was not only designed by a spirit from
heaven, who had once lived among them, but had been pronounced by him as
efficacious to the end proposed; that one of the great objects of this
religion was a due subjugation of their passions; and this was so much
insisted upon, that no one of them was considered to have received this
religion truly, unless his passions were subdued. But here the superior
being would enquire, whether they acknowledged the religion spoken of,
and the authority from whence it came? To which it would of course be
replied, that they were so tenacious of it, notwithstanding their
indulgence of their passions, and their destruction of one another, that
you could; not offend them more grievously than by telling them, that
they did not belong to the religion they professed.

It is not difficult to foresee what other questions the superior being
would ask, and probably the first of these would be, the duration of the
lives of these little beings, and the length and frequency of their
wars? It would be replied to this, that their lives were but as a
vapour, which appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away, and
that a quarter, and sometimes half of their time on earth, was spent in
those destructive pursuits. The superior being would unquestionably be
grieved at this account, because he would feel, that they really
frustrated their own happiness, or that they lost by their own fault a
considerable portion of the enjoyment of their lives.

In this impatience and anxiety for their future comfort, he would
probably ask again, if they had any notion of any generous end for which
they were born, for it is impossible they could suppose, that they came
into the world to destroy one another. It would be replied, that they
could not be ignorant of the true object or end; for the same religion,
in which they believed, and which was said before to have been given
them by a spirit sent from heaven, inculcated that they were sent there
on a life of trial, and that in a future existence they were to give an
account of their conduct, and were to be rewarded or punished
accordingly. The same religion, it would be replied, also inculcated,
notwithstanding their fightings, the utmost benevolence from one towards
another. It wished so much every one of them to live peaceably, that it
enjoined it as a duty rather to put up with an injury than to resent it,
and it carried its benevolence so far, that it made no distinction
between others of the same species, who spoke a different language, or
lived in other districts or parts of the same world.

But here the superior being would interrupt.--What, he would say! Are
they not to resent injuries, and yet do they go to war? And are they not
afraid of fighting in this manner, when they are to give an account of
their conduct in a future state? It would be replied, No: they have
their philosophers among them, and most of these have determined, that,
in this particular case, responsibility lies at the door of those who
employ them. But, notwithstanding this, there are others living among
them, who think otherwise. These are of opinion, that those who employ
them cannot take the responsibility upon themselves without taking it
from those whom they thus employ. But the religion of the Great Spirit
no where says, that any constituted authorities among them can take away
the responsibility of individual creatures, but, on the other hand, in
the most positive terms, that every individual creature is responsible
wholly for himself. And this religion does not give any creature an
exemption on account of any force which may be used against him; because
no one, according to its precepts, is to do evil, not even that good may
come. But if he be persecuted, he is to adhere to that which is right,
and to expect his reward in the other state. The impossibility,
therefore, of breaking or dissolving individual responsibility, in the
case of immoral action, is an argument to many, of the unlawfulness of
these wars. And those who reason in this manner, think they have
reasoned right, when they consider besides, that, if any of the beings
in question were to kill one of his usually reputed enemies in the time
of peace, he would suffer death for it, and be considered as accountable
also for his crime in a future state. They cannot see, therefore, how
any constituted authorities among them can alter the nature of things,
or how these beings can kill others in time of war, without the
imputation of a crime, whom they could not kill without such an
imputation in time of peace. They see in the book of the Great Spirit no
dispensation given to societies to after the nature of actions, which
are pronounced to be crimes.

But the superior being would say, is it really defined, and is it
defined clearly in the great book of the Spirit, that if one of them
should kill another, he is guilty of a crime! It would be replied, not
only of a crime, but of the greatest of all crimes, and that no
dispensation is given to any of them to commit it in any case. And it
would be observed farther, that there are other crimes, which these
fightings generally include, which are equally specified and forbidden
in the great book, but which they think it proper to sanction in the
present case. Thus, all kinds of treachery and deceit are considered to
be allowable, for a very ancient philosopher among them has left a maxim
upon record, and it has not yet been beaten out of their heads,
notwithstanding the precepts of the great book, in nearly the following
words: "Who thinks of requiring open courage of an enemy, or that
treachery is not equally allowable in war?"[15]

[Footnote 15: Dolus an virtus quis in hoste requirat?]

Strange! the superior being would reply. They seem to me to be reversing
the order of their nature, and the end of their existence. But how do
they justify themselves on these occasions? It would be answered, that
they not only justify themselves, but they even go so far as to call
these fightings honourable. The greater the treachery, if it succeeds,
and the greater the number of these beings killed, the more glorious is
the action esteemed.

Still more strange! the superior being would reply. And is it possible,
he would add, that they enter into this profession With a belief, that
they are entering into an honourable employ? Some of them, it would be
replied, consider it as a genteel employ. And hence they engage in it.
Others, of a lazy disposition, prefer it to any other. Others are
decoyed into it by treachery in various ways. There are also strong
drinks, which they are fond of, and if they are prevailed upon to take
these to excess, they lose their reason, and then they are obliged to
submit to it. It must be owned too, that when these wars begin, the
trades of many of these little beings are stopped, so that, to get a
temporary livelihood, they go out and fight. Nor must it be concealed,
that many are forced to go, both against their judgment and against
their will.

The superior being, hurt at these various accounts, would probably ask,
and what then does the community get by these wars, as a counterbalance
for the loss of so much happiness, and the production of so much evil?
It would be replied, nothing. The community is generally worse off at
the end of these wars, than when it began to contend. But here the
superior being would wish to hear no more of the system. He would
suddenly turn away his face, and retire into one of the deep valleys of
his planet, either with exclamations against the folly, or with emotions
of pity for the situation, or with expressions of disgust at the
wickedness, of these little creatures.

   "O for a lodge in some vast wilderness,
   Some boundless contiguity of shade,
   Where tumour of oppression and deceit,
   Of unsuccessful or successful war,
   Might never reach me more! My ear is pain'd,
   My soul is sick with every day's report,
   Of wrong and outrage, with which earth is fill'd.
   Lands, intersected by a narrow frith,
   Abhor each other. Mountains interpos'd,
   Make enemies of nations who had else,
   Like kindred drops, been mingled into one.
   Thus men devotes his brother, and destroys--
   Then what is man? And what man, seeing this,
   And having human feelings, does not blush,
   And hang his head, to think himself a man?"

COWPER


SECT. VI.

_Subject farther considered--Sad conceptions of those relative to the
Divine Being, and the nature of the Gospel, who plead for the necessity
of war--War necessary, where statesmen pursue the policy of the
world--Nature and tendency of this policy--but not necessary where they
pursue the policy of the Gospel--Nature and tendency of this
policy--This tendency farther confirmed by a supposed case of a few
Quakers becoming the governors of the world._


It is now an old maxim, and time with all its improvements has not worn
it away, that wars are necessary in the present constitution of the
world. It has not even been obliterated, that they are necessary, in
order to sweep off mankind on account of the narrow boundaries of the
earth. But they, who make use of this argument, must be aware, that, in
espousing it, they declare no less, than that God, in the formation of
his system, had only half calculated or half provided for its
continuance, and that they charge him with a worse cruelty than is
recorded of the worst of men: because, if he told men to increase and
multiply, and gave them passions accordingly, it would appear as if he
had created them only to enjoy an eternal feast in the sight of their
destruction. Nor do they make him a moral governor of the world, if he
allows men to butcher one another without an individual provocation or
offence.

Neither do persons, arguing for the necessity of wars, do less than set
themselves above the prophecies or oracles of God, which declare, that
such warfare shall some time or other cease.

Neither do they, when they consider wars as necessary, and as never to
be done away on account of the wicked passions of men, do less than
speak blasphemy against the Gospel of Jesus Christ, because they
proclaim it to be inadequate to the end proposed. For the proper
subjugation of these, among other purposes, it was that the Gospel was
promulgated. If it be thought a miracle, that the passions of men should
be subdued, it is still a miracle, which Christianity professes to work;
which it has worked since the hour of its institution; which it has
worked in men, who have placed their highest reputation in martial
glory; and which it continues to work, at the present day. Those,
therefore, who promote wars, and excite the passions of men for this
purpose, attempt to undo what it is the object of Christianity to do,
and to stop the benign influence of the Gospel in the hearts of men.

That wars are necessary, or rather that they will be begun and
continued, I do not mean to deny, while statesmen pursue the wisdom or
policy of the world.

What this wisdom or policy is, it will not be difficult to trace. And
first, when any matter is in dispute among the rulers of nations, is it
not a maxim, that a high tone is desirable in the settlement of it, in
order that the parties may seem to betray neither fear nor weakness, and
that they may not be thought to lose any of their dignity or their
spirit? Now as the human passions are constituted, except they have
previously been brought under due regulation by Christianity, what is
more likely than that a high tone of language on one side should beget a
similar tone on the other, or that spirit, once manifested, should,
produce spirit in return, and that each should fly off, as it were, at a
greater distance from accommodation than before, and that, when once
exasperation has begun, it should increase. Now what is the chance, if
such policy be resorted to on such occasions, of the preservation of
peace between them?

And, secondly, is it not also a received maxim, that, in controversies
of this sort, a nation, even during the discussion, should arm itself,
in order that it may shew itself prepared? But if any one nation arms
during the discussion; if it fits out armies or fleets of observation
with a view of deterring, or of being ready in case of necessity of
striking, as it is called, the first blow; what is more probable, than
that the other will arm also, and that it will fit out its own armies
and fleets likewise? But when both are thus armed, pride and spirit will
scarcely suffer them to relax, and what is then more probable, than that
they will begin to fight?

And, thirdly, is it not a maxim also, that, even during the attempt to
terminate the dispute, the public mind should be prepared? Are not the
public papers let loose to excite and propagate a flame? And are not
the deeds of our ancestors ushered into our ears to produce a martial
spirit? But if the national temper is roused on both sides, and if
preparations are carrying on at the same time with the utmost vigour,
where again is the hope of the prevention of war between them?

And, fourthly, after hostilities are commenced, is it not a maxim also
to perpetuate the enmity, which has been thus begun, and to give it a
deeper root, and even to make it eternal by connecting it with religion?
Thus flag-staffs are exhibited upon steeples, bells are rung to announce
victories, and sermons are preached as occasions arise, as if the places
allotted for Christian worship, were the most proper from whence to
issue the news of human suffering, or to excite the passions of men for
the destruction of one another. Nor is this all. The very colours of the
armies are consecrated. I do not mean to say, that like the banners in
the Praetorian tents, they are actually worshipped, but that an attempt
is made to render them holy in the eyes of those who are present. An
attempt is made, wonderful to relate, to incorporate war into the
religion of Jesus Christ, and to perpetuate enmity on the foundation of
the Gospel!

Now this is the policy of the world, and can it be seriously imagined,
that such a system as this can ever lead to peace? For while
discussions relative to matters of national dispute are carried on in a
high tone, because a more humble tone would betray weakness or fear;
while again, during this discussion, preparations for war are going on,
because the appearance of being prepared would convey the idea of
determined resolution, and of more than ordinary strength; while again,
during the same discussion, the national spirit is awakened and
inflamed; and while again, when hostilities have commenced, measures are
resorted to, to perpetuate a national enmity, so that the parties
consider themselves as natural enemies even in the succeeding peace,
what hope is there of the extermination of war on earth?

But let us now look at the opposite policy, which is that of the Gospel.
Now this policy would consist in the practice of meekness, moderation,
love, patience, and forbearance, with a strict regard to justice, so
that no advantages might be taken on either side. But if these
principles, all of which are preventive of irritation, were to be
displayed in our negotiations abroad, in the case of any matter in
dispute, would they not annihilate the necessity of wars? For what is
the natural tendency of such principles? What is their tendency, for
instance, in private life? And who are the negotiators on these
occasions but men? Which kind of conduct is most likely to disarm an
opponent, that of him who holds up his arm to strike, if his opponent
should not comply with his terms, or of him who argues justly, who
manifests a temper of love and forbearance, and who professes that he
will rather suffer than resist, and that he will do every thing sooner
than that the affair shall not be amicably settled? The Apostle Paul,
who knew well the human heart, says, "If thine enemy hunger, feed him,
for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head." That is,
thou shall cause him, by thy amiable conduct, to experience burning
feelings within himself, which, while they torment him with the
wickedness of his own conduct, shall make him esteem thee, and bring him
over to thy side. Thus thou shalt overcome his evil by thy good. Or, in
other words, as fire melts the hardest metals, so thy kindness shall
melt his anger. Thus Parnell--

   "So artists melt the sullen ore of lead,
   By heaping coals of fire upon its head.
   Touch'd by the warmth, the metal teams to glow,
   And pure from dress, the silver tang below."

This policy again would consist of the practical duty of attempting to
tranquillize the minds of the people, while the discussion was going on,
of exhorting them to await the event with composure, of declaring
against the folly and wickedness of wars, as if peace only could be the
result, of abstaining from all hostile preparations, and indeed from all
appearance of violence. Now what influence would such conduct have
again, but particularly when known to the opposite party? If the
opposite party were to see those alluded to keeping down the passions of
their people, would they inflame the passions of their own? If they were
to be convinced, that these were making no preparations for war, would
they put themselves to the expence of arming? Can we see any other
termination of such a contest than the continuance of peace?

That the policy of the Gospel, if acted upon by statesmen, would render
wars unnecessary, we may infer from supposed cases. And, first, I would
ask this simple question, whether, if all the world were Quakers, there
would be any more wars? I am sure the reply would be, no. But why not?
Because nations of Quakers, it would be replied, would discuss matters
in dispute between them with moderation, with temper, and with
forbearance. They would never make any threats. They would never arm,
and consequently they would never fight. It would be owing then to these
principles, or, in other words, to the adoption of the policy of the
Gospel in preference of the policy of the world, that, if the globe were
to be peopled by Quakers, there would be no wars. Now I would ask, what
are Quakers but men, and might not all, if they would suffer themselves
to be cast in the same mould as the Quakers, come out of it of the same
form and character?

But I will go still farther. I will suppose that any one of the four
continents, having been previously divided into three parts, was
governed only by three Quakers, and that these had the same authority
over their subjects, as their respective sovereigns have at present. And
I win maintain, that there would never be, upon this continent, during
their respective administrations, another war. For, first, many of the
causes of war would be cut off. Thus, for instance, there would be no
disputes about insults offered to flags. There would be none again about
the balance of power. In short, it would be laid down as a position,
that no one was to do evil, that good might come. But as,
notwithstanding, there might still be disputes from other causes, these
would be amicably settled. For first, the same Christian disposition
would be manifest in the discussion as in the former case. And,
secondly, if the matter should be of an intricate nature, so that one
Quaker government could not settle it with another, these would refer
it, according to their constitution, to a third. This would be the "ne
plus ultra" of the business. Both the discussion and the dispute would
end here. What a folly then to talk of the necessity of wars, when, if
but three Quakers were to rule a continent, they would cease there?
There can be no plea for such language, but the impossibility of taming
the human passions. But the subjugation of these is the immediate object
of our religion. To confess, therefore, that wars must be, is either to
utter a libel against Christianity, or to confess that we have not yet
arrived at the stature of real Christians.


SECT. VII.

_Subject farther examined--Case allowed, that if a cabinet of good men
had to negotiate with a cabinet of good men, there might be no wars--but
what would be the issue if good had to deal with bad--Case of American
settlers, who adopted the policy of the world, and were always at
war--and of other American settlers, who adopted the policy of the
Gospel, and were always at peace--No case stronger, than where
civilized men had to deal with savage American tribes._


I believe it will be allowed, that the Quaker instances, mentioned in
the last section, are in point. But I am aware also, it will be said
that, though different cabinets, all having the same Christian
disposition, would settle their disputes in a friendly manner, how would
a cabinet, consisting of spiritually minded men, settle with a cabinet
of other men, who had not brought their passions under due regulation,
and who, besides, had no notion of the unlawfulness of war.

I apprehend that it will not be denied, that men, as ferocious as any
recorded in history, were those, who were found in America, when that
continent was discovered. We hear nothing of Africans, or of Asiatics,
which would induce us to suppose, that they were as wild and as
barbarous as these. And nothing is more true of these, than they, were
frequently concerned in wars. I shall therefore take these for an
example, and I shall shew by the opposite conduct of two different
communities towards them, that it rests with men to live peaceably or
not, as they cultivate the disposition to do it, or as they follow the
policy of the Gospel in preference of the policy of the world.

When the English, Dutch, and others, began to people America, they
purchased land of the natives. But when they went to that continent,
notwithstanding there were amiable persons among them, and friends to
civil and religious liberty, they went with the notions of worldly
policy, and they did not take with them the Christian wisdom of the
unlawfulness of war. He has made us so surprised and want to show that
with equivalent money over night can do wonders. Only admit that if you
slightly undermined by jealousy when you talk of magic. "However, it was
time to go to the council, and they broke from the conversation.
Alaeddin As in his apartment had been brought back and the spirit
was released, He found his mother on the legs and with the tightening
employs one of the dresses, which he had to leave her.

He led them now to the time when the Sultan usually came from the council,
accompanied by slaves to the spirit had brought her, after the
palace to go. When they saw the Sultan, they should tell him they come
to the honor to have the princess on the night to accompany her palaces.
Alaeddin rose now on horseback, his father left home, never to return,
but forgot the magic lamp is not that what he had done splendid service,
and then moved to his palace with the same pomp, with which he
was the day before the Sultan had imagined. [Illustration] [Illustration]
As soon as the porter of the royal palace Alaeddin mother said she
reported it to the Sultan. Immediately was the choirs of the trumpet,
the timpani and drum-beaters, the fife and Hoboisten that are already
on the terraces of the palace at different points were set up, a
sign, and at the moment sounded cheerful music, the joy of the
whole city announced.

The merchants began to move their shops with beautiful carpets,
upholstery and foliage to decorate, and met stations for lighting
the city.

The crafts people left their jobs in droves and moved the people
after the big space between the Sultan Alaeddin and palaces. The latter
drew mainly general admiration in itself, especially as the palace of the
Sultan with the new is not in comparison to was. Most but they were
amazed, because they could not understand, through which they have a
tremendous miracle so magnificent palace on a saw places where they are
neither the day before the reason, nor building had seen. Alaeddin mother
was in the palace and received honorable Supreme blending into the
room of the princess led Bedrulbudur. Once they saw the princess, she
went to meet them, embraced them, she was on her sofa seat, and while
their wives and they completely ankleideten with the most precious
jewels of Alaeddin decorated gift, she let her a delicious
snack forward. The sultan, who came to do as long as possible with the
princess, his daughter, to be able to be together before they separated
from him and the palace Alaeddin relate, also proved her great honor.
Alaeddin mother had been with him several times before the assembled
Rate spoken, but he had never as now seen without a veil. Although
they have a considerable number of years on the back was so still you
could see from their faces that they are in their youth have been very
nice had. The Sultan, who is always very easy, even paltry seen dressed,
was now fully baffled, as he well dressed magnificently rich and saw
the princess, his daughter. He concluded that in all things Alaeddin
same experience and understanding must be einsichtsvoll. When night came,
the princess took leave of the Sultan, her father. This farewell was very
tender and tearful, they hugged several times, without a word to speak,
but finally, the princess from her room and stepped on the train,
left to their mother and Alaeddin went behind them one hundred
slaves in the finest clothes.

All music choirs, since the arrival of Alaeddin mother continuously,
were now united in the course and went ahead, they followed one
hundred satellites and just black out in two rows, with their
commanders at the top.

Four hundred young page of the Sultan, the two trains with torches in
hand on both sides, puts a light sheen spread, which, together with the
lighting of the two palaces of the Sultan Alaeddin and the lack of
daylight to the beautiful superseded. In that order drew the Princess
along the carpet by the palaces of the Sultan Alaeddin to palaces, and
the more they came forward, the more mixed and united in the game of
their music with the choir, which differs from the terraces at
Alaeddin Palace down to hear him, and it make a concert, which, so
strangely and seemed confused also, however the general joy increased.

At last the princess in the new palaces, and Alaeddin went with a joy
that is easy to think of it, at the entrance of the room for themselves,
order they should receive. Alaeddin mother of the princess had already
sent his son, the brilliant servants surrounded was called, and the
princess found him so beautiful that she was quite charmed. »Most
expensive princess," Alaeddin said to her, by giving to them and they
received full homage welcomed, "should I have the misfortune to you
by my boldness, which I referred to the possession of such a lovely
princess, the daughter of my sultan, sought, be satisfied, so you must
blame your beautiful eyes, and the power of your charms attribute,
but not me. "-" Prince, "answered the princess," - as such, because
you appear to me - I obey the will of the Sultan, my father, and after
I seen you, say that without him I balk and gladly obey. "Alaeddin was
delighted with this pleasant and firm response, took her hand, kissed
it with great tenderness, and led them into a large, of wax candles lit
hall, where events of the mind to a wonderful meal was applied. The
bowls were of gold and elegant with delicious food filled. The vases,
basins and the cups, so the table was occupied essay abundant, were
also of gold and of exquisite work.

Also the other decorations and the whole of the hall were Ausschmuck this
high glory. The princess was quite charmed so many riches to be seen
together, and said to Alaeddin, "Prince, I had previously believed
that there is nothing more beautiful in the world can give, as the
palace of the sultan, my father, but this room alone convinced me that I
have misled. "The princess Bedrulbudur, Alaeddin and his mother sat down
to tables now and immediately began a very gentle, harmonious music
together with a lovely singing of beautiful girls.

The princess was charmed and assured in the palaces of the Sultan,
her father, never heard anything like it. But they did not know that
these singers were fairies, the spirit, the slave of the lamp hiezu had
chosen. It was near midnight when Alaeddin, the then existing custom
in China that stood up and the princess's hand Bedrulbudur offered
to with her to dance, and thus the Hochzeitsfeierlichkeit to close.
When this was over, the princess gave Alaeddin hand, and together they
went into the room where the high temporal camp was prepared for
them. The women of the princess clothed them and took them to
bed, Alaeddin servants did the same and then removed all. Thus
ends the merry to celebrate the wedding of the princess and
Alaeddin Bedrulbudur. The next morning, when Alaeddin awoke, came his
valet to dress him. They took him to another, but no less rich and
splendid dress as the wedding day. Then he let one of his favorite
horses perform, and ascended it came with a numerous retinue of
slaves, before and behind him and both sides were going after the
palaces of the sultan.

The Sultan received him with the same honors as the first time, he hugged
him, let him next to sit on his throne and ordered the Frühmahl provided.
"Sir," Alaeddin said to him, "I pray thee, I have this honor to adopt .
I come to you to ask that you honor me erzeigen like, with your
Großvezier and make your yard in a palace of the princess lunch einzunehmen.
"The Sultan granted this very much. He immediately stood up, and since
the road was not far away, so he wanted to go there on foot. He then
broke up and fell on his right Alaeddin, to the left of the Großvezier
and the Making of the Court, provided the satellites and the most
prestigious of his house. The closer the palaces of the Sultan Alaeddin
came, the more surprised he was on his beauty. Even much higher rose his
surprise when he had occurred. When Alaeddin him but in the room with
the windows twenty-four led, and he decorated the same, but especially
with the largest and most magnificent diamonds, rubies and emeralds
decorated lattice window looked, he was so surprised that he stood
motionless for a while. The Sultan now besah and admired the beauty
of the twenty-fourth lattice window. But he counted them, he found that
only twenty-three so richly decorated, and very surprised that the
fourth man had left unfinished. "My son," said the Sultan to Alaeddin,
"this is the admirably Hall, in the whole world to see. Only about something
I have to wonder, that the lattice window here has remained
unfinished.

If this is done from forgetfulness, or negligence, or have perhaps
the craft people not had enough time at this beautiful architectural
monuments of the last hand them?

- "Sir," replied Alaeddin, "the grid window is intentionally left unfinished
so as you see. I wish in fact that you even have the glory solltest, the
hall and palace to be complete, and now I ask you, my good gracious
intention, so I have your favor and grace can boast. "-" If you are
in This intention did, "replied the Sultan," so I know you many thanks
for this and will immediately give the necessary orders. "Really,
he immediately with the best jewelers and precious stones, to the
skilful goldsmiths test its capital call.

The sultan, however, left the hall, and Alaeddin took him in, where he
was the princess at the wedding day Bedrulbudur had entertained. The
princess received the Sultan, her father, with a mine, which was
clearly visible that it is compatible with their marriage very well
had to be satisfied.

Two boards were there, with the most delicious dishes filled, and the
tableware was all of gold. The Sultan sat down at the first and
dined with the Princess, his daughter, with Alaeddin and the
Großvezier.

The rest of the Great Court were entertained at the second, which was
very long. When the Sultan was up from the table, reported to him, the
jewelers and goldsmiths, which he had let go, there are now. He went with
them into the hall twenty-four with the windows and showed them the
window that was still unfinished. "I have let you come," he said to
them, "so you give me this window ausbauet and makes it as beautiful as
the others." The jewelers and goldsmiths were the twenty-three window
very closely, and after they had each other advice and it had become one,
which work to provide each individual would have joined them again
before the Sultan and the Hofjuwelier took the floor and said,
"Lord, we are ready, all the effort and diligence in order to obey
you, but, honestly confessed, so much we are here, so we told each
other not so precious, yet so many gems, such as a significant
work is needed. "-" what I own, "said the Sultan," and although
much more than you'll need, come to my palace, I will show them to
you, that ye wählet.

"When the Sultan in his palace had returned, he summoned all his gems
bring, and the goldsmith took a lot of them, especially from those
who had given him Alaeddin. They brought it to the window, without
you the progress of their work would have been much noticed, and came
to repeatedly in order to attract new, but in a month, they had not yet
half of the work completed. At last they all used the gems Sultan, from
the still to Großvezier borrowed, but did not exceed half of the
window established.

Alaeddin, who probably saw that the Sultan is trying in vain, the
rest of this window to do the same, and that he has not picked up this
great honor, let the gold and told them they should not only their
work but also what they have brought something back and take apart
the Sultan and her jewels Großvezier returned.

It was because the plant, which the goldsmiths and jewelers for more than
six weeks were used, within a few hours destroyed. They removed Alaeddin
and then remained alone in the back rooms. He pulled out the lamp, which
he had with him, and then rubbed it seemed the spirit. "Spirit," said
Alaeddin to him, "I had told you, one of the twenty-fourth lattice
windows of the hall to leave unfinished, and you have complied with
this command: now I come to thee, that thou, the other should do
the same."

The Alaeddin spirit disappeared and went out of the Saale. As he pointed
a while back hinaufkam, he found the lattice window in the desired
condition and just like the rest. In the meantime, the jewelers
and goldsmiths in the palace, were in the audience room and the
Sultan presented. The first jeweler gave him the jewels, which they
brought back, and said on behalf of all to him, "rulers of the
earth, you know how long we have been initiated with the hard work in
order to complete the work that you've applied ourselves. It was already
very far advanced, when Alaeddin urged us not only to cease work,
but everything we had brought something to destroy you and your
precious stones and Großveziers back.

"The Sultan was immediately command him a horse perform he ascended it,
and rode to the palace Alaeddin. The Sultan Alaeddin, said: "My son, I
come to you to ask why you do such a magnificent and single room, like
the one in your palace is unfinished can do?

"Alaeddin conceal the real reason, namely that the Sultan is not rich
enough to be precious to so much effort to deny him and replied:" Sir,
it's true, you have seen the unfinished room, but I pray thee, see
Now even if it lacks anything.

"After the Sultan is convinced that the lattice window, which Goldsmith
had worked so long in such a short time had been completed, Alaeddin
he hugged and kissed him between the eyes and the forehead.

"My son," he said this to him completely baffled, "what a man art thou,
that thou so amazing bringest something works before you turn a
hand?

You searched in the whole world is not your equal, and the more I learn
you know, so I think you admirably. "Alaeddin, the Lobsprüche the Sultan
with great modesty, and answered him as follows:" Sir, it is a great
fame for me the kindness and the applause, I deserve to be king, but I
can assure you that I will always be all of proposed to me that more
and more worthy to do. "The sultan returned to his palace, where the
expected Großvezier him. Yet fully amazement about the miracle, which
he with his own eyes, the Sultan told him everything. Alaeddin not
locked in his palaces, he was in town, he soon at this, and soon
went into the mosque for his prayers to perform, or from time to
time the Großvezier visited, which is beeiferte him on certain days waiting
to make his, or he was also sometimes make some of the court, he often
hosted in his palace, the honor to house to visit. Every time he ride,
he had a numerous retinue of slaves to, and two of them were on the
streets and squares through which he came, and where there is always a
large quantity of people einfand, hands full of gold eject. No Armer
appeared at the gate of his palace, without very happy about the gifts,
which were handed out his command to return. Alaeddin Since his time
was divided so that it at least once every week to hunt was soon
in the next few environments city, soon in more distant, as he showed on
the streets and in the villages as generous. This magnanimous behavior
made that the entire nation with his blessing, and finally overwhelmed
vowed not higher, than in his head. Yes you can without the Sultan in
the shade to provide say that Alaeddin by his affability and liberality
the affection of the whole people had acquired in general and was
loved more than the Sultan himself with all these beautiful properties
connected a gallantry and a zeal for the welfare of the state, you can
not praise enough. Evidence which he gave when opportunity of a
rebellion on the borders of the empire. No sooner had he learned that the
Sultan, an army equipped to absorb it, so he asked him to him the supreme
command to pass.

Once he is at the head of the standing army, he is so fast and with
such zeal into the field that the defeat of the Sultan, punishment and
the dispersion of the rebel rather heard, as his arrival at the army.
The fact that his name across the famous rich, spoiled but not his
heart, he returned sieggekrönt while back, but still remained so
mild and affable as ever.

Alaeddin had already for several years lived in this way, as the
magician in Africa is reminded of his. Although he has faith in the firm
had lived Alaeddin needed in the subterranean vaults underlying gone,
so he got it at once pleasure, just to find out what end he had taken.
As a great master in the art punk animal, he discovered that Alaeddin not
only not in the subterranean vaults had died, but it was rescued
and in great splendor and vast wealth, married to a princess, and respected
hochgeehrt live. [Illustration] [Illustration] Scarcely had the
African magician using his devilish art made this discovery, it was
his blood into his face. Fully anger he said to himself: "This miserable
son Schneider has thus the mystery and the miracle power of the lamp
discovered, I thought for sure his death and now he enjoys the
fruit of my work, and night guards, but rather I want to go even
longer than him in his fortunes leave.

"He had taken his decision quickly, ascended at the next morning a Berber
Stallion, which he had in the stables and went on his way. So he came
from town to town, and from country to country, without stopping en
route for more than his horse needed time to rest, to China and soon
in the capital of the sultan. He went into a public inn and rented a
room. Here he remained the remaining part of the day and the
following night, to the discomfort of the journey to recover. On
the next morning wanted the African magician especially to know what
you speak of Alaeddin. By now he walked through the city, he
joined a very famous and make people highly visited teahouse. Scarcely
had they taken place, when he was a bowl of tea einschenkte. While he
drank, he listened to the left and right, and heard that one of the
palaces Alaeddin said. Ausgetrunken When he had approached it to an order
to take him aside and ask him what that was for a palace, which is
so rühmend speak. »What are for you, friend?" He replied Angeredete. "You
have only been very recently here, if you are the palace of
Prince Alaeddin have not seen or at least do not even have heard them
talk."

They called Alaeddin is always so, since he had married Princess
Bedrulbudur.

"I do not say" drove the man continued, "that is one of the marvels
of the world, but I say rather that he is the only miracle in the
world.

See it once and judge yourself whether I would not have reported the
truth. "-" Forgive my ignorance, "said the African magician," I
am arrived here yesterday and will, in fact, so far, I can say from
extreme end of Africa. My curiosity is so great that I would like to
satisfy them immediately, if you only had the goodness to send me the way
to show it. "That, followed by the African magician camp was led by,
made a pleasure to him the way to Alaeddin Palace to describe, and
the African magician went away.

When he arrived, and the palace from all sides was accurate, he no
longer doubted that Alaeddin the lamp must have operated, because
he knew quite well that such marvels of only the spirits of the
lamp could be created.

Fully anger about happiness and the size Alaeddin, which is not different
from the Sultan, after he returned to the inn, where he was dismounted.
Now he needed only to know where the lamp was whether Alaeddin they
wore at home or stored somewhere, and in order to discover the magician
had his punk art animal to help take. From his experiments, he realized
that the lamp in Alaeddin Palace, and was beside himself with joy
over such a major discovery. "I must get it, this lamp," he said, "and
despite Alaeddin was offered, whether he can stop me, he is to snatch him
in the low back hinabzudrücken from which he has risen so high."
The accident would that Alaeddin was just eight days on the hunt and
has only been gone three days was gone, the African magician learned
this. He went into the shop of a man who made lamps for sale, and said
this: "Master, I would like twelve copper lamps have: you can deliver
them to me? "The Lamp Seller replied that he is still missing some,
but if he wanted to wait until tomorrow, so could he deliver a full dozen.
The magician, it was satisfied, and recommended him, they must be quite
handsome and his bare, after he gave him a good pay had promised, he
went back to his inn. The next day was a dozen lamps the African magician
delivered, which, without market, the price demanded for paid. He
put them in a basket, went with this basket on your arm after
Alaeddin Palace, and began when he was in the vicinity, to call to:
"Who wants old lamps with new ones?"

When the small children who played on the place, heard this, she ran
over and gathered around him because they considered him a fool. Even
the passers laughed at his stupidity. The African magician, but went on
to its product offering and loud screaming, "Who wants old lamps with new
ones?" He repeated this so often, on the square in front of the
palace and close to the same outgoing and that the Princess
Bedrulbudur, especially in the rooms with the windows twenty-four
was the voice of the man stopped, since it but because of the clamor
of the children did not understand what he exclaimed, as she sent
one of their slaves down to see what the noise meant .

Thirdly, that they are to
take, whereever they are received, such things as are given them, which
things they deserve while in the exercise of their calling, as much as
the labourer his hire, but that no bargains are to be made about
religion; that they are not to compel men to give, neither are they to
take away any thing from those who are unwilling to receive them, but,
in this case, to go their ways, and shake the dust from their feet
against them, or, in other words, to declare that they have done their
own duty in going to them with the word of God, and that the fault lies
with them in refusing to hear it. Neither, when they return from their,
missions, or are idle at home, are they to receive any thing, but to use
their own scrips and purses, and clothes. And fourthly, that though it
be lawful for them to receive such sustenance, under such limitations,
during the exercise of their ministry, it would be more consistent with
the spirit of Christianity, if they would give their spiritual labours
freely, and look up to God for their reward, thus avoiding the character
of false teachers, and the imputation of an abuse of their power in the
Gospel.

Now these conclusions, the Quakers say, seem to have been sanctioned, in
a great measure, by the primitive practice for the three first centuries
of the church, or till the darkness of apostacy began to overwhelm the
religious world.

In the very early times of the Gospel, many Christians, both at
Jerusalem and Alexandria in Egypt, sold their possessions, and lived
together on the produce of their common stock. Others in Antioch,
Galatia, and Pontus, retained their estates in their possession, but
established a fund, consisting of weekly or monthly offerings, for the
support of the church. This fund continued in after times. But it was
principally for the relief of poor and distressed saints, in which the
ministers of the Gospel, if in that situation, might also share.
Tertullian, in speaking of such funds, gives the following account:
"Whatsoever we have, says he, in the treasury of our churches, is not
raised by taxation, as though we put men to ransom their religion, but
every man once a month, or when it pleaseth him, bestoweth what he
thinks proper, but not except he be willing. For no man is compelled,
but left free to his own discretion. And that, which is thus given, is
not bestowed in vanity, but in relieving the poor, and upon children
destitute of parents, and in the maintenance of aged and feeble persons,
and of men wrecked by sea, and of such as have been condemned to
metallic mines, or have been banished to islands, or have been cast into
prison, professing the Christian faith."

In process of time, towards the close of the third century, some lands
began to be given to the church. The revenue from these was thrown into
the general treasury or fund, and was distributed, as other offerings
were, by the deacons and elders, but neither bishops nor ministers of
the Gospel were allowed to have any concern with it. It appears from
Origen, Cyprian, Urban, Prosper, and others, that if in those times such
ministers were able to support themselves, they were to have nothing
from this fund. The fund was not for the benefit of any particular
person. But if such ministers stood in need of sustenance, they might
receive from it; but they were to be satisfied with simple diet, and
necessary apparel. And so sacred was this fund held to the purposes of
its institution, that the first Christian emperors, who did as the
bishops advised them, had no recourse to it, but supplied the wants of
ministers of the Gospel from their own revenues, as Eusebius, Theodoret,
and Sozomen relate.

The council of Antioch, in the year 340, finding fault with the deacons
relative to the management of the funds of the churches, ordained that
the bishops might distribute them, but that they should take no part of
them to themselves, or for the use of the priests and brethren who lived
with them, unless necessity required it, using the words of the Apostle,
"Having food and raiment, be therewith content."

In looking at other instances, cited by the Quakers, I shall mention
one, which throws light for a few years farther upon this subject. In
the year 359, Constantine, the emperor, having summoned a general
council of bishops to Arminium in Italy, and provided for their
subsistence there, the British and French bishops, judging it not fit to
live on the public, chose rather to live at their own expence. Three
only out of Britain, compelled by want, but yet refusing assistance
offered to them by the rest, accepted the emperor's provision, judging
it more proper to subsist by public than by private support. This
delicate conduct of the bishops is brought to shew, that, where
ministers of the Gospel had the power of maintaining themselves, they
had no notion of looking to the public. In short, in those early times,
ministers were maintained only where their necessities required it, and
this out of the fund for the poor. Those, who took from the fund, had
the particular application given them of "sportularii," or
basket-clerks, because, according to Origen, Tertullian, Cyprian, and
others, they had their portion of sustenance, given them in baskets.
These portions consisted but of a small pittance, sufficient only for
their livelihood, and were given them on the principle laid down by St.
- And why do you regret - it simply asked doña Luz -. I do not think it
likely that courtly knight falls in love with me, in three or four
days you have to stay here, but as this is neither impossible nor
offends me that you, estimated at more than what I deserve, I
predicted that victory, why do not you regret, not for fear of too
much praise my self-esteem. - There is no such fear - said the
doctor's daughter - which leads me to repentance, but the fear of
having hurt a sensitive heart, having made a deep wound. - Do not
understand - said Doña Luz -; what do you want to imply?

How sensitive is the heart - The Fr Enrique - responded poorly
hours doña Manolita. Doña Luz was red as scarlet. Whole blood from his
body would be up to the head. All the pride of caste and crowd piled
in his heart. He saw more than ridiculous outrage in order to
believe that the passion of a friar. She believed that one could
admire the brother for his talent, by his virtue, reverence for
his conduct irreproachable, and his treatment of love and conversation,
and pleased to be your friend, but fall in love with him she seemed
so absurd, so contrary to all the conveniences and social and religious
laws, so monstrously ugly and shocking, not wanted, nor could, nor should
the person suspected in view of the restraint and even sanctity in the
P. Enrique noticed. Doña Luz looked, therefore, as an evil villain and
ruin the thought of Ms Manolita, and as an expression of arrogance
thinking that by word. - What you have just uttering - by voice
exclaimed balbuciente cholera - - is an insult, it's a hard accusation
against Fr Henry and me.

Neither the father raving, I have not given occasion for delire.
To clean my fame is shielded from evil, I am locked in this place, I have
almost every paragraph humane treatment, he fled the youth, while I was
young, yet so, as I am, I have not admitted to my privacy, but sixty years
old as your father, the priest and Acisclo gift, and none of this
has earned me. Because I, for nearly thirty years, I left, I have
entrusted with pleasure, I declare it frankly, honored friendship
of a servant of God, tried in a thousand troubles, broken by them, full
of science and of virtue, not conceived this friendship, this
treatment is not explained, but by vile and impure motives. And there are
the rustic place, not those who do not know me, but my best friend
to me suspicion and insult me.

Manolita Poor Donna was terrified: it compungió, and after him the tears
came. -- But women - said - do not you mad for love of God. Yo, no doubt,
I have explained badly. I do not say that it is impure love of
the Father .... - What nonsense are yours? - Interrupted Dona Luz -.
What perversion of ideas? What foolish trying to make distinctions?
How cohonestar a brother's love to a maiden fair? Such love is always
impure, that is outrageous is sacrilegious. Doña Manolita Seeing that
there was no way to remedy their blunder, and apuradísima have angered
both Doña Luz, who wanted with all my heart, not uttered a single
word, but cried and sobbed as if it had occurred the most cruel misfortune.
Then Mrs.

Light, who had good depth, despite his arrogance, he felt that he
had been too rough and tough, and he apologized to Mrs.

Manolita, besándola and little more than crying too. The two friends
came to get a result much more friendly than before. Doña Luz became
convinced that Ms Manolita had no intention in the least tarnish the
purity of their friendly relations with Fr Enrique and Doña Manolita
be convinced until he became convinced by the time that Fr Henry,
even as Dante loved Beatrice, Petrarch and Laura loved or loved as
Don Quixote Dulcinea, was able to doña Luz love, because, being a
monk and she a very well educated lady and honestísima, just love
by alambic, spiritual and incorporeal whatsoever, I do not know
what was a commoner of indecent and sinful grotesquely under the
condition that his beautiful girlfriend and superb fit badly. well
not just make peace, came with Acisclo Don Pepe ghettos, those
unaware of the footsteps of the last storm.

Dined in the four friendly company, and with good appetite, and then went
to bed. The next day was celebrated with pomp and bluster the triumphal
entry of D. Jaime in Villafría. They had horses, and not only had a few
mule or donkey, were to meet him early in the season, with D.
The people therefore were solicited for greater contributions than had
been ordinarily given. Jerom and Omrysostom, out of good and pious
motives, exhorted them in turn to give bountifully to the poor, and
double honour to those who laboured in the lord's work. And though they
left the people at liberty to bestow what they pleased, they gave it as
their opinion, that they ought not to be less liberal than the ancient
Jews, who, under the Levitical law, gave a tenth of their property to
the priesthood and to the poor. Ambrose, in like manner, recommended
tenths, as now necessary, and as only a suitable donation for these
purposes.

The same line of conduct continued to be pursued by those who succeeded
in the government of the church, by Augustin, bishop of Hippo, by Pope
Leo, by Gregory, by Severin among the Christians, in Pannonia, and by
others. Their exhortations, however, on this subject, were now mixed
with promises and, threats. Pardon of sins and future rewards were held
out on the one hand, and it was suggested on the other, that the people,
themselves would be reduced to a tenth, and the blood of all the poor
who died, would be upon their heads, if they gave less than a tenth of
their incomes to holy uses. By exhortations of this sort, reiterated for
three centuries, it began at length to be expected of the people, that
they would not give less than tenths of what they possessed. No right
however was alleged to such a proportion of their income, nor was
coercion ever spoken of. These tenths also were for holy uses, which
chiefly included the benefit of the poor. They were called the Lord's
goods in consequence, and were also denominated the patrimony of the
poor.

Another change took place within the period assigned, which I must now
mention as of great concern. Ministers of the Gospel now living wholly
out of the tenths, which with legacies constituted the fund of the poor,
a determined portion of this fund, contrary to all former usage, was set
apart for their use. Of this fund, one fourth was generally given to the
poor, one fourth to the repairs of churches, one fourth to officiating
ministers, and one fourth to the[30] bishops with whom they lived. Hence
the maintenance of ministers, as consisting of these two orders, and
the repairs of churches, took now the greatest part of it, so that the
face of things began to be materially altered. For whereas formerly this
fund went chiefly to the poor, out of which ministers of the Gospel were
provided, it now went chiefly to the church, out of which there came a
provision for the poor. Another change also must be noticed with respect
to the principle on which the gifts towards this fund were offered. For
whereas tenths were formerly solicited on the Christian duty of charity
to the poor, they were now solicited on the principle, that by the law
of Moses they ought to be given for holy uses, in which the benefit of
the fatherless, the stranger, and the widow, were included. From this
time I shall use the word tithes for tenths, and the word clergy instead
of ministers of the Gospel.

[Footnote 30: In process of time, as the bishops became otherwise
provided for, the fund was divided into three parts for the other three
purposes just mentioned.]

In the eighth century, matters were as I have now represented them. The
people had been brought into a notion, that they were to give no less
than a tenth of their income to holy uses. Bishops generally at this
time, and indeed long previously to this, lived in monasteries. Their
clergy lived also with them in these monasteries, and went from thence
to preach in the country within the diocese. It must be also noticed,
that there were, at this time, other monasteries under abbots or priors,
consisting mostly of lay persons, and distinct from those mentioned, and
supported by offerings and legacies in the same manner. The latter,
however, not having numerous ecclesiastics to support, laid out more of
their funds than the former were enabled to do, towards the
entertainment of strangers, and towards the maintenance of the poor. Now
it must be observed, that, when these two kinds of monasteries existed,
the people were at liberty to pay their tithes to either of them as they
pleased, and that, having this permission, they generally favoured the
latter. To these they not only paid their tithes, but gave their
donations by legacy. This preference of the lay abbies to the
ecclesiastical arose from a knowledge that the poor, for whose benefit
tithes had been originally preached up, would be more materially served.
Other circumstances too occurred, which induced the people to continue
the same preference. For the bishops in many places began to abuse their
trust, as the deacons had done before, by attaching the bequeathed lands
to their sees, so that the inferior clergy, and the poor became in a
manner dependent upon them for their daily bread. In other places the
clergy had seized all to their own use. The people therefore so
thoroughly favoured the lay abbies in preference to those of the church,
that the former became daily richer, while the, latter did little more
than maintain their ground.

This preference, however, which made such a difference in the funds of
the ecclesiastical, and of the lay monasteries, was viewed with a
jealous eye by the clergy of those times, and measures were at length
taken to remove it. In a council under Pope Alexander the third, in the
year 1180, it was determined, that the liberty of the people should be
restrained with respect to their tithes. They were accordingly forbidden
to make appropriations to religious houses without the consent of the
bishop, in whose diocese they lived. But even this prohibition did not
succeed. The people still favoured the lay abbies, paying their tithes
there, till Pope Innocent the third, in the year 1200, ordained, and he
enforced it by ecclesiastical censures, that every one should pay his
tithes to those who administered to him spiritual things in his own
parish. In a general council also held at Lyons, in the year 1274, it
was decreed, that it was no longer lawful for men to pay their tithes
where they pleased, as before, but that they should pay them to mother
church. And the principle, on which they had now been long demanded, was
confirmed by the council of Trent under Pope Pius the fourth, in the
year 1560, which was, that they were due by divine right. In the course
of forty years after the payment of tithes had been forced by
ecclesiastical censures and excommunications, prescription was set up.
Thus the very principle, in which tithes had originated, was changed.
Thus free will-offerings became dues, to be exacted by compulsion. And
thus the fund of the poor was converted almost wholly into a fund for
the maintenance of the church.

Having now traced the origin of tithes, as far as a part of the
continent of Europe is concerned, I shall trace it as far as they have
reference to our own country. And here I may instantly observe, and in a
few words, that the same system and the same changes are conspicuous.
Free will-offerings and donations of land constituted a fund for the
poor, out of which the clergy were maintained. In process of time,
tenths or tithes followed. Of these, certain proportions were allotted
to the clergy, the repairs of the churches, and the poor. This was the
state of things in the time of Offa, king of Mercia, towards the close
of the eighth century, when that prince, having caused Ethelbert, king
of the East Angles, to be treacherously murdered, fled to the Pope for
pardon, to please whom, and to expiate his own sin, he caused those
tithes to become dues in his own dominions, which were only at the will
of the donors before.

About sixty years afterwards, Ethelwolf, a weak and superstitious
prince, was worked upon by the clergy to extend tithes as dues to the
whole kingdom; and he consented to it under the notion, that he was thus
to avert the judgments of God, which they represented as visible in the
frequent ravages of the Danes. Poor laymen, however, were still to be
supported out of these tithes, and the people were still at liberty to
pay them to whichever religious persons they pleased.

About the close of the tenth century, Edgar took from the people the
right of disposing of their tithes at their own discretion, and directed
that they should be paid to the parish churches. But the other
monasteries or lay-houses resisting, his orders became useless for a
time. At this period the lay monasteries were rich, but the parochial
clergy poor. Pope Innocent, however, by sending out his famous decree
before mentioned to king John, which was to be observed in England as
well as in other places under his jurisdiction, and by which it was
enacted, that every man was to pay his tithes to those only, who
administered spiritual help to him in his own parish, settled the
affair; for he set up ecclesiastical courts, thundered out his
interdicts, and frightened both king and people.[31]

[Footnote 31: To shew the principles, upon which princes acted with
respect to tithes in these times, the following translation of a
preamble to a grant of king Stephen may be produced: "Because, through
the providence of Divine Mercy, we know it to be so ordered, and by the
churches publishing it far and near, every body has heard, that, by the
distribution of alms, persons may be absolved from the bonds of sin, and
acquire the rewards of heavenly joys, I, Stephen, by the grace of God,
king of England, being willing to have a share with those, who by a
happy kind of commerce exchange heavenly things for earthly, and smitten
with the love of God, and for the salvation of my own soul, and the
souls of my father and mother, and all my forefathers and ancestors,"
&c.]

Richard the second confirmed these tithes to the parishes, as thus
settled by this pope, but it was directed by an act, that, in all
appropriations of churches, the bishop of the diocese should ordain a
convenient sum of money to be distributed out of the fruits and profits
of every living among the poor parishioners annually, in aid of their
living and sustenance. "Thus it seems, says Judge Blackstone, the people
were frequently sufferers by the withholding of those alms, for which,
among other purposes, the payment of tithes was originally imposed." At
length tithes were finally confirmed, and, in a more explicit manner, by
the famous act of Henry the eighth on this subject. And here I must just
observe, that, whereas from the eighth century to this reign, tithes
were said to be due, whenever the reason of them was expressed, by
divine right as under the Levitical law, so, in the preamble to the act
of Henry the eighth, they are founded on the same principle, being
described therein, "as due to God and the church." Thus, both on the
continent of Europe, as well as in our own country, were these changes
brought about, which have been described. And they were brought about
also by the same means, for they were made partly by the exhortations
and sermons of monks, partly by the decrees of popes, partly by the
edicts of popish kings, and partly by the determinations of popish
councils.

It is not necessary, that I should trace this subject farther, or that I
should make distinctions relative to tithes, whether they may be
rectorial, or vicarial, or whether they may belong to lay persons, I
have already developed enough of their history for my purpose. I shall
therefore hasten to state those other reasons, which the Quakers have to
give, why they cannot pay other ministers of the Gospel for their
spiritual labours, or rather, why they cannot consent to the payment of
tithes, as the particular species of payment demanded by the church.


SECT. III

_The other reasons then, as deducible from the history of tithes, are
the following--First, that they are not in equity dues of the
church--Secondly, that the payment of them being compulsory, it would,
if acceded to, be an acknowledgment that the civil magistrate has a
right to use force in matters of religion--And thirdly, that being
claimed upon an act which holds them forth as of divine right, any
payment of them would be an acknowledgment of the Jewish religion, and
that Christ had not yet actually come._


The other reasons then, which the Quakers have to give for refusing to
support other ministers of the Gospel, may be now deduced from the
nature of tithes, as explained in the former section.

The early Quakers rejected the payment of tithes for three reasons;
and, first, because they were demanded of them as dues of the church.

Against this doctrine, they set their faces as a religious body. They
contended that, if they were due at all, they were due to the poor, from
whom they had been forcibly taken, and to whom in equity they still
belonged; that no prince could alter the nature of right and wrong that
tithes were not justly due to the church, because Offa wished them to be
so, to expiate his own crimes; or because Ethelwolf wished them to be
so, from a superstitious notion, that he might thus prevent the
incursions of the Danes; or because Stephen wished them to be so, as his
own grant expresses, on the principle, that "the bonds of sin might be
dissolved, and that he might have a part with those, who by a happy kind
of commerce exchanged heavenly things for earthly;" or because the popes
of Rome wished them to be so, from whose jurisdiction all the subjects
of England were discharged by law.

They resisted the payment of them, because, secondly, tithes had become
of a compulsory nature, or because they were compelled to pay them.

They contended on this head, that tithes had been originally free
will-offerings, but that by violence they had been changed into dues,
to be collected by force; that nothing could be more clear, than that
ministers of the Gospel, if the instructions of Jesus to his disciples
were to be regarded, were not authorized even to demand, much less to
force, a maintenance from others; and that any constrained payment of
these, while it was contrary to his intention, would be an infringement
of their great tenet, by which they hold, that, Christ's kingdom being
of a spiritual nature, the civil magistrate had no right to dictate a
religion to any one, nor to enforce payment from individuals for the
same, and that any interference in those matters, which were solely
between God and man, was neither more nor less than an usurpation of the
prerogative of God.

They resisted the payment of them, because, thirdly, they were demanded
on the principle, as appeared by the preamble of the act of Henry the
eighth, that they were due as under the Levitical law by divine right.

Against this they urged, first, that, if they were due as the Levitical
tithes were, they must have been subject to the same conditions. They
contended that, if the Levites had a right to tithes, they had
previously given up to the community their own right to a share of the
land, but that the clergy claimed a tenth of the produce of the lands of
others, but had given up none of their own. They contended also, that
tithes by the Levitical law were for the strangers, the fatherless, and
the widows, as well as for the Levites, but that the clergy, by taking
tithes, had taken that which had been for the maintenance of the poor,
and had appropriated it solely to their own use, leaving them thus to
become a second burthen upon the land.

But they contended, that the principle itself was false. They
maintained, that the Levitical priesthood and tithes with it, had ceased
on the coming of Jesus Christ, as appeared by his own example and that
of his Apostles; that it became them, therefore, as Christians, to make
a stand against this principle, for that, by acquiescing in the notion
that the Jewish law extended to them, they conceived they would be
acknowledging that the priesthood of Aaron still existed, and that
Christ had not actually come.

This latter argument, by which it was insisted upon, that tithes ceased
with the Jewish dispensation, and that those who acknowledged them,
acknowledged the Jewish religion for Christians, was not confined to the
early Quakers, but admitted among many other serious Christians of those
times. The great John Milton himself, in a treatise which he wrote
against tithes, did not disdain to use it. "Although, says he, hire to
the labourer be of moral and perpetual right, yet that special kind of
hire, the tenth, can be of no right or necessity but to that special
labour for which God ordained it. That special labour was the Levitical
and ceremonial service of the tabernacle, which is now abolished. The
right, therefore, of that special hire, must needs be withal abolished,
as being also ceremonial. That tithes were ceremonial is plain, not
being given to the Levites till they had been first offered an heave
offering to the Lord. He then, who by that law brings tithes into the
Gospel, of necessity brings in withal a sacrifice and an altar, without
which tithes by that law were unsanctified and polluted, and therefore
never thought of in the first Christian times, nor till ceremonies,
altars, and oblations had been brought back. And yet the Jews, ever
since their temple was destroyed, though they have rabbies and teachers
of their law, yet pay no tithes, as having no Levites to whom, no temple
where, to pay them, nor altar whereon to hallow them; which argues, that
the Jews themselves never thought tithes moral, but ceremonial only.
That Christians therefore should take them up, when Jews have laid them
down, must needs be very absurd and preposterous."

Having now stated the three great reasons, which the early Quakers gave,
in addition to those mentioned in a former section, why they could not
contribute towards the maintenance of an alien ministry, or why they
could not submit to the payment of tithes, as the peculiar payment
demanded by the established church, I shall only observe, that these are
still insisted upon by their descendants, but more particularly the
latter, because all the more, modern acts upon this subject take the act
of Henry the eighth as the great ground-work or legal foundation of
tithes, in the preamble of which it is inserted, that "they are due to
God and the church." Now this preamble, the Quakers assert, has never
been done away, nor has any other principle been acknowledged instead of
that in this preamble, why tithes have been established by law. The
Quakers therefore conceive, that tithes are still collected on the
foundation of divine right, and therefore that it is impossible for them
as Christians to pay them, for that by every such payment, they would
not only be acknowledging the Jewish religion for themselves, but would
be agreeing in sentiment with the modern Jews, that Jesus Christ has not
yet made his appearance upon earth.


CHARACTER
OF THE
QUAKERS


CHAP. I.

_Character of the Quakers--Character of great importance in life--yet
often improperly estimated--This the case with that of the
Quakers--Attempt to appreciate it duly--Many outward circumstances in
the constitution of the Quakers, which may be referred to as certain
helps in the promotion of this attempt_.


Nothing is of more importance to an individual, than a good character,
during life. Posthumous reputation, however desirable it may be thought,
is of no service to the person whom it follows. But a living character,
if it be excellent, is inestimable, on account of the good which it
produces to him who possesses it. It procures him attention, civility,
love, and respect from others. Hence virtue may be said to have its
reward in the present life. This account will be also true of bodies,
and particularly of religious bodies, of men. It will make a difference
to the individuals of these, whether they be respected, as a body, by
the individuals of other religious denominations, or by the government
under which they live.

But though character be of so much importance in life, there are few who
estimate it, either when they view it individually or collectively, as
if really is. It is often, on the one hand, heightened by partiality,
and, on the other, lowered by prejudice. Other causes also combine to
afford wrong apprehensions concerning it. For as different diseases
throw out often the same symptoms, and the judgment of the physician is
baffled, so different motives produce frequently similar actions, and
the man who tries to develop a character, even if he wishes to speak
truth, finds himself at a loss to pronounce justly upon it.

As these failings and difficulties have attended men in estimating the
character of individuals, so they seem to have attended those who have
attempted to delineate that of the society of the Quakers. Indeed, if we
were to take a view of the different traits which have been assigned to
the latter, we could not but conclude, that there must have been some
mistake concerning them. We should have occasion to observe, that some
of these were so different in their kind, that they could not reasonably
be supposed to exist in the same persons. We should find that others
could scarcely be admitted among a body of professing Christians. The
Quaker character, in short, as it has been exhibited to the world, is a
strange medley of consistency and contradiction, and of merit and
defect.

Amidst accounts, which have been so incongruous, I shall attempt the
task of drawing the character of the Quakers. I shall state, first, all
the excellencies, that have been said to belong to it. I shall state
also, all the blemishes with which it has been described to be
chargeable. I shall then enquire how far it is probable that any of
these, and in what degree they are true. In this enquiry, some little
reliance must be placed upon my personal knowledge of the Quakers, and
upon my desire not to deceive. It is fortunate, however, that I shall be
able, in this case, to apply to a test, which will be more satisfactory
to the world, than any opinion of my own upon this subject. and where
is it all these beautiful slaves getting the sultan requires? Now,
he is certainly far removed from his goals, and I do not think
he satisfied with my message will be. "When they are employed with these
thoughts came home, she said:" My son, I advise you not to think a
marriage with the princess Bedrulbudur. The Sultan made me very
welcome Huldreich and I think he was good against thee mind was only
the Großvezier him, if I am not mistaken, to put other ideas. After
I had presented to the Sultan that the three months had expired, I noticed
that he is very quiet for a while with the Großvezier said, and then
he gave me the answer I will tell you now. "She told her son now in
great detail everything that the Sultan had said it, and gave him the
conditions under which it is included in the connection of the princess,
his daughter with him would agree. "My son," she said last, "he
expected an answer, but told us," she smiled and continued, "I think
he will have to wait long." "Not so long, dear mother, when you think"
Alaeddin replied, "and the Sultan is vastly mistaken if he thinks
through his enormous debts, he could set me apart was that the
princess Bedrulbudur thinking.

I had totally different insurmountable difficulties are expected, or at
least a much higher price for my incomparable princess. But now I am
well pleased, because what it requires is a little against what I was
asking him for their possession could offer. While I think it will
now try to satisfy you arrange a lunch for us and let me just give. "Once
his mother for food was expected, Alaeddin took the lamp and rubbed it.
Immediately the spirit appeared, asked in the usual expressions, what
he had to command, and said that he was ready to use it.

Alaeddin said to him: "The Sultan gives me the princess his daughter
to wife, but before he asks of me forty large and tasteful vollwichtige
basins of gold, to the edge filled with the fruits of the garden,
where I had fetched the lamp whose slave you are.

He also demanded that these forty golden basins by as many
black slaves taken to be faced forty well-educated, slim and beautifully
dressed young white slave must be reciprocating. Go on and create this
gift to me as soon as possible to the place, so I can send the Sultan,
before the meeting of the Divan repeals.

"The spirit said that his command should be executed immediately, and
disappeared. A little while to let the spirit again see accompanying forty
black slaves, each of which a heavy pool of tasteful gold, filled with
pearls, diamonds, rubies and emeralds, which the Sultan has already
gifted in size and beauty far surpassed, wore on his head.

Each of the basin was goldgeblümtem with silver cloth covers. These
slaves, both white than the black with the golden basin, filled almost
the entire house, which was quite small, plus the small front yard and
a garden behind the same.

The spirit Alaeddin asked whether he was satisfied, and whether he has
anything else to command did. Alaeddin replied that it requires nothing
more, and the spirit disappeared. As a mother of Alaeddin markets came
back, they höchlich surprised, because so many people saw and treasures.
After the food on the table had they wanted the veil, her face
veiled, store, Alaeddin but did not.

"Dear Mother," he said to her, 'we now have no time to lose. It is of
great importance that you, even before the Sultan of the Divan closes
back into the palace and demanded the addition of Morgengabe gift for
the princess to take Bedrulbudur so he, in my haste and punctuality
the burning and sincere desire is discretionary, which I honor Trachte,
his son-in-law to be. "Without waiting for reply to his mother,
Alaeddin opened the door to the street and had all his slaves in pairs,
always a white with a black together, also. When his mother after the
last slave her also was outside, he locked the door and remained quietly
in his room, in the sweet hope the Sultan will it finally after that
gift, which he himself had called his daughter enter. No sooner was the
first white slave before Alaeddin home than all the passers who
noticed him, stopped, and before the eighties still slaves, the
white and black with each other, outside were swarming the streets of a
mass of people, from all sides herbeiströmte to this magnificent and
extraordinary spectacle to be. The clothing of the slaves consisted of
so-precious materials, and was so richly adorned with precious stones
that the people most familiar with not too much to say thought that if
they suit each on more than one million estimated. The beauty and
the good seat of the dresses, the noble decency, the smooth and impressive
growth of the slaves, in their solemn train evenly measured spaces, the
splendor of the extraordinarily large precious stones, in beautiful
arrangement around their belts in genuine gold taken, and the roses on
their turbans, which are also composed of precious stones and
especially tastefully worked were all shifted in the audience so much
astonishment that they were not tired to look at them. The streets
were filled with people so that everyone in the place where he was, had
to stand still. As you go through several streets had to move to the
palace to go, so could a large part of the city and people from
all classes and stands the magnificent view elevator.

At last, the first slaves from the eighties at the gate of the first
Castle Court. The gatehouse, which is closer to this wonderful train
in two rows which had held him for a king, so rich and gorgeous, he was
dressed, and approached him, around the hem of his robe to kiss. The
slave, however, the spirit of his role previously had taught, there
was not solemn, and said to him: "We are only slaves, our Lord will
appear as soon as it is time."

Thus, the first slave to the top of the whole train in the second courtyard,
which was very spacious and the location of the court of the Sultan
during the meeting of the Divan was established. The leaders of each
group were dressed in beautifully, but were far darkens as the eighties
appeared slaves who brought Alaeddin gift. The whole court of the
Sultan, there was nothing so splendid and shiny, and all the splendor
of the surrounding gentlemen of the court was dust in comparison with
what is now his eyes darbot. Since one of the Sultan of the train and
the arrival of the slaves reported, he had command, they happen
to be. After they before the throne of the sultan, a large
semi-circle was formed, were the black slaves on the basin Fußteppich,
then threw it all together down the carpet and touched their
forehead.

The white slaves did the same. This was all back on, and the black is very
cleverly revealed before them, the pool, whereupon it with crossed
arms and a great honor to have remained. Indes Alaeddin mother approaching
the foot of the throne, threw himself before the same down and said to
the Sultan: "Sir, my son Alaeddin know quite well that the gift, which
he sends to you, which is far below what the princess Bedrulbudur
deserves. Nevertheless, he hopes you will accept Huldreich and the
princess will not spurn, he hopes this is so confident because
he has sought, on condition that you made him, the latest.

"The Sultan was not able to welcome the mother very closely to
Alaeddin. From the first look at the forty golden basins, to the edge
with the radiant, brilliant and precious gems were filled, and in the
eighties slaves, you could keep for kings, he was so surprised that he
was not astonished by his recovered. Thus, instead of greeting
the mother of Alaeddin to reciprocate, he turned to the Großvezier,
which neither could understand how so many riches came to be. »Vezi
Well," he said, according to him, "what do you think of who it
may be, to me such a rich and extraordinary gift sends, without that
we both know it? Do you unworthy for him, my daughter, the Princess
Bedrulbudur to marry? "How painful it is now also the Großvezier
was to see that an unknown figure in preference to his son and received
the sultan Eidam should be, so he took it not conceal his
view. It was evident that Alaeddin gift was more than enough to make it
worthy of this high honor to make. He said that is the Sultan after
his whole spirit and said, "Lord, it was distant from me to believe
that anyone who so you get a decent gift has made the honor that
you zudenkst him, would be unworthy, so I would dare claim that
he deserves much more, if I were not convinced that it is all over
the world not so precious treasure that is the princess, your
daughter, could be offset.

"The gentlemen of the court who attended the meeting, indicated by
their Beifallsbezeugungen to recognize that they are well thought
of as Großvezier.

The Sultan shifted now no longer the case and not even asked whether
Alaeddin also have other properties to his son to be able to be.

Even the sight of this immense wealth, and the speed with which
Alaeddin had fulfilled his desire, without any conditions
in the immense difficulty of the least to find him was proof
enough that he does not become a perfect man could be missing, as
he wished him to. To be perfectly Alaeddin mother to satisfy, he said
to her: "Go now, good woman, and tell your son that I am expecting
him with open arms and will include, the quicker he will come to
the princess, my daughter, from my hand to receive, the more he
will make me happy.

"delighted her son contrary to all expectations on such a high level
of happiness to behold, Alaeddin mother hurried home, but the sultan
concluded a meeting for today, stood by his throne, and ordered that
the princess extended the golden basin and the rooms after their mistress
should bear, while he himself went to them with more leisure to
consider.

Indes Alaeddin mother came with a history that is good news ahead of their
announced , home. Alaeddin, via their message was delighted, gave his
mother a short answer and went to his room. He took the lamp, which
he so far in all the hardships and all his wishes had been so helpful,
and hardly had he rubbed it, as the Spirit by his immediate release
his continued obedience to the date submitted.

"Spirit," Alaeddin said to him, "I have called thee, lest thou me immediately
shalt prepare a bath, and once I had taken it, I will that thou me the
richest and most decorative bringest clothes that have ever taken a king
.

"No sooner had he spoken, than the spirit of it as making himself
invisible, and picked up in a bathroom was, from the very fine,
fine marble and buntgestreiftem was constructed.

Without that he saw who it served, he was in a very beautiful and spacious
rooms undressed. From the halls to let him come into the bathroom, where
he rubbed and with all kinds of fragrant waters has been washed. After
his bath in the various tubes of all degrees of heat through had
he came out again, but quite different than it had occurred.

His complexion was fresh, bright white and has become, and his whole
body much easier and smoother. When he came back into the hall, he
found the dress, which he had left there, no more, the spirit had instead
brought a different dress. Alaeddin was quite surprised when he saw the
suit glory. He dressed with the help of the Spirit, and admired each
piece before it attracted so much surpassed everything he had previously
only thought. When he was finished, the spirit carried him into
the same room where he had picked him, and asked him whether he
still had something to commend. "Yes," replied Alaeddin, "I expect
on the job from you that you sent me a horse herführst, whose beauty
and speed, the most valuable horse in the stables of the Sultan exceeds
the ceiling, the saddle, the bridle, and even the dishes must have worth
one million. I also ask that you to me at the same time twenty
slaves herbeischaffst which is equally rich and jewelry must be
dressed as those who wore the gift because they have to provide to me and
my entourage accompanied, and twenty others of the species, in two
rows in front of me herziehen be. Also bring my mother six slaves to
their operation, all at least as richly dressed, as the slaves of the
princess Bedrulbudur, and each a full suit on their heads contribute
to the so magnificent and stately to be as if he were to sultana.

Furthermore, I need another ten thousand gold pieces in ten bags.
That is what I have to commend you had go and hasten thee. "Alaeddin
Once the spirit of these commands had disappeared, and this appeared
to be back soon with the horse, the forty slaves, ten of which are each
a bag with a thousand gold pieces contributed, and the six female
slaves, each a different suit for Alaeddin's mother, wrapped in
silver fabric, wore on his head. The Spirit over all of this at
Alaeddin. Alaeddin took of the ten bags only four, which he gave his
mother, so that they can operate the same in case of emergency should be.
The six others, he is in the hands of slaves, which she wore with the
command to keep them and during their train through the streets after
the palaces of the Sultans handvollweise among the people eject.
He also commanded them that they should be close to him, three on
the right and three on the left hand.

Finally he gave his mother the six slaves, and told her they belonged to
her and she could have a mistress they have, even the clothes that
they wore, whether for their use. Alaeddin When all had arranged his
affairs, he dismissed the spirit with the statement that he would call
him when he needed, as this instantly disappeared. Now Alaeddin made
himself ready, the desire of the Sultan, who wanted to see, to meet.
He produced one of the forty slaves - I will not say the most beautiful,
because they were all the same - the palaces, with the command that he
should participate in the Supreme contact the bouncer and ask him,
when he might have the honor could join the Sultan's feet to throw.
The slave is discarded his job very quickly and brought the message
back that the sultan expecting him with impatience. Alaeddin rose
immediately now on horseback, and sat down with his course in
the order shown already in motion. Although he never climbed
before a horse had, so he showed it so noble decency that even the most
experienced riders do not for a novice would be able to withstand. The
streets through which he came, filled in an instant with a vast mass of
people, whose applause, admiration and blessing Call wiederhallte the
air, especially when the six slaves who carried the bag, hands full of
gold pieces left and right tossed into the air.

The Beifallsruf not, however, came from the rabble, who are pushed,
pushed and niederdrückte to aufzulesen gold pieces, but from the more
affluent viewers who were not included, Alaeddin generosity of the public
deserved praise to donate. Not just those who remembered him in his
youth years with the boys playing alleys to have seen, no longer
recognized him, but also those who have recently seen, hardly
recognized him, so much had changed his facial features.

This was, therefore, that the lamp at the other properties also had
the owners gradually all perfections to lend, what the rank at which
they reached their good use, were reasonable. At last Alaeddin before
palaces, where everything on his reception in readiness was set. When
he was before the second goal came, he wanted to, according to the
custom, even the Großvezier, the field captains and senior governor
observed, descend alone the Supreme the bouncer, who on the
orders of the Sultan then expected, let it not be, and accompanied
him to the large assembly hall or audience, where he helped him get off,
even though is very much opposed Alaeddin ruffled and it would not tolerate:
he could not stop. When the Sultan Alaeddin saw, he was equally
surprised by its rich and beautiful clothes , and especially by his
elegant manners, his wonderful habit and his dignified attitude, the less
he had expected, as they suit the low sky his mother was far different.
His amazement and surprise did not, however, stand up, and two or three
steps of the throne herabzusteigen, Alaeddin so do not throw at his
feet and he was able to embrace him in friendship. After that wanted to
be polite Alaeddin nevertheless prostrate before him, only the
Sultan gave him with his own hands and coerced him heraufzusteigen
and between him and the Großvezier set.

Alaeddin This took the floor and said: "Sir, I take the honor that you
erzeigst me to, because you loved in your grace, to prove it to me,
but allow me, to tell you that I have not forgotten, as I am your slave
geborner that I change the size of your power and know probably knows
how deep my home contact me at the splendor and the glory of the high
rank is where you stand. If I use something a favorable reception should
have earned, so I confess that I do just that by a pure coincidence led
audaciousness owe that inspired me, my eyes, thoughts and desires, to
the exalted princess to raise the subject my desire is. I pray for those
daring to forgive, great king, but I can not deny that I would die
from pain, if I should give up hope, my desire to see fulfilled.
"" My son, "replied the Sultan, he hugged him again, "you'd do me
wrong, if you even just a moment the sincerity of my promise doubt
wanted to.

Your life is now too expensive to me than that I do not by performance
of the drug, which I may, should seek to preserve. I prefer the
pleasure to see you and hear all of my treasures, and your front. "With
these words the Sultan gave a sign, and immediately sounded the air
by the sound of the Hobo and timpani, while the Sultan Alaeddin
resulted in a magnificent hall , where a splendid feast was applied. The
Sultan dined alone with Alaeddin. The Großvezier and the lord's court
stood by them, each according to his rank and dignity, during the
meal to the side. The Sultan of the eyes continuously tacked on Alaeddin
had turned the conversation to different objects. Throughout the
entertainment, however, they led each other over the table, and on which
the subject of the interview are also liked, Alaeddin spoke with so
much knowledge and understanding, the sultan that he very fully in the
good opinion confirmed that he started his had taken. After Mahle was
the Sultan of the supreme judge of his capital call and told him that
once the marriage between the princess Bedrulbudur, his daughter, and
Alaeddin to design and build. When the judge signed the contract with all
the necessary formalities were completed, and asked the Sultan
Alaeddin whether he will remain in the palaces and the wedding still
wants to celebrate.

"Sir," replied Alaeddin, 'so my burning desire is to thy mercy and grace
in their entire extent to enjoy, but please let me know that you me so
long time still permit until I've built a palace, so that the Princess
and her range in accordance with their dignity to receive. I ask myself
hiezu a proper place before deinigen, so I'm pretty close to you my
respects to them.

I will not refrain, and ensure that he is in the shortest possible time
is completed. "-" My son, "said the sultan," you choose from any body
that you have for keeping fit; palaces in front of my empty room is
enough and I've thought it to be filled, but remember, the sooner that I
ever love you with my daughter married desirable to see to the full
extent of my joy to make. "With these words he embraced Alaeddin again,
and that adopted from the Sultan of decency so fine, as if he has always
been at the court and there would have been brought up. Alaeddin rose
again on horseback and returned in the same course as he came back
home. No sooner had he dismounted, so he took the lamp and called the
mind, as usual. "Spirit," said Alaeddin to him, "I have every reason to
boast of your punctuality, you have so far all the commands that I
give you this powerful lamp, your mistress, which had met on time.
Today, however, it is a matter that you made love to her, perhaps even
more zeal and obedience to the day shalt set as yet. I ask that
that you have read me in the shortest possible time in front of
the palaces of the sultan built a palace causest who is worthy to Bedrulbudur
the princess, my wife, incorporated. The choice of materials, namely,
porphyry or jasper, agate stone, or glaze, or even the finest buntgestreiften
marble, and the rest of the body structure, I will leave you completely,
but I expect that you are up above me a large hall with a dome and
four equal Pages bauest whose walls made of alternating layers of real
gold and silver must be listed, with twenty-four windows, six on each
side, their windows with a single exception, which will remain
unfinished, art rich and smooth with diamonds, rubies and emeralds to be
decorated so that like never before in the world has seen.

Furthermore, I want that in the palace courtyard, a courtyard and a garden
there, before all things, but must be in a place that you'll call me, a
treasure of gold and silver gemünztem, and several kitchens, dining rooms,
magazines and equipment chambers full of valuable equipment for
every season, and the grandeur of the palace appropriate to be
present, then even the most beautiful stables full of horses
and related number equerry and grooms. Also a Jagdzug you must not forget,
and it goes without saying that you still sufficient for servants
in the kitchen and other household, and for the number of slaves belonging
to the operation of the princess, to uphold it. You will now understand
what my desire is, go and come back when you've made everything
ready.

"The sun went under just as Alaeddin edification of the spirit of the
palace, which it ausgesonnen, gave his orders. On the next morning was
Alaeddin, the love for the princess did not sleep in all morning,
and immediately released the spirit. "Sir," he said to him, "your
palace is finished, come and see whether you are satisfied." Alaeddin
everything was so far beyond his expectation that he could not
wonder enough. The Spirit led him around, and everywhere he found wealth,
beauty and magnificence, to servants and slaves, all the range and
services under dressed for which they were intended.
Thus the
doctrines of Christianity, wonderful to relate, have been made to narrow
the love of Christians! The Quaker religion, on the other hand, knows no
such feelings as these. It considers the Spirit of God as visiting all
men in their day, and as capable of redeeming all, and this without any
exception of persons, and that the difference of creeds, invented by the
human understanding, will make no difference in the eternal happiness of
man. Thus it does not narrow the sphere of salvation. It does not
circumscribe it either by numerical or personal limits. There does not
appear therefore to be in the doctrines of the Quaker religion any thing
that should narrow their love to their fellow creatures, or any thing
that should generate a spirit of rancour or contempt towards others on
account of the religion they profess.

There are, on the contrary, circumstances, which have a tendency to
produce an opposite effect.

I see, in the first place, no reason why the general spirit of
benevolence to man in his temporal capacity, which runs through the
whole society, should not be admitted as having some power in checking a
bitter spirit towards him in his religious character.

I see again, that the sufferings, which the Quakers so often undergo on
account of their religious opinions, ought to have an influence with
them in making them tender towards others on the same subject. Virgil,
who was a great master of the human mind, makes the queen of Carthage
say to Aeneas, "Haud ignara mali, miseris succurere disco," or, "not
unacquainted with misfortunes myself, I learn to succour the
unfortunate." So one would hope that the Quakers, of all other people,
ought to know how wrong it is to be angry with another for his religion.

With respect to that part of the trait, which relates to speaking
acrimoniously of other sects, there are particular circumstances in the
customs and discipline of the Quakers, which seem likely to prevent it.

It is a law of the society, enforced by their discipline, as I shewed in
a former volume, that no Quaker is to be guilty of detraction or
slander. Any person, breaking this law, would come under admonition, if
found out. This induces an habitual caution or circumspection in speech,
where persons are made the subject of conversation. And I have no doubt
that this law would act as a preventive in the case before us.

It is not a custom, again, with the Quakers, to make religion a subject
of common talk. Those, who know them, know well how difficult it is to
make them converse, either upon their own faith, or upon the faith of
others. They believe, that topics on religion, familiarly introduced,
tend to weaken its solemnity upon the mind. They exclude subjects also
from ordinary conversation upon another principle. For they believe,
that religion should not be introduced at these times, unless it can be
made edifying. But, if it is to be made edifying, it is to come, they
conceive, not through the medium of the activity of the imagination of
man, but through the passiveness of the soul under the influence of the
Divine Spirit.


SECT. III.

_Trait of benevolence includes again a tender feeling toward the brute
creation--Quakers remarkable for their tenderness to animals--This
feature produced from their doctrine, that animals are not mere
machines, but the creatures of God, the end of whose existence is always
to be attended to in their treatment--and from their opinion as to what
ought to be the influence of the Gospel, as recorded in their own
summary_.


The word benevolence, when applied to the character of the Quakers,
includes also a tender feeling towards the brute creation.

It has frequently been observed by those who are acquainted with the
Quakers, that all animals belonging to them are treated with a tender
consideration, and are not permitted to be abused, and that they feel,
in like manner, for those which may be oppressed by others, so that
their conduct is often influenced in some way or other upon such
occasions.

It will be obvious, in enquiring into the truth of this trait in the
character of the Quakers, that the same principles, which I have
described as co-operating to produce benevolence towards man, are not
applicable to the species in question. But benevolence, when once rooted
in the heart, will grow like a fruitful plant, from whatever causes it
may spring, and enlarge itself in time. The man, who is remarkable for
his kindness towards man, will always be found to extend it towards the
creatures around him. It is an ancient saying, that "a righteous man
regards the life of his beast, but the tender mercies of the wicked are
cruel."

But, independently of this consideration, there is a principle in the
Quaker constitution, which, if it be attended to, cannot but give birth
to the trait in question.

It has been shewn in the first Volume, on the subject of the diversions
of the field, that the Quakers consider animals, not as mere machines,
to be used at discretion, but in the sublime light of the creatures of
God, of whose existence the use and intention ought always to be
considered, and to whom rights arise from various causes, any violation
of which is a violation of a moral law.

This principle, if attended-to by the Quakers, must, as I have just
observed, secure all animals which may belong to them, from oppression.
They must so consider the end of their use, as to defend them from
abuse. They must so calculate their powers and their years, as to shield
them from excessive labour. They must so anticipate their feelings, as
to protect them from pain. They must so estimate their instinct, and
make an allowance for their want of understanding, as not to attach to
their petty mischiefs the necessity of an unbecoming revenge. They must
act towards them, in short, as created for special ends, and must
consider themselves as their guardians, that these ends may not be
perverted, but attained.

To this it may be added, that the printed summary of the religion of the
society constantly stares them in the face, in which it is recorded,
what ought to be the influence of Christianity on this subject. "We are
also clearly of the judgment, that, if the benevolence of the Gospel
were generally prevalent in the minds of men, it would even influence
their conduct in the treatment of the brute creation, which would no
longer groan, the victims of their avarice, or of their false ideas of
pleasure."


CHAP. IV.

_Second trait is that of complacency of mind or quietness of
character--This trait confirmed by circumstances in their education,
discipline, and public worship, which are productive of quiet personal
habits--and by their disuse of the diversions of the world--by the mode
of the settlement of their differences--by their efforts in the
subjugation of the will--by their endeavour to avoid all activity of
mind during their devotional exercises--all of which are productive of a
quiet habitude of mind_.


A second trait in the character of the Quakers is that of complacency,
or evenness, or quietness of mind and manner.

This trait is, I believe, almost as generally admitted by the world, as
that of benevolence. It is a matter of frequent observation, that you
seldom see an irascible Quaker. And it is by no means uncommon to hear
persons, when Quakers are the subject of conversation, talking of the
mysteries of their education, or wondering how it happens, that they
should be able to produce in their members such a calmness and quietness
of character.

There will be no difficulty in substantiating this second trait.

There are circumstances, in the first place, in the constitution of the
Quaker system, which, as it must have already appeared, must be
generative of quiet personal habits. Among these may be reckoned their
education. They are taught, in early youth, to rise in the morning in
quietness, to go about their ordinary occupations in quietness, and to
retire in quietness to their beds. We may reckon also their discipline.
They are accustomed by means of this, when young, to attend the monthly
and quarterly meetings, which are often of long continuance. Here they
are obliged to sit patiently. Here they hear the grown up members of the
society speak in order, and without any interruption of one another. We
may reckon again their public worship. Here they are accustomed
occasionally to silent meetings, or to sit quietly for a length of time,
when not a word is spoken.

There are circumstances again in the constitution of the Quakers, which
are either preventive of mental activity, and excitement of passion, or
productive of a quiet habitude of mind. Forbidden the use of cards, and
of music, and of dancing, and of the theatre, and of novels, it must be
obvious, that they cannot experience the same excitement of the
passions, as they who are permitted the use of these common amusements
of the world. In consequence of an obligation to have recourse to
arbitration, as the established mode of decision in the case of
differences with one another, they learn to conduct themselves with
temper and decorum in exasperating cases. They avoid, in consequence,
the frenzy of him who has recourse to violence, and the turbid state of
mind of him who engages in suits at law. It may be observed also, that
if, in early youth, their evil passions are called forth by other
causes, it is considered as a duty to quell them. The early subjugation
of the will is insisted upon in all genuine Quaker families. The
children of Quakers are rebuked, as I have had occasion to observe, for
all expressions of anger, as tending to raise those feelings, which
ought to be suppressed. John Fresco, said D. Acisclo was a _ente_. - And
why said V. that D. John is a _ente_ - he once asked Mrs. Manolita.
- Why do I say? - Answered Acisclo gift - he is a _ente_ because it is
the strangest bug I've ever met in my life. -XII-Ente success or not
_ente_, D. Juan Fresco earned a lot of D. Acisclo, which had the
more hope, more and unveiled that seeks not to defeat.

The reports gave D. Juan little about the condition of Mr helpful Jaime
Pimentel, not without mortified. Already, however, there was no way back,
and what it was so soon to defeat D. Paco, but this was less need to
use the candidate finder _turrones_, less distracted and more
districts that would grow throughout the kingdom.

Acisclo Don used to throw stones happy, and this neglect of his
future deputy, who had for any other been poor, showing times and
laughing with bright colors in the eyes of his ambitious hopes.

"If the member does not do anything - read Acisclo gift to himself
- but not fulfilled its promises, if not reward the efforts of voters,
I will have to return them, which will give me reason to understand myself
with the Governor of the province and to the Minister, and here I am
real and direct the master, without that annoying middle of
diputadito.

Essentially, therefore, is to win a large majority, and to show that D.
Paco is a piece of my hand. "It was not half so that D.

Acisclo not used. The elections were to be in the autumn, and during
the summer D. Acisclo lived in a fever of activity. He traveled
on horseback all the people of the district, who were seven, winning votes
for his protégé and removing partial D. Paco. Until the capital district
was repeatedly, and not without success, with that object. A few not
to influence voters, whom D. Paco had _amarrados_ the undocking D.

Acisclo, gallantly exposing their capitals. Being _amarrados_, it includes
language election there, the big money should elector. D. Acisclo was
rumboso. Distributed at least eight thousand to ten percent hard without
more guarantees that PNs simple, free and fast for people to D. Paco,
with deed and money given to fifteen. Villafría of all voters to vote
before going to a place nearby, because there was no Villafría
_mesa_. Don Acisclo managed to kill _mesa_ of that place and to be given
to Villafría population most central and convenient, as it proved.
In Villafría sure that gift Acisclo _volcaría for the puchero_ D.
Jaime. _Volcar The means to put or hang puchero_ all possible votes to
the candidate who wants to promote. The votes of those who are potential
voters in the lists are not to be a thousand miles away or buried.

And yet there have been times when absent and even the dead voted. They
are the chronicles of that electoral district, as it knew that Paco
D. D. Acisclo urdiendo him, began to work against, out of lethargy, or
rather shall we neglected the quiet and repose confidence in its
security and had him up there.

This, of course, he had to don Acisclo increasingly redouble their
activity. So do not stop. His life was a tissue of endless lectures,
excursions to this village or the other, treatment, and to write
letters and read.

Pepe Ghetto and was assistant secretary of D. Acisclo and also writing,
traveling and conferencing. Manolita Doña Doña Luz and company were
mutually abandoned by D. Pepe and Acisclo Ghetto. And the two also
served to escort Father Enrique, the only man perhaps of the entire
district was not involved in the election.

The father had been involved only in the early days to try to dissuade
D. Acisclo that elections are mixed in, but D.
For when their shops were found open on Christmas day,
and on Good Friday, and on the different fast-days which had been
appointed, they were taken up and punished by the magistrates on the one
hand, and insulted and beaten by the people on the other. But,
notwithstanding this ill usage, they persevered as rigidly in the
non-observance of particular days and times, as in their non-compliance
with oaths, and they still persevere in it. It does not appear, however,
that their bearing of their testimony in this case is any longer a
source of much vexation or trouble to them: for though the government of
the country still sanctions the consecration of particular days, and,
the great majority of the people join in it, there seems, to have been a
progressive knowledge or civilization in both, which has occasioned them
to become tender on account of this singular deviation from their own
practice.

But though the Quakers have been thus relieved by the legislature, and
by the more mild and liberal disposition of the people, from so much
suffering in bearing their testimony on the two occasions which have
been mentioned, yet there are others, where the laws of government are
concerned, on which they find themselves involved in a struggle between
the violation of their consciences and a state of suffering, and where
unfortunately there is no remedy at hand, without the manifestation of
greater partiality towards them, than it may be supposed an equal
administration of justice to all would warrant.

Hie first of these occasions is when military service, is enjoined. The
Quakers, when drawn for the militia, refuse either to serve, or to
furnish substitutes. For this refusal they come under the cognizance of
the laws. Their property, where they have any, is of course distrained
upon, and a great part of a little substance is sometimes taken from
them on, this account. Where they have not distrainable property, which
is occasionally the case, they never fly, but submit to the known
punishment, and go patiently to prison. The legislature, however, has
not been inattentive to the Quakers even upon this occasion; for it has
limited their confinement to three months. The government also of the
country afforded lately, in a case in which the Quakers were concerned,
an example of attention to religious scruples upon this subject. In the
late bill for arming the country _en masse_, both the Quakers and the
Moravians were exempted from military service. This homage to religious
principle did the authors of these exemptions the highest honour. And it
certainly becomes the Quakers to be grateful for this unsolicited
favour; and as it was bestowed upon them upon the full belief that they
were the people they professed themselves, they should be particularly
careful that they do not, by any inconsistency of conduct, tarnish the
high reputation, which has been attached to them by the government under
which they live.

The second occasion is, when tithes or other dues are demanded by the
church. The Quakers refuse the payment of these upon principles, which
have been already explained. They come of course again under the
cognizance of the laws. Their property is annually distrained upon by
warrant from justices of the peace, where the demand does not exceed the
value of ten pounds, and this is their usual suffering in this case. But
there have not been wanting instances where an unusual hardness, of
heart has suggested a process, still allowable by the law, which has
deprived them of all their property, and consigned them for life to the
habitation of a prison.[35]

[Footnote 35: One died, not a great while ago, in York Castle, and
others, who were confined with him, would have shared his fate, but for
the interference of the king.

It is surprising, that the clergy should not unite in promoting a bill
in parliament, to extend the authority of the justices to grant warrants
of distraint for tithes to more than the value of ten pounds, and to any
amount, as this is the most cheap and expeditious way for themselves. If
they apply to the ecclesiastical courts, they can enforce no payment of
their tithes then. They can put the poor Quaker into prison, but they
cannot obtain their debt. If they apply to the exchequer, they may find
themselves, at the conclusion of their suit, and this after a delay of
three years, liable to the payment of extra costs, to the amount of
forty or fifty pounds, with which they cannot charge the Quaker, though
they may confine him for life. Some, to my knowledge, have been glad to
abandon these suits, and put up with the costs, incurred in them; rather
than continue them. Recourse to such courts occasion the clergy
frequently to be charged with cruelty, when, if they had only understood
their own interests better, they would have avoided them.]

But it is not only in cases, of which the laws of the land take
cognizance, that the Quakers prefer suffering to doing that which their
consciences disapprove. There are other cases, connected, as I observed
before, with the opinion of the world, where they exhibit a similar
example. If they believe any custom or fashion of the world to be evil
in itself, or to be attended with evil, neither popular applause nor
popular fury can make them follow it, but they think it right to bear
their testimony against it by its disuse, and to run the hazard of all
the ridicule, censure, or persecution, which may await them for so
doing.

In these cases, as in the former, it must be observed, that the
sufferings of the Quakers have been much diminished, though they still
refuse a compliance in as many instances as formerly, with the fashions
of the world.

It was stated in the first volume, that they substituted the word Thou
for You, in order that they might avoid by their words, as well as by
their actions, any appearance of flattery to men. It was stated also,
that they suffered on this account; that many magistrates, before whom
they were carried in the early times of their institution, occasioned
their punishment to be more severe, and that they were often abused and
beaten by others, and put in danger of their lives. "-" Tonight yet,
"exclaimed the mother," marries the son of Großveziers the princess
Bedrulbudur in palaces. "She told him this, as it had, and told him so
closely with the individual circumstances that he did not More
doubt was.

This message was Alaeddin as the lightning hit. Anyone other than he would
impose his grief, but a secret jealousy aroused the activity of his mind
soon. He thought now of the lamp, which he so far been useful,
and without using empty words against the sultan, the Großvezier or the
son of this minister to strive, he said simply: "Dear Mother, son
of the Großveziers tonight is perhaps not as happy as he hoped. I
want a moment go to my room, however you prepare the dinner." Alaeddin
mother understood well that their son of the lamp to make use, in order
to marry the son of Großveziers perhaps to thwart, and they are not
deceived. Alaeddin took once he was in his room, the magic lamp, which
he has the appearance of the spirit, of his mother so great horror
eingejagt, was brought here, and rubbed it in the same place as
before. Immediately the spirit appeared and said to him: "What do you
want? I am ready to obey thee as thy slave and slave to all those who
are the lamp in hand, both I, as all the other slaves of the lamp.
"-" Listen, "said Alaeddin," thou hast me brought so far to eat as
often as I took his, but now I'll have an order from a much greater
concern to be taken. I voted for the Sultan to stop the princess
Bedrulbudur leave. He has promised me, and only a postponement of three
months. But instead to keep his word, he married them tonight before
the deadline with the son of Großveziers.

I have just heard and the matter is quite certain. Now I ask of thee,
that thou bride and bridegroom when they have put to bed, and both
carry away in their beds bringest here. "-" My lord, " The spirit
replied, "I will obey thee. Do you have anything else to command? "-"
For the moment nothing, "replied Alaeddin and the spirit disappeared.
Alaeddin went to his mother back and dined so quiet, as usual,
with her evening.

After eating for a while he spoke to her about the marriage of the
princess, how about one thing that grieved him garnicht. Then he
went back to his room so that his mother undisturbed could go to bed. He
himself does not lay down, but expected the return of the spirit and
the execution of his command. Meanwhile were in the palace of the sultan,
with tremendous pomp all broadcasters to marriage ceremony of the
princess have been taken, and the festivities and merry lasted into
the night. When everything was gone, removed, the son of Großveziers
unnoticed on a sign to him by the Supreme blended the princess gave
him even after the apartment of the princess, and introduced into
the chamber, where the bride-bed was prepared.

He first settled. Soon afterwards, the sultana accompanied by their
women and the women of her daughter, the bride enters. Following the
custom of all the newlyweds they are heavily ruffled.

The sultana helped them undressing, as she laid in bed with violence,
they hugged, wished her good night and then removed with all their
wives. The last, the above, shut the door behind you. No sooner had
the door closed, when the spirit, a loyal slave of the lamp and timely
execution of all commands of their owner, without the young husband's
time to leave his newly married coupe even just a little to
caress, to the great astonishment of both the bed where they lay,
and took in the twinkling of an eye in the room wore Alaeddin.

Alaeddin, this moment, full of impatience had expected, not tolerated,
that the son of the princess in Großveziers lie remained. "Nimm these
young husband, "he said to the spirit," lock him into the secret
chamber, and come tomorrow morning before dawn something again.
"Immediately, the Spirit of the Son in the simple Großveziers shirt from
the bed, brought him to the designated place and let him daselbst
after he Dunst gehaucht had on him, he of the eddy to toe felt him
and prevented himself from the body to move.

So great now Alaeddin Bedrulbudur love for the princess, so he led,
when he was alone with her, no long speeches, but said only in a very
gentle tone to her: "Fear nothing, dear princess, you're here in safety,
and so great is the love that I consider your beauty and your stimuli
feel, I will never lower the barriers of deep reverence exceed what I
owe you. If I, "he added," I have been forced to such extreme measures
to take effect, so this is not done with the intention to insult
you, but I just wanted to prevent an unequal rival, the promise by the
Sultan, thy father , given me, you would run to take possession. "The
princess of all these circumstances, knew nothing, very careful
not to Alaeddin words and he could not reciprocate. The horror and
amazement at this surprising and unexpected adventure, she had in such a
state that Alaeddin her no single word could elicit. Alaeddin did not,
however, at that, he undressed himself and lay down to take the
place of the son of Großveziers by the princess returned to the back, but
the caution used a sword between the princess and to specify the character
that he so deserved to be punished if it is against their honor should
pass. Alaeddin was so happy, his rival of having robbed of happiness,
which he that night hoping to enjoy, and slept very quietly. Anders
Bedrulbudur the princess: she had in her life no so morose and unpleasant
night to persuade, and if the city and the state of mind in which the
spirit of the son of Großveziers had left, so you can easily think that
they for the young husband was much afflicted. On the next morning
Alaeddin needed not only to rub the lamp, in order to bring the spirit.
He came to the designated hour, and said to Alaeddin, while this is
ankleidete: "Here am I, what hast thou to command me?"

- "Go," replied Alaeddin, 'the son of the hole Großveziers, put him
back into this bed and wear him to the palace of the sultan in the
same place, where thou hast made him.

"The Spirit led the son of Großveziers from his post and took
Alaeddin, when he returned, his saber again. That put the young husband
beside the princess and wore the bridal bed in a moment by the same
chamber of the royal palace, where he had brought it. It should be
noted, that the mind is neither the princess nor the son of Großveziers
was seen, his disgusting figure would easily before they can kill terror.
Similarly, they heard the conversations between him and Alaeddin, but
just noticed the movements of the bed and their transfer from one
place to another, this alone was enough horror to them einjagen how
easily can think.

No sooner had the spirit of the bride back to bed made its place as the
Sultan, who would like to know how the princess, his daughter, their
wedding night are brought into the room came to her to wish good morning.
The son of the Großveziers the whole night in the cold and had to
have not yet had time to get warm, stood as the door was opened
immediately and went into the anteroom, where he undressed the night
before had .

The Sultan approached the bed of the princess, and kissed them in
accordance with the custom between the eyes, wished her good morning and
she asked smiling, as they have found this night? When he looked at it
more carefully but he found it to his great surprise, sunk into a
deep melancholy, but it was neither red, nor was it otherwise a
sign that his curiosity would have to meet.

They just threw him a very sad sight, the big or great affliction
Mißvergnügen betrayed. He spoke a few words to her, but because
he saw her he could elicit no reply, as he believes, they do so from
Schamhaftigkeit and away. Nevertheless, the presumption in him,
this silence must be a very peculiar reason, so he went immediately
after the chambers of the sultana, and told her, in what condition he
found the princess and how she had received. "Sir," was the answer to
the sultana, "thou must not be surprised that you, the morning after
the wedding night, all newlyweds such restraint. In two or three days,
this will be different. I will now go even to her, "she added," and I
would have deceived me when they received me well. "When the sultana was
dressed, she went after the rooms of the princess, which was still to
bed. They approached her, kissed her and wished her a good morning, but
how great was her surprise when she not only failed to answer it received,
but on closer inspection deep dejection remarked to her, which she
concluded that it needed it a bit encounters, which they could not
guess. "Dear daughter," said the sultana to her, "how comes it that you
have read all my erwiderst cuddled so bad? Before your mother but you
need no such circumstances to make. I admit openly and freely, what
you encountered, and let me not so long in this painful anxiety.

"The princess Bedrulbudur finally broke the silence with a deep
sigh. "Ah, my very dear mother," cried she, "forgive me if I
am guilty of reverence was lacking. It is my last night so things are
extraordinary encounter that I am by my amazement and to my horror had
not yet recovered, and indeed hardly recognize myself. "They portrayed
this with the lively colors, what you encountered. The sultana heard
everything that the Princess told her, very calmly, but not wanted
to believe. "Dear daughter," she said to her, "thou hast done it well,
that thou the Sultan, thy father, have said nothing about it. Beware
yes, someone declared against it; one would you keep for a Närrin
when you heard it speak. "-" Decent mother worship, "answered
the princess," I can assure you that I'm understanding. My husband only
question, he will tell you the same. "-" I will ask him, "replied
the sultana," but when he talks just like you, so vermöchte me this is
still not convincing. Just standing up and beating you these thoughts
from his head. "Sultana also urged the women of the princess, and when
she saw that she was up and began to decorate, she went after the rooms
of the Sultan and told him it her daughter was really gone through the
head, but had no relevance. Then she let the son of Großveziers call
to get from him more clues about the story of the princess to receive
this, however, characterized by the relationship with the Sultan
felt very honored, had made the case to conceal. "My dear son," said the
sultana to him, "Tell me, did you get the same conceit in their heads
as your wife?" - "Lady," answered the son of Großveziers, "I should
probably explain ask what your question is to say? "-" I am satisfied,
"replied the sultana," and does not require to know more, you're
wiser than them. "The merry in the palace lasted the whole day, and the
sultana the princess from the page came, omitted nothing to make
them for fun and to participate in the fun and delight to vote
shows that in her honor were held; Begebnis alone the previous
night had such a tremendous impression made on them that they had
nothing more sense and was always busy.

The son of the Großveziers felt this bad night is also very weak,
he sat alone, his ambition burned, no one to remember something like this,
and if you saw him, you had to believe that he was a very happy
husband. Alaeddin, of all what in the palace was experiencing, was well
informed, he doubted not that the newlyweds, in spite of their
irksome adventure in the first night, to each other again would go
to bed, and had no desire to sleep in it.

Once the night was a bit advanced, he rubbed his lamp, the spirit appeared
and offered him the same words as before, its services. "The son of
Großveziers and the princess Bedrulbudur," Alaeddin said to him,
"tonight to sleep together again.

Go out and once they have laid down, bring me the bed here, like
yesterday. "The Spirit Alaeddin also served faithfully and on time, as
the first. The son of the Großveziers brought the night so cold and so
unpleasant, as the wedding night, and the princess had on her
annoyances Alaeddin bed again as comrades assume that also this time
between her and the sword presented. The Spirit came, the commands that
Alaeddin, morning again, put the husband to his wife, then took
the bed with the newlyweds and carried it back into the rooms of the
palace, where he had brought. The Sultan, who after the reception, on
which he last morning at the Princess Bedrulbudur found, was very
curious, as the second night had been brought, and whether she once
received would be so bad, just went back to her room early in order to
teach. The son of the Großveziers, which is about his misfortune in
this night even more ashamed and angered, as the first, barely
heard him come, as he hurried up and rushed into the dressing room. The
Sultan approached the bed of the princess, wished her good morning and
then said, according to the same cuddled like the previous days: "Well,
my dear daughter, are you this morning again so bad-tempered,
like yesterday? Will you say to me, like you the night to persuade
you? "The princess watched the same silence and the Sultan said that
they are still very restless and was saddened when the first time.
He now no longer doubted that her encounter something extraordinary
must be admitted, however, angered over their silence and called her
full wrath, and with saber gezücktem to: "If you do not confess
to me what you want to hide, so I'll cut off your head immediately
from. "The princess, with the sound and the threat of Sultan offended
even more frightened, than the sight of the naked sword, finally
broke the silence and said with watery eyes:" Beloved Father and
King!

I ask for forgiveness if I have offended you, but hope from your
goodness and gentleness, compassion that takes the place of anger
occur as soon as I tell you the sad and pitiful state of what I
regarded as both the previous night found faithful sinking. "After
this introduction, the Sultan and mollified somewhat milder agreed,
she told him everything you during these two nights morose encounter
was true and so touching that he was saddened, because he loved
his daughter very tenderly. They concluded with the words: "If you are
in the least doubt in my story, so you can ask the husband, whom you've
given me, I am convinced that the truth of the matter is also testify,
as I do." Sultan told The Bekümmernis the deep, into which the princess
by such a bold adventure had to be moved. "Dear daughter," he said to
her, "it was very wrong of you, that you me this strange story is
not told you yesterday that I must be just as important as yours.

I've not married with the intention to make you unhappy, but on the
contrary, I thought, you put in the possession of all the happiness
to which you deserve and a husband, for you seemed to fit, could
also hope.

Banne just from your mind the sad thought of what thou hast told me
also. I will immediately give orders that you have now is not so
unpleasant and unbearable nights longer have, as usual. "As soon as the
Sultan in his chambers had returned, he Großvezier the call. »Vezi," he
said to him, "you have seen your son and he told you nothing?" When
the Großvezier replied that he had not seen it yet, so the Sultan
told him everything that he heard the princess Bedrulbudur .

"I have no doubt," he said last, "that my daughter reported to me the
truth is, however, it would be very dear to me, if your son is
confirmed.

Go and ask him what in fact is. "The Großvezier went immediately to
his son, told him what the sultan had told him and sharpened him
that he had nothing to say hide and should, if everything is true
. "I will confess to you the truth, my father," replied the son.
"Everything the princess to the Sultan said, his sad accuracy, but
the bad treatment that I in particular have learned that they themselves
do not know. I need thee not widely addressed, what I've
ausgestanden if I desungeachtet also against the Princess, my wife,
all feelings of love, honor and cherish gratitude that it deserves.

Nevertheless, I must confess to you honestly that I, as the honorable
and brilliant marriage of the daughter of the sultan for me, rather
die than stay in such a high affinity to maintain it, even if I am also
still such a treatment must be unpleasant. I have no doubt that the
Princess will also think, like me, and it is easy to admit that our
separation for their silence is so necessary, as for mine, so, dear
Father, I ask you for the love that you moved give me this
high honor to give, effect to the Sultan, that our marriage is
annulled.

"As much as it is now also the ambition of Großveziers flattered had
his son as a man of the Sultan's daughter to see, so he gave it,
because this was determined, from the princess to divorce, not
advisable for him at least even for a few days to urge patience in
order to be seen whether this by itself is not repugnant to stop.

He therefore left him to the Sultan report abzustatten, and confessed
to him honestly, the thing was only too true, his son had told him
everything. Without waiting until that even the Sultan of divorce began
to speak, which he very tilted saw this he asked for permission that
his son be removed from the palaces and his house is likely to
return, it would be very wrong if the princess to him only a moment
longer exposed to this terrible scourge would.

He would neither be seduced into that which was wrong, nor
intimidated from doing that which was right, by the splendour or
authority of appearances about him. He would still preserve the
independence of his mind, though he would behave with respect. You would
never be able to convince him, that he had been talking with a person,
who had been fashioned differently from himself. This trait of
independence cannot but extend itself to the poor. For having the same
rights and privileges in the discipline, and the same peculiar customs,
and the same views of men and manners as the rest of the society, a
similar disposition must be found in these, unless it be counteracted by
other causes. But as Quaker servants, who live in genuine Quaker
families, wear no liveries, nor any badges of poverty or servitude,
there is nothing in the opposite scale to produce an opposite feature in
their character.


CHAP. VIII.


SECT. I.

_A sixth trait is that of courage--This includes, first, courage in
life--Courage not confined to military exploits--Quakers seldom
intimidated or abashed--dare to say what they think--and to do what
they believe to be right--This trait may arise from that of bearing
their testimony--and from those circumstances which produced
independence of mind--and from the peculiar customs of the society_.


Another trait in the character of the Quakers, which is nearly allied to
independence of mind, is courage. This courage is conspicuous both in
life and in the hour of death. That, which belongs to the former
instance, I shall consider first.

If courage in life were confined solely to military exploits, the
Quakers would have no pretensions to this character. But courage
consists of presence of mind in many situations of peril different from
those in war. It consists often in refusing to do that which is wrong,
in spite of popular opinion. Hence the man, who refuses a challenge, and
whom men of honour would brand with cowardice on that account, may have
more real courage in so doing, and would have it in the estimation of
moral men, than the person who sends it. It may consist also in an
inflexible perseverance in doing that which is right, when persecution
is to follow. Such was the courage of martyrdom. As courage then may
consist in qualities different from that of heroism, we shall see what
kind of courage it is that has been assigned to the Quakers, and how far
they may be expected to be entitled to such a trait.

There is no question, in the first place, that Quakers have great
presence of mind on difficult and trying occasions. To frighten or to
put them off their guard would be no easy task. Few people have ever
seen an innocent Quaker disconcerted or abashed.

They have the courage also to dare to say, at all times and in all
places, what they believe to be right.

I might appeal for the truth of this, as far as the early Quakers are
concerned, to the different conversations which George Fox had with
Oliver Cromwell, or to the different letters which be wrote to him as
protector, or to those which he afterwards wrote to king Charles the
second.

I might appeal again to the address of Edward Burroughs to the same
monarch.

I might appeal again to the bold but respectful language, which the
early Quakers used to the magistrates, when they were carried before
them, and to the intrepid and dignified manner in which they spoke to
their judges, in the coarse of the numerous trials to which they were
brought in those early times.

I might appeal also to Barclay's address to the king, which stands at
the head of his Apology.

"As it is inconsistent, says Barclay to king Charles the second, with
the truth I bear, so it is far from me to use this letter as an engine
to flatter thee, the usual design of such works, and therefore I can
neither dedicate it to thee, nor crave thy patronage, as if thereby I
might have more confidence to present it to the world, or be more
hopeful of its success. To God alone I owe what I have, and that more
immediately in matters spiritual, and therefore to him alone, and the
service of his truth, I dedicate whatever work he may bring forth in me,
to whom only the praise and honour appertain, whose truth needs not the
patronage of worldly princes; his arm and power being that alone by
which it is propagated, established, and confirmed."

And farther on, he says, "Thou hast tasted of prosperity and adversity;
thou knowest what it is to be banished thy native country, to be
overruled, as well as to rule, and to sit upon the throne; and, being
oppressed, thou hast reason to know how hateful the oppression is both
to God and man. If, after all these warnings and advertisements, thou
dost not turn unto the Lord with all thy heart, but forget him who
remembered thee in distress, and give up thyself to follow lust and
vanity; surely great will be thy condemnation."

And this courage to dare to say what they believe to be right, as it was
an eminent feature in the character of the primitive, so it is
unquestionably a trait in that of the modern Quakers. They use no
flattery even in the presence of the king; and when the nation has
addressed him in favour of new wars, the Quakers have sometimes had the
courage to oppose the national voice on such an occasion, and to go
before the same great personage, and in a respectful and dignified
manner, to deliver a religious petition against the shedding of human
blood.

They have the courage also to dare to do as well as to say what they
consider to be right.

It is recorded of the early Quakers, that, in the times of the hottest
persecution, they stood to their testimony in the places appointed for
their worship. They never assembled in private rooms, or held private
conventicles, employing persons to watch at the doors, to keep out spies
and informers, or to prevent surprise from the magistrates. But they
worshipped always in public, and with their doors open. Nor, when armed
men were sent to dissolve their meetings, did they ever fly, but, on
the summons to break up and depart, they sat motionless, and, regardless
of threats and blows, never left their devotions, but were obliged to be
dragged out, one by one, from their places. And even when their
meeting-houses were totally destroyed by the magistrates, they sometimes
met the next meeting-day, and worshipped publicly on the ruins,
notwithstanding, they knew that they were subject by so doing, to fines,
and scourges, and confinements, and banishment, and that, like many
others of their members who had been persecuted, they might die in
prison.

This courage of the early Quakers has descended as far as circumstances
will allow us to judge, to their posterity, or to those who profess the
same faith. For happily, on account of the superior knowledge which has
been diffused among us since those times, and on account of the progress
of the benign influence of Christianity, both of which may be supposed
to have produced among the members of our legislature a spirit of
liberality in religion, neither the same trials; nor the same number of
them, can be afforded for the courage of the modern Quakers, as were
afforded for that of the Quakers of former days. But as far as there are
trials, the former exhibit courage proportioned to their weight. This
has been already conspicuous in the bearing of their testimony, either
in those cases where they run the hazard of suffering by opposing the
customs of the world, or where, by refusing a compliance with legal
demands which they believe to be antichristian, they actually suffer.
Nor are these sufferings often slight, when we consider that they may be
made, even in these days of toleration, to consist of confinement, as
the law now stands, for years, and it may happen even for life, in
prison.

This trait of courage in life, which has been attached to the character
of the Quakers, is the genuine offspring of the trait of "the bearing of
their testimony." For by their testimony it becomes their religion to
suffer, rather than comply with many of the laws and customs of the
land. But every time they get through their sufferings, if they suffer
conscientiously, they gain a victory, which gives them courage to look
other sufferings in the face, and to bid defiance to other persecutions.

This trait is generated again by all those circumstances which have been
enumerated, as producing the quality of independence of mind, and it is
promoted again by the peculiar customs of the society. For a Quaker is a
singular object among his countrymen. His dress, his language, and his
customs mark him. One person looks at him. Another perhaps derides him.
He must summon resolution, or he cannot stir out of doors and be
comfortable. Resolution, once summoned, begets resolution again, till at
length he acquires habits superior to the looks and frowns, and
ridicule, of the world.


SECT. II.

_The trait of courage includes also courage in death--This trait
probably--from the lives which the Quakers lead--and from circumstances
connected with their religious faith_.


The trait of courage includes also courage in death, or it belongs to
the character of the Quakers, that they shew great indifference with
respect to death, or that they possess great intrepidity, when sensible
of the approach of it.

I shall do no more on this subject, than state what may be the causes of
this trait.

The dissolution of all our vital organs, and of the cessation to be, so
that we move no longer upon the face of the earth, and that our places
know us no more, or the idea of being swept away suddenly into eternal
oblivion, and of being as though we had never been, cannot fail of
itself of producing awful sensations upon our minds. But still more
awful will these be, where men believe in a future state, and where,
believing in future rewards and punishments, they contemplate what may
be their allotment in eternity. There are considerations, however, which
have been found to support men, even under these awful reflections, and
to enable them to meet with intrepidity their approaching end.

It may certainly be admitted, that, in proportion as we cling to the
things of the world, we shall be less willing to leave them, which may
induce an appearance of fear with respect to departing out of life; and
that, in proportion as we deny the world and its pleasures, or mortify
the affections of the flesh, we shall be more willing to exchange our
earthly for spiritual enjoyments, which may induce an appearance of
courage with respect to death.

It may be admitted again, that, in proportion as we have filled our
moral stations in life, that is, as we have done justly, and loved
mercy, and this not only with respect to our fellow-creature man, but to
the different creatures of God, there will be a conscious rectitude
within us, which will supply us with courage, when we believe ourselves
called upon to leave them.

It may be admitted again, that, in proportion as we have endeavoured to
follow the divine commands, as contained in the sacred writings, and as
we have followed these through faith, fearless of the opinions and
persecutions of men, so as to have become sufferers for the truth, we
shall have less fear or more courage, when we suppose the hour of our
dissolution to be approaching.

Now, without making any inviduous comparisons, I think it will follow
from hence, when we consider the Quakers to be persons of acknowledged
moral character, when we know that they deny themselves for the sake of
becoming purer beings, the ordinary pleasures and gratifications of the
world, and when almost daily experience testifies to us, that they
prefer bearing their testimony, or suffering as a Christian body, to a
compliance with customs, which they conceive the Christian religion to
disapprove, that they will have as fair pretensions to courage in the
hour of death, as any other people, as a body, from the same causes.

There are other circumstances, however, which may be taken into
consideration in this account, and, in looking over these, I find none
of more importance than those which relate to the religious creeds which
may be professed by individuals or communities of men.

Much, in the first place, will depend upon the circumstance, how far men
are doubtful and wavering in their creeds, or how far they depend upon
others for their faith, or how far, in consequence of reasoning or
feeling, they depend upon themselves. If their creeds are not in their
own power, they will be liable to be troubled with every wind of
doctrine that blows, and to be unhappy, when the thought of their
dissolution is brought before them. But the Quakers, having broken the
power or dominion of the priesthood, what terrors can fanaticism hold
out to them, which shall appal their courage in their later hours?

It is also of great importance to men what may be the nature of their
creeds. Some creeds are unquestionably more comfortable to the mind than
others. To those, who believe in the doctrine of election and
reprobation, and imagine themselves to be of the elect, no creed can
give greater courage in the hour of death; and to those who either doubt
or despair of their election, none can inspire more fear. But the
Quakers, on the other hand, encourage the doctrine of perfection, or
that all may do the will of God, if they attend to the monitions of his
grace. They believe that God is good, and just, and merciful; that he
visits all with a view to this perfection without exception of persons;
that he enables all, through the sacrifice of Christ, to be saved; and
that he will make an allowance for all according to his attributes; for
that he is not willing that any should perish, but that all should
inherit eternal life.


CHAP. IX.

_Last good trait is that of punctuality to words and engagements--This
probable from the operation of all those principles, which have produced
for the Quakers the character of a moral people--and from the operation
of their discipline._


The last good trait, which I shall notice in the character of the
Quakers, is that of punctuality to their words and engagements.

With an invisible candidate, careless, lazy, with an enemy so strong, so
unique, such as model and Phoenix among the representatives
of the people had managed to conquer, and overcome by a large majority.
After admire their capacity for policy, acknowledged only a debtor D.
Juan Fresco and the abundant peat bermejinos that followed on the day
of the election as a respected leader. Throughout the long election
period, the friendly relations of Doña Luz and P.
But it was not only in matters which related to the laws of the land,
where the early Quakers held their words and engagements sacred. This
trait was remarked to be true of them in their concerns in trade. On
their first appearance as a society, they suffered as tradesmen,
because others, displeased with the peculiarity of their manners,
withdrew their custom from their shops. But in a little time, the great
outcry against them was, that they got the trade of the country into
their hands. Never needs of this district. I can not explain what is
fit to leave his deputy here, where you can leave anytime. Near this
place has about sixty Aranza olive, his father, military as he bought
with money earned in the game. This is the only link that I know that
it binds to this district.

I repeat, therefore, that I can not explain his commitment to be our MP
but I am clear that, once made their commitment, we will return back, we
will send trip, and will not give us no hint of nougat.And the estimation, which the
Indians put upon the word of this great man and his companions,
continues to be put by them upon that of the modern Quakers in America,
so that they now come in deputations, out of their own settlements, to
consult them on important occasions.

The existence of this trait is probable both from general and from
particular considerations.

If, for example, any number of principles should have acted so forcibly
and in such a manner upon individuals, as to have procured for them as a
body the reputation of a moral people, they must have produced in them a
disposition to keep their faith.[37]

[Footnote 37: This character was given by Pliny to the first Christians.
They were to avoid fraud, theft, and adultery. They were never to deny
any trust, when required to deliver it up, nor to falsify their word on
any occasion.]

But the discipline of the Quakers has a direct tendency to produce this
feature in their character, and to make it an appendage of Quakerism.
For punctuality to words and engagements is a subject of one of the
periodical enquiries. It is therefore publicly handed to the notice of
the members, as a Christian virtue, that is expected of them, in their
public meetings for discipline. And any violation in this respect would
be deemed a breach, and cognizable as such, of the Quaker laws.


CHAP. X.

_Imperfect traits in the Quaker character--Some of these may be called
intellectually defective traits--First imputation of this kind is, that
the Quakers are deficient in learning compared with other people--This
trait not improbable on account of their devotion to trade--and on
account of their controversies and notions about human learning--and of
other causes._


The world, while it has given to the Quakers as a body, as it will have
now appeared, a more than ordinary share of virtue, has not been without
the belief that there are blemishes in their character. What these
traits or blemishes are, may be collected partly from books, partly from
conversation, and partly from vulgar sayings. They are divisible into
two kinds, into intellectually defective, and into morally defective
traits; the former relating to the understanding, the latter to the
heart.

The first of the intellectually defective traits consists in the
imputation, that the Quakers are deficient in the cultivation of the
intellect of their children, or that, when they grow up in life, they
are found to have less knowledge than others in the higher branches of
learning. By this I mean, that they are understood to have but a
moderate classical education, to know but little of the different
branches of philosophy, and to have, upon the whole, less variety of
knowledge than others of their countrymen in the corresponding stations
of life.

This trait seems to have originated with the world in two supposed
facts. The first is, that there has never been any literary writer of
eminence born in the society, Penn, Barclay and others having come into
it by convincement, and brought their learning with them. The second is,
that the society has never yet furnished a philosopher, or produced any
material discovery. It is rather a common remark, that if the education
of others had been as limited as that of the Quaker, we should have been
probably at this day without a Newton, and might have been strangers to
those great discoveries, whether of the art of navigation, or of the
circulation of the blood, or of any other kind, which have proved so
eminently useful to the comfort, health, and safety of many of the human
race.

This trait will be true, or it will be false, as it is applied to the
different classes, which may be found in the society of the Quakers. The
poor, who belong to it, are all taught to read, and are therefore better
educated than the poor belonging to other bodies of men. They who
spring from parents whose situation does not entitle them to rank with
the middle class, but yet keeps them out of the former, are generally
educated, by the help of a[38] subscription, at Ackworth school, and may
be said to have more school learning than others in a similar situation
in life. The rest, whatever may be their situation, are educated wholly
at the expence of their parents, who send them either to private Quaker
seminaries, or to schools in the neighbourhood, as they judge it to be
convenient or proper. It is upon this body of the Quakers that the
imputation can only fall; and as far as these are concerned, I think it
may be said with truth, that they possess a less portion of what is
usually called liberal knowledge than others in a corresponding station
in life. There may be here and there a good classical, or a good
mathematical scholar. But in general there are but few Quakers, who
excel in these branches of learning. I ought, however, to add, that this
character is not likely to remain long with the society. For the young
Quakers of the present day seem to me to be sensible of the inferiority
of their own education, and to be making an attempt towards the
improvement of their minds, by engaging in those, which are the most
entertaining, instructive, and useful, I mean, philosophical pursuits.

[Footnote 38: Their parents pay a small annual sum towards their board
and clothing. The rest is made up by a subscription among the society,
and by the funds of the school.]

That deficiency in literature and science is likely to be a trait in the
character of the Quakers, we may pronounce, if we take into
consideration circumstances which have happened, and notions which have
prevailed, in this society.

The Quakers, like the Jews of old, whether they be rich or poor, are
brought up, in obedience to their own laws, to some employment. They are
called of course at an early age from their books. It cannot therefore
be expected of them, that they should possess the same literary
character as those who spend years at our universities, or whose time is
not taken up by the concerns of trade.

It happens also in this society, that persons of the poor and middle
classes are frequently through industry becoming rich. While these were
gaining but a moderate support, they gave their children but a moderate
education. But when they came into possession of a greater substance,
their children had finished their education, having grown up to men.

The ancient controversy too, relative to the necessity of human learning
as a qualification for ministers of the Gospel, has been detrimental to
the promotion of literature and science among the Quakers. This
controversy was maintained with great warmth and obstinacy on both
sides, that is, by the early Quakers, who were men of learning, on the
one hand, and by the divines of our universities on the other. The less
learned in the society, who read this controversy, did not make the
proper distinction concerning it. They were so interested in keeping up
the doctrine, that learning was not necessary for the priesthood, that
they seemed to have forgotten that it was necessary at all. Hence
knowledge began to be cried down in the society; and though the
proposition was always meant to be true with respect to the priesthood
only, yet many mistook or confounded its meaning, so that they gave
their children but a limited education on that account.

The opinions also of the Quakers relative to classical authors, have
been another cause of impeding in some degree their progress in
learning, that is, in the classical part of it. They believe these to
have inculcated a system of morality frequently repugnant to that of the
Christian religion. And the Heathen mythology, which is connected with
their writings, and which is fabulous throughout, they conceive to have
disseminated romantic notions among youth, and to have made them
familiar with fictions, to the prejudice of an unshaken devotedness to
the love of truth.


CHAP. XI.

_Second trait is, that they are a superstitious people--Circumstances
that have given birth to this trait--Quakerism, where it is understood,
is seldom chargeable with superstition--Where it is misunderstood, it
leads to it--Subjects in which it may be misunderstood are those of the
province of the Spirit--and of dress and language--Evils to be
misapprehended from a misunderstanding of the former subject._


It may seem wonderful at first sight, that persons, who have discarded
an undue veneration for the saints, and the saints days, and the relics
of the Roman Catholic religion, who have had the resolution to reject
the ceremonials of Protestants, such as baptism and the sacrament of the
supper, and who have broken the terrors of the dominion of the
priesthood, should, of all others, be chargeable with superstition. But
so it is. The world has certainly fixed upon them the character of a
superstitious people. Under this epithet much is included. It is
understood that Quakers are more ready than others to receive mystical
doctrines, more apt to believe in marvellous appearances more willing to
place virtue in circumstances, where many would place imposition; and
that, independently of all this, they are more scrupulous with respect
to the propriety of their ordinary movements, waiting for religious
impulses, when no such impulses are expected by other religious people.

This trait of superstition is an ancient trait in the character of the
Quakers, and has arisen from the following causes.

It has been long imagined, that where a people devote themselves so
exclusively to the influence of the Spirit as the Quakers appear to do,
they will not be sufficiently on their guard to make the proper
distinctions between imagination and revelation, and that they will be
apt to confound impressions, and to bring the divine Spirit out of its
proper sphere into the ordinary occurrences of their lives. And in this
opinion the world considers itself to have been confirmed by an
expression said to have been long in use among Quakers, which is, "that
they will do such and such things if they have liberty to do them." Now
by this expression the Quakers may mean only, that all human things are
so uncertain, and so many unforeseen events may happen, that they dare
make no promises, but they will do the things in question if no obstacle
should arise to prevent them. And this caution in language runs through
the whole society; for they seldom promise but provisionally in any
case. But the world has interpreted the expression differently, and
maintains that the Quakers mean by it, that they will do such and such
things, if they feel that they have liberty or permission from the
Spirit of God.

Two other circumstances, which have given birth to this trait in the
character of the Quakers, are the singularities of their dress and
language. For when they are spoken of by the world, they are usually
mentioned under the name of the idolatry or superstition of the Quaker
language, or the idolatry or superstition of the Quaker dress.

Now this trait, which has originated in the three causes that have been
mentioned, is considered by the world to have been still more confirmed
by a circumstance which happened but a few years ago, namely, that when
animal magnetism was in fashion, there were more of this society worked
upon by these delusions, than of any other.

With respect to the truth of this trait, I believe it cannot easily be
made out, as for as animal magnetism is concerned. For though
undoubtedly there were Quakers so superstitious as to be led away on
this occasion, yet they were very few in number, and not more in
proportion than others of other religious denominations. The conduct of
these was also considered as reprehensible by the society at large, and
some pains were taken to convince them of their error, and of the
unsuitableness of such doctrines with the religion they professed.

With respect to the truth of this trait, as it may have existed on other
occasions, it may be laid down as a position generally true, that where
Quakers understand their own constitution, it can have no place among
them. But where they do not understand it, there are few people among
whom it is more likely to exist, as we may see from the following
account.

It is the doctrine of Quakerism on the subject of the Spirit, that it is
an infallible guide to men in their spiritual concerns. But I do not see
where it is asserted by any of the Quaker writers, that it is to be a
guide to man in all the temporal concerns of his life, or that he is to
depreciate the value of human reason. George Fox was very apprehensive
that even in matters of religion, which constitute the immediate
province of the divine Spirit, men might mistake their own enthusiastic
feelings for revelation; and he censured some, to use his own
expression, "for having gone out into imaginations." The society also
have been apprehensive of the same consequences. Hence one among other
reasons for the institution of the office of elders. It is the duty of
these to watch over the doctrine of the ministers to see that they
preach soundly, and that they do not mistake their own imaginations for
the Spirit of God, and mix his wisdom with the waywardness of their own
wills. They therefore, who believe in the doctrine of the agency of the
Spirit, and at the same time in the necessity of great caution and
watchfulness that they may not confound its operations with that of
their own fancies, will never incur the charge, which has been brought
against the body at large. But if there are others, on the other hand,
who give themselves up to this agency without the necessary caution,
they will gradually mix their impressions, and will, in time, refer most
of them to the same source. They will bring the Divine Being by degrees
out of his spiritual province, and introduce him into all the trivial
and worthless concerns of their lives. Hence a belief will arise, which
cannot fail of binding their minds in the chains of delusion and
superstition.

It is the doctrine of Quakerism again on the subject of dress, that
plainness and simplicity are required of those who profess the Christian
character; that any deviation from these is unwarrantable, if it be made
on the plea of conformity to the fashions of the world; that such
deviation bespeaks the beginning of an unstable mind; and, if not
noticed, may lead into many evils. They therefore, who consider dress in
this point of view, will never fall into any errors of mind in their
contemplation of this subject. But if there are members, on the other
hand, who place virtue in the colour and shape of their cloathing, as
some of the Jews did in the broad phylacteries on their garments, they
will place it in lifeless appearances and forms, and bring their minds
under vassalage to a false religion. And in the same manner it may be
observed with respect to language, that if persons in the society lay an
undue stress upon it, that is, if they believe truth or falsehood to
exist inherently in lifeless words, and this contrary to the sense in
which they know they will be understood by the world, so that they dare
not pronounce them for religion's sake, they will be in danger of
placing religion where it is not, and of falling into errors concerning
it, which will be denominated superstition by the world.

As I am now on the subject of superstition, as capable of arising from
the three causes that have been mentioned, I shall dwell for a short
time on some of the evils which may arise from one of them, or from a
misunderstanding of the doctrine of the agency of the Spirit.

I believe it possible, in the first place, for those who receive this
doctrine without the proper limitations, that is, for those who
attribute every thing exclusively to the Spirit of God, and who draw no
line between revelation and the suggestions of their own will, to be
guilty of evil actions and to make the Divine Being the author of them
all.

I have no doubt, for example, that many of those, who engaged in the
crusades, considered themselves as led into them by the Spirit of God.
But what true Quaker, in these days, would wish to make the Almighty the
author of all the bloodshed in the wars that were undertaken on this
account?

The same may be said with respect to martyrdoms. For there is reason to
believe, that many who were instrumental in shedding the blood of their
fellow-creatures, because they happened to differ from them in religious
opinion, conceived that they were actuated by the divine Spirit, and
that they were doing God service, and aiding the cause of religion by
their conduct on such occasions. But what true Quaker would believe that
the Father of justice and mercy was the author of these bloody
persecutions, or that, if men were now to feel an impulse in their own
minds to any particular action, they ought to obey it, if it were to
lead them to do evil that good might come?

The same may be said with respect to many of the bad laws, which are to
be found in the codes of the different nations of the world. Legislators
no doubt have often thought themselves spiritually guided when they made
them. And judges, who have been remarkable for appealing to the divine
Spirit in the course of their lives, have made no hesitation to execute
them. This was particularly the case with Sir Matthew Hale. If there be
any one, whose writings speak a more than ordinary belief in the agency
of the Spirit of God, it is this great and estimable man. This spirit he
consulted not only in the spiritual, but in the temporal concerns, of
his life. And yet he sentenced to death a number of persons, because
they were reputed to be witches. But what true Quaker believes in
witchcraft? or does he not rather believe, that the Spirit of God, it
rightly understood, would have protested against condemnation for a
crime, which does not exist?

But the mischief, if a proper distinction be not made between the agency
of the Spirit and that of the will of man, may spread farther, and may
reach the man himself, and become injurious both to his health, his
intellect, and his usefulness, and the Divine Being may be made again
the author of it all.

Many, we all know, notwithstanding their care and attention, have found
that they have gone wrong in their affairs in various instances of their
lives, that is, events have shewn that they have taken a wrong course.
But if there be those who suppose themselves in these instances to have
been acted upon by the Spirit or God, what is more likely than that they
may imagine that they have lost his favour, and that looking upon
themselves as driven by him into the wrong road, they may fall into the
belief, that they are among the condemned reprobate, and pine away,
deprived of their senses, in a state of irretrievable misery and
despair?

Others again may injure their health, and diminish their comfort and
their utility in another way. And here I may remark, that if I have seen
what the world would call superstition among the Quakers, it has been
confined principally to a few females, upon whose constitution, more
delicate than that of men, an attention to undistinguished impressions,
brought on in a course of time by a gradual depreciation of human
reason, has acted with considerable force. I fear that some of these, in
the upright intention of their hearts to consult the Almighty on all
occasions as the sole arbiter of every thing that is good, have fostered
their own infirmities, and gone into retirements so frequent, as to have
occasioned these to interfere with the duties of domestic comfort and
social good, and that they have been at last so perplexed with doubts
and an increasing multitude of scruples, that they have been afraid of
doing many things, because they have not had a revelation for them. Once
the princess him in the room with the windows twenty-four did occur,
they stood with all its beauty and splendor to stimuli, showed him with
his hand on the place of honor, he should take, and then sat down
with him at the same time: a very excellent like, which it never had
been.

The African magician blinded the splendor of the more beautiful eyes
of the princess, when the radiant gems. Your attitude and the majestic
anmutsvolle liability with which they received it, while it has always
rejected so harshly had made such an impression on him that he hardly
knew his meaning. When he had set itself, took the princess to him
from his visible embarrassment to take the floor and said to him:
"You will no doubt surprised me today that you will find quite different,
as until now, but you will can explain, if I tell you that my whole
Gemütsart of all sadness, melancholy, affliction, and all law is
concerned, I always like to hear from me abschüttle, and I have no more
reason to see. I have, what you me by fate Alaeddin said, thought, and
since I Gemütsart my father pretty well know, I am with you convinced
that he is the terrible effect of his anger was impossible to
miss. If I also wanted to insist that my whole life for him to
cry, but I see that my tears do not call back to life would be. So
I think after I give him until the grave had proved all the
obligations which the love I have asked, I must now include all means
try to comfort me. These are the reasons for my change. Now, once
every occasion to remove the sadness that I entirely by myself am
determined to banish, and in the hope that you will have the courtesy
to send me to society, I have an evening meal for us to prepare. Since
I am Chinese but just have wine and I find it in Africa, it made me want
angewandelt, here in the growing cost, and I have no doubt that the best
you'll find out if what is there. "The African magician, of happiness,
so fast and so easy to grasp Princess Bedrulbudur to win for an impossibility
had said that he could hardly find words to express his gratitude enough,
and to cancel the interview soon, he quickly turned to the African wine,
which they had thought, and said that all the benefits under which
the Africa could boast of, standing above his excellent wine, and best
of all grows in that part of the country where they are currently though,
he had a barrel that is seven years already and not yet filled angestochen
was, and he does not think much to say when he asserts that the
wine at the excellent quality wines all over the world over meet.

"If my princess, I will allow," he added, "I will bring two bottles
of it and will immediately be back." - "It should do'm sorry if I
bother you so many did," said the Princess, "you could someone
hinschicken yes." - "No," replied the African magician, "I must go
even necessary; nobody but me knows where the key to this is the
basement." - "If so, "said the princess," so go and come back soon.

Once you return, we want to sit down. "The African magician, full of
hope to his alleged happiness, not ran, but he flew, and came back
very quickly.

Meanwhile, the princess of the powder, which is their Alaeddin
brought itself into a cup thrown.

They sat down facing each other at table, so that the magician the table
Schenk backs turned.

The princess presented him by the best before and said to him: "If you
ask, I will make music and you sing, but because we both are all alone
here, I think it will give us more pleasure us together to entertain.

"The magician looked at this election of the princess as a new favor. After
they had eaten a few bites, demanded the Princess to drink. They
drank to the health of the magician and said to him: "You had
everything right, your wine to praise, I've never been such a delicious
drink." - "Charming princess," he replied, by the cup to him over was
held in his hand, "my wine is applauded by your new grade." - "drinking
to my health," replied the princess, "so you'll even find that I
understand it." He drank on the health of the princess, then saw the cup
and said: "Princess, I consider myself lucky that I got this barrel
for a good opportunity-up, and I even confess that I am in my life
so do not have excellent wine.

"When she still eaten and had drunk three times more, finally gave
the princess that the African magician with their politeness and their
binding nature completely whole head was crazy, the woman who the
Schenkamt versah the concerted character, and while their cups with wine
brought, she said, one should also of the African magician vollschenken
him over. When both the cup in his hand had, she said: "I do not know
how I get under zulande lovers who drink together , Sitte is with
us in China and move the lover of lovers her cup and drink from
each other as each other, health.

"With these words she handed him the cup which she held in her hand,
and stretched her other hand to his receiving it.

The African magician hastened by so joyful, this exchange made it because
he as the first character is considered the heart of the princess now
to have completely conquered, and he stayed for the happiest of
all mortals. Before he drank, he said, with the cup in his hand,
"princess, we Africans are not as far in the art, the love with
all possible amenities to season, as the Chinese, and by something
I learned what I still did not know, I also feel how much I appreciate
the rebate did.

I will never forget it, gracious princess, that I drank from your cup
and it had found a life to which I no longer had hope, if you even longer
for your cruelty insists. "princess Bedrulbudur led the cup to the mouth,
but only touched him with the lips, while the African magician is very
sought, it is to be done beforehand, and his ausleerte without
a drop is to let. The princess saw that his eyes and he twisted backwards
zusammensank without consciousness. Now Alaeddin came up and
stepped into the hall.

When he was the African magician outstretched on the sofa are provided,
and the princess Bedrulbudur him full of joy and entgegeneilte with
open arms, he held them back and said: "It is not yet time, Princess,
do me a favor, Embark on your rooms and make sure that I found myself
alone can, however, I make my preparations, which you just as quickly
back to China to bring back, like you have been away from there are.
"As soon as the princess with their wives and extended from the Saale was
gone, locked Alaeddin the door, approached the corpse of the African
magician, opened his gown and pulled the lamp out. He unveiled it and
rubbed it, and soon appeared in the spirit with his usual greeting.
"Spirit," Alaeddin said to him, "I've called to you on behalf of the
lamp, your good mistress, you see, to command, that you have this
palace back to China again take leave, and at the same place and
same place from where he is taken away. "The Spirit gave a nod to
understand that he will obey and vanished. The relocation was really ahead
of them, and we felt it only in two very slight vibrations: one, as the
palace of his place in Africa emporgehoben, and the other, when he was
in China over the palace of the sultan was established, everything
in a few moments had happened.

Alaeddin went into the room of the Princess down, hugged her and
told her: "Princess, I can assure you that your and my joy tomorrow
morning will be perfect." Then the princess its supper time had not
yet completed Alaeddin and demanded to eat, so let them out of the
room with the windows twenty-four the dishes, who applied but were
barely touched on her room. The Princess and Alaeddin dined and drank
together from the good old wine of the African magician. I want nothing
more from their entertainment to say the very pleased to be able to just
add and add that they were last together in her bedchamber went. Since
the abduction of the palace and the princess Bedrulbudur was the
Sultan, the father of this princess, inconsolable, because he thought
lost forever. He could neither night nor day find peace, and
take everything to avoid what his grief could give new food, he is the
opposite intention.

While he, for example, just before the morning after the open bay
window of his palace and went to his eyes to the pleasant sight to
graze, which he was not tired, so he went now many times of the day
up to his tears run free to leave and deeper into his affliction
to sink the idea that he is what he had liked so well, will never
see again, and the sweetheart that he possessed in the world, for
ever lost.

Also in the morning, when Alaeddin Palace back to its old place had
been brought, the dawn had hardly shown in the sky, when the sultan
returned to the bay was.

He was so self-swept and so steeped in his pain that he had his eyes on
the sad side hinwendete, where he was just the empty space and no more
palace supposed to be seen. So when he suddenly saw this void
filled, he took it for a Nebula. But finally, after he had considered
it more carefully, he realized that it was undoubtedly Alaeddin
Palace.

Joy and happiness now takes possession of his heart after a
long period of sorrow and grief He hurriedly returned to his room and
ordered that it should pay him a horse saddle and perform.

He swung itself up, rode away and it was him when he could not
fast enough at Alaeddin Palace Annexes. Alaeddin, who predicted this
was up by daybreak, had one of his finest clothes, and then into the
hall with the twenty-four windows go from where he saw the Sultan come.
He hurried down and was still just at the right time to make it
to the bottom of the main stairs to receive him and dismount from
a horse to help.

"Alaeddin," said the sultan to him, "I can not speak with you before I
put my daughter had seen and embraced." Alaeddin led to the Sultan in the
room of the princess Bedrulbudur who has just finished with her suit
had become, for Alaeddin She recalls getting up, that they are no
longer in Africa but in China, the capital of the Sultan, her
father, and his palace to find. The Sultan embraced them several times,
while his bright tears of joy ran through the cheeks, and the princess
in turn showed him in every possible way in which she was delighted,
to see him again. At last the Sultan took the floor and said, "Beloved
Daughter I want to believe that the joy of reunion you in my eyes,
so blithely and so little changes can appear as if you do not encounter
would be unpleasant, and yet I am convinced that you've suffered a
great deal. I wish now that you tell me how the thing received, and
not hide me. "The princess made it a pleasure, the desire to meet
her father." To put it bluntly promise my whole misfortune was that I
thee expensive and my husband was snatched. What my kidnapping, it has
Alaeddin not the least part because I myself am solely to blame, but in
a very innocent way. "Now the Sultan of the truth of their words to
convince him she cumbersome, as the African magician into a lamp dealer
had dressed, the old lamps with new eintauschte, and how they then
used to Kurzweil Alaeddin lamp, whose secret power and importance it
is not known, with a new, traded, as the palace along with her and the
other residents in the amount raised and together with the African
sorcerer to Africa had been moved.

In order to fully convince the Sultan went up, and when he the African
dead magician and face entirely black blue of the poisons
saw Alaeddin he embraced with great tenderness, and said to him: "My
son, I think my demeanor against thee benefit; just love my father has
encouraged me, and you need me Übereilung to ravish me, I had to
forgive." - "Sir," replied Alaeddin, "I did not the least cause me
to complain about you, you've just done what you have to do.

This vile magician, this ejection of mankind, was the only reason that I
lost your grace. Once you will have leisure, I will you of another
malice tell that he appreciated me and the black is no less than his
last one prior to me quite peculiar grace of God has guarded. "-" I'm
going to get such leisure explicitly take, "replied the Sultan," and quite
soon.

But now let's just think happy to be also worry that the hated object is
taken away. "Alaeddin had the corpse of the African magician away and on
the Danger Schin throw, where the birds and animals for food to
serve.

The sultan gave command but by drums, timpani, trumpets and other
instruments, the number of general public to give pleasure, and had a ten
Joy Festival announce the return of the princess and Alaeddin Bedrulbudur
to celebrate. Because Alaeddin To escape the second time a death threat
which he almost certainly had, it just was not the last, and he had a
third, equally dangerous test. The African magician had a younger
brother, in the magic art was no less clever than he, so you can
say that to him and pernicious scheming malice nor surpassed. Since
they are not always together, or lived in the same city, and one is
sometimes found in the east, while the other was in the west, so it
is not omitted, with the help of the punk art animal auszumitteln once
every year, in which parts of the world, each of them live, as he is
located and if he does not need the help of others.

Shortly after the African magicians in the business against the death
Alaeddin luck had wanted his younger brother, who has been a year and
a day no messages from him and had are not in Africa but in a very
remote country stayed learn at any place on earth he lived, as he
is located and what is driving it.

He endeckte now that his brother is no longer in the world that he was
poisoned and had died suddenly that this was in China and the places to
happen, and finally, that the one who poisoned him, a man of low
origin was a princess of the sultan had married. The magicians of the sad
end of his brother had, he lost no time in useless lamentations, but
decided immediately to revenge his death, went on horseback and
went on his way to China.

He had about planes, rivers, mountains, desert, and after a long journey
he finally came under incredible complaints to China and soon in the
capital. The day after his arrival, the magician, and walked around in
the city. At one of the places where you can deal with all kinds of
playing time distribution, and where, during a play, the others from
the news of the day or even from their own stories entertained, he
heard strange things even tell of the virtues and piety, even of the
miracles of the world a secluded woman named Fatime. Since he now
believed that this woman could be him with his project, perhaps something
in his hand, he took one of the company aside and asked him for details
about the holy woman and the nature of miracles, they do. "What! "said
the Angeredete to him," thou hast this woman had never seen nor
heard of her talk? It is through their fasting, their strict way of
life and the example that they are subject to the general admiration
throughout the city. Except on Mondays and Fridays, she never
published her little hermitage, and on days where they are in the city
can see, it does immeasurable good, they also heal anyone who is
tainted with headache, by laying on their hands. " The magician asked
about this point nothing more to know, but asked only to what parts of
the city, the hermitage of the holy woman would. The man described
to him exactly the point. Around midnight, the magician straight path to
the hermitage Fatime, the holy woman, because under this name she was
known throughout the city. He opened easily with a simple latch locked
door, stepped inside and made the door softly again, he saw indoors in
bright moonlight Fatime, in free air on a bad mattress covered sofa and
slept on their cell hingelehnt lying . He approached her, pulled
a dagger, which he wore at his side, and she awoke. When the poor
Fatime eyes, she was shocked about the dimensions at the sight of a
man who was in the process, to stab. He put the dagger to her chest, made
zuzustoßen face and said: "If you schreist or make the least noise,
so are you of the death, but now stand up and do what I say you will."
Fatime who in their clothes, gave up, stood shivering and trembling
on.

"Fear not," said the magician to her, "I ask only your dress, give
it to me and take the mine."

They swapped their clothes, and after the magician Fatime the dress had
attracted, he said to her: " Now I paint it the same as the
face deinigen, so that I can see you like and the color is not blurred.
"Then he saw that she still trembled, he said, in order to calm them, and
enable them to communicate with so more confidently fulfill his wish,
once again to her: "Fear not, I swear to you in the name of God
that I'll leave the life." Fatime bade him enter into their cell,
lighted her lamp, took a brush and a some juice, they are in a receptacle
had rubbed him the face and then assured him, the color will not out
and his face was now quite like theirs. Then they put him their own head
up a major clothing besides their veils and showed him how he
was on his way through the city so that the face veil should be.
Finally, after they gave him a large rosary, which he forwards to
the belt herabhing, around the neck slung, she gave him the same
bar, they usually wore in his hand, then gave him a mirror and said
to him: "Because look into it once and you'll see that you have me
same as an egg the other." The magician found everything to your server,
but the good Fatime the oath not to remove it as he had done solemnly.
So people do not want to see blood when he erstäche so he strangles
her, and when he saw that they had abandoned the spirit, he dragged her
body to the feet to the water tank seclusion and threw him into it.
According to execute this wicked the murder was disguised as a holy
magicians Fatime the rest of the night in the hermitage to. On the
next morning he went, although this is no ordinary Ausgangstag for
the holy woman was, nevertheless, because he believed it would
take him a question nobody asked, and if you asked him he would
already know the answer.

Since he was when he arrived from all things under Alaeddin Palace had
asked, and because he wanted to play his role, so he immediately
took his way there. Everyone held him for the holy woman, and he was soon
a large crowd surrounded . Some suggested that his prayer, others
kissed his hand, others who were still respectful, just kissed the hem
of his robe, and still others that are either really had a headache, or
just wanted to keep on the other hand, bowed their heads before
him, so he they would like to hang up his hands, which he did by a few
muttered words like prayer, in short, he mimics the holy woman so well,
that everyone that was him. After several times he stopped en route was
to bring such people to satisfy themselves of this kind of hands laying
on neither a benefit nor a loss had he finally came to the square in
front of Alaeddin's palace, where even more people had gathered, so
that there are big effort cost, is to approach him. The strongest and
eager crowded with violence through the throng, and stood up on
complaints and such a clamor that it was in the room with the windows
twenty-four, where the princess was Bedrulbudur, could hear. The
princess asked what the noise mean, and since there is nobody you
could say, look, and she ordered her report abzustatten.

One of her women looked without the hall to leave through a window
and reported it then, the noise coming from the people of quantity,
which surround the holy woman to get her hands through the headaches
distribute it.

The princess, the long - a lot of good times of the holy woman heard
it but have not yet seen, was curious, to make their acquaintance with
her to speak. Once they have something like this was announced, said the
Upper blending, if they so wish, so they come up if he wanted to
leave.

The princess is approved and he immediately produced from four blended
with the command, the supposed holy woman heraufzubringen. Once extended
to the gates of Alaeddin palace and came out to the African magician
acknowledge, so impor addressed the crowd, and as this is now free and
which extended towards him saw, so he went with them in order to
prevent greater joy, as its picaresque piece him a good start seemed
to take.

One of the coupage took the floor and said, "Holy woman, the princess
wants you to speak, come and follow us." - "The princess may show
me a lot of honor," replied the alleged Fatime, "I am ready, it obey.
"With these words he followed coupage. When the magician, who under the
sacred dress a diabolical heart hid in the room with the windows twenty-four
occurred and the princess said, he began with a prayer, a long list of
wishes for their welfare, their happiness and the fulfillment of what
they could only covet, contained. Then he unfolded all its deceptive and
hypocritical eloquence to the great cloak of piety into the heart of the
princess einzuschleichen, which he also succeeded so easily, as the
princess in their natural kind had the conviction that all people should
be equally good as them, but especially those men and women,
which is made mandatory, in the solitude of God to serve.
Of the poor then shall I say? That is
impossible, for how could they get their daily bread? Of the rich, then,
like themselves? That would be folly, for where would they form their
friendships or their connubial connections, in which they must place a
portion of the happiness of their lives? Do they wish then to make them
independent of society at large, so as not to do it good? That is
against all religion. In short it is impossible, while we exist in this
life, to be independent one of another. We are bound by Christianity in
one great chain, every link of which is to support the next; or the band
is broken. But if they mean by independence such a moneyed situation as
shall place their children out of the reach of the frowns, and crosses,
and vicissitudes of the world, so that no thought or care shall be
necessary for the means of their own livelihood, I fear they are
procuring a situation for them, which will be injurious even to their
temporal interests as men.

The matter then seems to me to be brought to this question, whether it
is better, I mean as a general proposition, to bring up children with
the expectation of such a moderate portion of wealth, that they shall
see the necessity of relying upon their own honest endeavours and the
Divine support, or to bring them up with such notions of independence,
that, in the pride and exultation of their hearts, they may be induced
to count themselves mighty, and to lose sight of the power and
providence of God?

If we were to look into the world for an answer to this question, we
should find no greater calamity than that of leaving to children an
affluent independence. Such persons, when grown up, instead of becoming
a blessing, are generally less useful than others. They are frequently
proud and haughty, fancying themselves omnipotent, they bid defiance to
the opinions of the virtuous part of the community. To the laws of
honour and fashion they pay a precise obedience, but trample under foot,
as of little consequence, the precepts of the Christian religion. Having
sensual gratifications in their power, they indulge to excess. By
degrees they ruin their health and fortunes, and get wisdom by
experience, when it is too late to use it. How many young persons have I
known, and I wish I could make a different statement, whose ruin
originated wholly in a sense of their own independence of the world!

Neither, if we look into the society of the Quakers, shall we find a
different account. It is undoubtedly true, though there are many amiable
exceptions, that the worst examples in it are generally among the
children of the rich. These presently take wings, and fly away, so that,
falling into the corruptive and destructive fashions of the times, their
parents have only been heaping up riches; not knowing who were to gather
them. And here it may be remarked, that the Quaker education, by means
of its prohibitions, greatly disqualifies its young members, who may
desert from the society, from acting prudently afterwards. They will be,
in general, but children, and novices in the world. Kept within bounds
till this period, what is more probable than that, when they break out
of them, they will bunch-into excess. A great river may be kept in its
course by paying attention to its banks, but if you make a breach in
these restrictive walls, you let it loose, and it deluges the plains
below.

In short, whether we turn our eyes to the Quaker society, or to the
world at large, we cannot consider an affluent independence as among the
temporal advantages of youth. And as they, who only leave their children
a moderate portion of substance, so that they shall see the necessity of
relying upon their own honest endeavours, and the Divine support, act
wisely in their own generation, so they act only consistently with the
religion they profess. For what does the religion of the Quakers hold
out to them as the best attainment in life? Is it not spiritual
knowledge? Is it not that knowledge, which shall fit them best for the
service of their Maker? But such knowledge is utterly unattainable while
a money-getting spirit exists; for it has been declared by the highest
authority, that we cannot serve God and mammon.


CHAP. XIV.

_Another trait is that of a want of animation or affection--This an
appearance only, and not a reality, arising from a proper subjugation of
the passions--from the prohibitions relative to dress--and address--and
the amusements of the world._


It is said next of the Quakers, that they are a cold and inanimate
people; and that they have neither the ordinary affection, nor the
gradation of affection, of other people.

I may immediately pronounce upon this trait, that it is merely an
outward appearance. The Quakers have as warm feelings as the rest of
their countrymen. Their love of their fellow-creatures, more conspicuous
in them than in many others, as has been amply shewn, gives them a claim
to the possession of warm and affectionate feeling. The Quakers too have
the character of a domestic people; but surely, if they do not possess
affection, and this in a very high degree, they must have miserable
homes. There is indeed a want of gradation in their affections, which
may be traced upon some occasions. In making their wills, for example,
they are not apt to raise up an eldest son to the detriment of the rest
of their offspring. And this certainly is a proof, that they do not
possess the gradation of affection of many other people! Happy is it
for their own comfort and the welfare of their families, that they give
this proof to the world of this equal affection for their children.

That this trait is only an appearance, and not a reality, I shall shew,
by staring many outward circumstances, in the Quaker constitution, which
may be preventive of apparent animation, but which can have no influence
on the heart.

We must all of us be sensible, that both opinions and customs have an
influence on the warmth or coldness of our characters. Who would expect,
if two faithful portraits could have been handed down to us from
antiquity, to find the same gravity or coldness of countenance and
manners in an Athenian, as in a Spartan? And in the same manner who can
expect, that there will not be a difference in the appearance of Quakers
and other people?

The truth is, that the discipline and education of the Quakers produce
an appearance of a want of animation, and this outward appearance the
world has falsely taken as a symbol of the character of the heart. Can
we expect that a due subjugation of the passions, which is insisted upon
in true Quaker families, will give either warmth to the countenance, or
spirit to the outward manners? Do not the passions animate, and give a
tone to the characters of men? Can we see then the same variety of
expression in the faces of the Quakers as in those of others on this
account? The actions of men, again, enliven their outward appearances,
but Quakers, being forbidden to use the address of the world, can assume
no variety of action in their intercourse with others. The amusements,
again, of the world, such as of music and the theatre, reach the mind,
and, animating it, give a greater expression to the countenance, on
which the contemplation afterwards produces a similar though a slighter
effect. But in what Quakers can you see sensibility from the same cause?
The dress too, of the members of this society gives them an appearance
of gravity and dulness. It makes them also shy of their fellow citizens.
But gravity, and dulness, and shyness, have generally, each of them, the
appearance of coldness of manners.


CHAP. XV.

_Another trait is that of evasiveness in speech--This an appearance
only, arising from a peculiar regard to truth--and from a caution about
the proper use of words, induced by circumstances in the discipline, and
by the peculiarities in the Quaker language._


It is alleged against the Quakers, as another bad trait in their
character, that they are not plain and direct, but that they are evasive
in their answers to any questions that may be asked them.

She showed him the same. Now, he immediately threw to the earth, and
kissed the body, and cried with tears in his eyes: "Poor brother, how
unhappy I am that I did not have enough time bin, to you before your
death once again to embrace," As much as it Alaeddin mother also
asked, as he wanted but not on this place set. "No," said he, "I will
probably watch, but allow me to do so I when I also refused
the pleasure is to him personally as a father of a family so dear to
me to see, I can at least imagine he still sitting there.

"Alaeddin mother now not penetrated further into him and let him
take a seat where he had lust. When the African magician had set itself
because where there is most comfortable with him, he started a
conversation with Alaeddin mother "My dear sister," said he, "Do not
be surprised that you have during the whole time as you with my brother
Mustafa were married, I've never seen. There have been forty years
that I have to leave this country. Since then I travel to India,
Persia, Arabia, Syria and Egypt made me the most beautiful cities in
this country then I stopped and went to Africa, where I took a longer
stay. Since, however, is innate to man, his home country, as his
parents and Jugendgespielen, even in the furthest distance from
the memory never to lose, it also has me a tremendous desire to take my
mother back to see my beloved brother hug, now that I have strength
and courage for such a long journey to me feel that I am without
further delay my preparation and I met on the road did.

I tell you nothing about the length of time that I needed to, nor of the
obstacles that I aufstießen, nor of all the problems and hardships
that I had to survive to hierherzukommen.

I just tell you that I am in all my travels nothing so deeply hurt and
geschmerzt, when the news of the death of a brother that I always really
loved had brotherly friendship. I noticed some of his moves on
the face of my nephew, your son, and this was that I made it all the
other children, where he was discovered. He has perhaps tells you how
much the sad news of the death of my brother took me.

However, what God is doing, that is wohlgetan, I console
myself, him in his son again, so striking resemblance to him.
"When the African magician saw that Alaeddin mother in memory of her
husband and was stirred anew in Pain sank, he broke from the conversation,
turned to Alaeddin and asked him for his name. - "My name is Alaeddin,"
answered this. - "Well, Alaeddin," continued the magician continued,
"so you're from here? Do you have a trade?" At this point suggested
Alaeddin eyes and fell down in embarrassment.

His mother, however, took the floor and said, "Alaeddin is worthless.

His father, he lived so long, everything possible done to him to teach his
trade, he alone could not achieve its purpose, and since he is dead,
remove it, despite my daily exhortations, the whole time on the
roads around and plays with children, as you have seen, without
considering that he is no longer a child, if you it is not shameful
and it is this exhortation does not use it so I give up all hope
that something out of it ever will.

He knows that his father has left no assets, and provides for himself,
that I with my cotton spinning throughout the day little bread for the
both of us can earn.

   I am committed to him next few days once the door locked and it
fortzuschicken that he is looking for his accommodation elsewhere
can.

"When Alaeddin mother so many tears had spoken, said the African magician
with the boy:" That is not good my nephew, you have to think yourself
fortzuhelfen and livelihood sources. There are so many industries in
the world, once you reflect that not one among them, to the more
tendency you have, than to the others.

Maybe you just like your father that you would not, and you better
prepare to another; conceal me this is not your attitude, so I
just want your best. "When he saw that Alaeddin answered nothing, he
continued:" Is it you even repugnant, to learn a craft and you
want a respected man, so I want for you a shack with precious
materials and fine Linne witnesses setup, you can then sell these
things with the money that you solve it, the purchase of new goods
and to deny this kind of a decent sub-Come find.

Question yourself and tell me openly what you think. You will find me
always ready, to keep my promise. "This offer of Alaeddin very flattered,
each craft was against him, the more so because he had noticed
that these shops, of which his uncle had spoken, and always pretty
much visited and the merchants very well dressed and were respected.

He therefore said the African magician, that his passion more to this
page is addressed, as after each other, and that he gave him all his life
for the good deed would be grateful that he wanted to prove it. "Since
this industry is pleasant to you," said the African magician, "I will
take with you tomorrow and you so beautiful and richly dressed, as it
is for one of the first businessmen in this city behooves;
tomorrow then we want to think such a store to build, as I have
in mind.

"Alaeddin mother, who until now had not believed that the African
magician the brother of her husband, had doubts after such promises
are no longer shining on it.

She thanked him for his good attitudes, and after she had admonished
Alaeddin, the benefactions which his uncle left him hope, worthy
to show she had at the dinner.

The entertainment throughout the meal turned always to the same
subject, until finally the magician said that the night was already far
advanced. He said goodbye to mother and son and went home. The next
morning lacked the African magician not to versprochenermaßen with the
widow of Mustafa again einzufinden Schneiders.

Alaeddin He took with him, and led him to become a major trader, the only
completely finished clothes from all kinds of substances and for
people of all ages and stand sold. From this he had several shows for
Alaeddin fit, and after it, which he liked most, is chosen, and
others that were not as nice as he wished, had traveled, he said
to Alaeddin, "Dear nephew , you choose among all these clothes from
the one that you like best.

"Alaeddin, via the generosity of his new uncle quite delighted, chose
one, and the magician bought it without acting. Alaeddin As from head
to foot so magnificently dressed saw, he thanked his uncle, and promised
him the Magician, it also does not leave, but always keeping to himself.
Really he led him into the most visited areas of the city,
where shops were the richest merchants, and in the street where the
shops with the finest materials and the finest linen is included,
he said to Alaeddin, "As you will soon be such a Kaufmann's will,
such as this, it is good if you are visiting, so they know you. "He showed
him the finest and largest mosques, and led him into the Khan,
where foreign merchants lived and all those places in the palaces
of the Sultan, to which we had free access.

Finally, after the most beautiful areas of the city durchstreift had each
other, they came in Chan, where the wizard lived. There were a few
merchants, whose acquaintance he made since his arrival, and he had
specifically invited to make them easy to entertain them and to present
his alleged nephew. The banquet ends until late evening. Alaeddin
wanted to adopt, by his uncle to return home, but the African
magician wanted him not to go alone and even led him to his mother.

When that her son in such beautiful clothes saw, she was beside himself
with joy and did not want to stop blessings on the head of the magician
herabzurufen responsible for her son so much money spent. »Magnanimous
brother," she said to him, "I do not know how I give you for your
generosity should thank, but I know that my son the boons, you prove
it is not deserved.

I for my person, "she added," thank you with all my heart and wish you a
very long life to witness the gratitude of my son to be, they better not
take the same approach can, as if he is from your Good advice
can manage. "" Alaeddin is a good boy, "said the African magician,"
he listens to me and I think we can do something Efficient from him.

I am only sorry that I keep my promises are not already hold tomorrow
can. It is Friday, where all shops are closed, and you even can not
remember, a rent and goods on which, for the merchants ponder on this
day only to amusements of all kinds, we will therefore refer the case
must be moved to Saturday . Incidentally, I will take with him again
tomorrow and take a walk in the gardens, where the beautiful world
usually einfindet.

He has perhaps no idea of the pleasures that you enjoy it so far, he
was always just with children together, now he must also see adults. "The
African magician finally adopted by mother and son and went. Alaeddin
rejoiced in advance much on the walk. In fact, he never came to the
gates and had never seen the area, which was beautiful and graceful. On
the next morning Alaeddin was in early on. The African magician bewillkommte
him up friendliest. "Well, my dear boy," he said with a smiling face
to him, "Today I will show you beautiful things." He led him to a gate
out in large and beautiful houses in gorgeous palaces over, each
of which is a very had beautiful garden.

For each palaces in which they passed, he asked Alaeddin, whether
he liked him, and Alaeddin, he usually zuvorkam, said he once again
saw another: "Ah!

dear uncle, this is much nicer than any previous.

"But they went ever further, and the cunning magician, who did so only
to the plan, which he had in his head, to run, took the opportunity in
one of these gardens to replace them. He sat down next to a large basin
into which a bronze lion's throat crystal clear water bubbled, and he was
tired, so Alaeddin also should rest.

"Dear nephew," he said to him, "you'll just be tired, as I; let's here
a little rest, to gather new strength. "[Illustration] [Illustration]
When they had moved the African magician cakes and fruits, which he had
taken stock mouth, and spread them on the edge of the basin out. He
shared a cake with Alaeddin fruits and let him choose. While this
small meal exhorted his supposed nephew, from dealing with children
loszumachen, but to wise and circumspect men adapter, the same to
and from their conversations to benefit.

"Soon," said he, "wilt thou be a man, like them, and you can not get used
to it soon enough, after their speeches examples circumspect to
lead." When they had finished lunch, they continued their walk
through the gardens that are only separated by narrow trenches
were.

Unvermerkt led the African magician Alaeddin pretty well over the
gardens and beyond durchwandelte the plane with him, which it
gradually into the mountains near the head.

Alaeddin, who never in his life so far had made itself felt through this
march very tired and said, "Wherever we go, dear uncle? We have the
gardens already well behind us and I see nothing more than mountains.
If we had longer to go away, so I do not know yet whether I will have
enough strength to return to the city. "-" Only the courage not lost,
"said the false uncle;" I wish you still another garden show that all
you've seen so far, far exceeds it's just a few steps from there,
and even if we are there, then you are telling yourself that you would
have been very sorry if you are not seen would have. "Alaeddin was
talking about, and the magician led him very far, by him with several
charming stories in conversation, to inform him of the way less
boring and to make bearable fatigue.

At last they arrived between two mountains of medium height, are quite
similar and only through a narrow valley separated. This was the strange
place where the African magician had Alaeddin want to bring a big plan
to execute him, why he from the extreme end of Africa up to China was.
"We are now in place," he said to Alaeddin, "I will give
you extraordinary things here show that all other mortals are unknown.
While I am now with the steel fire propose, here you are piling dry sticks
together, so we put on a fire. "When the sticks aufloderte threw the
African magician incense inside. Thick smoke rose up, and he soon on
this, and soon turned to that page by all sorts of magic words he spoke,
one of which Alaeddin not understood. At this moment the earth
shudders a little, opened in front of the magician and Alaeddin, and
had a stone hervorscheinen, with one in the middle sealed bronze rings
around him because heraufzuheben. Alaeddin was shocked and wanted to take
the flight. He was alone on this mysterious action necessary, so the
magician gave him back, he bickered efficient and gave him a firm slap
in the face so that he fell to the ground. Trembling, he cried: "My
uncle, what have I done since that thou me so cruel suggestions?" I am
your uncle, the father now takes place in thee, and thou in me can not
contradict each other.

But, "said the magician," fear not, my son, I ask only that you obey me,
you wofern of the big advantages that I'll zudenke, worthy, and
they want to benefit. "These beautiful promises of magician calmed the
anxious and angry Alaeddin a little. "Thou hast seen," continued the
magician continued, "what I am by the power plant, I smoke and the words
which I spoke, had effected. Hear now, that under this stone
lies a treasure that is destined for you and make you richer dereinst
will make the greatest kings of the world. This is certainly true
that no people in the world except you is allowed, this stone or touch
wegzuheben order to get into it. Yes I can not touch him or even just a
walk into this treasure vault, where it will be opened.

Therefore you need to execute exactly what I tell thee. "Alaeddin, still
fully astonishment forgot everything that had happened. "Well, my dear
uncle," he said, "what should I do? Befiehl only, I am ready to obey.
"-" Come here, "said the African magician," hold the ring and lift the
stone into the air. "-" But uncle, "Alaeddin replied," I am too weak
to lift him: you must help me. "-" No, "returned the African magician,"
thou needs my help is not, you have to lift him alone. Say only the
name of thy father and thy grandfather, if you have the ring in hand to
take. "Alaeddin did as the magician had said, raised the stone with
ease, and set it aside. When the stone was taken away, he saw a
three - to four-foot deep cave with a small door and steps. "My son,"
said the magician now, "had just eight to the things I say to you
now.

Climb down into this cave, and when you reach the final stage are,
you will find an open door, you are in a vaulted great city will
rise, which in three large adjoining rooms is divided.

In each you will be the same right and left four bronze vases of
gold and silver are seen, but beware well they touch. Before
you enter the first room, lift your dress up in the air and
close it tightly around the waist. If you're indoors, go
without you reside, after the second and from there into the third. Above
all, beware well, the walls too close to them or even just the
dress to touch, because if you touched it, you would die on the spot.

At the end of the third hall is a door, the one with you in beautiful
and richly-laden fruit trees will be planted garden. Go straight
ahead only, and through the garden you will be a way to a staircase
of fifty steps leading to where you to a terrace can rise up.

Once you are on top of the terrace are, you will be a niche before you see
in the niche and a burning lamp. This lamp nimm, delete them, throw the
wick with the flammable liquid on the floor, put them in the bosom forward
and bring them to me. You lust after is the fruit of the garden, so you
can pick them, as much as you want, which is not forbidden thee. "Thus
speaking, withdrew the African magician a ring from his finger
and put it on a finger Alaeddin. This, he said to him, was a
temporary remedy for all misfortunes, which he might encounter,
wofern he only followed his rules exactly. "That was because, my son,"
he added, "audacious climb down, then we both have our whole lives
for money in quantity." Alaeddin hopped nimbly into the cave and
climbed into it down the stairs. He found the three halls to him the
African magician had described.

Without rest, he went through the garden, climbed the terrace hinan,
took the burning lamp from the niche, threw the wick and the liquid to
the ground, put them in his bosom, and went back down the terrace. In
the garden he stayed at the viewing of the fruit. There were white,
hellleuchtende and transparent as crystal, red, sometimes dark, sometimes
bright, green, blue, purple, yellow, and so all sorts of colors. The
white were pearls, the hellleuchtenden and transparent diamonds, the
dark red rubies, the Ballaßrubine bright red, green emeralds, blue
turquoise, the purple amethyst, the yellow sapphires. And these fruits
were all so big and perfect, that in the whole world has seen nothing
similar. Alaeddin, who did not know their value, was approved by the
sight of this fruit, not to their taste were poorly built, figs, grapes
and other noble fruits, which are usually in China, it would be
preferred.

He was not yet in that age where we like to understand, and so he
trained in, these fruits are just tinted glass and had no other
value. Nevertheless, he was the variety of beautiful colors and the
extraordinary size and beauty of the fruits of lust, of any variety
to pick some. He took so many of each color, so filled his two bags
and two completely new bag, the magician with him at the same time, had
bought the dress, and because the two bags in his pockets, which were
already quite full, no place had so he tied them on each side of his
belt. Some of the fruit, he also wrapped in the folds of his belt, the
thick silk fabric and double-lined, and fortified them so that
they could not fall, but he forgot not many in the bosom of dress
shirt and stuck to. After he is so without knowing it, was laden with
riches, Alaeddin quickly joined by his retreat to the three halls,
climbed back up since, where he was herabgestiegen, and showed at the
entrance of the cave, where the Africans him eagerly awaited . Once
Alaeddin saw him, he shouted at him: "Dear uncle, I pray thee, rich my
hand and help me out." - "My son," said the African magician, "give me
the lamp first, you could hinder. "-" Pardon, dear uncle, "said Alaeddin,"
it does not stop me, I'll give you as soon as I'm up. "The African
magician insisted that Alaeddin handed him the lamp should be before it
him from the cave herauszöge, Alaeddin and the lamp with all the fruit,
which he put to himself, was packed, absolutely refused to give him
before he would be out of the cave. As became the African magician before
anger about the rebelliousness of the young people in terrible
rage, threw a little smoke from his factory in the fire, which he
had carefully maintained, and barely had two magic words spoken
when the stone, which as a cover for opening the entrance Cave
served by itself, together with the earth on his body moved, so
that everything came in the same state as before the arrival of the
Arab magician and Alaeddin.

The African magician was in fact no brother of Mustafa Schneiders,
what he had spent, and therefore is not Alaeddin uncle. He was really
born in Africa, and after he was about forty years, with magic, with
the punk animal art, with Räucheropfern and reading books of
magic employed, was he finally came to discover that there is a magic
lamp in the world give their holding him more powerful than all the kings
of the earth would make. But while the lamp is certainly aware of the
locations found, so it was him but does not allow them to get
personally or in the underground vault enter. It was another down
and they handed him. Therefore he had to Alaeddin colleagues, whom he
for a docile young boys and was very appropriate for him to afford the
service, while he was firmly committed to the lamp as soon as he
would have in their hands, the last mentioned smoking to do to pronounce
the magic words, and so the poor Alaeddin his miserliness and his malice
aufzuopfern to get him to have no witnesses.
Of the middle, that they are upon the whole in better
circumstances than others of the same class in life. Of the poor, that
they are not so poor as others in a similar condition. Now the rich in
the Quaker society have of course as many of the comforts of life in
their power as they desire. The middle classes in this society have more
of these than the middle classes of other denominations. The poor in the
same society have also more of these, in consequence of the handsome
provision which is made for them, than others in a similar situation
with themselves. There is therefore upon the whole a greater
distribution of the comforts of life, among all the ranks of this
society, than is to be found in any other community, in proportion to
their numbers. But this superior state, in point of comfortable
circumstances, ought to be undoubtedly a source of superior happiness.
For where the comforts of life are wanting, it is in vain to suppose men
can be happy, unless their minds are more than usually comforted by
their religion.

[Footnote 42: Religion, which includes positive virtues, and an absence
from vices, joined to a peaceful conscience and a well grounded hope of
a better life, is the first and greatest cause of happiness, and may
belong to all. But I confine myself, in this chapter, to such causes
only as may be called subordinate, and in which the Quakers are more
particularly concerned.]

Another source of their happiness may be found in their domestic
situation. The Quakers, as I have observed before, in consequence of
denying themselves the pleasures of the world, have been obliged to
cherish those which are found in domestic life. In the fashionable
world, men and their wives seldom follow their pleasures together. They
resemble the little wooden figures of the man and the woman, which, by
moving backwards and forwards in a small painted house, denote the
changes of the weather. While one of these is within, the other is out
of doors. But this is not the case with the Quakers. The husband and
wife are not so easily separable. They visit generally together. They
are remarked as affectionate. You never hear of intrigues among them.
They are long in each others society at a time, and they are more at
home than almost any other people. For neither the same pleasures, nor
the same occupations, separate these as others. The husband is never
seen at a play, nor at a tavern, nor at a dance. Neither the naval nor
the military profession summons him abroad. He is seldom concerned in
voyages as a mariner. Hence he must of necessity be much at home. Add to
this, that the Quakers have generally families, with the power of
providing for them. But these circumstances render their homes agreeable
to them, and increase their domestic delights.

A third source of the happiness of the Quakers arises from the
circumstance of their being almost constantly employed. Few are so
miserable as those who have nothing to do, or who, unable to find
employment, feel a dull vacuum in their time. And the converse of this
proposition is equally true, that the time of those flies pleasantly
away, who can employ it rationally. But there is rarely such a being
among the Quakers as a lazy person, gaping about for amusement. Their
trades or callings occupy the greater portion of their time. Their
meetings of discipline, as has been already shewn, occupy their time
again. The execution of the various offices to which they may be
appointed, such as of overseers, or elders, or committee-men, or
arbitrators in disputes, occupies more. Few Quakers, but particularly
the more respectable, have many vacant hours. And here it may not be
improper to remark, that the discipline of the society, organized as it
is, is productive of a cheerful and friendly intercourse of the
members, or of a sociable manner of spending their time, one with
another. The monthly meetings usually bring two or three particular
meetings together. The members of these, when they have dispatched their
business, retire to the houses of their friends, where they take their
refreshment, and indulge in the pleasures of conversation. The quarterly
meetings again bring the monthly meetings of the county into one. Here
again, when the business is over, they partake of a similar repast.
Hence a renewal of conversation and of friendship. The yearly meeting
again brings many, from the quarterly together. And here the Quakers
from all parts of the kingdom have an opportunity of seeing and
conversing with one another. I may add too, that many individuals in the
interim, who travel, whether on business or on pleasure, or on religious
errands, enlarge this friendly intercourse; for few Quakers pass through
the towns where Quakers live, without calling upon these, so that there
are many sources within the customs and constitution of the society,
that are productive of cheerful hours.[43]

[Footnote 43: It may be mentioned here, that the Quakers acknowledge
their relations to a much farther degree of consanguinity, than other
people. This relationship, where it can be distinctly traced, is
commemorated by the appellation of cousin. This custom therefore is a
cause of endearment when they meet, and of course of additional
pleasure.]

But here it will probably be said, that these sources of happiness,
which have been hitherto described, are common to many others. I grant
they are to individuals, but not to communities at large. No society has
probably so many of the comforts of life in its power, number for
number, and rank for rank, as that of the Quakers. None probably so
wholly domestic. None, where the members of it have such frequent
intercourse with each other, or where they are so connected in the bonds
of brotherly love, and none, as far as I know men, who have such
constant employment for their time.

Having explained some of those, which may be considered as positive
sources of happiness to the Quakers, I shall now shew what may be causes
of unhappiness to others, and that the Quakers seldom partake of these.
Such an exposition, however strange it may appear at the first sight,
will be materially to the point. For though an exemption from the causes
of the uneasiness of others can never be admitted as a proof of the
existence of positive enjoyment among the Quakers, yet if the latter
have solid sources of happiness of their own, and these are not in any
material degree diminished by the causes of the uneasiness of the
former, there will be left to them, because there will be no drawback, a
certain portion of happiness with less alloy. And here it is obvious at
the first sight, that the Quakers have not the same, nor so many wants
as others, with respect to their pleasures, and that they do not admit
the same things to be component parts of them. Hence they have not the
same causes of uneasiness from the chance of interruption. Hence also
their happiness is more in their own power. What individual can
annihilate the comforts which arise from their own industry, or their
domestic enjoyments, or their friendly intercourse with each other, or
their employments, which arise from their discipline, and from their
trade and callings? But how easily are many of the reputed enjoyments of
the world to be broken? Some people place their happiness in a routine
of constituted pleasures. In proportion as these have been frequently
resorted to, they will have got into the habit as the necessary
enjoyments of life. Take away then from persons in such habits the power
of these their ordinary gratifications, and you will make them languid,
and even wretched. There will be a wide chasm, which they will not know
how to fill up; a dull vacuum of time, which will make their existence
insipid; a disappointment, which will carry with it a lacerating sting.
In some of the higher circles of life, accustomed to such rounds of
pleasure, who does not know that the Sunday is lamented as the most
cruel interrupter of their enjoyments?--No shopping in the morning--no
theatre or route in the evening--Nothing but dull heavy church stares
them in the face. But I will not carry this picture to the length to
which I am capable. I shall only observe that, where persons adopt a
routine of constituted pleasures, they are creating fictitious wants for
themselves, and making their own happiness subject to interruption, and
putting it into the power of others. The Quakers, however, by the total
rejection of all the amusements included in the routine alluded to, know
nothing of the drawbacks or disadvantages described.

The Quakers again are exempt from several of the causes of uneasiness,
which attach to the world at large. Some go to the gaming-table, and
ruin themselves and their families, and destroy the peace of their
minds. But the Quakers are never found injuring their fortunes or their
happiness by such disreputable means.

Others disturb the harmony of their lives by intemperate sallies of
passion. It has been well observed, that, whatever may be the duration
of a man's anger, so much time he loses of the enjoyment of his life.
The Quakers, however, have but few miserable moments on this account. A
due subjugation of the passions has been generally instilled into them
from early youth. Provocation seldom produces in them any intemperate
warmth, or takes away, in any material degree, from the apparent
composure of their minds.

Others again, by indulging their anger, are often hurried into actions
of which the consequences vex and torment them, and of which they often
bitterly repent. But the Quakers endeavour to avoid quarrelling, and
therefore they often steer clear of the party and family feuds of
others. They avoid also, as much as possible, the law, so that they have
seldom any of the lawsuits to harass and disturb them, which interrupt
the tranquillity of others by the heavy expence, and by the lasting
enmities they occasion.

The Quakers again are exempt from many of the other passions which
contribute to the unhappiness of the world at large. Some men have an
almost boundless ambition. They are desirous of worldly honours, or of
eminent stations, or of a public name, and pursue these objects in their
passage through life with an avidity which disturbs the repose of their
minds. But the Quakers scarcely know any such feeling as that of
ambition, and of course scarcely any of the torments that belong to it.
They are less captivated by the splendour of honours than any other
people, and they had rather live in the memory of a few valuable
friends, than be handed down to posterity for those deeds, which
generally constitute the basis of public character.

Others again, who cannot obtain these honourable distractions, envy
those who possess them. They envy the very coronet upon the coach, as it
passes by. But the Quakers can have no such feelings as these. They pass
in their pilgrimage through life regardless of such distinctions, or
they estimate them but as the baubles of the, day. It would be folly
therefore to suppose, that they could be envious of that which they do
not covet.

The Quakers again are exempt from some of the occasions of uneasiness
which arise to others from considerations on the subject of religion.
Some people, for example, pry into what are denominated mysteries. The
more they look into these, the less they understand them, or rather, the
more they are perplexed and confounded. Such an enquiry too, while it
bewilders the understanding, generally affects the mind. But the Quakers
avoid all such curious enquiries as these, and therefore they suffer no
interruption of their enjoyment from this source. Others again, by the
adoption of gloomy creeds, give rise frequently to melancholy, and thus
lay in for themselves a store of fuel for the torment of their own
minds. But the Quakers espouse no doctrines, which, while they conduct
themselves uprightly, can interrupt the tranquillity of their lives. It
is possible there may be here and mere an instance where their feelings
may be unduly affected, in consequence of having carried the doctrine of
the influence of the Spirit, as far as it relates to their own
condition, beyond its proper bounds. But individuals, who may fell into
errors of this nature, are, it is to be hoped, but few; because any
melancholy, which may arise from these causes, must be the effect, not
of genuine Quakerism, but of a degenerate superstition.


CHAP. II.

_Good, which the Quakers have done as a society upon earth--by their
general good example--by shewing that persecution for religion is
ineffectual--by shewing the practicability of the subjugation of the
will of man--the influence of Christianity on character--the inefficacy
of capital punishments--the best object of punishment--the
practicability of living, either in a private or a public capacity, in
harmony and peace--the superiority of the policy of the Gospel over the
policy of the world._


When we consider man as distinguished from other animals by the rational
and spiritual faculties which he possesses, we cannot but conceive it to
be a reproach to his nature, if he does not distinguish himself from
these, or, if he does not leave some trace behind him, that he has
existed rationally and profitably both to himself and others. But if
this be expected of man, considered abstractedly as man, much more will
it be expected of him, if he has had the advantages of knowing the
doctrines of Christianity, and the sublime example of the great Author
of that religion. And the same observation, I apprehend, will hold true
with respect to societies of men. For if they have done no good during
their existence, we cannot see how they can escape censure, or that it
would not have been better that they had not existed at all. This
consideration leads me to enquire, what good the Quakers have done since
their institution, as a society, upon earth.

It was said of the Quakers in George Fox's time, after their character
had been established, that, "if they did not stand, the nation would run
into debauchery." By this I apprehend it was meant, that it was a
desirable thing to have a people to look up to, who, residing in the
'midst of a vicious community, professed to be followers of that which
was right, and to resist the current of bad example in their own times;
or that such a people might be considered as a leaven, that might leaven
the whole lump, but that, if this leaven were lost, the community might
lose one of its visible incitements to virtue. Now in this way the
Quakers have had a certain general usefulness in the world. They have
kept more, I apprehend, to first principles, than any other people. They
have afforded a moral example. This example ought to have been useful to
others. To those who were well inclined, it should have been as a torch
to have lighted up their virtue, and it should have been a perpetual
monument for reproof to others, who were entering upon a career of vice.

The first particular good, after the general one now stated, which the
Quakers have done, has been, that they have shewn to those who have been
spectators of their conduct, that all persecution for matters of
religion, as it is highly criminal in the eyes of the Supreme Being, so
it is inadequate to the end proposed. This proposition, indeed, seems to
be tolerably Well understood at the present day. At least they whose
minds have been well informed, acknowledge it. The history of martyrdom,
by which we learn how religion soars above all suffering, how the
torments inflicted on the body are unable to reach the mind, how the
moral Governor of the world reigns triumphant upon earth, how tyranny
and oppression fall prostrate before virtue, losing their malignant aim,
has been one, among other causes, of this knowledge. But as history is
known but to few, and is not remembered by all, the Quakers are
particularly useful by holding up the truth of the proposition to our
daily sight, that is, by the example they continue to afford us of
bearing their testimony in all cases where the civil magistrate is
concerned on the one hand, and their consciences on the other.

A second good, which the Quakers have done, is by shewing, as a whole
body, the power of Christianity in the subjugation of the will of men,
and its influence on their character.

They are living proofs, in the first instance, that human nature is not
the stubborn thing, which many have imagined it to be; that, however it
may be depraved, it is still corrigible; and that this correction is
universally practicable, for that there are as various dispositions in
this society as in any other in proportion to its numbers. They shew,
that Christianity can alter the temper, that it can level enmities, and
that there is no just occasion for any to despair. And they are living
proofs, in the second, as to what kind of character Christianity, where
it is rightly received, will produce; They are living proofs, that it
can produce sobriety, inoffensiveness, simplicity, charity, peace, and
the domestic and other virtues. Now though every private Christian can
shew in himself an example of these effects, yet the Quakers shew it,
not by producing solitary instances, but as a body; the temper of the
great mass of their members being apparently cast in the same mould, and
their character, as a society, being acknowledged to be that of a moral
people.

And here I cannot but stop for a moment to pay a just tribute to the
Quaker system, as one of the best modes of the Christian Religion; for
whether the doctrines which belong to it, or whether the discipline
which it promotes, or whether both of them conjointly, produce the
effects which have been just related, certain it is, that they are
produced.[44] But that system of religion is surely the most excellent,
which produces, first, the greatest, and, secondly, the most universal
effect upon those who profess it. For what is the use of any particular
creed, or where is the advantage of any one creed above another, if it
cannot give the great characteristic marks of a Christian, a subjugated
mind and a moral character? What signifies the creed of any particular
description of Christian professors, if it has no influence on the
heart, or if we see professors among these giving way to their passions,
or affording an inconsistent example to the world.

[Footnote 44: Many of the Quakers in America, influenced by custom,
Adopted the practice of holding slaves. But on a due recurrence to their
principles they gave freedom to these unconditionally, thus doing
another public good in the world, and giving another example of the
power of religion on the mind.]

The Quakers have given, again, in the reforms, which, in the first
volume, I described them to have introduced into legislation, a
beautiful and practical lesson of jurisprudence to the governors of all
nations. They have shewn the inefficacy of capital punishments; that the
best object in the punishment of offenders is their reformation; that
this accords best with the genius and spirit of the Christian Religion;
and that while such a system, when followed, restores the abandoned to
usefulness in society, it diminishes the number of crimes.[45]

[Footnote 45: See Vol. I, Sect. 4, p. 198.]

They have shewn again, by their own example, that it is not so difficult
for men to live peaceably together, as has been usually believed; and
they have exhibited the means by which they have effected this desirable
end in life. And as they have proved, that this is practicable in
private, so they have proved, as has appeared in this volume, that it is
practicable in public life, or, which is the same thing, they have
shewn, that in the intercourse which exists between nations, there is no
necessity for wars.

They have shewn and established again by the two latter instances, both
of which relate to government, a proposition which seems scarcely to be
believed, if we judge by the practice of statesmen, but the truth of
which ought for ever to be insisted upon, that the policy of the Gospel
is superior to the policy of the world.

This is a portion of the good which the Quakers have done since their
appearance as a society in the world. What other good they have done it
is not necessary to specify. And as to what they would do, if they were
permitted to become universal legislators, it may be a pleasing subject
for contemplation, but it does not fall within the limits of the present
chapter.


CHAP. III.

_General opinion, that the Quakers are on the decline as a
society--Observations upon this subject--Opinion believed, upon the
whole, to be true--Causes of this supposed declension--Mixed
marriages--Tithes--Pursuit of trade, as connected with the peculiar
habits of the society, and a residence in the towns--Education._


I have often heard it suggested as matter for conversation, whether the
Quakers were increasing or decreasing in their number, and the result
has always been an opinion, that they were a declining body.

When we consider the simplicity and even philosophy of the Quaker
religion, the preservation it affords against the follies and
difficulties of life, and the happiness to which it ultimately leads, we
shall wonder that the progress of the society, in point of number, has
not been greater than we find it. And when we consider, on the other
hand, how difficult it is to be a Quaker, how much it is against the
temper and disposition of man to be singular, or to resist the tide of
custom and fashion, and to undergo an ordeal of suffering on these
accounts, we shall wonder that it has not been long ago extinct.

That many are disowned by the society, in consequence of which its
numbers are diminished, is true. That others come into it from other
quarters, by which an increase is given to it, independently of its own
natural population, is true also. But whether the new members exceed the
disowned, or the disowned the new, is the question to be resolved. Now
no people have had better opportunities of ascertaining this point,
than the Quakers themselves. By means of their monthly meetings they
might with ease have instituted a census on a given day. They might have
renewed such a census. They might have compared the returns in every
case. But as no such census has ever been made, the Quakers themselves,
though they have their ideas, cannot speak with particular accuracy, on
this subject.

The general opinion, however, is, and the Quakers, I apprehend, will not
deny but lament it, that those who go out of the society are upon the
whole more numerous than those who come into it by convincement, and
therefore that there is, upon the whole, a decrease among them.

Of the truth of this opinion, some have adduced as a proof, that the
quarterly meetings have been reduced to three fourths of their original
number. But this is not to be considered as a certain criterion of the
fact. For it is by no means uncommon to find, if the Quakers decrease in
one county, that they increase in another. It has also been adduced,
that many particular meetings have been broken up, or that
meeting-houses in the country are standing deserted, or without Quakers
to worship in them. But neither can this be considered as any
infallible proof of the point. For it frequently happens, that if the
Quakers become less numerous in any particular village, they become more
so in some of the towns of the same county. Thus no true judgment can be
formed upon these principles. The Quaker population, in this respect, on
account of its movements, resembles the sea, which, while it loses on
one part of its shores or boundaries, gains upon another.

There are, however, considerations, which may be more decisive of the
fact.

In the time of George Fox the number of those converted to his
principles was immense.[46] This number, if we consult all the facts
that might be adduced on the occasion, continued to be large in after
times. Now it must be observed, that the Quakers are a sober and
temperate people, that they generally marry at a proper age, and that
they have large families. It is therefore impossible, if the descendants
of the early Quakers had continued in the society, that their number
should not have been much larger than we find it at the present day,
and, if so, there must have been a secession or an expulsion, amounting,
notwithstanding all influx by conversion, to a decrease.

[Footnote 46: Although the remark may be just, that in the time of
George Fox "a great number were converted to his principles," yet a
small portion of those were actually received into membership, and the
same remark may correctly be made even in the present day: as it is
believed that immense numbers are convinced of the truth as held by the
Quakers, but owing to their "not being willing to undergo an ordeal of
suffering on account of their principles," a small portion of those
apply to be admitted into the society. When Alaeddin came home, he could his confusion and agitation not
hide the fact that his mother had noticed nothing.

She was very surprised to see him against his habit, and so sad to see
thoughtful, and asked him if he encountered something unpleasant or
whether he was unwell find. Alaeddin but gave no answer, but sat carelessly
on the sofa, where he remains in the same position remained continually
busy, the lovely picture of Princess Bedrulbudur to remember. His mother
was preparing dinner and did not continue in it. He ate much less than
usual, had their eyes always reflected and observed silence so deep that
it was impossible for his mother, he also only one word to elicit so
much she even did him in, he was to her the cause of this extraordinary
changes made.

After dinner she wanted to start anew, to ask him why he was so melancholy,
but they could not get out of it, and Alaeddin went to bed without
his mother in at least satisfied to have. "Dear Mother, "He began the
next morning," I will now break my silence. I was not sick, as you
seemed to believe, and am even now not.

But so much I can tell you that what I felt and what I still constantly
feel, is something far worse than a disease. While I do not know quite
how to call this evil, but I have no doubt that you'll recognize from
what I say to you now. "" It is, "Alaeddin drove away," the daughter
of the Sultan yesterday afternoon in the Bad gone. Since I am not far
away from the bathwater, so curiosity led me to provide them with history
entschleiertem to see on the idea, me behind the door of the bathroom
to hide. Really she took before entering the veil and I had the good
fortune to my inexpressible pleasure of this lovely princess to
be seen.

I love the princess with a fervor that I do not describe it, and since my
hot passion grows with every moment, so I probably feel that they are
only by the possession can be satisfied, so also because I am determined,
by the Sultan my wife to ask. "Alaeddin mother had her son's
speech to the last words with great attention belongs, and when she heard
that he had in mind to the hand of the princess Bedrulbudur stop so she
could not avoid it by loud laughter to interrupt.

Alaeddin wanted to continue, but they did not let him to speak and
said to him: "Ei, ei, my son, what falls dir? Have you become mad,
that you can lead such speeches? "" Dear mother, "Alaeddin replied," I
can assure you that I am not mad, but quite understanding for me.

I have thought in advance that you stupid and silly I will call, this
alone will not stop me, you once again to explain that my decision
is established, the Sultan for the hand of the princess Bedrulbudur
to ask. "" Truly, my son, "replied her mother very seriously," I
must tell you that you completely forget you, and if you have your
resolution also wanted to run, I see not, by whom you could dare
your request to be present. " - "By none other than yourself,"
replied the son without a second thought. - "Through me," cried the
mother fully astonishment and surprise, "and referred to the Sultan?

O well I will be wary of me in a venture to establish the type. And
who are you because, my son, "she continued," that you have the audacity
allowed your thoughts to your daughter Sultan to collect?

Did you forget that you are the son of a tailor its lowest of the
capital and also from maternal side is not of a higher origin are? Knowest
thou not that even their daughters Sultans Sultan sons refuse to
have no hope, once the Government to arrive?

"" Dear mother, "replied Alaeddin," I already have you noticed that
everything I had anticipated, I have just what you told me and I see
everything well ahead of what you are about to add might. Neither your
speeches, your ideas are even more of me off my decision.

I told you that I am by your agency for the hand of the princess
Bedrulbudur will stop it, this is the only complacency to which I provide
you with all reverence guilty please, and you can not refuse me, if you
prefer me not to die see me as a second life want to give. "Alaeddin
mother was in great embarrassment when she saw this tenacity. "My
son," she said again to him, "I am your mother, and as a good mother,
I am ready, out of love for you to do what is reasonable and
decorous. If it is a matter for you to the daughter of one of our
neighbors to take the same or at least not much higher standards than
you would, I would not miss, and like everything from the heart of
proposed what is in my power, but also then you have to much wealth or
income, or have learned a trade in order to achieve your purpose.

If poor people, like us, want to marry, the first thing they thought to
whether they also have to live. But without taking your lower origin
to your booth and your low poverty to think like you on the highest
peaks of happiness and swing demand nothing less than the daughter
of thy Lord and territories, only to say a word needs to get to
spoil, and to crush.

I do not want to mention what concerns yourself, because you need to
do in your inside consider wofern you only halfway good at understanding
are. I just want to speak of what I am concerned. How did such a
strange idea in his head can come to the Sultan that I go and
request him to do, to you the princess, his daughter, the wife to give?
Put also, I would have the effrontery, in his sacred person to
come to such an unrhymed Please forward to whom should I contact
because, just vorgelassen to be? Do thou not that the first, which I
anredete, treat me as Närrin and with ignominy and Schimpf would
continue to hunt, as I deserved it? If we also assume that there would
be no difficulty, audience with the Sultan to get because I know
that it is easy to reach him, if you ask for justice, and that he likes
to his subjects when they question him approach, I also know that he
had fun with a grace granted to the man asks him if he sees that
it deserves and is worthy of her: but because you're in the same case,
and do you think deserves the grace to have I will ask for you? Are you
worthy of her? What did you do for your prince or your fatherland
done and how well did you? If you now have done nothing to such a
high to earn grace, and the rest are not worthy of her, with what face
could I then ask how I could even open his mouth to the Sultan to make
this proposal? His reputation and majestic splendor of his court would
I even shut the mouth, to me, I was shaking in front of your father,
if I consider it just a little thing had to ask. Another reason is
still there, my son, you did not consider, namely, that before our
Sultans, if you ask for anything they want, may not appear without a
gift in hand. What gift could you offer to him because? And if you did
something to the attention of such a great monarch in the minimum
rail-worth, in what proportion will allow your gift with a request
that you want to do to him? Go into yourself and remember that you
strive for something that you can not reach. "Alaeddin heard everything
his mother said to him from his plane taking, with great serenity, and
after having their ideas point by point, whereas withdrawn, he finally
took the floor and said, "I confess, my dear mother, that it is a
great boldness of mine is so high up in due time, and at the same
time very ill, that I am of you, with such heat and nervously ask,
you sollst the Sultan for me to stop, without obtaining the appropriate
measures to take to your hearing and a favorable reception to give.
Forgive me this time.

In the heat of passion, which I bemeistert has, can you not be surprised
if I did not at once everything that I wanted to sleep can give envisaged
did. I love the princess Bedrulbudur far more than you can imagine,
yes, I'm all of their senses and insist firmly on the decision to
marry.

I am totally agreed with me and decided. By the way, I thank you for the
opening, you've made me just because I consider it as the first step
towards the fortunate success, which I promise. "You say to me
that it was not custom, without a gift in your hand in front of the
Sultan to appear, and I have nothing worthy of his. If thou thinkest
that I had nothing what it could be over, I believe that the objects,
I knew in the underground cave was brought to the Sultan certainly would
make a lot of fun. I speak from the stones in the two bags and belts,
which we both initially thought to colored glasses, but now my eyes
have risen and I'll tell you, dear mother, that jewel of inestimable
value, the only big kings charge. In the shops of the jewelers I was
convinced of their value and you can believe me on the floor: all
that I have seen these gentlemen, hold our own with absolutely no comparison,
either in relation to size, nor beauty, and but they sell the same to
enormous sums. While we can, however, the true value is not ours, but
which may be how he wanted so much but I understand that in order to be
convinced that the gift of the Sultan, the greatest joy to do it. You've
given a fairly large Porzellanvase, which just about fits, bring it
forth again, and let us see what effect they have, if we have
different colors according to their order. "Alaeddin mother
brought the vase, and Alaeddin took the jewels from the two bags out
and put them in the best order it. The effect that they got through
the variety of their colors and their radiance in bright daylight,
was so great that mother and son were almost blinded them, and
wondered about the dimensions because they had previously only when
the same lamp considered bogus.

Alaeddin although she had seen on the trees, where it appeared as fruits,
which granted a wonderful sight, alone, he was still child and had
such jewels only regarded as a toy.

After the beauty of the gift had considered a while, took Alaeddin
the word again and said: "Thou hast no more excuses now, dear mother, and
you can not apologize that we do not have matching gift offer. Here
is one that seems like me that you give a fairly friendly reception
will provide.

"Although this gift Alaeddin mother, regardless of its beauty and its
splendor, not considered as valuable as her son, so they thought that
it could perhaps be adopted, and saw that, in this relationship was
nothing more to that. By contrast, she always came back to Alaeddin
call back, and this made her much anxiety. "My son," she said to him,
"I understand well that your gift and grace to do effect in the eyes of
the sultan's will, but if I get your request to be present, so I
feel in advance that I will not force and will remain silent. In this
way not only my course in vain, but also the gift, according to your
assertion so extraordinarily precious is lost, and I will have to deduct
with ignominy, to proclaim to you that you hope in your hast deceived.
I've already told you and you will see that it comes. "[Illustration]
[Illustration]" But, "she added," that even I can do so much
violence, according to your wishes me to add and I would have enough
power to request such a venture as you expect of me, but so is the
Sultan certainly either laugh about me and me as a Närrin to your
home, or he is just being Zorn, whose Victims infallible we both
will be.

"Alaeddin mother led several more such reasons to see their son to
other ideas to bring alone the charms of the princess Bedrulbudur had
a strong impression on his heart, when he was that his plane would
have leave off.

So Alaeddin insisted on his request, and partly from affection, partly out
of fear that he would like some make a great spread, overcame his
reluctance and her mother finally understood this, he wants to go. As
it is late and the time in the palace to go before the Sultan to enter
on this day was already gone, so was the case on the following day.
"My son," said the mother, "if I am the Sultan so welcomed as I
made love to you hope, when he also calmly hear the proposal, but then
invade it, after your property and able to ask -- tell me what
should I answer him? "" Dear mother, "replied Alaeddin, 'we do not want
to advance a cause trouble, which perhaps will not happen. We must now
wait to see how the sultan receives, and what you for an answer he gives
you. If he really about what you say, information wants to have, so I
will have to reflect an answer, and I feel confident that the lamp, which
we have been fed for several years, I am in need will not leave. "Alaeddin
mother knew nothing about this reply, because they thought that the
lamp, which he said, still far greater miracles might just as their
livelihood sources. This calmed her. Alaeddin said to her: "In any
case, dear mother, think the matter secret, of which depends the whole
success fortunate that we can expect." Then they separated to go to bed
alone the fierce love and the great, immense Fortunately plans,
Alaeddin met mind, let him find no rest. He stood before dawn to
wake his mother and immediately assailed them, they should be quickly
dressed up to the gate of the royal palace and go, and it would
be opened simultaneously with the Großvezier, vezi the child and the
other state officials, was the for the meeting will only push the
Divan, which the sultan always attended in person.

Alaeddin mother did everything her son wished. She took the Porzellanvase
filled with precious stones and wrapped them in double canvas, first
in very fine and pure white, then in less fine, which the latter at the
four Zipfeln band together to make things easier to bear. Finally
she went to the delight Alaeddin continued and took their way to the
palaces of the sultan. The Großvezier along with the rest vezi and respected
gentlemen of the court had already entered, when she came to the
gate. The number of waiting was very large. It opened and she went with
them in the Divan. This was a moderation of the beautiful, deep and
spacious room and had a big, beautiful entrance, they turned so that
they are just opposite the Sultan, but the Großvezier and the other
gentlemen who were sitting in the rate, right and left had. It
urged the various parties one after the other, in order of how they had
filed their petitions, and their affairs have been presented, negotiated
and decided, until the hour when the Divan was closed as usual. Then at
the Sultan, dismissed the Assembly and went into his room where he
Großvezier followed. Vezi and the other members of the Council of State
went back home, as well as those which appeared due to private affairs
were a happily that they had won their process, others dissatisfied
because they had been decided, and others in the hope that their cause
in another session will occur. Alaeddin As a mother saw that the Sultan
stood up and fortging, excluded them from the fact that he is on this
day will not reappear, and went, like all the others, go home.

Alaeddin, who with the Sultan for the particular gift was to come
back, initially not knowing what he by the success of his program
think.

He feared a terrible message, and had scarcely strength
enough to open the mouth and to ask what message they bring. The
good woman who never set foot in the palace of the sultan and
no idea of which had what was then the custom, made to the embarrassment
of her son to an end, by working with honesty and sincerity of many
other words to him: "My son, I have seen the sultan, and am firmly
convinced me that he also has seen. I stood straight before him and no
one prevented me to see him, but he was too busy with those leading
to his right and left sat, pity that I had with him when I take the
trouble and patience was what he heard .

This lasted so long that he is, I think, last got bored, because he
stood up quite unexpectedly and went away quickly without a lot of other
people listen to that still wanted to talk to him. I was very glad
because I really started to lose patience, and was impressed by the
long standing extremely tired. However, nothing spoiled, I will tomorrow
go back to him, the Sultan is perhaps then not so busy. "So also the
fierce fire of love in Alaeddin bosom burned, so he had yet satisfied
with this excuse, and with patience waffnen .

He at least had the satisfaction to see that his mother has already
done the hardest step, and the sight of the sultan had endured, and so
could he hope that they, like the others, in their presence had spoken
with him, will not be made , its mission is to discard as soon as the
favorable moment to moment.
or rather, is it not the most
important profession in the state?[52]

[Footnote 52: It is but justice to the Quakers to observe, that they are
taking more pains than formerly in the promotion of this object. I am
told that there are more private seminaries now kept by Quakers for the
education of the youth of their own society, than even before the
institution of Ackworth school.]

With respect to the education which is acquired in the society itself,
the remedy is not difficult. This education was shewn to be of two
kinds.

On that part of it, which is moral or religious, I may observe, that the
remedy is in the parents themselves. The first thing to be recommended
is an universal vigilance over the disposition and manners of children,
so that no censurable appearance, whether in temper or in conduct, may
be allowed to pass without suitable notice or reproof, or that the bud,
which promises to be corruptive of morals, should no sooner make its
appearance, than it should be cut off. In cases of so much importance,
as where the happiness both of parents and children is concerned, the
former should be peculiarly circumspect. They should not talk about
things, but insist upon them, on all proper occasions. They should not
point out, but redress. They should not lop off the branches, but lay
the axe to the root. And surely youth is the best season for such
wholesome interference. It is, in the first place, the season in which
a remedy is practicable; for we are assured, "if we train up a child in
the way he should go, that, when he is old, he will not depart from it."
It is, secondly, the season in which it is most practicable; for can we
hope to bend the tree so easily to our form, as the sapling from whence
it came? and, thirdly, it is the season in which it is practicable only,
for will not a small irregularity grow, if uncontrolled, to a greater?
Will not one irregularity also, if not properly checked, give birth to
others? And may not these be so incorporated into the inner man in a
course of time, that it may be as difficult for parents to eradicate
them, as for the Ethiopian to change his colour, or the leopard his
spots? But surely the Quakers ought to know the impropriety of undue
indulgences in their families, as well as any other people? Is not the
early subjugation of the will a doctrine more particularly adopted by
them as a society? Without such a subjugation do they not conceive the
mind to be in an unfit state to receive the admonitions of the pure
principle, and of course to make a true proficiency in religion? Do they
not consider themselves also as a highly professing people, and do they
not know that the world expects more from them than from others? But how
can their children ever perpetuate this extraordinary character after
them, or shew that their parents possessed it, unless they are brought
up in a peculiarly guarded manner? In addition to these observations it
may be recommended, that parents should be careful to give their
children what may be called a literal instruction in Christianity, in
contradistinction to pure theism, or to those doctrines which they
conceive may come from the teachings of the Holy Spirit, so that they
may have a more intimate knowledge of all their principles, as a
Christian body.

With respect to that part of education which may consist of knowledge
as it is literary or philosophical, I conceive it might be attended with
advantage to carry it to a greater extent than has hitherto been
practised in the society, but particularly the latter. Nothing is so
delightful to youth as experimental philosophy, by which they see the
causes of things unfolded to their view. No science takes their
attention more, or inclines them, in the farther pursuit of it, to be
satisfied with home. And yet I doubt whether this branch of learning be
not almost wholly neglected in the Quaker schools. The education which
is received in the society, as it consists of the two kinds of knowledge
described, is not, in my apprehension, carried far enough, so as to suit
the peculiar situation of the children of the rich. These are they, who
are most in danger. These are they, who, having the prospect of wealth
before them, have the prospect of being able to procure destructive
pleasures. These are they, who, having the prospect of independence, do
not fear the opinion of the world or the loss of reputation in it, like
those, who have their livelihood to obtain by their own industry. Now it
should be the particular object of the education of these, as indeed it
should be of all rich persons, so to instruct them, that, while they are
obliged to live in the world, they may be enabled to live out of it, or
deny it; so that, when seated amidst its corrupt opinions, amusements,
and fashions, they should estimate them as below their notice, and as
utterly unworthy of their countenance and support.

I should be sorry if, in holding up this species of education to a
farther encouragement, as a preservative of the morals of the children
of rich parents amidst the various temptations of life, I were to be
thought to endeavour to take away in any degree the necessity of the
influence of the Holy Spirit on the mind of man, or to deny that this
Spirit ought not to be resorted to as the first and best guide, both by
rich and poor, during their pilgrimage upon earth. For who can teach us
best to deny the world? Who can teach us best to estimate its pursuits?
Who can instruct us best to resist its temptations? To the Divine Being
then we are first to look up, as to him who can be the best author of
all our good, and the surest averter of all our evils, who can apply the
best remedy to the imperfections of our nature, and who, while he leads
us in safety, can lead us into the way of truth. But when we consider
how many are inattentive, on account of the cares, and pleasures, and
fashions, and prejudices, and customs of the world, to the secret
notices of his grace, I cannot help considering that we may be allowed
to have secondary and subordinate helps to our virtue. As the discipline
of the Quaker society may produce and preserve a certain purity of life,
so may a literary and philosophical education operate to the same end.
Such an education is in its general tendency a friend to the promotion
of virtue and to the discouragement of vice. It sets us often
unquestionably above many of the corruptive opinions and customs in the
midst of which we live. It leads us also frequently to the contemplation
of the Divine Being in all the variety of his works. It gives us
amiable, awful, and sublime conceptions of him. As far, therefore, as it
is capable of doing this, it is a useful, though it be only a
subordinate source of our purity, and we may therefore adopt it
innocently. But we are never to forget, at the same time, that, though
it may help us occasionally to resist corrupt temptations, and to
encourage desirable propensities, yet it cannot do every thing for us
that is necessary, and that we are never to overlook, on this account,
the necessity of the influence of the Holy Spirit.

To shew in what the education, which under these limitations I am going
to propose, may consist, I shall revive the controversy between the
philosophical moralists and the Quakers, as described in the eighth
chapter of the first volume. The philosophical moralists contended, that
knowledge was to be preferred, as being more to be relied upon than
prohibitions: that prohibitions were often causes of greater evils than
they were intended to prevent; that they themselves were friends to
occasional indulgencies; that they saw nothing necessarily or inherently
mischievous in the amusements of the world; that it was not wise to
anticipate danger by looking to distant prospects, where the things were
innocent in themselves; that ignorance of vice was no guardian of
morals; that causes, and not sub-causes, were to be contended against;
and that there was no certain security but in knowledge and in a love of
virtue. To this the Quakers replied, that prohibitions were sanctioned
by divine authority; that as far as they related to the corrupt
amusements of the world, they were implied in the spirit of
Christianity; that the knowledge, which should be promotive of virtue,
could not be inculcated without them; that knowledge again, if it were
to be acquired by the permission of occasional indulgences, or by being
allowed to pass through scenes which might be dangerous to virtue,
would be more ruinous than ignorance by a prohibition of vice; that
ignorance of vice was an essential in Christian morals; and that
prohibitions therefore were indispensably necessary, and better to be
relied upon, than any corrupt knowledge, which might arise from an
acquaintance with the customs of the world.

This then was the state of the controversy, as described in the first
volume. And in this state it was left. But, to explain the education
which I have in view, I shall now bring it to a conclusion.

I must observe then, that the philosophical moralists had the advantage
of the Quakers in this controversy, inasmuch as they supposed that
knowledge was a better safeguard to morals than a mere ignorance of
vice; but they failed in this, that they permitted this knowledge to be
acquired by passing through scenes which might not be friendly to
virtue. Now this latter permission is inadmissible in a Christian
education; for no Christian youth ought to be permitted to see or to
hear that which ought not to be uttered or exhibited by a Christian. The
Quakers, on the other hand, had the advantage of the philosophical
moralists, inasmuch as they considered ignorance to be better than
corrupted knowledge; but they failed in this, that they seemed to rely
upon ignorance of vice as a safeguard against it, without a proper
portion of knowledge. The education then, to which I allude, ought to
embrace the most valuable positions of both. It should consist of
knowledge, and it should consist of wise prohibitions also. Knowledge
and prohibitions are inseparable. While the mind is gaining knowledge,
it should be kept innocent. And while it is kept innocent, it should be
gaining knowledge. Youth should have that kind of knowledge instilled
into them, by which they should discern the value of the prohibitions
which are enjoined them. They should have such and so much knowledge,
that if they were accidentally placed in the way of the things
prohibited, they should be able to look them in the face, and pass
through them without injury. This is that education, which, without
superseding the necessity of the influence of the Holy Spirit, has a
tendency to enable persons, while they live in the world, to live out of
it or deny it.

But lest I should not be clearly understood upon this subject, I will
exemplify how such an education would act or operate to the end
proposed.

And, first of all, knowledge may be acquired by reading. Now there are
two kinds of reading, the one useful, the other dangerous. By the
premises, I am to adopt the first, and to prohibit the last. If then I
accustom my child to the best and purest models of ancient and modern
literature, I give him a certain taste for composition. If I accustom
him to the purest and most amiable sentiments, as contained in these, I
give him a love of virtue. If I heighten these sentiments by beautiful
selections from the more pure and amiable sentiments of Christianity, I
increase that love. If I give him in my own conduct an example, he sees
me practise that which I recommend. I give him then a taste for the
purest reading, and the choicest compositions, and I offer to his
notice, at the same time, a certain system of morality, which he cannot
but gradually adopt as his own. Now I would ask, what influence could a
novel have upon a mind formed in this manner, if thrown accidentally in
his way. If its composition were but moderate, as is the case with most
of them, it would not suit the taste of my child. If its sentiments were
impure, it would disgust him. These would be so contrary to the taste
and to the feelings he had acquired, that the poison in such a book,
like a ball, fired at a globular surface, would slide off without
detriment to the morals of my child.

Knowledge again may be acquired in the course of amusements, and of such
as may be resorted to within doors. Now of these again there are two
kinds, the innocent and the corruptive. By the premises I am to be
concerned with the first only. If then I accustom my child to
mathematical and philosophical pursuits, if I incite him to experiments
in these, if I assist him in measuring the motions of the heavenly
bodies, and in discovering the wisdom and power of Omnipotence as
displayed in these, if I occasion him to be interested in, the
contemplation of such subjects, what have I done for my child? Have I
not called out his intellectual faculties? Have I not laid in him the
foundation of a serious and a thoughtful mind? Have I not accustomed him
to solid things, in opposition to those that are light, and to sublime
things, in opposition to those that are frivolous? Have I not inculcated
in him a love for science? But take my child, after he has been
accustomed to such thoughts and such subjects, to the theatre. Let the
pantomime display its various attracting scenes to his view. And will he
not think his entertainment low and superficial, in comparison of that
which he left at home.

Knowledge again may be acquired by amusements which are out of doors.
These again may be innocent or exceptionable. As before, I have nothing
to do but with the former. If then I accustom my child to range the
fields, as an employment promotive of his health, and connect this
healthy exercise with the entertainment of botanical pursuits, do I
not, in examining with him the shape, the colour, and the mechanism of
plants and flowers, confirm in him his former love of the works of
nature? The Genugthuung must consist in my conviction that the King of
Prussia, your majesty, indicating that he had ordered the Prince and -
with regard to the intervention of France - of his candidature for the
Spanish royal throne at all. The guarantee must be that the King also
stated that he would do so in the future will never allow the prince
to return those Candidature. If the chamber such a declaration is
submitted, then the impression of a deep and satisfying any other conclusion
of the matter is the national feeling is not enough and the same,
as I must repeat, to Your Majesty and the Imperial Government. "The
emperor stressed slowly with his hand over his beard, then he
look questioningly at the Duke of Gramont. "Sire," he said, "I may be
the comments of Mr. David Baron internal authorization does not deny,
but above all must be the same in the mood Corps législatif best of all
and a better knowledge than I, and the target, after which in the
treatment of this whole matter must be made, is yes but in any event,
the assertion of the prestige of the imperial government. Once the cause
is so far advanced, we must, in my view with no half-complete, but
must be really considered to be fully recognized demonstrate that
the dignity of France not to offend with impunity, his interests
could not threaten with impunity. "" Only such evidence of any doubt
and Mißdeutungen sublime, "the baron fell Jérome David vividly that"
the Corps législatif and the public opinion of France calm.

"The Emperor fell in together sighing." I was so happy that the matter
finally ended to know, "he said quietly. The Empress winced almost
imperceptibly, the armpits, sprayed a flash from her eyes." Do you
believe, "said Napoleon to the Duke of Gramont immediately," that
such a declaration, as the Baron for Nöthiger hold fast to reach and to
achieve was possible, so this thing is not more to the length of this
will and public opinion is increasingly echauffire. "" I am convinced,
Sire, "said the duke," that nothing will be easier as such a
definitive statement to obtain, the more so if one chooses the form
which the Baron has just as David has indicated, the form of a personal
letter of King William of Your Majesty and thus to some extent by
the kings themselves received position that this whole affair only
him personally, as head of his house and touch the Prussian government
as such do not view.

When Benedetti, who the Kings a pleasant and likeable person, in
his own skillful way, the thing there, then I am convinced that the
king is not a moment hesitation, a letter to Your Majesty to write
to the required statement contains one and then afterwards so the
public opinion in France but as an Act of the Prussian Government
can represent.

Because, "he added with a smile," that public opinion can not comment on
the subtle difference collect what His Prussian Majesty between his
two properties as a family and head of state to be like. "" The thing
but would have, "said the Emperor "In all due caution and conciliatory
manner, so that's no serious conflict that arises." "And if such a conflict
to arise," cried the empress, which their internal excitation bemeistern
could no longer, "we want to shy away from?

If France, which in the Crimea and in Italy has won, which is the eagle
of the emperor on his big bear flags, from one way of something, what's
right and honor the wisdom, indeed the political necessarily requires
from concerns that the resistance of the opponents in this way warlike
Verwickelungen could arise? Our army is in splendid condition, it burns
with impatience to show that they are still the first in Europe. "" What
does the marshal Lebœuf, "the Emperor asked the sensible question, provide
good, thoughtful look at the Duke of Gramont addressed ".

The marshal explained, so ready to be just as possible," replied
the duke, "your majesty, he will no doubt provide the evidence that -"
"We are also the participation of Austria thätigen sure," cried the
empress, "to this übermüthige Prussia from two sides and to show him
what it means to insult France." "Austria," said the Emperor, again
questioning the view of the Duke of Gramont guided, "do you believe
that we Austria can expect - Prince Metternich Theil said the opposite
as you know, "he added with a sharp emphasis added. "Sire," said the duke
smiled, "Prince Metternich says what he should say, and what is the
official stance of Constatirung Austria Nöthiger to believe. When really
what I think in any way, from the treatment of the pending
matter a serious conflict should arise, it will, however, Austria
in the first minute wait for a neutral position, if only because the
Russian influence on its decisions paralyzing burden. After the first
defeats of the Prussian army, but "-" The will come very quickly,
"cried mused. "After these initial defeats, Sire," continued the Duke
continued, "Austria will emerge from its reserve. Then, in Russia the
whole French-minded powerful party, and the prudent prince
Gortschakoff will not dare to think of these party and the victorious
vorschreitende France at the same time to make enemies.

Then, Sire, the moment has come, in which Prussia isolirt two pages
taken from his height will be herabgestürzt. The work of 1866 will
fall in ruins, and we it will be in our hand, Germany's political
organization to construct, as is accepted for our interests, and also
for those regions of France to take back what we were in the time
of great national tragedy has snatched. "The eyes of the Emperor glowed
in a moment of joyful pride. He raised his head when he saw the pictures
of the future, which indicated the duke, before his eyes show. But then
he let the head of reducing re-mat and said: "These are two battles
won - and who giebt me the guarantee that they won? Won over an army of
me what the Colonel Stoffel writes that no other in Europe it is
tantamount to intrinsic moral force of intelligence and unified
organization. "" The Colonel Stoffel, "said the Duke of Gramont, while
the empress angry with the beautiful teeth bit on the lips," is a bit
dazzled by the personal qualities of Count Bismarck, through the kindness
with which you dealt with him there - he sees only the Guard and
not the lines and the militia in the provinces, which only slowly
and reluctantly in the war - "" This is the year 1866 is not proven,
"said Napoleon, -" even to prove the reports of Colonel Stoffel, that
he is very accurate over the entire military organization in Prussia
is informed that he Landwehrkanal including the organization and
the excellent qualities of the Prussian General Staff knows very
well - - "" But maybe he has forgotten, "said the empress vehemently
that" the Allen against the fiery and irresistible bravery of the
French army is - "" And, "the baron fell Jérome David," in such a
war of huge flare up behind France's national spirit of his army
would, as in the great wars of Napoleon I's been the case.

This spirit of the people and is immobile, "he added," if it is properly
managed, it will take this opportunity to a new tremendous power to
Alliirten of Kaiserthums can be made. "The emperor looked at him
questioningly." This power, Sire, "said David Baron Jérome," the
Marseillaise, the Marseillaise, Sire, which was prohibited, because
they are a vocal of rebellion has become the man but that is not
from the heart of the French has tear can. If we can achieve that stopped
the Marseillaise, a song of the revolution to be that the war
song of the French nation would be that under the sounds of their imperial
Adler's enemies would be taken forward, it would be the empire of your
Majesty and the dynasty of charming huge whiff of this great national
hymn to a height never guessed upwards worn. A French army, Sire,
which under the strains of the Marseillaise moved into the field, would
all combinations of the Prussian General Staff and smash the Prussian
Landwehr in unstoppable fleeing before him to sweep. "The empress
looked forward to her husband. Napoleon slowly and silently shook the
head."

And if then, Sire, "continued the baron David continued," the French army
returned victorious, it would be the revolution made its magic formula,
and the Marseillaise would consist of a wild revolution singing an emperor
has become his victory hymn. "Once the shining eyes of the emperor
on his chest expanded with a deep Athemzug, and he said after a moment:
"We debattiren since the war to which it will not come - which it
does not come," he added with a solid voice. "But in your remark, my dear
Baron, is a profound truth, and I thank you for the idea that you
given me. The more one in France to the possibility of a war, believes
the higher will be the triumph, if without the same national feeling
full satisfaction creates. The opportunity is favorable to the magic
power of the Marseillaise, the French about what I know and appreciate
their full Werth, a mighty weapon of Empire to make. I will give the
command that allows the Marseillaise, the effect, that they sing that
they are required in the theaters - the Plebiscit, the Marseillaise
and a diplomatic success against Prussia - that is a solid foundation
for the throne Napoleon IV's - this is the culmination of my building.

Send So immediately, "he said to the Duke of Gramont turned," the command
to Benedetti, the statement discussed by the kings of Prussia to ask,
but in the most gentle and smooth shape, he must seek to achieve them
without having to get there a matter of great importance to bat.
He is able, if the step we are the king of Prussia require the
same as a support, which he sent me to calm public opinion granted
- then everything will be easy to do.

"The Empress came easy with the foot on the ground, a train almost
scornful Unmuths appeared on her face, but then she smiled again and
leaned silently in their Fauteuil back. "The Baron Werther comes back
today from Ems, Sire," said the Duke of Gramont, "I will him, I changed
the instructions transmitted to Benedetti, the thing in the whole of your
Majesty given sense, and he will certainly help, as desired, speedy
and satisfactory settlement of the case to reach.

"Thun you, Mr. Herzog , "said the Emperor," and do not forget to Benedetti
the utmost caution and smoothness anzuempfehlen polite. "" And I, Sire,
"said the Baron Jérome David," will ensure that tomorrow in Paris heard
the Marseillaise, -- man will be in Berlin, remember that it is
dangerous, against France, if this song about his Heeren floats, and when
the Tricolore and the imperial eagle's regiments will be taken forward.
"Both men left after deferential greeting to the Majesties the Cabinet.
"Well," said the emperor, he stood up and smiled and turned to the
empress, "You are now satisfied, Eugenie, we will experience a great
triumph, without the danger of war be suspended and you will finally
Genugthuung have the politics of this Count Bismarck gedemüthigt a little
to see. Will you still receive this evening? "" Only my little Cirkel,
"replied the Empress, and something easily dismissed as a result they
thought, the unspoken fulfilled their affairs."

I'm tired, "said the Emperor," and ask you to excuse me, I would like a
bit of my Privatcorrespondenz arrange that I in the last few days have
somewhat neglected. "He kissed his wife's hand and turned slowly back
into his chambers." What kind of weakness, the vacillation, "cried the
empress, as she was alone. "He wants the fruits of victory and wants
to enjoy the fight but do not dare.

Well, "she with a fiery gaze and a proud, almost scornful smile
continued," the situation will be more powerful than he, and
they will inform him of pushing the Rubicon, he did not like Caesar to
exceed dares. As much as the King of Prussia and the desire to preserve
peace may be, his patience is finally exhausted, when exposure to exposure
to him, and when you're in Paris singing the Marseillaise only when the
press and the tribune in ever increasing degree National feeling heat,
it is despite all the hesitation of the war - this war, my war, you will
thank me, me in the eyes of the whole of France to protect French will
make the necessarily, to my son to secure the throne, my son, I will
also send to the battlefields at present to be - where it has never
seen this arrogant Prince Napoleon, who dares to assert that in the veins
of his offspring alone blood flows of the great emperor, and which is
so proud that his mother and the mother of his children were princesses
purpurgeborne .-- The hour of decision is approaching - it is the victory
- and this victory will be My! "They stood for some moments in silence,
reflecting the view outward, the beautiful moves transfigured by proud
confidence. Then they moved the bell.

"Let the tea is served," she told the valet, "I leave the ladies and
gentlemen of the service request to enter. "Capitel Eighth. The morning
promenade Ems was finished. Slowly and thoughtfully returned Graf Benedetti
after his home city of Brussels in the back. His valet handed him two
for his dispatches received. Benedetti stepped into his room, and gave
its Secretary, which he expected the two telegrams. This hastily tore
open the envelopes and the large folio volume, the cipher of the
ambassador contained to the dispatches to dechiffriren. Here in his
room disappeared from the face that Benedetti's indifferent, polite,
friendly and impenetrable silence which cloaked everything else, which
in his mind was experiencing. Heftig he gradually moved up and down,
his pale face twitched in nervous excitement, and its usually so
clear, indestructible, cheerful eyes looked cloudy and worried to
go out.

"What a terrible responsibility lies on my head," he said, "I feel
that the thread of the sub-actions entschlüpft me because he was in
Paris attracts so sharply that in little more That is a different end
than to foresee the break - the break - that is a war, how many
generations it Europe has not shaken, which means a sea of blood,
which means the destruction of so many goods, which the diligence
and the work of many years have created.

What do you want in Paris? " he continued, by the hand presented in front
of the forehead and restless thinking quickly went up and down. "If
the war? That is almost impossible, as the emperor, I know - he has many
more opportunities to pass, as he should now's the things to drift to
the extreme.

If you really want the war - why I hide, why me this sad and thankless
role of a play Ueberlästigen approved? unclear why this confusion, which
only then can lead to the break when he carried us in the eyes of the
whole of Europe as the deliberate peace disturbers hinstellt? Why is
because it does not coincide with a particular exposure emerged clear,
at least to a decent breakdown of negotiations could have led? I
have, "he said further, he came to the window and onto the street
hinabblickte," I have to coulanteste and friendliest way, the first
objective of my mission achieved - the Withdrawal of Candidature
Hohenzoller Chen under the authorization of the king. Now it enhances
the successive exposures - giebt is a diplomat in the world that
would be in a position to make such a negotiation for a reasonable and
dignified end to lead? It requires the declaration of the king that
he is all for a future resumption of the now failed Combination
will not allow. Such a statement would have been achieved if you are not
at the same time the excitement in France would have benefited, if
you look at larger reserve the declarations législatif Corps
would have imposed if the personal feelings of the king and the national
pride in Germany would not hurt, but now after the brief interview,
which I just so with the King on the promenade had wells, is in compliance
with this requirement garnicht to think. And if they are not being met,
"he said, sighing," after such a strong start made after so much words
needed, so the war is inevitable - the world is the same reason
these little understood, may have Now the break would have, or may be
without a will and plan to be the same hingetrieben. telegraphirt
What Duke? "The Secretary had the two dispatches dechiffrirt and handed
it to the ambassador. durchflog This quick look at the telegrams,
sighing, he threw it on the table. "The strength of my language,"
he said, smiling bitterly, "is not the seriousness of the situation.
But, my God, forget it because in Paris entirely, that this is no
Negotiations with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that but that I am
in direct personal dealings with the Souverain stand? One can
but impossible for me that I should violate the forms, which for such
services shall prevail. I must still make an attempt - perhaps the
request, which I the king by the prince Radziwill issue had any
success, maybe the king decides to, any one word to say which one in
Paris would like to accept as sufficient, if the basic idea of the
emperor really is, to preserve the peace. "The valet reported the
wing adjutant of His Majesty the King of Prussia, and took a moment to
Lieutenant Colonel of Prince Radziwill, a young, slender man with a full
beard cut militaires in Civil morning suit in the room. The face of Count
Benedetti had its smooth and impenetrable tranquility again assumed he
joined the prince with courtesy preclude binding. "His Majesty the King,"
he said in like tone, "has instructed me, your Excellency mitzutheilen
that he is not in the situation from a new interview ahead of a result
to be able to see because its resolutions completely determined stances.
The King I ordered at the same time, your Excellency on his behalf,
to declare that His Majesty the forgoing power of the Prince Leopold
approbirte and in the same sense and the same spirit as his consent to
the adoption of the Candidature ertheilt have. Regarding the second
point, a lease for the future to take over and be able to His
Majesty on the one negative statement relate back, which he this
morning, your Excellency personally had.

"No muscle moved on the face Benedetti's, and with a calm, clear voice he
said:" I am eternally grateful to the Kings, the grace that he has had
this statement to me by your Highness to be sent, and I will be the same
once my Government mittheilen. But I must, "he added in the same quiet
tone continued," Your Highness say that I have regarding the second
point just yet very specific instructions from the Duke of Gramont
received. I must, therefore, my request for a new interview with His
Majesty reiterate, more so than I am the king, perhaps some new, not yet
considered aspects mittheilen could. I must follow the instructions
that I received the greatest Werth gracious to grant my request for a
re-lay audience, if only to again by His Majesty the statement again to
hear what he has given this morning .

I beg Your Highness, therefore, the desire, which I must commend, His
Majesty again mittheilen want to. "" I will not fail, your
Excellency His Majesty immediately order them, "replied the Prince
Radziwill," and will not fail, your Excellency, the Most High shall
answer. "With exquisite politeness, which, however, some, cold and proud
reluctance was, he bowed and left of the Ambassador to Thür led
the room." The war is in the air, "he said then, by sighing he turned
to his Secretary. "I know the courts, I feel - I know what will happen.
The King will no longer receive me - he has spoken his last word. '"
When the ambassador of the King of France refused to receive,
"cried the Secretary with flashing eyes, "so that alone is a cause
of war, whose sense of justice, the whole nation will recognize."

"Should it be?" Benedetti said quietly, he shook his head thoughtfully,
"that would certainly ignite a national outcry. But," he continued,
"would be about the war better, which secured his success? But I'm
exhausted," he said then, "and you will also be, we can also endure
sleep deprivation, but it urges the physical nature of their right to
supplement the substance, let us breakfast." - He had breakfast
served in his room and both men sat is silently and thoughtfully on the
table .-- * * * * * Several hours had elapsed fully restless
anticipation for Count Benedetti, who is in his room on a canapé, gave
up to after all the excitement of the last days if not sleep, so
at least for its tranquility and Guyed depleted nerve to find.

At least, it was already evening - the time of the dinners of the king
was over - was once the ambassador of the Prince Radziwill reported.
Benedetti quickly jumped up and barely succeeded him, the
expression of restless tension of his face to disappear when he was the
adjutant of the King entgegentrat. even colder still cautious than
before was the tone in which this the ambassador said: "The king
has ordered me, your Excellency mitzutheilen that he would be obliged
to introduce a new Discussion on the second point suggested by you
- on the commitments and guarantees for the future definitely and
categorically reject.

What His Majesty Your Excellency this morning, has promised the
king is the last word in this matter, and the king asks Your
Excellency is solely and exclusively to keep that word.

'The face of Count Benedetti was in this with extreme type, but with
determined resistance spoken words of Prince Radziwill, nor a
Nüance bleached. He had a moment the eyelids fall, as the expression
of his views on veil, and a slight twitching nerves showed a seconds
around his mouth. Silently he bowed his head and then spoke with a calm
voice, no sound in their excitement was noticeable.
This latter conclusion brings me round again to the point. And here I
must observe, that, though this famous controversy occasioned the first
Quakers to be unduly blamed on account of such a depreciation, yet it
contributed to make some of their immediate successors, as I stated in a
former volume, justly chargeable with it. But whether this was or was
not the real cause, it is not material to the question. Many of the
society, from came cause or other, did undoubtedly, in the age
immediately succeeding that of their founders, begin to depreciate human
knowledge, the effects of which, though gradually dissipating, have not
been wholly done away at the present day. The disadvantages, therefore,
of human learning, or the arguments which would be advanced against it
by those who may undervalue it, I shall now consider.

These arguments may be divided into particular and general. On the
former I shall first speak.

A classical education is considered to be objectionable, first, on
account of the Heathen mythology that is necessarily connected with it.
Its tendency, as it relates to fabulous occurrences, is thought to be
unfavourable, as it may lead to a romantic propensity, and a turn for
fiction. But surely the meaning of such occurrences cannot be well
mistaken. If they are represented to our view in fable, they have had
their foundation in truth. Many of them again are of such importance,
that we could not wish to see them annihilated. Let us refer, for
example, to the story of Deucalion and Pyrrha. Is it not one among the
many outward confirmations of the truth of the history of Moses? Or do
we not trace in it additional proofs of the deluge, and of the renewal
of mankind?

Its tendency again, as it relates to the fabulous history of the Heathen
gods, their number, their offices, and their character, is considered as
degrading and exceptionable. I will concede this for a moment. But may
it not, on the other hand, be rendered instructive and useful? May not
the retention of such an history be accompanied with great moral
advantages to our children? The emperor Theodosius commanded the idol
temples to be destroyed. Instead of devoting them to the use of the
Christians of those times, by which they might have been preserved to
future generations, the most beautiful remains of antiquity were
reduced to ruins. But would it not have been better, if Theodosius had
brought good out of evil by retaining them? Would it not have been a
high moral gratification to those who knew the fact, that temples,
appropriated to the worship of idols, had been devoted to the service of
the only true God? Would it not have been a matter of joy to these to
have reflected upon the improving condition of mankind? And, while they
looked up to these beautiful structures of art, might not the sight of
them have contributed to the incitement of their virtue? If it be the
tendency of the corrupt part of our nature to render innocent things
vicious, it is, on the other hand, in the essence of our nature to
render vicious things in process of time innocent, so that the very
remnants of idolatry may be made subservient to our moral improvement.
"If, as I observed in the first volume, we were to find an alter which
had been sacred to Moloch, but which had been turned into a
stepping-stone to help the aged and infirm upon their horses, why should
we destroy it? Might it not be made useful to our morality, as for as it
could be made to excite sorrow for the past and gratitude for the
present?" And in the same manner the retention of the Heathen mythology
might be made serviceable. Ought it not, whenever we contemplate it, to
make us thankful, that we have not the dark and cheerless path of our
ancestors to tread; that we have clearer light; that we have surer
prospects; that we have a steadier ground of hope; and ought we not, on
a contemplation of these superior advantages, brought to us by
revelation, to be roused into the practice of a superior virtue.

Classical education again is considered as objectionable by the Quakers
on account of the Heathen notions, which it may spread. Thus the highest
reputation of man is placed in deeds of martial achievement, and a
martial ardour is in consequence infused into youth, which it is
difficult to suppress. That such notions and effect are produced, there
can be no doubt; but how are we to avoid these whilst we are obliged to
live in the world? The expulsion of the classics would not expel them.
Our own newspapers, which are open to all, spread the same opinions, and
are instrumental of course in producing the same excitements, but they
do it in a much more objectionable way than the classical authors, that
is, they do it with less delicacy, and with a more sanguinary applause.
But where, as I observed before, shall we retire from such impressions?
Does not the recruiting drum propagate them in all our towns? Do not the
ringing of the bells, and the illuminations, which occasionally take
place in the time of war, propagate them also? And do we not find these,
both in war and in peace, the sentiments and impressions of the world?
Our own notions then, our own writings, and our own customs, are more to
be blamed in this respect, than the literary compositions of ancient
times. But this, of all others, ought to be least an objection with the
Quakers to such an education; because, to their honour, they have a
constant counteraction of the effects of such sentiments and impressions
in the principles of their own constitution, and which counteraction
cannot cease, while, by the bearing of their testimony, they live in a
continual protest against them.

The last objection to a classical education is, that the system of the
Heathen morality is generally too deficient for those who are to be
brought up as Christians. To this I answer, that it is quite as good as
the system of the morality of the world. I could procure purer
sentiments, and this generally from the Heathen authors usually
called[54] classical, than I can collect from many, even of the admired
publications of our own times. The morality of the heathens is not so
deficient as many have imagined. If their best opinions were duly
selected and brought into one view, the only matter of surprise would
be, how, with no other than the law written upon the heart, they had
made such sublime discoveries. It was principally in their theology,
where the law written upon the heart could not reach, that the ancients
were deficient. They knew but little of the one true God. They did not
know that he was a Spirit, and that he was to be worshiped in spirit and
in truth. They were ignorant of his attributes. They had learnt nothing
of the true origin, nature, and condition of man, or of the scheme of
creation and redemption. These things were undoubtedly hidden from the
eyes of the ancient philosophers. And it was in knowledge of this kind
chiefly, that their deficiency was apparent. But how is this particular
deficiency detrimental to youth, or how rather might it not be rendered
useful to them in the way described? What a sublime contrast does
knowledge, as exhibited by revelation, afford to the ignorance of those
times, and what joy and gratitude ought we not to feel in the
comparison? And this is the only use which can be made of their
mythology? For when we send youth to the classical authors, we send them
to learn the languages, and this through a medium where the morality is
both useful and respectable, but we do not send them, living where the
blessings of revelation are enjoyed, to be instructed in religion.

[Footnote 54: It must however be acknowledged, that, amidst beautiful
sentiments, such as are indelicate are occasionally interspersed. But
the quakers might remedy this objection by procuring a new edition of
the purest classics only, in which particular passages might be omitted.
They might also add new Latin notes, founded on Christian principles,
where any ideas were found to be incorrect, and thus make Heathenism
itself useful, as a literal teacher of a moral system. The world, I
believe, would be obliged to the Quakers for such an edition, and it
would soon obtain in most of the schools of the kingdom.]

The principal argument against a philosophical education, which is the
next subject for consideration, is, that men, who cultivate such
studies, require often more proofs of things than can always be had, and
that, if these are wanting, they suspend their belief. And as this is
true in philosophy, so it may be true in religion. Hence persons
accustomed to such pursuits, are likely to become sceptics or infidels.
To this I answer, that the general tendency of philosophy is favourable
to religion. Its natural tendency is to give the mind grand and sublime
ideas, and to produce in it a belief of the existence of one great
cause, which is not visible among men. Thus, for example, I find that
the planets perform a certain round! They perform it with a certain
velocity. They do not wander at random, but they are kept to their
orbits. I find the forces which act upon them for this purpose. I find,
in short, that they are subject to certain laws. Now, if the planets
were living agents, they might have prescribed these laws to themselves.
But I know that this, when I believe them to consist of material
substances, is impossible. If then, as material substances, they are
subject to laws, such laws must have been given them. There must have
been some lawgiver. In this manner then I am led to some other great,
and powerful, and invisible Agent or Cause. And here it may be observed,
that if philosophers were ever baffled in their attempts at discovery,
or in their attempts after knowledge, as they frequently are, they would
not, on this account, have any doubt with respect to the being of a God.
If they had found, after repeated discoveries, that the ideas acquired
from thence were repeatedly or progressively sublime, and that they led
repeatedly or progressively to a belief of the existence of a superior
Power, is it likely that they would all at once discard this belief,
because there researches were unsuccessful? If they were to do this,
they would do it against all the rules of philosophizing, and against
the force of their own habits. I say, that analogical is a part of
philosophical reasoning, and that they would rather argue, that, as such
effects had been uniformly produced, so they would probably still be
produced, if their researches were crowned with success. The tendency
then of philosophical knowledge is far otherwise than has been supposed.
And it makes highly in favour of the study of these sciences, that those
who have cultivated them the most, such as Newton, and Boyle, and
others, have been found among the ablest advocates for religion.[55]

[Footnote 55: I by no means intend to say, that philosophy leads to the
religion called Christianity, but that it does to Theism, which is the
foundation of it.]

I come now, to the general arguments used by the Quakers against human
learning, the first of which is, that they who possess it are too apt to
reduce religion to reason, and to strip it of the influence of the
Spirit. But this is contrary, as a general position, to all fact. We
find no mention of this in history. The fathers of the church were the
most eminent for learning in their own days, and these insisted upon the
Influence of the Spirit in spiritual concerns, as one of the first
articles of their faith. The reformers, who succeeded these, were men of
extensive erudition also, and acknowledged the same great principle. And
nine-tenths, I believe, of the Christians of the present, day, among
whom we ought to reckon nine-tenths of the men of learning also, adopt a
similar creed.

Another general argument is, that learning is apt to lead to conceit and
pride, or to a presumed superiority of intellect, in consequence of
which men raise themselves in their own estimation, and look down upon
others as creatures of an inferior order of race. To this I may answer,
that as prodigies are daily produced in nature, though they may be but
as one to a hundred thousand when compared with the perfect things of
their own kind, so such phenomena may occasionally make their appearance
in the world. But as far as my own experience goes, I believe the true
tendency of learning to be quite the reverse. I believe the most learned
to be generally the most humble, and to be the most sensible of their
own ignorance. Men, in the course of their studies, daily find something
new. Every thing new shews them only their former ignorance, and how
much there is yet to learn. The more they persevere, in their
researches, the more they acknowledge the latter fact. The longer they
live, the more they lament the shortness of life, during which, man with
all his industry, can attain so little, and that, when he is but just
beginning to know, he is cut off. They see, in short, their own
nothingness, and, however they may be superior in their attainments,
they are convinced that their knowledge is, after all, but a shadow;
that it is but darkness; that it is but the absence of light; and that
it no sooner begins to assume an appearance than it is gone.

The last general argument against learning is, that it does not lead to
morality, or that learned men do not always exhibit an example of the
best character. In answer to this I must observe, that the natural
tendency of learning is to virtue. If learned men are not virtuous, I
presume their conduct is an exception to the general effect of knowledge
upon the mind. That there are, however, persons of such unnatural
character, I must confess. But any deficiency in their example is not to
be attributed to their learning. It is to be set down, on the other
hand, to the morally defective education they have received. They have
not been accustomed to wise restraints. More pains have been taken to
give them knowledge, than to instruct them in religion. But where an
education has been bestowed upon persons, in which their morals have
been duly attended to, where has knowledge been found to be at variance,
or rather where has it not been found to be in union, with virtue? Of
this union the Quakers can trace some of the brightest examples in their
own society. Where did knowledge, for instance, separate herself from
religion in Barclay, or in Penn, or in Burroughs, or in Pennington, or
in Ellwood, or in Arscott, or in Claridge, or in many others who might
be named. And as this has been the case in the Quaker society, where a
due care has been taken of morals, so it has been the case where a
similar care has been manifested in the great society of the world.

   "Piety has found
   Friends In the friends of Science, and true pray'r
   Has flow'd from lips wet with Castalian dews.
   Such was thy wisdom, Newton, childlike sage!
   Sagacious reader of the works of God,
   And in his word sagacious. Such too thine,
   Milton, whose genius had angelic wings,
   And fed on manna. And such thine, in whom
   Our British Themis gloried with just cause,
   Immortal Hale! for deep discernment prais'd
   And sound integrity not more, than fam'd
   For sanctity of manners undefil'd."  Cowper.

It appears then, if I have reasoned properly, that the arguments usually
adduced against the acquisition of human knowledge are but of little
weight. If I have reasoned falsely upon this subject, so have the early
Quakers. As they were friends to virtue, so they were friends to
science. If they have at any time put a low estimate upon the latter, it
has been only as a qualification for a minister of the Gospel. Here they
have made a stand. Here they have made a discrimination. But I believe
it will no where be found, that they have denied, either that learning
might contribute to the innocent pleasures of life, or that it might be
made a subordinate and auxiliary instrument towards the promotion of
virtue.


CHAP. VII.

_Conclusion of the work--Conclusionary remarks divided into two
kinds--First, as they relate to those who may have had thoughts of
leaving the society--Advantages, which these may have proposed to
themselves by such a change--These advantages either religious or
temporal--The value of them considered._


Having now gone through all the subjects, which I had prescribed to
myself at the beginning of this work, I purpose to close it. But as it
should be the wish of every author to render his production useful, I
shall add a few observations for this purpose. My remarks then, which
will be thus conclusory, relate to two different sorts of persons. They
will relate, first, to those who may have had thoughts of leaving the
society, or, which is the same thing, who persist in a course of
irregularities, knowing beforehand, and not regretting it, that they
shall be eventually disowned. It will relate, secondly, to all other
persons, or to those who may be called the world. To the former I shall
confine my attention in this chapter.

I have often heard persons of great respectability, and these even in
the higher circles of life, express a wish, that they had been brought
up as Quakers. The steady and quiet deportment of the members of this
society, the ease with which they appear to get through life, the
simplicity and morality of their character, were the causes which
produced the expression of such a wish. "But why then, I have observed,
if you feel such a disposition as this wish indicates, do you not become
Quakers?" "Because, it has been replied, we are too old to be singular.
Dressing with sufficient simplicity ourselves, we see no good reason for
adopting the dress of the society. It would be as foolish in us to
change the colour and fashion of our clothing, as it would be criminal
in the Quakers, with their notions, to come to the use of that which
belongs to us. Endeavouring also to be chaste in our conversation, we
cannot adopt their language. It would be as inconsistent in us to speak
after the manner of the Quakers, as it would be inconsistent in them to
leave their own language for ours. But we wish we had been born Quakers.
And, if we had been born Quakers, we would never have deserted the
society."

Perhaps they to whom I shall confine my remarks in this chapter, are not
aware, that such sentiments as these are floating in the minds of many.
They are not aware, that it is considered as one of the strongest things
for those who have been born in the society, and been accustomed to its
particularities, to leave it. And least of all are they aware of the
worthless motives, which the world attributes to them for an intended
separation from it.

There is, indeed, something seemingly irreconcileable in the thought of
such a dereliction or change. To leave the society of a moral people,
can it be a matter of any credit? To diminish the number of those who
protest against war, and who have none of the guilt upon their heads of
the sanguinary progress of human destruction which is going on in the
world, is it desirable, or rather, ought it not to be a matter of
regret? And to leave it at a time, when its difficulties are over, is it
a proof of a wise and a prudent choice? If persons had ever had it in
contemplation to leave the society in its most difficult and trying
times, or in the days of its persecution, when only for the adoption of
innocent singularities its members were insulted, and beaten, and
bruised, and put in danger of their lives, it had been no matter of
surprise: but to leave it, when all prejudices against them are
gradually decreasing, when they are rising in respectability in the eyes
of the government under which they live, and when, by the weight of
their own usefulness and character, they are growing in the esteem of
the world, is surely a matter of wonder, and for which it is difficult
to account.

This brings me to the point in question, or to the examination of those
arguments, which may at times have come into the heads of those who have
had thoughts of ceasing to be members of this society.

In endeavouring to discover these, we can only suppose them to be
actuated by one motive, for no other will be reasonable, namely, that
they shall derive advantages from the change. Now all advantages are
resolvable into two kinds, into such as are religious, and into such as
are temporal. The first question then is, what advantages do they gain
in the former case, or do they actually come into the possession of a
better religion?

I am aware that to enter into this subject, though but briefly, is an
odious task. But I shall abstain from all comparisons, by which I might
offend any. If I were to be asked which, among the many systems of the
Christian religion, I should prefer, I should say, that I see in all of
them much to admire, but that no one of them, perhaps, does wholly, or
in every part of it, please me; that is, there is no one, in which I do
not see some little difficulty, which I cannot solve, though this is no
impediment to my faith. But, if I were pressed more particularly upon
this point, I should give the following answer. I should say, that I
should prefer that, which, first of all, would solve the greatest number
of difficulties, as far as scriptural texts were concerned, in
conformity with the Divine attributes, which, secondly, would afford the
most encouraging and consolatory creed, if it were equally well founded
with any other; and which, thirdly, either by its own operation, or by
the administration of it, would produce the post perfect Christian
character. Let us then judge of the religion of the Quakers by this
standard.

That there are difficulties with respect to texts of scripture, must be
admitted; for if all men were to understand them alike, there would be
but one profession of the Christian religion. One man endeavours to make
his system comport wholly with human reason, and the consequence is,
that texts constantly stare him in the face, which militate against it.
Another discards reason, with a determination to abide literally by
that, which is revealed, and the consequence is, that, in his literal
interpretation of some passages, he leaves others wholly irreconcileable
with his scheme. Now the religion, of the Quakers has been explained,
and this extensively. In its doctrinal parts it is simple. It is
spiritual. It unites often philosophy with revelation. It explains a
great number of the difficult texts with clearness and consistency. That
it explains all of them I will not aver. But these which it does
explain, it explains in the strictest harmony with the love, goodness,
justice, mercy, and wisdom of God.

As to the creed of the Quakers, we have seen its effects. We have seen
it to be both encouraging and consolatory. We have seen it produce
happiness in life, and courage in death. The doctrine of the possibility
of human perfection, where it is believed, must be a perpetual stimulus
to virtue, it must encourage hope and banish fear. But it may be said,
that stimulative and consolatory as it may be, it wants one of the marks
which I have insisted upon, namely, a sound foundation. But surely they,
who deny it, will have as many scriptural texts against them as they who
acknowledge it, and will they not be rendering their own spiritual
situation perilous? But what do the Quakers mean by perfection? Not the
perfection of God, to which there are no limits, as has been before
explained, but that which arises to man from the possibility of keeping
the divine commands. They mean that perfection, such as Noah, and Job,
and Zacharias, and Elizabeth, attained, and which the Jewish rabbies
distinguished by the name of Redemption, and which they conceived to be
effected by the influence of the Holy Spirit, or that state of man in
Christian morals, which, if he arrives at it, the Divine Being (outward
redemption having taken place by the sacrifice of Christ) is pleased to
accept as sufficient, or as the most pure state at which man, under the
disadvantages of the frailty of his nature, can arrive. And is not this
the practicable perfection, which Jesus himself taught in these words,
"Be ye perfect, even as your Father, which is in heaven is perfect." Not
that he supposed it possible, that any human being could be as perfect
as the Divine Nature. But he proposed, by these expressions, the highest
conceivable model of human excellence, of which our natures were
capable, well knowing that the higher our aspirations the higher we
should ascend, and the sooner we should reach that best state of
humanity that was attainable. And here it is, that Christianity, as a
rule of moral conduct, surpasses all others. Men, in general, look up to
men for models. Thus Homer makes one of his heroes, when giving counsel
to his son, say, "Always emulate the best." Thus also we should say to
our children, if a person of extraordinary character were to live in our
neighbourhood, "This is the pattern for your virture." But Jesus Christ
says, aim at perfection beyond that which is human, alluding to the
attributes of God, and thus you will attain a higher excellence than the
study of any other model can produce.

With respect to the formation of man according to the model which
Christianity prescribes, the system of the Quakers is no where to be
excelled. No one, that we know of, is more powerful in the production of
a subjugated mind and of a moral character. By this I mean, that there
is none which is more universally powerful. It is the tendency of
Christianity, whatever denomination it may assume, to produce these
effects. But there is full as general an appearance of these among the
Quakers, as in any other Christian profession.

It will appear then, that, if the three criterions, which have been
specified, should be admitted to be those by which a judgment may be
formed in the present case, they, who have had thoughts of leaving the
society, will not be much better off by an exchange of their religion.

Let us see next, what would be the greater temporal advantages, which
they would obtain. These may be summed up in two essential ingredients
of happiness, in tranquillity of mind, in consequence of which we pass
through the troubles of life in the most placid manner, and in a
moderate pecuniary independence, in consequence of which we know none of
the wants and hardships, but enjoy the reasonable comforts of it.

With respect to tranquillity of mind, we have shown this to be
constitutional with the Quakers. It arises from their domestic
enjoyments, from seldom placing their pleasures or their fortunes in the
power of others, from freedom from the ambition and envyings of the
world, from the regulation of the temper, from avoiding quarrels and
lawsuits, and from other causes. And with respect to a moderate
pecuniary independence, we have shewn not only that this is the general
portion of the society, but that it is in the very nature of their
habits to acquire it. Now these essential ingredients of happiness, or
these temporal advantages, do not belong to the present Quakers only.
They have always belonged to Quakers; and they will be perpetuated as an
inheritance to their children, as long as Quakerism lasts. what did
you have before people, which is related to Holland to go to, there
were the Tebel hol mer, probably six thousand souls, which sat well
with all the ships and were to be dedicated to Holland IS. How we do it
the same time on the lake was miserable, are you the hair stand who will
read the following chapter 4. Chapter. As we Stockholm collection,
it was right around the same time as the cherries and grapes are starting
to color. Sapperment! what was there before a Gekribbele and
Gewibbele on the ship with so much people. Me and my darling Charming,
as well as the Lord's brother Earl, because the ship's husband saw
that we were professional people, had a private room on the ships to
our convenience inne. Six thousand others but had to get the
Tebel mer, after all the series on a scatter sleep. We embarked several
weeks have been very happy to continue and they were all good fun on
the ship, as we do on the island of Bornholm were, where there are
so many rocks, and when a ship is launched as man does not know
even leichtlich upset may Sapperment ei! what erhub for the moment
before a big storm and vehemence on the lake, the wind dropped, the Tebel
hol mer, the waves of the highest towers high above the ship away and
began to dig coal pitch-dark to be stock. To the greatest misfortunes,
he had yet to Stockholm at the inn the compass on the table, leave
it and forget that he did not know quite where he was and where he
should be approaching.

The fury and bluster of the cruel impetuousness lasted fourteen days and
the whole night, the fifteenth day, as we supposed, it would be a little
quiet, so is again a erhub weather and the wind threw our ship to a cliff
that is, the hol Tebel mer, in a hundred thousand pieces jumped.
Sapperment! what was there before a state on the lake! It was Schiff,
Schiffmann and everything just before the ships were based in a
moment, and if I and my brother, Mr.

Graf is not as speed board had taken what we put flight that we came to
swim, so would not otherwise have resources, we have also
with the six thousand souls must go to the dogs. O sapperment! what was
there from the people a Gelamentiere in the water! nothing lasts
me nor the hour, as only my allerliebst Charming, if I remember to the
same people, do me, Tebel hol mer, the present hour, eyes still on.
Because I heard them in probably ten times more water "graceful lad"
call; kunnte alone what I help her, I had the Tebel hol mer, even
to do that I do not fall under the sills herunterkippte, or that I
would help her. It was always and forever shame the same people that there
are so unexpectedly into their lives with the hill had to beat. Kunnte
It is also the Tebel hol mer, not a single soul when I save and Mr.
Graf on the boards. As I and my brother Mr. Graf these tragedies on
our boards in the distance for a while now so zugeschaut, splashes
us with our hands on the same continued and had well over one hundred
miles to swim before we came ashore again. Verfließung After three days,
we got the tops and towers of Amsterdam to see what we like and marched
on the fourth day early by ten clock behind the mayor garden with a lot
of our boards ausgestandener hazardousness allda lands. Thus, we went
through the garden by the Mayor and always after the same home. The
Lord's brother Earl, who had to now take the board and I went forward.
As we now aufklinkten garden, which in the courtyard of the mayor
went to the same hour of the mayor in the door and saw us as
angemarschiert come. With what surprise us that was also the man, I
will probably never tell, because we saw how the mice bathed so wet out,
the Honorable Earl ran the water still samtnen his trousers down, as if
with a Memory Göße. I told the Lord Mayor flight but with two,
three words quite like, like that we suffered shipwreck and on the boards
so far have a swim before we came ashore. The Lord Mayor, who, of Tebel
hol mer, a brave, brave man, had great compassion for us, he led us into
his office, was warm einheizen so had I and my brother Mr. Graf to hell
behind the stove will us again and dry. Once we have a little of
the warm oven to do was come, began the Lord Mayor and asked who we
were. I started to like this and told the same quite like my birth and
how it was with the rat would be received. O sapperment! which blocked
the man before a pair of eyes on him than I am of the rat such things
told, it took all afterward, even if he talked with me, his Mützchen
among the poor and dubbed me your very Hochwohlgeborne glories.
Alsobald he left the table cover and traktierte me and the Lord Count
of Tebel hol mer, quite delicate. As soon as we were fed, were some of
the finest states in the Mayor's house and gave me and my brother, Mr.
Earl a visit. They asked us to take guests to and proved to us great
honor that I can therefore say that Amsterdam, the Tebel hol mer, a
splendid city. It was about the same time be a noble wedding, including
me and my brother, Mr. Earl also invitierte. Because it married a lord
in England from London to make a state subsidiary to Amsterdam, and how
it is used now because that make professional persons who are invited
to a wedding, all the bride and groom to honor a Hochzeitskarmen
print them and honor, hierinnen so I wanted to let me see that I
have a good guy would be.

It was right around the same time soon Gert diamond [30] that the
Klapperstorch soon to come, and because the bride was Traute, so I
wanted my Invention [31] of the Klapperstorch, and the title should
read: The cheerful Klapperstorch.

I was, and sat and sat me drüber well over four hours: but that I would
have a line fall? The hol Tebel mer, not a word I could bring that
to the happy Klapperstorch had sent, I asked my brother, Mr.
Earl that he should try it, whether what he could to bring hardship,
because I wanted no applause. The Mr. Graf said now, as before that
he would have gone to school, so he had a little rhyme to learn whether
the first but would still may not know it, but would first try to
obs angehn wanted.

This continued the count is now out, took pen and ink and began to be
as dense.

What he was now aufschmierte, were the following lines: [30] day on the
calendar. [31] poetic invention. The skylark has been presented in
ventilation, and mother Flora rises gradually from the nest; Sleeps
Maja still the same in her room fixed ; The fact that so much time jetzger
lust is not gespüret. Yet it wants ... when he has these lines now so
well for half an hour already, so I looked back at his paper and saw what
he had done. As I now read stuff, I had the Tebel hol mer, rather
than the Lord's brother Earl laugh that it was such a silly Gemächte.
Indeed, that instead he Klapperstorch would be set, he had a lark
hingeschmiert and where Traute should be, he had taken even a
nap, because the pile is getting to the wedding, and this would also need
hintenaus rhyme. Indeed presented and Neste, which rhymes well, the Tebel
hol mer, like a fist to the eye. He wanted to continue in his head about
breakage, but it was only his ichs him and to sleep. Whether I'm now
probably the same day, nothing quite bring kunnte, so I sat down early
the following day but again drüber and wanted by Gert rhombuses and the
Klapperstorch of the bride make a Karmen. O sapperment! the spring
when I really what I had dazumal against incursions by the Klapperstorch
that I also get the Tebel mer, no longer than a half day on sat, so
it was done and stated as follows, namely: D e r f r h o l i c h
e C l a p p e r s t o r c h Gert hashmark day now we will soon have,
Da bring the happy Klapperstorch gifts, the same will flee over
water and grass And our bride Traute worship also what, this will,
of Tebel hol mer, want to save, And not any point in three-quarter
years.

Worzu because at this wedding wünschet healthy and fresh body till
eternity, long life, too late and soon, a professional person t o n S
c h e l m u f f s k y. As soon as the wedding day now herbeirückten,
I was and the Lord's brother Earl of the bride's father asked that his
daughter, but we are very honored to do and they want to lead
marriage and I replied the father of this very wedding-like, as I
propose that such a happy person I wanted to do, but if my brother
Mr. Graf would be able to appear, I doubt very much the poor knave
dieweil the cold would get a fever and had been completely bedridden.
The honorable father was such a wedding very tired, and because it
is not his kunnte, had the Lord Mayor's office represented.

As I'm now the bride to the wedding carried sapperment O! what was before
a Aufgesehe of the people, they expressed the Tebel hol mer, soon
completely destroy each other, just because one likes me so any
one who wanted to see.

Because I was very like her next to the bride in a long black silk coat
with a red velvet wide. In Amsterdam, it is now the fashion, there are
professional people in their black coats loud red velvet and high
pointed hats. I can always get the Tebel not say I like people so
nice to marriage and what led me to the pointed hat and long coat with
the red velvet was so proper [32]. Now that the wedding over and the
wedding were concerned, I had my flight to bridal set, which next to the
groom was the supreme body, then sat out the rest erstlich professional
people, all of which I am, especially since I have not seen large,
with the highest surprise that was and probably thought to himself
that I am one with the most elegant and bravsten guys in the
world should be (as it was also true) that I got the upper body had
acknowledged. [32] as well decency. As we now it had fed for a while,
came the bitter before the wedding table and began to take: who among
the men of wedding guests professional people to the Lord
Bridegroom or the Virgin in honor of a bride Karmen manufactures would
have to be as good wishes and kind present. Sapperment! how accessible
they are all thrust into the bags and brought out a slip a paper
of any herausgeschleppt and were willing to give such. Because they saw
that I was on my trousers herummährte [33] and also what looked, she
thought that I also have what would be printed, and nobody wanted
me to proceed. So I finally brought my Karmen [34], which I on red
print atlas, from the trouser lining pulled. O sapperment! Waves
with what was given to the people! This also gave me until now to all
of the bride with an exceedingly like compliments. As she saw the
title of which, Sapperment! what made the people in front of a face! But
as they now erstlich such durchlas so wrong, she said the Tebel
hol mer, eyes in his head like a calf, and I know that they probably
thought the same time, if only the Klapperstorch already there
would be.

The others want to smell Lunte that my Hochzeitskarmen among them probably
the best would be, and put the Tebel hol mer, almost all of his back in
the Fick. Many gave their while, but neither the bride nor groom was
none with an eye on, but put it just below the plate, but in my
opinion was the Tebel hol mer, such a crowd, because they all look
so happy and wanted to read.

Why? It was the first of the immensely Invention [35] and the other
very nice and good German.

However, the other professional persons to their verses and louder
halbgebrochene words unrhymed German had taken: sapperment egg! what
was in front of waves with the people awaken, when she had read my Karmen,
they stuck their heads in and saw me with the greatest astonishment,
that I am such a good guy, and always talked to each other in secret that
which is very large would have stuck behind me. This is not lasted long,
the hour of the groom, and began to drink my health. Sapperment! what
was there before a flight Aufgestehe by other professional persons, and
made great reverence against me. I remained seated and still, she saw
all the series with such a type of mine, the Lord Mayor, at what I do
with my brother Earl was in the neighborhood, which always laughed
that he schütterte stomach, so a warm pleasure he had over it, that I
am all together so venerierten [36]. Why? It was the man himself an honor
that such a noble person, a fact I had entered his house. [33] dug.
[34] poetry [35]. Invention. [36] honored. As my health is now on the
table around, so I left my wedding Bitter a large water jug type, which
probably twenty-four pitchers went after local dimensions, which had me
a wine gift fully upward on the table and give. As this the bridegroom
and the bride and the other wedding guests saw they closed, the
Tebel hol mer, mouth and nose all over it and did not know what I
do with the water jug on the table because it wanted to.

But I was, and hours with a face like that took the pot with the wine in
his hand and said, "Long live the bride Traute!" Sapperment! bent down
like the other professional people all against me. For so I sat and
soff, the Tebel hol mer, the water jug with the degree twenty-four
wine on a train from pure and threw it against the stove, that the pieces
herumflogen. O sapperment! how the people looked at me in! Were they
previously had not surprised me when she read my wedding verses, So
they are all only afterward, when they saw how I use the water jug full
of wine so good aussaufen kunnte. This flight, I had the upward nor a
jug full of wine and pour over the table, which soff now I just
like the previous one on the groom (we called it Toffel) Health
inside.

Sapperment egg! as the states reckten daughters, what about the other table
sat, all the necks after me into the air, people are surprised that
Tebel hol mer, also terrible about me when she saw that I like to drink
kunnte. Shortly afterwards came me such an unexpected and quick sleep,
that can also be impossible ichs kunnte, I had me with his head on the
table and a little bit of sleep. As such, the other professional people
to remember that I am fully, allow me to create a neighborhood that I
would like to sleep the noise. On the morning day, as I awoke, I knew
the Tebel hol mer, not what I had done the previous evening, I was
so full was. As it is now time for the midday meal was the wedding came
and asked me bitter that I am fine but soon come to the wedding
house wants, because they all waited with the bride soup on me.

I was her, made me immediately turn right and left by the bitter marriage
say they should only be half hour with food forgiven, I wanted
to come. It is made but not for long, so did the bride carriage with
four horses and pulled me out of the mayor from home. As soon as I have
before the wedding was driven home, hour Toffel of the groom with the
bride in the door that they wanted me to receive. It made the coach
even at that I also should increase, which I did, and erratic flight
with the same legs out and about Toffeln, groom away, rather like that
it was visible, so they carried me into the room. Sapperment! what did
all the professional people with great reverence in front of me! I had
my flight back to the bride sit down, and beside me on the left
sat a daughter states, that was the Tebel hol mer, also a good
girl, because they had the same day made a colorful series. Because
I thought, but again you must tell the wonders of things that they mouth
and nose, and you unlock brav wacker view. Was this her and began my
whimsical birth and the occurrence of the rat to tell. O sapperment! how
people saw me on the table at all outlandish and Toffel, the bridegroom.
The same countries daughter who was sitting next to me who came to me,
the Tebel hol mer, not a hair different than my ersoffene Charming,
they lisperte me probably ten times over tables in his ear and
said I should but that of the rat again tell, and how it has reached,
as the silk dress she had eaten. They were also marriages for me
before and asked if I wanted to take them: her father should equal
twenty thousand ducats mitgeben without dowry, which they still
had and inherited from her mother.

I answered this very kind and said that as I get a good guy would be, what
is already law in the world have tried and still wanted to try. So I
could not resolvieren flight, but would consider myself a bit.

By than I do with the states as a subsidiary of Marriages talked, caught
Mr. Toffel, the bridegroom, and said: why I do not count the Lord would
bring? Because I started very good and said that as he had a fever every
day and could not stay up, they would forgive him, that he had before
this time, no wedding guest and could submit. Then went to
lunch now and the end of dancing. Sapperment egg! like the dancing girl
in Holland galant, they sat, the Tebel hol mer, like the legs so that
it was fate. Since I had now with dancing, with the States subsidiary,
which to me over the table to the left hand and sat at my outdoor set.
Erstlich they danced dances nasty now louder than Sarabande, Chique,
ballets and the like. Such stuff I danced away with everything now.
Sapperment! as they saw me all on their feet, because I like them
so put kunnte. Once we have such a good while herumgesprungen, then
asked them all, I should be me dancing alone in one.

Now I kunnte them easily prove the favor and one alone dance.
I was her game and gave the people two ducats, and said: Allon, their
masters, once one deletes the Leipziger Gassenhauer on. Sapperment!
as the guy started the thing to be deleted. Order now so I started
with a loud Kreuzkapriolen and did the Tebel hol mer, some gap jumps high
into the air that people thought otherwise, what else it would have
made me jump. Sapperment egg! what came before the people of the alley
into the wedding house ran to me with great surprise since joining.
After the Leipzig Gassenhauer now weggetanzt had, I had the same State
with daughter, my sweetheart, who wanted to become, in the city of
Amsterdam a little walk around, that I just could cool down a bit. I
made me such a well liked and went with the same people a little bit
around in the city, it in because I still had not seen large.

As they led me around everywhere now, where it was to see there. I had
with it Amsterdamsche to go public, what the Tebel hol mer,
proper is built. They also pointed me in the same boat of unprecedented
admiral Ruyter [37] his funeral stone, which became the eternal
memory since repealed, because the same Ruyter as an excellent hero
to water should have been, and yet every day in Amsterdam is very
complains.

As my daughter states now demonstrated this and that, she began to me
and said I should always take, and if I do not feel like working
with her to stay in Amsterdam, would have so wanted her to pack up and
Lümpchen with me continued walking towards where I wanted, even though
her father knew nothing about it. What I gave her the answer, as
that I am the guy bravste of the world would be, and it might even matter,
but it could not do flight, although I wanted to think about how it would
begin, and her ehster daily, thermic wind them type. [37] de Ruyter,
Dutch naval hero, died in the 1676th After this I went back to the
dance space and wanted to see where my future would have loved what I
have in the street so quickly weglief. I soon saw my eyes from
his head, according to her, I kunnte they do not get to see.
He may discover the necessity of abstaining
from all expressions of flattery, because the use of these may be
morally injurious to himself by abridging the independence of his mind,
and by promoting superstition; while it may be injurious to others, by
occasioning them to think more highly of themselves than they ought, and
more degradingly of their fellow-creatures. He may discover also the
necessity of adhering to the truth in all expressions, whether in his
conversation or in his letters; that there is always a consistency in
truth, and an inconsistency in falsehood; that as expressions accord
with the essences, qualities, properties and characters of things, they
are more or less proper; and that an attempt to adhere to the truth is
productive of moral good, while a departure from it may lead into error,
independently of its injury as a moral evil.

With respect to the address, or the complimentary gestures or ceremonies
of the world, if he be not inclined to reject them totally as the
Quakers do, he may find that there may be unquestionably evil in them,
if they are to be adjudged by the purity of the Christian system. He may
perceive, that there may be as much flattery and as great a violation of
truth through the medium of the body, as through the medium of the
tongue, and that the same mental degradation, or toss of dignified
independence of mind, may insensibly follow.

On the subject of conversation and manners, he may learn the propriety
of caution as to the use of idle words; of abstaining from scandal and
detraction; of withholding his assent to customs when started, however
fashionable, if immoral; of making himself useful by the dignity of the
topic he introduces, and by the decorum with which he handles it; of
never allowing his sprightliness to border upon folly, or his wit upon
lewdness, but to clothe all his remarks in an innocent and a simple
manner.

From the subject of customs connected with meals, such as that, for
example, of saying grace, he may team that this is a devotional act;
that it is not to be said as a mere ceremony, by thanking the Supreme
Being in so many words while the thoughts are roving on other subjects,
but that it should be said with seriousness and feeling, and that it
should never come as an oblation from the tongue, except it come also
an oblation from the heart. And on that which relates to the drinking of
toasts, he may see the moral necessity of an immediate extirpation of
it. He may see that this custom has not one useful or laudable end in
view; that it is a direct imitation of Pagans in the worst way in which
we can follow them--their enjoyment of sensual pleasures; that it leads
directly and almost inevitably to drunkenness, and of course to the
degradation of the rational and moral character.

A second advantage, which they who compose the world may derive on this
occasion, will be seen from a recapitulation of some of the principles
which the work contains. The advantage in question will chiefly consist
in this, that, whatever these principles may be, they may be said to be
such as have been adopted by a moral people, and this after serious
deliberation, and solely on a religious ground. It is of great
importance from whence principles come recommended to our notice. If
they come from the inconsiderate and worthless, they lose their value.
If from the sober and religious, we receive them under the impression,
that they may be promotive of our good. I shall give therefore a summary
of these, as they may be collected from the work.

God has imparted to men a portion of his own Spirit, though he has
given it to them indifferent degrees. Without this Spirit it would be
impossible for them to discern spiritual things. Without this it would
be impossible for them to know spiritually, even that the Scriptures
were of divine authority, or spiritually to understand them. This Spirit
performs its office of a teacher by internal monitions, and, if
encouraged, even by the external objects of creation. It is also a
primary and infallible guide. It is given to all without exception. It
is given to all sufficiently. They who resist it, quench it, and this to
their own condemnation. They who encourage it receive it more
abundantly, and are in the way of salvation and redemption. This Spirit
therefore becomes a Redeemer also. Redemption may he considered in two
points of view, as it is either by outward or inward means, or as it
relates to past sins or to sins to come. Jesus Christ effected
redemption of the first kind, or that from past sins, while he was
personally upon earth, by the sacrifice of himself. But it is this
Spirit, or Christ within, as the Quakers call it, which effects the
latter, or which preserves from future transgressions. It is this Spirit
which leads, by means of its inward workings, to a new birth, and
finally to the highest perfection of which our nature is capable. In
this office of an inward Redeemer, it visits all, so that all may be
saved, if they will attend to its saving operations, God being not
willing that any should perish, but that all should inherit eternal
life.

This Spirit also qualifies men for the ministry. It qualifies women also
for this office as well as men. It dictates the true season for silence,
and the true season for utterance, both in public and private worship.

Jesus Christ was man because he took flesh, and inhabited the body which
had been prepared for him; but he was Divinity, because he was the Word.

A resurrection will be effected, but not of the body as it is. Rewards
and punishments will follow, but guilt will not be imputed to men till
they have actually committed sin.

Baptism and the Lord's Supper are essentials of the Christian religion.
They are not, however, essentials as outward ordinances, but only as
they are administered by the Holy Spirit.

Civil government is for the protection of virtue and for the removal of
vice. Obedience should be paid to all its laws, where the conscience is
not violated in doing it. To defraud it in any manner of its revenues,
or to take up arms on any consideration against it, is unlawful. But if
men cannot conscientiously submit to any one or more of its ordinances,
they are not to temporize, but to obey Jesus Christ rather than their
own governors in this particular case. They are, however, to be willing
to submit to all the penalties which the latter may inflict upon them
for so doing. And as no Christian ought to temporize in the case of any
laws enjoined him by the government under which he lives, so neither
ought he to do it in the case of any of the customs or fashions, which
may be enjoined him by the world.

All civil oaths are forbidden in Christianity. The word of every
Christian should be equivalent to his oath.

It is not lawful to return evil for evil, nor to shed the blood of man.
All wars are forbidden.

It is more honourable, and more consistent with the genius and spirit of
Christianity, and the practice of Jesus Christ and of his Apostles, and
of the primitive Christians, that men should preach the Gospel freely,
than that they should live by it, as by a profession or by a trade.

All men are brethren by creation. Christianity makes no difference in
this respect between Jew and Gentile, Greek and Barbarian, bond and
free. No geographical boundaries, nor colour of the skin or person, nor
difference of religious sentiment, can dissolve this relationship
between them.

All men are born equal with respect to privileges. But as they fall into
different situations and ranks of life, they become distinguished. In
Christianity, however, there is no respect of persons, or no distinction
of them, but by their virtue. Nobility and riches can never confer
worth, nor can poverty screen from a just appropriation of disgrace.

Man is a temple in which the Divinity may reside. He is therefore to be
looked upon and treated with due respect. No Christian ought to lower
his dignity, or to suffer him, if he can help it, to become the
instrument of his own degradation.

Man is a being, for whose spiritual welfare every Christian should be
solicitous, and a creature therefore worthy of all the pains that can be
bestowed upon him for the preservation of his moral character.

The first object in the education of man should be the proper
subjugation of his will.

No man ought to be persecuted or evil spoken of for a difference in
religious opinion. Nor is detraction or slander allowable in any case.

Every religious community should consider the poor belonging to it as
members of the same family, for whose wants and comforts it is a duty
to provide. The education also of the children of these should be
provided for.

It is enjoined us to live in peace with all men. All quarrels therefore
are to be avoided between man and man. But if differences arise, they
are to be adjusted by arbitration, and not, except it be otherwise
impossible, by going to law, and never by violence.

If men offend against the laws, they should be prevented from doing
injuries in future, but never by the punishment of the loss of life. The
reformation of a criminal, which includes a prevention of a repetition
of such injuries, is the great object to be regarded in the
jurisprudence of Christians.

In political matters there is no safe reasoning but upon principle. No
man is to do evil that good may come. The policy of the Gospel is never
to be deserted, whatever may be the policy of the world.

Trade is an employment, by means of which we are permitted to gain a
livelihood. But all trades are not lawful. Men are responsible, as
Christians, for engaging in those which are immoral, or far continuing
in those which they may carry on either to the moral detriment of
themselves or of others. Abstinence from hazardous enterprises by the
failure of which innocent persons might be injured, and honesty in
dealing, and punctuality to words and engagements, are essentials in
the prosecution of trade.

Having made observations on the customs, and brought to the view of the
reader some of the prominent principles of the Quakers, a third
advantage will arise from knowing the kind of character, which these in
conjunction will produce.

On this subject we might be permitted our conjectures. We might insist
upon the nature and immediate tendencies of these customs and
principles, and we might draw our conclusions from thence, or we might
state how they were likely to operate, so as probably not to be far from
the truth. But we are spared both the trouble of such a task, and are
relieved from the fear of having the accuracy of our conclusions
doubted. The Quaker character has been made up from the acknowledgments
of others. It has been shewn that they are a moral people; that they are
sober, and inoffensive, and quiet; that they are benevolent to man in
his religious and temporal capacity; that they are kind or
tender-hearted to animals; that they do not make sacrifices of their
consciences to others; that in political affairs they reason upon
principle; that they are punctual to their words and engagements; and
that they have independence of mind, and courage. Their character, as it
is defective, has been explained also. It has been probed, and tried by
a proper touchstone. Appearances have been separated from realities. The
result has been, that a deficiency in literature and science, and that
superstition, and that an undue eagerness after money, has been fixed
upon a portion of them. The two former, however, it is to be
recollected, are only intellectually defective traits, and maybe
remedied by knowledge. The latter, it is to be presumed, belongs rather
to individuals than to the society at large. But whatever drawbacks may
be made from the perfect by the imperfect qualities that have been
stated, there is a great preponderancy on the side of virtue. And where,
when we consider the evil propensities of our nature, and the difficulty
of keeping these in due order, are we to took for a fairer character?
That men, as individuals, may be more perfect, both in and out of the
society, is not to be denied. But where shall we find them purer as a
body? and where shall we find a faulty character, where the remedy is
more easily at hand?

The next advantage will be in seeing the manner of the operation of
these customs and principles, or how they act. To go over the whole
character of the Quakers with this view would be both tedious and
unnecessary. I shall therefore only select one or two parts of it for my
purpose. And first, how do these customs and principles produce
benevolence? I reply thus: The Quakers, in consequence of their
prohibitions against all public amusements, have never seen man in the
capacity of a hired buffoon or mimic, or as a purchasable plaything.
Hence they have never viewed him in a low and degrading light. In
consequence of their tenet on war, they have never viewed him as an
enemy. In consequence of their disciplinary principles, they have viewed
him as an equal. Hence it appears, that they have no prejudices against
him from causes which often weigh with others, either on account of
rank, or station, or many of the customs of the world. Now I conceive,
that the dereliction of prejudice against man is as necessary, as a
first measure, to the production of benevolence towards him, as the
dereliction of vice towards the production of virtue. We see then their
minds free from bias on this subject. But what is there on the other
side to operate actively towards the promotion of this trait? They view
man, in the first place, as the temple in which the Divinity may reside.
This procures him respect. Secondly, as a being for whose spiritual
welfare they ought to be solicitous. This produces a concern for him.
And thirdly, as a brother. This produces relationship. We see then the
ground cleared. We see all noxious weeds extirpated. We see good seed
sown in their places; that is, we see prejudices removed from the heart,
and we see the ideas of respect, concern, and relationship implanted in
it. Now it is impossible that these ideas, under these circumstances,
should not as naturally and immediately produce a general benevolence to
man, as common seeds, when all obstructive weeds are removed, should
produce their corresponding saplings or flowers.

How again are these customs and principles of the Quakers promotive of
independence of mind? I answer thus: There is a natural independence of
mind in man, but it is often broken and weakened. Some men injure it by
the solicitation and acceptance of honours, and pensions, and places;
others by flattery and falsehood; others by customs of obeisance; others
by their obedience to fashion. But the independence of mind of the
Quakers is not stunted in its growth by the chiding blasts of such
circumstances and habits. It is invigorated, on the other hand, by their
own laws. No servility is allowed either in word or gesture. Neither
that which is written, nor that which is uttered, is to please the
vanity of the persons addressed, or to imply services never intended to
be performed. The knee is not to be bent to any one. It is strengthened
again and made to shoot by their own maxims. Is it possible to be in the
habit of viewing all men as equal in privileges, and no one as superior
to another but by his virtue, and not to feel a disposition that must
support it? Can the maxim of never doing evil that good may come, when
called into exercise, do otherwise than cherish it? And can reasoning
upon principle have any other effect than that of being promotive of
its growth?

These then are the ways in which these customs and principles operate.
Now the advantage to be derived from seeing this manner of their
operation, consists in this: First, that we know to a certainty, that
they act towards the production of virtue. Knowing again what these
customs and principles are, we know those which we are bound to cherish.
We find also, that there are various springs which act upon the moral
constitution for the formation of character. We find some of these great
and powerful, and others inferior. This consideration should teach us
not to despise even those which are the least, if they have but a
tendency to promote our purity. For if the effect of any of them be only
small, a number of effects of little causes or springs, when added
together, may be as considerable as a large one. Of these again we
observe, that some are to be round where many would hardly have expected
them. This consideration should make us careful to look into all our
customs and principles, that we may not overlook any one which we may
retain for our moral good. And as we learn the lesson of becoming
vigilant to discover every good spring, and not to neglect the least of
these, however subtle its operation, so we learn the necessity of
vigilance to detect every spring or cause, and this even the least,
whether in our customs or our principles, if it should in its tendency
be promotive of vice.

And in the same manner we may argue with respect to other productions of
these customs and principles of the Quakers. As we have seen the latter
lead to character, so we have seen them lead to happiness. The manner of
their operation to this end has been also equally discernible. As we
value them because they produce the one, so we should value them because
they produce the other. We have seen also which of them to value. And we
should be studious to cherish the very least of these, as we should be
careful to discard the least of those which are productive of real and
merited unhappiness to the mind.

And now, having expended my observations on the tendencies of the
customs and principles of the Quakers, I shall conclude by expressing a
wish, that the work which I have written may be useful. I have a wish,
that it may be useful to those who may be called the world, by giving
them an insight into many excellent institutions, of which they were
before ignorant, but which may be worthy of their support and their
patronage. I have a wish also, that it may be useful to the Quakers
themselves, first, by letting them see how their own character may be
yet improved; and secondly, by preserving them, in some measure, both
from unbecoming remarks, and from harsh usage, on the part of their
fellow-citizens of a different denomination from themselves. For surely
when it is known, as I hope it is by this time, that they have moral and
religious grounds for their particularities, we shall no longer hear
their scruples branded with the name of follies and obstinacies, or see
magistrates treating them with a needless severity, but giving[58] them,
on the other hand, all the indulgences they can, consistently with the
execution of the laws. In proportion as this utility is produced, my
design will be answered in the production of the work, and I shall
receive pleasure in having written it. Then let me give me the letter, she
said a little before the Stubentüre forgiven and whistled the house
servants, that he had burnt the light, which he did and also alsobald
with a large lantern hinaufgelaufen came down the stairs. Thus I
vomited so the letter and saw what students indoors. The content was
as follows, thus: "A s m t i g u r e J ü n g l i n g Woferne disease
beliebet this evening, my room IS, so let me present Servant by
[12] Response know.[Footnote 58: Some magistrates, much to their honour, treat them with
tenderness; and no people are more forward than the Quakers in
acknowledging any attention that may be shewn them, but particularly
where their religious scruples may be concerned.]


END OF THE THIRD VOLUME