Whereupon his mood underwent another change, and he became convinced
that the world was a warm and kindly place, where it was good to live.
He forgot that he was jealous of Cooley and angry with the Countess; he
liked everybody again, especially Lady Mount-Rhyswicke. "Won't you
sit farther forward?" he begged her earnestly; "so that I can see your
beautiful golden hair?"

He heard but dimly the spasmodic uproar that followed. "Laugh on!" he
repeated with a swoop of his arm. "I don't care! Don't you care either,
Mrs. Mount-Rhyswicke. Please sit where I can see your beautiful golden
hair. Don't be afraid I'll kiss you again. I wouldn't do it for the
whole world. You're one of the noblest women I ever knew. I feel that's
true. I don't know how I know it, but I know it. Let 'em laugh!"

After this everything grew more and more hazy to him. For a time there
was, in the centre of the haze, a nimbus of light which revealed his
cards to him and the towers of chips which he constantly called for and
which as constantly disappeared--like the towers of a castle in Spain.
Then the haze thickened, and the one thing clear to him was a phrase
from an old-time novel he had read long ago:

"Debt of honor."

The three words appeared to be written in flames against a background of
dense fog. A debt of honor was as promissory note which had to be
paid on Monday, and the appeal to the obdurate grandfather--a peer of
England, the Earl of Mount-Rhyswicke, in fact--was made at midnight,
Sunday. The fog grew still denser, lifted for a moment while he wrote
his name many times on slips of blue paper; closed down once more, and
again lifted--out-of-doors this time--to show him a lunatic ballet of
moons dancing streakily upon the horizon.

He heard himself say quite clearly, "All right, old man, thank you;
but don't bother about me," to a pallid but humorous Cooley in evening
clothes; the fog thickened; oblivion closed upon him for a seeming
second....


VII. The Next Morning

Suddenly he sat up in bed in his room at the Magnifique, gazing upon a
disconsolate Cooley in gray tweeds who sat heaped in a chair at the foot
of the bed with his head in his hands.

Mellin's first sensation was of utter mystification; his second was more
corporeal: the consciousness of physical misery, of consuming fever, of
aches that ran over his whole body, converging to a dreadful climax in
his head, of a throat so immoderately partched it seemed to crackle, and
a thirst so avid it was a passion. His eye fell upon a carafe of water
on a chair at his bedside; he seized upon it with a shaking hand and
drank half its contents before he set it down. The action attracted
his companion's attention and he looked up, showing a pale and haggard
countenance.

"How do you feel?" inquired Cooley with a wan smile.

Mellin's head dropped back upon the pillow and he made one or two
painful efforts to speak before he succeeded in finding a ghastly
semblance of his voice.

"I thought I was at Madame de Vaurigard's."

"You were," said the other, adding grimly: "We both were."

"But that was only a minute ago."

"It was six hours ago. It's goin' on ten o'clock in the morning."

"I don't understand how that can be. How did I get here?"

"I brought you. I was pretty bad, but you--I never saw anything like
you! From the time you kissed Lady Mount-Rhyswicke--"

Mellin sat bolt upright in bed, staring wildly. He began to tremble
violently.

"Don't you remember that?" asked Cooley.

Suddenly he did. The memory of it came with inexorable clarity, he
crossed forearms over his horror-stricken face and fell back upon his
pillow.

"Oh," he gasped. "Un-speakable! Un-speakable!"

"Lord! Don't worry about that! I don't think she minded."

"It's the thought of Madame de Vaurigard--it kills me! The horror of
it--that I should do such a thing in her house! She'll never speak to
me again, she oughtn't to; she ought to send her groom to beat me! You
can't think what I've lost--"

"Can't I!" Mr. Cooley rose from his chair and began to pace up and down
the chamber. "I can guess to within a thousand francs of what _I_'ve
lost! I had to get the hotel to cash a check on New York for me this
morning. I've a habit of carrying all my money in bills, and a fool
trick, too. Well, I'm cured of it!"

"Oh, if it were only a little _money_ and nothing else that I'd lost!
The money means nothing." Mellin choked.

"I suppose you're pretty well fixed. Well, so am I," Cooley shook his
head, "but money certainly means something to me!"

"It wouldn't if you'd thrown away the most precious friendship of your
life."

"See here," said Cooley, halting at the foot of the bed and looking at
his stricken companion from beneath frowning brows, "I guess I can see
how it is with you, and I'll tell you frankly it's been the same with
me. I never met such a fascinating woman in my life: she throws a
reg'ler ole-fashioned _spell_ over you! Now I hate to say it, but I
can't help it, because it plain hits me in the face every time I think
of it; the truth is--well, sir, I'm afraid you and me have had little
red soldier-coats and caps put on us and strings tied to our belts while
we turned somersets for the children."

"I don't understand. I don't know what you're talking about."

"No? It seems to get more and more simple to me. I've been thinking it
all over and over again. I can't _help_ it! See here: I met Sneyd on the
steamer, without any introduction. He sort of warmed into the game in
the smoking-room, and he won straight along the trip. He called on me in
London and took me to meet the Countess at her hotel. We three went
to the theatre and lunch and so forth a few times; and when I left for
Paris she turned up on the way: that's when you met her. Couple of days
later, Sneyd came over, and he and the Countess introduced me to dear
ole friend Pedlow. So you see, I don't rightly even know who any of 'em
really _are_: just took 'em for granted, as it were. We had lots of fun,
I admit that, honkin' about in my car. We only played cards once, and
that was in her apartment the last night before I left Paris, but that
one time Pedlow won fifteen thousand francs from me. When I told them my
plans, how I was goin' to motor down to Rome, she said _she_ would be in
Rome--and, I tell you, I was happy as a poodle-pup about it. Sneyd said
he might be in Rome along about then, and open-hearted ole Pedlow said
not to be surprised if _he_ turned up, too. Well, he did, almost to the
minute, and in the meantime she'd got _you_ hooked on, fine and tight."

"I don't understand you," Mellin lifted himself painfully on an elbow.
"I don't know what you're getting at, but it seems to me that you're
speaking disrespectfully of an angel that I've insulted, and I--"

"Now see here, Mellin, I'll tell you something." The boy's white face
showed sudden color and there was a catch in his voice. "I was--I've
been mighty near in _love_ with that woman! But I've had a kind of a
shock; I've got my common-sense back, and I'm _not_, any more. I don't
know exactly how much money I had, but it was between thirty-five and
thirty-eight thousand francs, and Sneyd won it all after we took off the
limit--over seven thousand dollars--at her table last night. Putting two
and two together, honestly it looks bad. It looks _mighty_ bad! Now, I'm
pretty well fixed, and yesterday I didn't care whether school kept or
not, but seven thousand dollars is real money to anybody! My old man
worked pretty hard for his first seven thousand, I guess, and"--he
gulped--"he'd think a lot of me for lettin' go of it the way I did last
night, _wouldn't_ he? You never _see_ things like this till the next
morning! And you remember that other woman sat where she could see every
hand _you_ drew, and the Countess--"

"Stop!" Mellin flung one arm up violently, striking the headboard with
his knuckles. "I won't hear a syllable against Madame de Vaurigard!"
Young Cooley regarded him steadily for a moment. "Have you remembered
yet," he said slowly, "how much _you_ lost last night?"

"I only remember that I behaved like an unspeakable boor in the presence
of the divinest creature that ever--"

Cooley disregarded the outburst, and said:

"When we settled, you had a pad of express company checks worth six
hundred dollars. You signed all of 'em and turned 'em over to Sneyd with
three one-hundred-lire bills, which was all the cash you had with you.
Then you gave him your note for twelve thousand francs to be paid within
three days. You made a great deal of fuss about its being a 'debt of
honor.'" He paused. "You hadn't remembered that, had you?"

Mellin had closed his eyes. He lay quite still and made no answer.

"No, I'll bet you hadn't," said Cooley, correctly deducing the fact.
"You're well off, or you wouldn't be at this hotel, and, for all I know,
you may be fixed so you won't mind your loss as much as I do mine; but
it ought to make you kind of charitable toward my suspicions of Madame
de Vaurigard's friends."

The six hundred dollars in express company checks and the three
hundred-lire bills were all the money the unhappy Mellin had in the
world, and until he could return to Cranston and go back to work in the
real-estate office again, he had no prospect of any more. He had not
even his steamer ticket. In the shock of horror and despair he whispered
brokenly:

"I don't care if they 're the worst people in the world, they're better
than I am!"

The other's gloom cleared a little at this. "Well, you _have_ got it!"
he exclaimed briskly. "You don't know how different you'll feel after a
long walk in the open air." He looked at his watch. "I've got to go and
see what that newspaper-man, Cornish, wants; it's ten o'clock. I'll be
back after a while; I want to reason this out with you. I don't deny but
it's possible I'm wrong; anyway, you think it over while I'm gone. You
take a good hard think, will you?"

As he closed the door, Mellin slowly drew the coverlet over his head. It
was as if he covered the face of some one who had just died.


VIII. What Cornish Knew


Two hours passed before young Cooley returned. He knocked twice without
a reply; then he came in.

The coverlet was still over Mellin's head.

"Asleep?" asked Cooley.

"No."

The coverlet was removed by a shaking hand.

"Murder!" exclaimed Cooley sympathetically, at sight of the other's
face. "A night off certainly does things to you! Better let me get you
some--"

"No. I'll be all right--after while."

"Then I'll go right ahead with our little troubles. I've decided to
leave for Paris by the one-thirty and haven't got a whole lot of time.
Cornish is here with me in the hall: he's got something to say that's
important for you to hear, and I'm goin' to bring him right in." He
waved his hand toward the door, which he had left open. "Come along,
Cornish. Poor ole Mellin'll play Du Barry with us and give us a morning
leevy while he listens in a bed with a palanquin to it. Now let's draw
up chairs and be sociable."

The journalist came in, smoking a long cigar, and took the chair the
youth pushed toward him; but, after a twinkling glance through his big
spectacles at the face on the pillow, he rose and threw the cigar out of
the window.

"Go ahead," said Cooley. "I want you to tell him just what you told me,
and when you're through I want to see if he doesn't think I'm Sherlock
Holmes' little brother."

"If Mr. Mellin does not feel too ill," said Cornish dryly; "I know how
painful such cases sometimes--"

"No." Mellin moistened his parched lips and made a pitiful effort to
smile. "I'll be all right very soon."

"I am very sorry," began the journalist, "that I wasn't able to get a
few words with Mr. Cooley yesterday evening. Perhaps you noticed that I
tried as hard as I could, without using actual force"--he laughed--"to
detain him."

"You did your best," agreed Cooley ruefully, "and I did my worst. Nobody
ever listens till the next day!"

"Well, I'm glad no vital damage was done, anyway," said Cornish. "It
would have been pretty hard lines if you two young fellows had been
poor men, but as it is you're probably none the worse for a lesson like
this."

"You seem to think seven thousand dollars is a joke," remarked Cooley.

Cornish laughed again. "You see, it flatters me to think my time was
so valuable that a ten minutes' talk with me would have saved so much
money."

"I doubt it," said Cooley. "Ten to one we'd neither of us have believed
you--last night!"

"I doubt it, too." Cornish turned to Mellin. "I hear that you, Mr.
Mellin, are still of the opinion that you were dealing with straight
people?"

Mellin managed to whisper "Yes."

"Then," said Cornish, "I'd better tell you just what I know about it,
and you can form your own opinion as to whether I do know or not. I have
been in the newspaper business on this side for fifteen years, and my
headquarters are in Paris, where these people are very well known. The
man who calls himself 'Chandler Pedlow' was a faro-dealer for Tom Stout
in Chicago when Stout's place was broken up, a good many years ago.
There was a real Chandler Pedlow in Congress from a California district
in the early nineties, but he is dead. This man's name is Ben Welch:
he's a professional swindler; and the Englishman, Sneyd, is another; a
quiet man, not so well known as Welch, and not nearly so clever, but a
good 'feeder' for him. The very attractive Frenchwoman who calls herself
'Comtesse de Vaurigard' is generally believed to be Sneyd's wife, though
I could not take the stand on that myself. Welch is the brains of the
organization: you mightn't think it, but he's a very brilliant
man--he might have made a great reputation in business if he'd been
straight--and, with this woman's help, he's carried out some really
astonishing schemes. His manner is clumsy; _he_ knows that, bless you,
but it's the only manner he can manage, and she is so adroit she can
sugar-coat even such a pill as that and coax people to swallow it. I
don't know anything about the Italian who is working with them down
here. But a gang of the Welch-Vaurigard-Sneyd type has tentacles all
over the Continent; such people are in touch with sharpers everywhere,
you see."

"Yes," Cooley interpolated, "and with woolly little lambkins, too."

"Well," chuckled Cornish, "that's the way they make their living, you
know."

"Go on and tell him the rest of it," urged Cooley.

"About Lady Mount-Rhyswicke," said Cornish, "it seems strange enough,
but she has a perfect right to her name. She is a good deal older than
she looks, and I've heard she used to be remarkably beautiful. Her third
husband was Lord George Mount-Rhyswicke, a man who'd been dropped from
his clubs, and he deserted her in 1903, but she has not divorced him. It
is said that he is somewhere in South America; however, as to that I do
not know."

Mr. Cornish put the very slightest possible emphasis on the word "know,"
and proceeded:

"I've heard that she is sincerely attached to him and sends him money
from time to time, when she has it--though that, too, is third-hand
information. She has been _declasse_ ever since her first divorce. That
was a 'celebrated case,' and she's dropped down pretty far in the world,
though I judge she's a good deal the best of this crowd. Exactly what
her relations to the others are I don't know, but I imagine that she's
pretty thick with 'em."

"Just a little!" exclaimed Cooley. "She sits behind one of the lambkins
and Helene behind the other while they get their woolly wool clipped. I
suppose the two of 'em signaled what was in every hand we held, though
I'm sure they needn't have gone to the trouble! Fact is, I don't see why
they bothered about goin' through the form of playin' cards with us
at all. They could have taken it away without that! Whee!" Mr. Cooley
whistled loud and long. "And there's loads of wise young men on the
ocean now, hurryin' over to take our places in the pens. Well, they can
have _mine_! Funny, Mellin: nobody would come up to you or me in the
Grand Central in New York and try to sell us greenbacks just as good
as real. But we come over to Europe with our pockets full o' money and
start in to see the Big City with Jesse James in a false mustache on one
arm, and Lucresha Borgy, under an assumed name, on the other!"

"I am afraid I agree with you," said Cornish; "though I must say that,
from all I hear, Madame de Vaurigard might put an atmosphere about a
thing which would deceive almost any one who wasn't on his guard. When a
Parisienne of her sort is clever at all she's irresistible."

"I believe you," Cooley sighed deeply.

"Yesterday evening, Mr. Mellin," continued the journalist, "when I saw
the son of my old friend in company with Welch and Sneyd, of course I
tried to warn him. I've often seen them in Paris, though I believe they
have no knowledge of me. As I've said, they are notorious, especially
Welch, yet they have managed, so far, to avoid any difficulty with the
Paris police, and, I'm sorry to say, it might be hard to actually prove
anything against them. You couldn't _prove_ that anything was crooked
last night, for instance. For that matter, I don't suppose you want to.
Mr. Cooley wishes to accept his loss and bear it, and I take it that
that will be your attitude, too. In regard to the note you gave Sneyd,
I hope you will refuse to pay; I don't think that they would dare press
the matter."

"Neither do I," Mr. Cooley agreed. "I left a silver cigarette-case at
the apartment last night, and after talkin' to Cornish a while ago, I
sent my man for it with a note to her that'll make 'em all sit up and
take some notice. The gang's all there together, you can be sure. I
asked for Sneyd and Pedlow in the office and found they'd gone out early
this morning leavin' word they wouldn't be back till midnight. And, see
here; I know I'm easy, but somehow I believe you're even a softer piece
o' meat than I am. I want you to promise me that whatever happens you
won't pay that I O U."

Mellin moistened his lips in vain. He could not answer.

"I want you to promise me not to pay it," repeated Cooley earnestly.

"I promise," gasped Mellin.

"You won't pay it no matter what they do?"

"No."

This seemed to reassure Mr. Cooley.

"Well," he said, "I've got to hustle to get my car shipped and make the
train. Cornish has finished his job down here and he's goin' with me. I
want to get out. The whole thing's left a mighty bad taste in my mouth,
and I'd go crazy if I didn't get away from it. Why don't you jump into
your clothes and come along, too?"

"I can't."

"Well," said the young man with a sympathetic shake of the head, "you
certainly look sick. It may be better if you stay in bed till evening:
a train's a mighty mean place for the day after. But I wouldn't hang
around here too long. If you want money, all you have to do is to ask
the hotel to cash a check on your home bank; they're always glad to
do that for Americans." He turned to the door. "Mr. Cornish, if you're
goin' to help me about shipping the car, I'm ready."

"So am I. Good-by, Mr. Mellin."

"Good-by," Mellin said feebly--"and thank you."

