"You do not reply," Maria Dmitrievna recommenced: "how am I to
understand you? Is it possible that you can be so cruel? No, I cannot
believe that. I feel that my words have convinced you. Fedor Ivanich,
God will reward you for your goodness! Now from my hands receive your
wife!"

Lavretsky jumped up from his chair scarcely knowing what he was doing.
Maria Dmitrievna had risen also, and had passed rapidly to the
other side of the screen, from behind which she brought out Madame
Lavretsky. Pale, half lifeless, with downcast eyes, that lady seemed
as if she had surrendered her whole power of thinking or willing for
herself, and had given herself over entirely into the hands of Maria
Dmitrievna.

Lavretsky recoiled a pace.

"You have been there all this time!" he exclaimed.

"Don't blame her," Maria Dmitrievna hastened to say. "She wouldn't
have stayed for any thing; but I made her stay; I put her behind the
screen. She declared that it would make you angrier than ever; but I
wouldn't even listen to her. I know you better than she does. Take
then from my hands your wife! Go to him, Varvara; have no fear; fall
at your husband's feet" (here she gave Varvara's arm a pull), "and may
my blessing--"

"Stop, Maria Dmitrievna!" interposed Lavretsky, in a voice shaking
with emotion. "You seem to like sentimental scenes." (Lavretsky was
not mistaken; from her earliest school-days Maria Dmitrievna had
always been passionately fond of a touch of stage effect.) "They
may amuse you, but to other people they may prove very unpleasant.
However, I am not going to talk to you. In _this_ scene you do not
play the leading part."

"What is it _you_ want from me, Madame?" he added, turning to his
wife. "Have I not done for you all that I could? Do not tell me that
it was not you who got up this scene. I should not believe you. You
know that I cannot believe you. What is it you want? You are clever.
You do nothing without an object. You must feel that to live with you,
as I used formerly to live, is what I am not in a position to do--not
because I am angry with you, but because I have become a different
man. I told you that the very day you returned; and at that time
you agreed with me in your own mind. But, perhaps, you wish to
rehabilitate yourself in public opinion. Merely to live in my house is
too little for you; you want to live with me under the same roof. Is
it not so?"

"I want you to pardon me," replied Varvara Pavlovna, without lifting
her eyes from the ground.

"She wants you to pardon her," repeated Maria Dmitrievna.

"And not for my own sake, but for Ada's," whispered Varvara.

"Not for her own sake, but for your Ada's," repeated Maria Dmitrievna.

"Very good! That is what you want?" Lavretsky just managed to say.
"Well, I consent even to that."

Varvara Pavlovna shot a quick glance at him. Maria Dmitrievna
exclaimed, "Thank God!" again took Varvara by the arm, and again
began, "Take, then, from my hands--"

"Stop, I tell you!" broke in Lavretsky. "I will consent to live with
you, Varvara Pavlovna," he continued; "that is to say, I will take you
to Lavriki, and live with you as long as I possibly can. Then I will
go away; but I will visit you from time to time. You see, I do not
wish to deceive you; only do not ask for more than that. You would
laugh yourself, if I were to fulfil the wish of our respected
relative, and press you to my heart--if I were to assure you
that--that the past did not exist, that the felled tree would again
produce leaves. But I see this plainly--one must submit. These words
do not convey the same meaning to you as to me, but that does not
matter. I repeat, I will live with you--or, no, I cannot promise that;
but I will no longer avoid you; I will look on you as my wife again--"

"At all events, give her your hand on that," said Maria Dmitrievna,
whose tears had dried up long ago.

"I have never yet deceived Varvara Pavlovna," answered Lavretsky. "She
will believe me as it is. I will take her to Lavriki. But remember
this, Varvara Pavlovna. Our treaty will be considered at an end, as
soon as you give up stopping there. And now let me go away."

He bowed to both of the ladies, and went out quickly.

"Won't you take her with you?" Maria Dmitrievna called after him.

"Let him alone," said Varvara to her in a whisper, and then began to
express her thanks to her, throwing her arms around her, kissing her
hand, saying she had saved her.

Maria Dmitrievna condescended to accept her caresses, but in reality
she was not contented with her; nor was she contented with Lavretsky,
nor with the whole scene which she had taken so much pains to arrange.
There had been nothing sentimental about it.

According to her ideas Varvara Pavlovna ought to have thrown herself
at her husband's feet.

"How was it you didn't understand what I meant?" she kept saying.
"Surely I said to you, 'Down with you!'"

"It is better as it is, my dear aunt. Don't disturb yourself--all has
turned out admirably," declared Varvara Pavlovna.

"Well, anyhow he is--as cold as ice," said Maria Dmitrievna. "It is
true you didn't cry, but surely my tears flowed before his eyes. So he
wants to shut you up at Lavriki. What! You won't be able to come out
even to see me! All men are unfeeling," she ended by saying, and shook
her head with an air of deep meaning.

"But at all events women can appreciate goodness and generosity," said
Varvara Pavlovna. Then, slowly sinking on her knees, she threw her
arms around Maria Dmitrievna's full waist, and hid her face in that
lady's lap. That hidden face wore a smile, but Maria Dmitrievna's
tears began to flow afresh.

As for Lavretsky, he returned home, shut himself up in his valet's
room, flung himself on the couch, and lay there till the morning.


XLII.


The next day was Sunday. Lavretsky was not awakened by the bells which
clanged for early Mass, for he had not closed his eyes all night; but
they reminded him of another Sunday, when he went to church at Liza's
request. He rose in haste. A certain secret voice told him that to-day
also he would see her there. He left the house quietly, telling the
servant to say to Varvara Pavlovna, who was still asleep, that he
would be back to dinner, and then, with long steps, he went where the
bell called him with its dreary uniformity of sound.

He arrived early; scarcely any one was yet in the church. A Reader was
reciting the Hours in the choir. His voice, sometimes interrupted by
a cough, sounded monotonously, rising and falling by turns. Lavretsky
placed himself at a little distance from the door. The worshippers
arrived, one after another, stopped, crossed themselves, and bowed in
all directions. Their steps resounded loudly through the silent and
almost empty space, and echoed along the vaulted roof. An infirm old
woman, wrapped in a threadbare hooded cloak, knelt by Lavretsky's side
and prayed fervently. Her toothless, yellow, wrinkled face expressed
intense emotion. Her bloodshot eyes gazed upwards, without moving, on
the holy figures displayed upon the iconostasis. Her bony hand kept
incessantly coming out from under her cloak, and making the sign of
the cross--with a slow and sweeping gesture, and with steady pressure
of the fingers on the forehead and the body. A peasant with a morose
and thickly-bearded face, his hair and clothes all in disorder,
came into the church, threw himself straight down on his knees, and
immediately began crossing and prostrating himself, throwing back his
head and shaking it after each inclination. So bitter a grief showed
itself in his face and in all his gestures, that Lavretsky went up to
him and asked him what was the matter. The peasant sank back with an
air of distrust; then, looking at him coldly, said in a hurried voice,
"My son is dead," and again betook himself to his prostrations.

"What sorrow can they have too great to defy the consolations of the
Church?" thought Lavretsky, and he tried to pray himself. But his
heart seemed heavy and hardened, and his thoughts were afar off. He
kept waiting for Liza; but Liza did not come. The church gradually
filled with people, but he did not see Liza among them. Mass began,
the deacon read the Gospel, the bell sounded for the final prayer.
Lavretsky advanced a few steps, and suddenly he caught sight of Liza.
She had come in before him, but he had not observed her till now.
Standing in the space between the wall and the choir, to which she had
pressed as close as possible, she never once looked round, never moved
from her place. Lavretsky did not take his eyes off her till the
service was quite finished; he was bidding her a last farewell. The
congregation began to disperse, but she remained standing there. She
seemed to be waiting for Lavretsky to go away. At last, however, she
crossed herself for the last time, and went out without turning round.
No one but a maid-servant was with her.

Lavretsky followed her out of the church, and came up with her in the
street. She was walking very fast, her head drooping, her veil pulled
low over her face.

"Good-day, Lizaveta Mikhailovna," he said in a loud voice, with
feigned indifference. "May I accompany you?"

She made no reply. He walked on by her side.

"Are you satisfied with me?" he asked, lowering his voice. "You have
heard what took place yesterday, I suppose?"

"Yes, yes," she answered in a whisper; "that was very good;" and she
quickened her pace.

"Then you are satisfied?"

Liza only made a sign of assent.

"Fedor Ivanovich," she began, presently, in a calm but feeble voice,
"I wanted to ask you something. Do not come any more to our house. Go
away soon. We may see each other by-and-by--some day or other--a year
hence, perhaps. But now, do this for my sake. In God's name, I beseech
you, do what I ask!"

"I am ready to obey you in every thing, Lizaveta Mikhailovna. But can
it be that we must part thus? Is it possible that you will not say a
single word to me?"

"Fedor Ivanovich, you are walking here by my side. But you are already
so far, far away from me; and not only you, but--"

"Go on, I entreat you!" exclaimed Lavretsky. "What do you mean?"

"You will hear, perhaps--But whatever it may be, forget--No, do not
forget me--remember me."

"I forget you?"

"Enough. Farewell. Please do not follow me."

"Liza--" began Lavretsky.

"Farewell, farewell!" she repeated, and then, drawing her veil still
lower over her face, she went away, almost at a run.

Lavretsky looked after her for a time, and then walked down the street
with drooping head. Presently he ran against Lemm, who also was
walking along with his hat pulled low over his brows, and his eyes
fixed on his feet.

They looked at each other for a time in silence.

"Well, what have you to say?" asked Lavretsky at last.

"What have I to say?" replied Lemm, in a surly voice. "I have nothing
to say. 'All is dead and we are dead.' ('_Alles ist todt und wir sind
todt_.') Do you go to the right?"

"Yes."

"And I am going to the left. Good-bye."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the following morning Lavretsky took his wife to Lavriki. She went
in front in a carriage with Ada and Justine. He followed behind in a
tarantass. During the whole time of the journey, the little girl never
stirred from the carriage-window. Every thing astonished her: the
peasant men and women, the cottages, the wells, the arches over the
horses' necks, the little bells hanging from them, and the numbers of
rooks. Justine shared her astonishment. Varvara Pavlovna kept laughing
at their remarks and exclamations. She was in excellent spirits; she
had had an explanation with her husband before leaving O.

"I understand your position," she had said to him; and, from the
expression of her quick eyes, he could see that she did completely
understand his position. "But you will do me at least this
justice--you will allow that I am an easy person to live with. I shall
not obtrude myself on you, or annoy you. I only wished to ensure Ada's
future; I want nothing more."

B. S.'s half-brother, death of.

Beecher, George, brother of H. B.

S., visit to, enters Lane as student music and tracts, account of
journey to Cincinnati, sudden death, H.

B. S. meets at Dayton one of his first converts, his letters
cherished.

Beecher, George, nephew of H. B. S., visit to,
Beecher, Mrs.

George, letter from H. B. S. to, describing new home.

Beecher, Harriet E. first; death of, second; (H. B. S.) birth of.

Beecher, Mrs. Harriet Porter, H. B. S.'s stepmother; personal appearance
and character of; pleasant impressions of new home and children; at
Cincinnati.

Beecher, Henry Ward, brother of H. B. S., birth of; anecdote of, after
mother's death; first school; conception of Divine Nature, in
college; H.

B.

S. attends graduation; editor of Cincinnati "Journal,"; sympathy with
anti-slavery movement; at Brooklyn; saves Edmonson's daughters; H. B.
S. visits; views on Reconstruction; George Eliot on Beecher trial; his
character as told by H. B. S.; love for Prof.
Stowe; his youth and life in West; Brooklyn and his anti-slavery
fight; Edmonsons and Plymouth Church; his loyalty and energy; his
religion; popularity and personal magnetism; terrible struggle in
the Beecher trial; bribery of jury, but final triumph; ecclesiastical
trial of; committee of five appointed to bring facts; his ideal
purity and innocence; power at death-beds and funerals; beloved by
poor and oppressed; meets accusations by silence, prayer, and work;
his thanks and speech at Stowe Garden Party; tribute to father,
mother, and sister Harriet; death.

Beecher, Isabella, H. B. S.'s half-sister, birth of; goes to
Cincinnati.

Beecher, James, H. B. S.'s half-brother; goes to Cincinnati, 53; begins
Sunday-school.

Beecher, Rev. Dr. Lyman, H. B. Stowe's father; "Autobiography and
Correspondence of,"; verdict on his wife's remarkable piety; pride
in his daughter's essay; admiration of Walter Scott; sermon which
converts H. B. S.; accepts call to Hanover Street Church, Boston;
president of Lane Theological Seminary; first journey to Cincinnati;
removal and westward journey, et seq.; removes family to Cincinnati,;
Beecher reunion; powerful sermons on slave question; his sturdy
character, H. W. Beecher's eulogy upon; death and reunion with H.
B.

S's mother.

Beecher, Mary, sister of H. B.

S.; married; letter to; accompanies sister to Europe; letters from H.

B. S. to, on love for New England; on visit to Windsor.

Beecher, Roxanna Foote, mother of H. B. S.; her death; strong, sympathetic
nature; reverence for the Sabbath; sickness, death, and funeral;
influence in family strong even after death; character described
by H. W. Beecher; H. B. S.'s resemblance to.

Beecher, William, brother of H. B. S.; licensed to preach.

Bell, Henry, English inventor of steamboat.

Belloc, Mme., translates "Uncle Tom."
Belloc, M., to paint portrait of H. B. S..

Bentley, London publisher, offers pay for "Uncle Tom's Cabin."
"Betty's Bright Idea," date of.

Bible; Uncle Tom's; use and influence of.

"Bible Heroines," date of.

Bibliography of H. B. S.

Biography, H. B. S.'s remarks on writing and understanding.

Birney, J. G., office wrecked, _et seq._; H. B. S.'s sympathy
with.
Birthday, seventieth, celebration of by Houghton, Mifflin &
Co.

Blackwood's attack on Lady Byron.

Blantyre, Lord.
Bogne, David.

Boston opens doors to slave-hunters.
Boston Library, Prof. Stowe enjoys proximity to.
Bowdoin College calls Prof. Stowe.

Bowen, H. C.
Bruce, John, of Litchfield Academy, H. B. S.'s tribute to; lectures
on Butler's "Analogy." 
Brigham, Miss, character of.
Bright, John, letter to H. B. S. on her "Appeal to English Women."

Brooklyn, Mrs. Stowe's visit to brother Henry in; visit in 1852,
when she helps the Edmonson slave family; Beecher, H. W. called to;
Beecher trial in.

Brown and the phantoms.
Brown, John, bravery of.

Browning, Mrs., on life and love.
Browning, E. B., letter to H. B. S.; death of.
Browning, Robert and E. B, friendship with.

Brunswick, Mrs."Listen to what I am going to tell you, Lizochka," suddenly said Marfa
Timofeevna, making Liza sit down beside her on the bed, smoothing down
the girl's hair, and setting her neckerchief straight while she spoke.
"It seems to you, in the heat of the moment, as if it were impossible
for your wound to be cured. Ah, my love, it is only death for which
there is no cure. Only say to yourself, 'I won't give in--so much
for him!' and you will be surprised yourself to see how well and how
quickly it will all pass away. Only have a little patience."

"Aunt," replied Liza, "it has already passed away. All has passed
away."

"Passed away! how passed away? Why your nose has actually grown peaky,
and yet you say--'passed away.' Passed away indeed!"

"Yes, passed away, aunt--if only you are willing to help me," said
Liza, with unexpected animation, and then threw her arms round Marfa
Timofeevna's neck. "Dearest aunt, do be a friend to me, do help me,
don't be angry with me, try to understand me--"

"But what is all this, what is all this, my mother? Don't frighten me,
please. I shall cry out in another minute. Don't look at me like that:
quick, tell me what is the meaning of all this!"

"I--I want--" Here Liza hid her face on Marfa Timofeevna's breast. To
her at threescore years and ten Be tributes of the tongue and pen,
Be honor, praise, and heart thanks given, The loves of earth, the
hopes of heaven!

"Ah, dearer than the praise that stirs The air to-day, our love is
hers!

She needs no guaranty of fame Whose own is linked with Freedom's
name.
Long ages after ours shall keep Her memory living while we sleep;
The waves that wash our gray coast lines, The winds that rock the
Southern pines Shall sing of her; the unending years Shall tell her
tale in unborn ears.

Such lessons are not given to us without a purpose;
besides, it is not for the first time that I think of it now.
Happiness was not for me. Even when I did indulge in hopes of
happiness, my heart shuddered within me. I know all, both my sins and
those of others, and how papa made our money. I know all, and all that
I must pray away, must pray away. I grieve to leave you, I grieve for
mamma and for Lenochka; but there is no help for it. I feel that it is
impossible for me to live here longer. I have already taken leave of
every thing, I have greeted every thing in the house for the last
time. Something calls me away. I am sad at heart, and I would fain
hide myself away for ever. Please don't hinder me or try to dissuade
me; but do help me, or I shall have to go away by myself."

Marfa Timofeevna listened to her niece with horror.

"She is ill," she thought. "She is raving. We must send for a doctor;
but for whom? Gedeonovsky praised some one the other day; but then he
always lies--but perhaps he has actually told the truth this time."

But when she had become convinced that Liza was not ill, and was not
raving--when to all her objections Liza had constantly made the same
reply, Marfa Timofeevna was thoroughly alarmed, and became exceedingly
sorrowful.

"But surely you don't know, my darling, what sort of life they lead in
convents!" thus she began, in hopes of dissuading her. "Why they will
feed you on yellow hemp oil, my own; they will dress you in coarse,
very coarse clothing; they will make you go out in the cold; you will
never be able to bear all this Lizochka. All these ideas of yours are
Agafia's doing. It is she who has driven you out of your senses. But
then she began with living, and with living to her own satisfaction.
Why shouldn't you live too? At all events, let me die in peace, and
then do as you please. And who on earth has ever known any one go into
a convent for the sake of such-a-one--for a goat's beard--God forgive
me--for a man! Why, if you're so sad at heart, you should pay a visit
to a convent, pray to a saint, order prayers to be said, but don't put
the black veil on your head, my _batyushka_, my _matyushka_."

And Marfa Timofeevna cried bitterly.

Liza tried to console her, wiped the tears from her eyes, and cried
herself, but maintained her purpose unshaken. In her despair, Marfa
Timofeevna tried to turn threats to account, said she would reveal
every thing to Liza's mother; but that too had no effect. All that
Liza would consent to do in consequence of the old lady's urgent
entreaties, was to put off the execution of her plan for a half year.
In return Marfa Timofeevna was obliged to promise that, if Liza had
not changed her mind at the end of the six months, she would herself
assist in the matter, and would contrive to obtain Madame Kalitine's
consent.

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as the first cold weather arrived, in spite of her promise to
bury herself in seclusion, Varvara Pavlovna, who had provided herself
with sufficient funds, migrated to St. Petersburg. A modest, but
pretty set of rooms had been found for her there by Panshine, who had
left the province of O. rather earlier than she did. During the latter
part of his stay in O., he had completely lost Madame Kalitine's good
graces. He had suddenly given up visiting her, and indeed scarcely
stirred away from Lavriki. Varvara Pavlovna had enslaved--literally
enslaved him. No other word can express the unbounded extent of the
despotic sway she exercised over him.

Lavretsky spent the winter in Moscow. In the spring of the ensuing
year the news reached him that Liza had taken the veil in the B.
convent, in one of the most remote districts of Russia.


EPILOGUE.


Eight years passed away. The spring had come again--

But we will first of all say a few words about the fate of
Mikhalevich, Panshine, and Madame Lavretsky, and then take leave of
them forever.

Mikhalevich, after much wandering to and fro, at last hit upon the
business he was fitted for, and obtained the post of Head Inspector
in one of the Government Educational Institutes. His lot thoroughly
satisfies him, and his pupils "adore" him, though at the same time
they mimic him. Panshine has advanced high in the service, and already
aims at becoming the head of a department. He stoops a little as he
walks; it must be the weight of the Vladimir Cross which hangs from
his neck, that bends him forward. In him the official decidedly
preponderates over the artist now. B. S. to, on breakfast at the
Trevelyans',
"Earthly Care a Heavenly Discipline,"
East Hampton, L. I., birthplace of Catherine Beecher,
Eastman, Mrs., writes a Southern reply to "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"
Edgeworth, Maria,
Edinburgh, H. B. S. in, return to,
Edmonson slave family; efforts to save, Mrs. Stowe educates and
supports daughters, raises money to free mother and two slave children,

Edmonson, death of Mary,
Education, H. B. S.'s interest in,
Edwards, Jonathan, the power of, his treatise on "The Will," refuted by
Catherine Beecher,
Eliot, George, a good Christian, on psychical problems, on "Oldtown
Folks," her despondency in "writing life" and longing for sympathy,
on power of fine books, on religion, desires to keep an open mind
on all subjects, on impostures of spiritualism, lack of "jollitude"
in "Middlemarch," invited to visit America, sympathy with H. B. S. in
Beecher trial, proud of Stowes' interest in her "spiritual children,"
on death of Mr. Lewes and gratitude for sympathy of H. B. S., a
"woman worth loving," H. B. S.'s love for greater than her admiration,
letters from H. B. S. to, on spiritualism, describes Florida
nature and home, reply to letter of sympathy giving facts in the
Beecher ease, from Professor Stowe on spiritualism, letter to H.
B. S. from, with sympathy on abuse called out by the Byron affair, on
effect of letter of H. B. S. to Mrs. Follen upon her mind, on joy
of sympathy, reply to letter on spiritualism, sympathy with her
in the Beecher trial,
Elmes. Mr.,
"Elms, The Old," H. B. S.'s seventieth birthday celebrated at,
"Elsie Vernier," Mrs. Stowe's praise of,
Emancipation, Proclamation of,
Emmons, Doctor, the preaching of,
England and America compared,
England, attitude of, in civil war, grief at, help of to America
on slave question,
English women's address on slavery, H. B. S.'s reply in the "Atlantic
Monthly,"
Europe, first visit to, second visit to, third visit to,
Faith in Christ, 
Famine in Cincinnati, 
Fiction, power of,
Fields, Mrs.Varvara Pavlovna never invites him to her fashionable
parties, but he is in full possession of her good graces.

And so--eight years had passed away. Again spring shone from heaven in
radiant happiness. Again it smiled on earth and on man. Again, beneath
its caress, all things began to love, to flower, to sing.

The town of O. had changed but little in the course of these eight
years, but Madame Kalitine's house had, as it were, grown young again.
Its freshly-painted walls shone with a welcome whiteness, while the
panes of its open windows flashed ruddy to the setting sun. Out of
these windows there flowed into the street mirthful sounds of ringing
youthful voices, of never-ceasing laughter. All the house seemed
teeming with life and overflowing with irrepressible merriment. As for
the former mistress of the house, she had been laid in the grave long
ago. Maria Dmitrievna died two years after Liza took the veil. Nor did
Marfa Timofeevna long survive her niece; they rest side by side in
the cemetery of the town. Nastasia Carpovna also was no longer alive.
During the course of several years the faithful old lady used to go
every day to pray at her friend's grave. Then her time came, and her
bones also were laid in the mould.

But Maria Dmitrievna's house did not pass into the hands of strangers,
did not go out of her family--the nest was not torn to pieces.
Lenochka, who had grown into a pretty and graceful girl; her
betrothed, a flaxen locked officer of hussars; Maria Dmitrievna's son,
who had only recently married at St. Petersburg, and had now arrived
with his young bride to spend the spring in O.; his wife's sister, a
sixteen-year-old Institute-girl, with clear eyes and rosy cheeks; and
Shurochka, who had also grown up and turned out pretty--these were the
young people who made the walls of the Kalitine house resound with
laughter and with talk. Every thing was altered in the house, every
thing had been made to harmonize with its new inhabitants. Beardless
young servant-lads, full of fun and laughter, had replaced the grave
old domestics of former days. A couple of setters tore wildly about
and jumped upon the couches, in the rooms up and down which Roska,
after it had grown fat, used to waddle seriously. In the stable many
horses were stalled--clean-limbed canterers, smart trotters for the
centre of the _troika_, fiery gallopers with platted manes for the
side places, riding horses from the Don. The hours for breakfast,
dinner, and supper, were all mixed up and confounded together. In the
words of neighbors, "Such a state of things as never had been known
before" had taken place.

