Honorius gave a reluctant consent, and accordingly Johnnie appeared in
the desert soon after three o'clock, accompanied by a youth of fifteen,
very raggedly attired, and with a face which was an extraordinary
compound of ugliness and roguery. Bob undertook for a shilling to fetch
all the gravel from Mrs. Western's, and set off at once for the first
load, with which he returned ere long. He came and went several times;
but at last such a long interval elapsed between his going and
returning, that the boys began to be alarmed.

'He's gone off with the wheelbarrow, I do believe,' said Honorius.

'"Body o' me!" as old King Jamie used to say, you don't suppose such a
thing,' cried Johnnie. 'Spite of his objections to soap and water and
the English grammar, I have a higher opinion of Bob than that.'

But as still time passed on and Bob did not return, Duncan and Seymour
were sent in search of him. They looked for him by the way, but saw
nothing of him, and at length arrived at Mrs. Western's house and rang
the bell.

'Has a boy been here for some gravel Mrs. Western promised us, or is he
here now?' inquired Duncan of the maid who came to the gate.

'He has been here, Master Campbell,' she replied, 'but he's gone off as
fast as his legs can carry him, and he's taken mistress's new
thermometer with him that hung on the south wall, and he's trampled over
all the beds, and Mrs. Western she saw him from the window; and your pa'
was passing, so she called him in; but the boy made off, and it'll be a
wonder if the police are not sent for. They're a bad set, those
Middletons.'

Duncan's eyes grew round with excitement, and Seymour, who was rather
timid, began to cry. He wanted to run home again, but Duncan considered
such a proceeding cowardly; and while they were debating the point, Dr.
Campbell saw them, and called to them to come in.

'Who sent Bob here for the gravel?' he inquired.

'Johnnie sent him; Honorius said he might,' replied Duncan.

'Of course they never thought how the boy would behave,' said kind old
Mrs. Western. 'I daresay they didn't know he wasn't a fit person to be
trusted.'

'They might have known,' said Dr. Campbell; 'Johnnie at least has heard
me say that Bob was ripe for any mischief, and he knows I refused to let
him take him out fishing with him. If Honorius had told me of your kind
present, I would have sent some proper person for the gravel.'

'Honorius did say Mrs. Western had promised us some gravel after dinner,
papa, but you were just going out, and I suppose you didn't hear him,'
said Duncan. 'He didn't like sending Bob much, but we didn't know who
else to get.'

'You should have asked,' began his father; but seeing that Seymour was
frightened, he checked himself, saying, 'It's no blame to you little
ones; I don't suppose you had anything to do with it. Run away home if
you like.'

'Oh, but let Sarah cut you a piece of cake first,' said Mrs. Western.
'My dear (to Seymour), don't fret; you shall have the gravel all the
same.'

Mrs. Western's maid brought them out two large slices of pound-cake,
which, after they had thanked their kind old friend, they took away with
them, Seymour beginning directly to munch at his slice, while Duncan put
his into his pocket.

'Papa didn't say we _must_ go home,' he observed,--'he only said we
_might_ if we liked; so you can go, and I'll try and find Bob, and tell
him I'll give him this piece of cake if he'll give back the thermometer.
I'm so afraid, if he doesn't, Johnnie'll get into trouble; and besides,
it's so wicked to steal.'

'Yes,' said Seymour with his mouth full of cake; 'and I'll tell you
what, Duncan,' reluctantly but firmly, 'you may take the rest of my
piece too.'

Duncan, however, declined this, and trudged away, resolutely resisting,
as he went along, the temptation to eat even a _crumb_ of his own
delicious-looking slice. He soon arrived at Mrs. Middleton's cottage,
but of course Bob was not there; and his mother, who was a widow, and
supported herself by washing, came to the door with her arms covered
with soap-suds, and after hastily answering that 'Bob was nowhere's
about, plunged them in the wash-tub again, and took no more heed of
Duncan. He hesitated whether to tell her about the thermometer or not,
but had been so impressed with the naughtiness of 'telling tales,' that
he could not make up his mind it could be right, even in this case, and
so turned away and ran back to the desert, where he found his father
speaking to Honorius and Johnnie.

'Didn't you remember, boys, what I said about Bob when you wanted to
take him out fishing with you?' he was asking.

'It was to me you said it; Honorius was not in the room,' Johnnie said
quickly.

'Very well, then, you at any rate knew my opinion of Bob Middleton, and
must have known that you were doing wrong in employing him without my
leave.'

'I didn't think,' said Lackland carelessly.

'Then I must teach you to think. Put down your spade and go into the
house, and up to your room.'

There was no mistaking Dr. Campbell's manner now; even Johnnie was
obliged to perceive the displeasure he had provoked: he stuck his spade
into the ground, and turned towards the house.

Duncan dashed after him. 'Here, Johnnie, take this piece of cake. Mrs.
Western gave it to me; it's so good--do have it, see!'

Lackland was by no means too miserable to appreciate this attempt at
consolation. 'It looks jolly,' he said, 'but I won't take it all; you
must have half yourself, Duncan,' and he broke it in two.

Duncan would rather his brother should have had the whole, but he was
glad to see him munching the half even so contentedly. 'Do you think I
may go up into your room with you?' he inquired.

'No, no; papa didn't mean that, I'm sure. Don't stop me, old fellow;
good-bye,' and Johnnie ran off and up to his room as fast as he could
go. He had not been there more than five minutes, when there was a sound
of little toddling steps along the passage, and two fat hands came
drumming on the door. 'What do you want, baby?' said Johnnie, rising and
opening it.

'I want to tiss 'oo,' answered the child, lifting up his chubby face.

Johnnie bent down and kissed him, asking, 'How did you know I was here,
Georgie?'

'Ma heard 'oo tome up 'tairs; ma say what matter wis 'oo?'

'Tell her papa sent me up,' faltered Johnnie; 'or stay, say----'

'I say 'oo naughty,' said Georgie, whose infantine mind had already
jumped to the right conclusion. He scampered off with this message, but
speedily returned: 'Ma say she vezy sorry; ma say I may tiss 'oo again.'

'I wish I might go to her,' thought Johnnie, and in his softened mood
the little brother's kisses were so sweet to him, that he could scarcely
make up his mind to let Georgie go. But he did, and stepped back
resolutely into his room, while the little one, announcing, 'I going to
tea now,' trotted off again down the passage. Meantime Honorius was
showing his father the scarlet geraniums that Johnnie had bought with
his half-crown, and expatiating on the quantity of digging he had got
through, although, being occupied with Cæsar, he had not had so much
time to spend in the desert as the others.

'Poor fellow! Well, he has behaved much better than I thought,' said Dr.
Campbell relentingly. 'I'm afraid I was rather hard on him just now;
that's the worst of being too hasty.'

Of all things, Honorius could not bear that his father should reproach
himself. 'I'm sure Johnnie admits that he was in fault about Bob, papa,'
he said.

'And do you know I've got a bright idea about Bob and the thermometer,
papa,' said Willie. 'May I go as far as Farmer Merryman's field and
back? I won't be long.'

