The insistent desire to have a certain degree and character of appetite not
infrequently leads to consulting the physician. Still more common is the
obsession that the appetite must be gratified, the supposition being that
the desire for food is, in the growing child or in the adult, an infallible
guide to the amount needed, though it is a matter of common knowledge that
this is not true of infants or of domestic animals. If one leaves the table
hungry he soon forgets it unless inordinately self-centered, and he has
no more desire to return than to go back to bed and finish the nap so
reluctantly discontinued in the morning.

I have heard the theory advanced by an anxious forecaster of future ills,
that all unnecessary food, if packed away as adipose tissue, serves to
nourish the body in periods of starvation. Assuming that the average
individual need consider this stress of circumstance, I am strongly of the
impression that the best preparation for enforced abstinence will prove,
not a layer of fat, but the habit of abstinence. The nursery poet says:

  "The worry cow would have lived till now
  If she'd only saved her breath.
  She feared the hay wouldn't last all day
  So choked herself to death."

The quantity of food proved by experiment to suffice for the best work,
physical or mental, is surprisingly small. A feeling of emptiness, even, is
better preparation for active exercise than one of satiety.

It is a national obsession with us that no meal is complete without meat.
Order fruit, a cereal, rolls and coffee, at the hotel some morning, and the
chances are ten to one that the waiter will ask what you are going to have
for _breakfast_, though you have already ordered more than is absolutely
necessary for that meal, as demonstrated by the custom upon the Continent,
where the sense of fitness is as much violated by the consumption of an
enormous breakfast as it is with us by the omission of a single detail.

It may be asked if it is not subversive of discipline for the hotel
_habitué_ to become too easy-going. There is doubtless a limit to the
virtue of allowing ourselves to be imposed upon, but there is little fear
that the individual who opens the question will err in this direction. It
behooves him rather to consider the danger of his occupying the unenviable
position of the "fuss-budget."


XIV.

THE FEAR OF BECOMING INSANE

We must be steadfast, Julian! Satan is very busy in all of us.

IBSEN: _Emperor and Galilean_.


Few, perhaps, among the high-strung and delicately organized can truly say
that this fear has never occurred to them. It affects even children, at an
age when their minds are supposed to be taken up with the pleasures and
pursuits appropriate to their years. This fear is generally dispelled by
the serious occupations of life, but in certain cases it persists as an
insistent and compelling thought.

It may afford consolation to know that insanity results, in the majority
of cases, from physical disease of the brain, and that it is ordinarily
unanticipated, unsuspected and uncredited by the patient. There is no more
danger of insanity attacking the worrier and the delicate than the robust
and the indifferent. In fact, the temperament which produces the faulty
habits we are considering rarely culminates in insanity. It seems worth
while, however, to replace the vague fear of insanity by a knowledge of the
variety of mental unbalance remotely threatening the person who lacks the
desire or the will, to place a check upon these faulty habits of mind. We
may thus, in the worrier whose fears have taken this direction, substitute
effort for foreboding.

It is our _conduct_ rather than our thoughts that determines the question
of insanity. The most practical definition of insanity I know is that of
Spitzka, the gist of which is that a person is insane who can no longer
correctly register impressions from the outside world, or can no longer act
upon those impressions so as to formulate and carry out a line of conduct
consistent with his age, education and station.

The banker may repeat the process of locking and unlocking, even to
the point of doubting his own sensations, but he may still be able to
formulate, and carry out, a line of conduct consistent with his position,
though at the expense of intense mental suffering.

In the realm of morbid fears, the person obsessed by fear of contamination
shows no sign of insanity in using tissue paper to turn the door-knob, or
in avoiding objects that have been touched by others. Up to this point
his phobia has led merely to eccentricity, but suppose his fear so far
dominates him that he can no longer pursue his occupation for fear of
handling tools or pen, and that he persistently refuses to eat through fear
of poison, he has then reached the point where he can no longer formulate
lines of conduct, and he is insane.

It is, then, important to foresee the tendency of phobias, and to accustom
one's self to the point of view that the worst possible harm, for example
from contamination by ordinary objects, is no worse than mental unbalance,
and that the probable consequences thereof (_nil_) are infinitely
preferable.

Even with regard to more tangible fears, as of elevators, fires, tunnels,
thunder-storms, and the like, a certain tranquility may be gradually
attained by a similar philosophy. I would like to have my sons about
me, but there is no place for them on my farm because I am there and cannot
get away. In fact, I do not desire to give up the management of the farm
and the development of the herd of cattle."
"Not every father sees the situation as clearly as you do," interjected the
Dean.

"This is my plan. After my son has spent a summer in a cheese factory, I want
him to come back to your school for another year. I want him to learn,
especially, all you teach about dairying. I will then build a cheese
factory on my own farm and my son will make into cheese the milk of my
own herd, and also from the herds of our neighbors. By the time he has
completed his work with you, my younger son will have finished the
high school.

He has some liking for trading, and he will sell the cheese at wholesale and
deliver it to the surrounding towns where markets are unexcelled. As for the
daughter," continued this practical man, "she will get married and that
will take care of her."
What became of the daughter is not known to the writer, but the rest of
the program was carried out successfully and continued for many
years.

A German came to this country and settled in New Jersey, where he established
a large orchard. In course of time his two sons grew into manhood.
While, of course, requiring plenty of laborers, the orchardist did not
need the sons in the management of his farm. He, therefore, established one
of these sons in the commission business in Philadelphia, thus, at least,
keeping the profits on the sale of the products of his orchard in the
family. He also needed cold storage for his fruit. The other son started
a cold storage plant, which plays an important part in the profitable
management of the orchard. Thus both sons have independent employment requiring
managerial ability and the orchard is much more profitable than it otherwise
would be.

Our land laws, our traditions and our practices are based upon the idea that
a farm is to provide activity and support for but one family. In order,
therefore, that the son may marry and begin to develop his life in his own
way, it is essential to reorganize in some manner the method of managing
the farm or to enlarge or, perhaps, specialize its activities. This may
be accomplished on a simple partnership basis, or it may be in some
such line as outlined in the illustrations which have been given. In
other occupations such co-operative effort is the rule rather than the
exception.

That it is more difficult to effect satisfactory arrangements in
farming must be conceded, else they would be more common. Doubtless it
will often tax the ingenuity of father and son to devise the plans best
suited to meet their particular problem.

There still remains to consider another form of business relation
as applied to farming which has become almost universal in trade
and transportation.

The following incident may illustrate and emphasize the problem better than
abstract discussion: One day a man walked into an office and stated that a
friend had a half million dollars to invest in farming, provided
that he could be convinced that the money would be invested profitably.

"Does your friend desire to buy land in any particular locality?"
"Yes," replied the promoter, "he wishes to buy land near ----. He has some
sentiment about it. He was born in that neighborhood."

 "Well, that is a rather bad
  beginning. Farming on sentiment is
    dangerous, especially when the
    sentiment is in no way related to
  the business."
  The facts were that the region indicated
    was recognized to be one of the
    most unpromising sections of the state.

 "If you undertake to invest a
  half million dollars in one
    neighborhood," continued the
    adviser, "you will pretty
  certainly fail to earn interest
  on your investment."
    "Why?" inquired the promoter.
    

     "Before you could possibly buy any considerable part of the land
the owners of the farms you desire to buy would have doubled or
perhaps trebled the price asked for their holdings.

 It is one thing to earn interest on an
  investment of $30 an acre and quite
    another to earn an equal per cent on $60
    or $90 an acre.
  
  "In the second place, farmers are
    content to accept less per cent
    on their capital than they would if it was loaned at interest,
because the farm furnishes a home as well as a business.

 When you buy up all these farms and
  convert them into a single enterprise you
    will destroy their home value. You
    cannot hope to compete with the
  man, who, because his farm
  furnishes him a home, is
    content with an otherwise small
    return on his investment."
There were other reasons, of course, why such an enterprise would
fail, which the speaker did not stop to explain.
"You are mistaken," challenged the promoter. "I intend to meet both
your objections. My plan is to form a corporation and issue both
preferred and common stock. The preferred stock shall bear 5% and
that will belong to my friend who furnishes the money. I will retain
the common stock.The depressed stage of this disorder is commonly shown by retardation
of thought and motion, the excited stage by pressure of activity and
acceleration of thought. In the so-called "flight of ideas" words succeed
each other with incredible rapidity, without goal idea, but each word
suggesting the next by sound or other association, thus:

"Are you blue?"

"Blue, true blue, red white and blue, one flag and one nation, one kingdom,
one king, no not one king, one president, we are going to have a president
first, cursed, the worst."

Who does not recognize the modest prototype of this elaborate rigmarole
chasing itself through his mind as he walks the street in jaunty mood, and
who of us would not surprise and alarm his friends if he should suddenly
let go his habitual control, express his every thought and materialize his
every passing impulse to action? Who can doubt that the person who has
trained himself for years to repress his obsessions is less likely to
give way to this form of insanity than one who has never practiced such
training? Let us then endeavor to pursue "the even tenor of our way"
without giving way to the obsession that we must inflict our feelings upon
our associates. We may in this way maintain a mental balance that shall
stand us in good stead in time of stress.

The autumnal tendency to melancholy is recognized by Thoreau. The
characteristic suggestion of this nature-lover is that the melancholic go
to the woods and study the _symplocarpus foetidus_ (skunk cabbage), whose
English name savors of contempt, but whose courage is such that it is
already in the autumn jauntily thrusting forth its buds for the coming
year.

An admirable reflection for the victim of moods, as for many another, is
the old saying in which Abraham Lincoln is said to have taken peculiar
comfort, namely, "This also will pass."


XV.

RECAPITULATORY

And found no end in wandering mazes lost.

_Paradise Lost_.


We have reviewed the various phases of worry and the elements out of which
worry is assembled. It has been seen that exaggerated self-consciousness
blocks effort through fear of criticism, ridicule or comment. The insistent
habit of mind in the worrier has been found to permeate the content of
thought, and unfavorably to influence action. The fact has been pointed
out that the obsession to do the right thing may be carried so far as to
produce querulous doubt and chronic indecision--hence worry.

It has been pointed out that over-anxiety on the score of health
(hypochondria) aggravates existing symptoms, and itself develops symptoms;
that these symptoms in turn increase the solicitude which gave them birth.
Attention has been called to the influence of over-anxious and fretful
days in precluding the restful state of mind that favors sleep, and to the
influence of the loss of sleep upon the anxieties of the following day; in
other words, worry prevents sleep, and inability to sleep adds to worry.

We have seen that doubts of fitness lead to unfitness, and that the worry
of such doubts, combined with futile regrets for the past and forebodings
for the future, hamper the mind which should be cleared for present action.

The injurious effect upon the nervous system of these faulty mental states
has been emphasized, together with their influence as potent underlying
causes of so-called nervous prostration, preparing the worrier for
breakdown from an amount of work which, if undertaken with tranquil mind,
could have been accomplished with comparative ease.

The question is, will the possessor of these faulty mental tendencies grasp
the importance of giving thought to the training that shall free him
from the incubus? He certainly has the intelligence, for it is among the
intelligent that these states are mostly found; he certainly has the
will-power, for lack of will-power is not a failing of the obsessed. The
question is, can he bring himself to make, at the suggestion of another,
a fundamental change of attitude, and will he take these suggestions on
faith, though many seem trivial, others, perhaps, unreasonable, and will he
at least give them a trial? I hope so.

In the next sections will be summed up such commonplace and simple
suggestions as may aid emergence from the maze of worry. Many of the
suggestions have been scattered through preceding sections. The worrier and
folly-doubter is more likely to be benefited by trying them than by arguing
about them, and it is within the realms of possibility that some may come
to realize the truth of the paradox that he who loses himself shall find
himself.


XVI.

MAXIMS MISAPPLIED

  "Beware! yet once again beware!
    Ere round thy inexperienced mind,
  With voice and semblance falsely fair,
    A chain Thessalian magic bind,--"

_Thomas Love Peacock_.


A friend of mine has a highbred Boston terrier named "Betty." Betty is a
bundle of nerves, has a well-developed "New-England Conscience," and among
other deviative (not degenerative) signs is possessed of an insatiate
desire to climb trees. More than once I have watched her frantic efforts to
achieve this end, and she really almost succeeds--at least she can reach
a higher point on the trunk of a tree than any other dog of her size I
know--say six feet; if the bark is rough, perhaps seven feet would not be
an overestimate. Her attempts are unremitting--once the frenzy is on it
is with the greatest difficulty that she can be separated, panting and
exhausted, from her task.

Betty's case furnishes an illustration of an inborn tendency, fostered
neither by precept nor example, persistently to attempt the impossible,
and to fret and fume when forced to discontinue. Some children are by
inheritance similarly endowed. Imagine Betty a child. It is safe to assume
that the mental trait which prompts this expenditure of tireless and
misdirected energy has sifted down through her ancestry; the chances are,
of course, against its having skipped the generation immediately preceding;
in other words, one or both her parents are probably obsessive. It follows
almost as a matter of course that the "indomitable will" of the child is
viewed with pride by the parent. Instead of being kept within reasonable
bounds, and directed into proper channels, it is encouraged in every
direction, and fostered by every available means. Prominent among the
incentives to renewed activity furnished by the solicitous parent, possibly
by the undiscriminating teacher, will be found such precepts as: "In the
bright lexicon of youth there's no such word as fail," "Never give up the
ship," "Never say die," "There's always room at the top."

Excellent maxims these, for the average child, particularly for the child
who is under average as regards ambition to excel. But what of their effect
upon the already over-conscientious and self-exacting child? Simply to
tighten fetters which should rather be relaxed.

Life becomes a serious problem to a child of this kind at a much earlier
age than is generally realized. I have been surprised to learn at what
tender years such children have been borne down by a weight of self-imposed
responsibility quite as heavy as can burden an adult, without the power
of the adult to carry it. What has the teaching of physiology to do with
the one-room schoolhouse in Indiana with its modern system of plumbing?
The girls between the ages of six and fourteen are now becoming
accustomed to modern systems of plumbing.

A
friend to whom I submitted the proposition that it did harm rather than
good to encourage a child of this kind to attempt the impossible answered,
"Nothing is impossible," and he said it as if he more than half believed
it. Here we have the ambitious maxim challenging truth itself. It is
certainly not impossible that Mozart wrote a difficult concerto at the age
of five; nor is it impossible that, in precocious children of a different
type, worry from failure to accomplish the desired may cause profound
despair productive of disastrous results.

Nor are such children either geniuses or freaks--they are merely inheritors
of the "New England Conscience," so named, I suppose, because the trait
has multiplied in this section more rapidly even than the furniture and
fittings of the Mayflower. Without underrating the sterling qualities of
the devoted band who founded this community it may safely be suggested that
neither the effectiveness nor the staying qualities of their descendants
will be lessened by a certain modification of the querulous insistence
which dominates the overtrained adult in the rearing of the nervously
precocious child.

The maxim "What is worth doing at all is worth doing well," if carried to
its ultimate conclusion by the over-careful, would justify the expenditure
of a quarter of an hour in sharpening a lead-pencil. This maxim, while
losing in sententiousness would gain in reason if it ran thus: "What is
worth doing at all is worth doing as well as the situation demands." "Never
put off till to-morrow what you can do to-day," an excellent maxim for
the shiftless, must not be taken too literally by the individual already
obsessed to do to-day twice what he can and quadruple what he ought.

Neither the chronic doubter nor the prematurely thoughtful need be
admonished, "Look before you leap," or "Be sure you're right, then go
ahead." The federal government has a division of seed control in its
Department of Agriculture at Washington, D. C. Any person may send a sample
of seed to this division and have its purity and germinating power determined,
and in some of the states the experiment station will perform similar
services without charge.

Clover, alfalfa, grass and other small seeds should always be purchased
subject to such inspection, unless the purchaser is prepared to make his
own inspection, which a very little training makes possible.

NURSERY INSPECTION
There is no national law concerning the importation of insect-infested or
diseased plant stock.
Several of the states have passed both state and interstate regulations
concerning the sale of nursery stock.Such maxims are quite as worthy
of consideration by the obsessive as any of those previously cited.
While they modify overzeal, they detract in no way from effective, even
strenuous, endeavor.


XVII.

THE FAD

"Fads may be said to constitute a perfect mental antitoxin for the poison
generated by cerebral acuity."

_Courtney_.


There is nothing occult in the suggestion that the worrier cultivate a fad.
Its object is to interest him in something outside of himself and of the
monotony of his accustomed round. If it seems to him too much trouble to
enter upon the details of the fad there is all the more reason for freeing
himself from such mental inertia.

How shall we set to work to acquire a fad, without special opportunity or
education, and with but little time at our disposal? Suppose we take the
study of botany as an illustration, not necessitating class instruction.
This useful study may be made also a charming fad, and one not beneath the
notice of so learned and busy a man as Sir Francis Bacon, who found time
and inclination to write an essay "Of Gardens," in which he mentions by
name and shows intimate acquaintance with, over one hundred distinct
varieties of plant life.

Sir John Lubbock (the Right Honourable Lord Avebury) in "The Pleasures of
Life," says:

"The botanist, on the contrary--nay, I will not say the botanist, but one
with even a slight knowledge of that delightful science--when he goes
out into the woods, or out into one of those fairy forests which we call
fields, finds himself welcomed by a glad company of friends, every one with
something interesting to tell."

There are two ways of cultivating botanical as well as other knowledge;
namely, the passive and the active. The passive method is to let someone
inform us; the active is to find out something for ourselves. The latter is
the only effective method. Suppose we start with the wild flowers:

The first step is to purchase a popular illustrated book on this subject,
preferably one in which the flowers are arranged according to color. We
first learn, in the introduction, the principal parts of the flower, as
the calyx, the corolla, the stamen and the pistil. We find that the
arrangements of leaves and flowers are quite constant, that the leaves of
some plants are opposite, of others alternate; of still others from the
root only, that flowers are solitary, in raceme, head, spike or otherwise
clustered.

It now behooves us to take a walk upon a country road with our eyes open
and our book under our arm. Along the roadsides passing vehicles have
scattered the seeds of many flowering plants. We decide to pick and learn
the first white blossom we see. This blossom appears, we will say, upon a
plant about a foot high. We notice that its leaves are opposite, that its
corolla has five petals and that its calyx is inflated. We now look through
the section on white flowers. The first plant described has leaves from
the root only; the second is a tall shrub, these we pass, therefore, and
continue until we find one answering the description, leaves opposite,
calyx inflated, corolla of five petals. When we reach it we have identified
the plant; we now feel a sense of ownership in the _Bladder Campion_, and
are quite shocked when our friend calls it only "a weed." Meantime we have
noted many familiar names and some familiar illustrations which we must
identify on our next ramble.

On consulting our timepiece we find that we have absolutely spent a couple
of hours in complete forgetfulness of the daily grind, to say nothing of
having filled our lungs with comparatively fresh air, and having taken a
little exercise. .

(5) The greatest rate of increase in the production of cereals in the
United States during the last half century has taken place since
1870.
This increase is coincident with three other facts of the utmost
importance: (a) The development of the central West, a treeless
plain--prior to this period much of the farm land in the United
States had been hewn out of the forest, tree by tree; (b) the
consolidation of the steam railways into transcontinental lines;
and (c) the introduction of the self-binding harvester.

Formerly it took at least five men to do what is done today by one man in
the harvesting of cereals.

ADVANTAGES OF GRAIN FARMING
(1) The cost of land excepted, the production of hay and grain
requires a small outlay of money.

During the past fifty years, many thousands of persons have been able to
obtain farms of 160 acres at almost no cost. With a few hundred dollars
invested in horses and tools with which to plow the prairie and sow the
seed, these fortunate persons have oftentimes been able to pay the
whole of their expenses, capital included, from the first crop. The
renter who operates a hay and grain farm usually has but a small
capital invested in his business.

(2) The cereals bring a quick return. Wheat may be sown in September
and sold in July; maize may be planted in May and sold in November;
oats may be planted in April and sold in August.

The short period between seed time and harvest makes the oat crop a favorite
one among renters. On the other hand, it takes from three to seven years
to produce a marketable horse. It may take ten to fifteen years
to begin to realize on an apple orchard.
(3) The products are not easily perishable, and hence can be held
almost indefinitely.He will
be surprised to find how many things there are in the world that he never
noticed.

Whether our tastes lead us in the direction of photography, pottery,
mechanics, collecting china, books and old furniture, of philosophy or
a foreign language, we need not aim to pursue these avocations too
profoundly. We must not compare our acquisitions with those of the savant
or the skilled laborer, but must console ourselves with the reflection that
we at least know more, or can do more, than yesterday. If our fads, now
and then, make us do something that gives us a little trouble, so much the
better, if it is only to go to the library for a book,--the worrier whose
idea of rest and recuperation is to remain forever glued to an easy-chair
is indeed to be pitied.

