
    O magnet-South! O glistening perfumed South! my South!
    O quick mettle, rich blood, impulse and love! good and evil! O all
          dear to me!
    O dear to me my birth-things--all moving things and the trees where
          I was born--the grains, plants, rivers,
    Dear to me my own slow sluggish rivers where they flow, distant,
          over flats of silvery sands or through swamps,
    Dear to me the Roanoke, the Savannah, the Altamahaw, the Pedee, the
          Tombigbee, the Santee, the Coosa, and the Sabine,
    O pensive, far away wandering, I return with my soul to haunt their
          banks again,
    Again in Florida I float on transparent lakes, I float on the
          Okeechobee, I cross the hummock-land or through pleasant
          openings or dense forests,
    I see the parrots in the woods, I see the papaw-tree and the blossoming
          titi;
    Again, sailing in my coaster on deck, I coast off Georgia, I coast
          up the Carolinas,
    I see where the live-oak is growing, I see where the yellow-pine, the
          scented bay-tree, the lemon and orange, the cypress, the graceful
          palmetto,
    I pass rude sea-headlands and enter Pamlico sound through an inlet, and
          dart my vision inland;
    O the cotton plant! the growing fields of rice, sugar, hemp!
    The cactus guarded with thorns, the laurel-tree with large white
          flowers,
    The range afar, the richness and barrenness, the old woods charged with
          mistletoe and trailing moss,
    The piney odour and the gloom, the awful natural stillness (here in
          these dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun, and the
          fugitive has his conceal'd hut);
    O the strange fascination of these half-known half-impassable swamps,
          infested by reptiles, resounding with the bellow of the
          alligator, the sad noises of the night-owl and the wild-cat,
          and the whirr of the rattlesnake,
    The mocking-bird, the American mimic, singing all the forenoon, singing
          through the moon-lit night,
    The humming-bird, the wild turkey, the raccoon, the opossum;
    A Kentucky corn-field, the tall, graceful, long-leav'd corn, slender,
          flapping, bright green, with tassels, with beautiful ears each
          well-sheath'd in its husk;
    O my heart! O tender and fierce pangs, I can stand them not, I will
          depart;
    O to be a Virginian where I grew up! O to be a Carolinian!
    O longings irrepressible! O I will go back to old Tennessee and never
          wander more.


BY BROAD POTOMAC'S SHORE


    By broad Potomac's shore, again old tongue
    (Still uttering, still ejaculating, canst never cease this babble?)
    Again old heart so gay, again to you, your sense, the full flush spring
          returning,
    Again the freshness and the odours, again Virginia's summer sky,
          pellucid blue and silver,
    Again the forenoon purple of the hills,
    Again the deathless grass, so noiseless soft and green,
    Again the blood-red roses blooming.

    Perfume this book of mine O blood-red roses!
    Lave subtly with your waters every line Potomac!
    Give me of you O spring, before I close, to put between its pages!
    O forenoon purple of the hills, before I close, of you!
    O deathless grass, of you!


OUR OLD FEUILLAGE!


    Always our old feuillage!
    Always Florida's green peninsula--always the priceless delta of
          Louisiana--always the cotton-fields of Alabama and Texas,
    Always California's golden hills and hollows, and the silver
          mountains of New Mexico--always soft-breath'd Cuba,
    Always the vast slope drain'd by the Southern sea, inseparable with the
          slopes drain'd by the Eastern and Western seas,
    The area the eighty-third year of these States, the three and a half
          millions of square miles,
    The eighteen thousand miles of sea-coast and bay-coast on the main, the
          thirty thousand miles of river navigation,
    The seven millions of distinct families and the same number of
          dwellings--always these, and more, branching forth into
          numberless branches,
    Always the free range and diversity--always the continent of Democracy;
    Always the prairies, pastures, forests, vast cities, travellers,
          Kanada, the snows;
    Always these compact lands tied at the hips with the belt stringing the
          huge oval lakes;
    Always the West with strong native persons, the increasing density
          there, the habitans, friendly, threatening, ironical, scorning
          invaders;
    All sights, South, North, East--all deeds promiscuously done at all
          times,
    All characters, movements, growths, a few noticed, myriads unnoticed,
    Through Mannahatta's streets I walking, these things gathering,
    On interior rivers by night in the glare of pine knots, steamboats
          wooding up,
    Sunlight by day on the valley of the Susquehanna, and on the valleys
          of the Potomac and Rappahannock, and the valleys of the
          Roanoke and Delaware,
    In their northerly wilds beasts of prey haunting the Adirondacks the
          hills, or lapping the Saginaw waters to drink,
    In a lonesome inlet a sheldrake lost from the flock, sitting on the
          water rocking silently,
    In farmers' barns oxen in the stable, their harvest labour done,
          they rest standing, they are too tired,
    Afar on arctic ice the she-walrus lying drowsily while her cubs play
          around,
    The hawk sailing where men have not yet sail'd, the farthest polar sea,
          ripply, crystalline, open, beyond the floes,
    White drift spooning ahead where the ship in the tempest dashes,
    On solid land what is done in cities as the bells strike midnight
          together,
    In primitive woods the sounds there also sounding, the howl of the
          wolf, the scream of the panther, and the hoarse bellow of the
          elk,
    In winter beneath the hard blue ice of Moosehead lake, in summer
          visible through the clear waters, the great trout swimming,
    In lower latitudes in warmer air in the Carolinas the large black
          buzzard floating slowly high beyond the tree tops,
    Below, the red cedar festoon'd with tylandria, the pines and cypresses
          growing out of the white sand that spreads far and flat,
    Rude boats descending the big Pedee, climbing plants, parasites with
          colour'd flowers and berries enveloping huge trees,
    The waving drapery on the live-oak trailing long and low,
          noiselessly waved by the wind,
    The camp of Georgia wagoners just after dark, the supper-fires and the
          cooking and eating by whites and negroes,
    Thirty or forty great wagons, the mules, cattle, horses, feeding from
          troughs,
    The shadows, gleams, up under the leaves of the old sycamore-trees, the
          flames with the black smoke from the pitch-pine curling and
          rising;
    Southern fishermen fishing, the sounds and inlets of North Carolina's
          coast, the shad-fishery and the herring-fishery, the large
          sweep-seines, the windlasses on shore work'd by horses, the
          clearing, curing, and packing-houses;
    Deep in the forest in piney woods turpentine dropping from the
          incisions in the trees, there are the turpentine works,
    There are the negroes at work in good health, the ground in all
          directions is cover'd with pine straw;
    In Tennessee and Kentucky slaves busy in the coalings, at the forge,
          by the furnace-blaze, or at the corn-shucking,
    In Virginia, the planter's son returning after a long absence, joyfully
          welcom'd and kiss'd by the aged mulatto nurse,
    On rivers boatmen safely moor'd at nightfall in their boats under
          shelter of high banks,
    Some of the younger men dance to the sound of the banjo or fiddle,
          others sit on the gunwale smoking and talking;
    Late in the afternoon the mocking-bird, the American mimic, singing
          in the Great Dismal Swamp,
    There are the greenish waters, the resinous odour, the plenteous
          moss, the cypress-tree, and the juniper-tree;
    Northward, young men of Mannahatta, the target company from an
          excursion returning home at evening, the musket-muzzles all
          bear bunches of flowers presented by women;
    Children at play, or on his father's lap a young boy fallen asleep
          (how his lips move! how he smiles in his sleep!),
    The scout riding on horseback over the plains west of the
          Mississippi, he ascends a knoll and sweeps his eyes around;
    California life, the miner, bearded, dress'd in his rude costume, the
          stanch California friendship, the sweet air, the graves one in
          passing meets solitary just aside the horse-path;
    Down in Texas the cotton-field, the negro-cabins, drivers driving
          mules or oxen before rude carts, cotton bales piled on banks
          and wharves;
    Encircling all, vast-darting up and wide, the American Soul, with equal
          hemispheres, one Love, one Dilation or Pride;
    In arrière the peace-talk with the Iroquois the aborigines, the
          calumet, the pipe of good-will, arbitration, and indorsement,
    The sachem blowing the smoke first toward the sun and then toward the
          earth,
    The drama of the scalp-dance enacted with painted faces and guttural
          exclamations,
    The setting out of the war-party, the long and stealthy march,
    The single file, the swinging hatchets, the surprise and slaughter of
          enemies;
    All the acts, scenes, ways, persons, attitudes of these States,
          reminiscences, institutions,
    All these States compact, every square mile of these States without
          excepting a particle;
    Me pleas'd, rambling in lanes and country fields, Paumanok's fields,
    Observing the spiral flight of two little yellow butterflies shuffling
          between each other, ascending high in the air,
    The darting swallow, the destroyer of insects, the fall traveller
          southward but returning northward early in the spring,
    The country boy at the close of the day driving the herd of cows and
          shouting to them as they loiter to browse by the roadside,
    The city wharf, Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Charleston, New
          Orleans, San Francisco,
    The departing ships when the sailors heave at the capstan;
    Evening--me in my room--the setting sun,
    The setting summer sun shining in my open window, showing the swarm of
          flies, suspended, balancing in the air in the centre of the room,
          darting athwart, up and down, casting swift shadows in specks
          on the opposite wall where the shine is;
    The athletic American matron speaking in public to crowds of listeners,
    Males, females, immigrants, combinations, the copiousness, the
          individuality of the States, each for itself--the money-makers,
    Factories, machinery, the mechanical forces, the windlass, lever,
          pulley, all certainties,
    The certainty of space, increase, freedom, futurity,
    In space the sporades, the scatter'd islands, the stars--on the firm
          earth, the lands, my lands,
    O lands! all so dear to me--what you are (whatever it is), I putting
          it at random in these songs, become a part of that, whatever
          it is,
    Southward there, I screaming, with wings slow flapping, with the
          myriads of gulls wintering along the coasts of Florida,
    Otherways there atwixt the banks of the Arkansaw, the Rio Grande, the
          Nueces, the Brazos, the Tombigbee, the Red River, the
          Saskatchewan or the Osage, I with the spring waters laughing
          and skipping and running,
    Northward, on the sands, on some shallow bay of Paumanok, I with
          parties of snowy herons wading in the wet to seek worms and
          aquatic plants,
    Retreating, triumphantly twittering, the king-bird, from piercing
          the crow with its bill, for amusement--and I triumphantly
          twittering,
    The migrating flock of wild geese alighting in autumn to refresh
          themselves, the body of the flock feed, the sentinels outside
          move around with erect heads watching, and are from time to
          time reliev'd by other sentinels--and I feeding and taking
          turns with the rest,
    In Kanadian forests the moose, large as an ox, corner'd by hunters,
          rising desperately on his hind-feet, and plunging with his
          fore-feet, the hoofs as sharp as knives--and I, plunging at
          the hunters, corner'd and desperate,
    In the Mannahatta, streets, piers, shipping, store-houses, and the
          countless workmen working in the shops,
    And I too of the Mannahatta, singing thereof--and no less in myself
          than the whole of the Mannahatta in itself,
    Singing the song of These, my ever-united lands--my body no more
          inevitable united, part to part, and made out of a thousand
          diverse contributions one identity, any more than my lands are
          inevitably united and made ONE IDENTITY;
    Nativities, climates, the grass of the great pastoral Plains,
    Cities, labours, death, animals, products, war, good and evil--these
          me,
    These affording, in all their particulars, the old feuillage to me
          and to America, how can I do less than pass the clew of the
          union of them, to afford the like to you?
    Whoever you are! how can I but offer you divine leaves, that you
          also be eligible as I am?
    How can I but as here chanting, invite you for yourself to collect
          bouquets of the incomparable feuillage of these States?


A BROADWAY PAGEANT


    1

    Over the Western sea hither from Niphon come,
    Courteous, the swart-cheek'd two-sworded envoys,
    Leaning back in their open barouches, bare-headed, impassive,
    Ride to-day through Manhattan.

    Libertad! I do not know whether others behold what I behold,
    In the procession along with the nobles of Niphon, the errand-bearers,
    Bringing up the rear, hovering above, around, or in the ranks marching,
    But I will sing you a song of what I behold Libertad.

    When million-footed Manhattan unpent descends to her pavements,
    When the thunder-cracking guns arouse me with the proud roar I love,
    When the round-mouth'd guns out of the smoke and smell I love spit
          their salutes,
    When the fire-flashing guns have fully alerted me, and heaven-clouds
          canopy my city with a delicate thin haze,
    When gorgeous the countless straight stems, the forests at the wharves,
          thicken with colours,
    When every ship richly drest carries her flag at the peak,
    When pennants trail and street-festoons hang from the windows,
    When Broadway is entirely given up to foot-passengers and
          foot-standers, when the mass is densest,
    When the façades of the houses are alive with people, when eyes gaze
          riveted tens of thousands at a time,
    When the guests from the islands advance, when the pageant moves
          forward visible,
    When the summons is made, when the answer that waited thousands of
          years answers,
    I too arising, answering, descend to the pavements, merge with the
          crowd, and gaze with them.


    2

    Superb-faced Manhattan!
    Comrade Americanos! to us, then at last the Orient comes.

    To us, my city,
    Where our tall-topt marble and iron beauties range on opposite
          sides, to walk in the space between,
    To-day our Antipodes comes.

    The Originatress comes,
    The nest of languages, the bequeather of poems, the race of eld,
    Florid with blood, pensive, rapt with musings, hot with passion,
    Sultry with perfume, with ample and flowing garments,
    With sunburnt visage, with intense soul and glittering eyes,
    The race of Brahma comes.

    See my cantabile! these and more are flashing to us from the
          procession,
    As it moves changing, a kaleidoscope divine it moves changing before
          us.

    For not the envoys nor the tann'd Japanee from his island only,
    Lithe and silent the Hindoo appears, the Asiatic continent itself
          appears, the past, the dead,
    The murky night-morning of wonder and fable inscrutable,
    The envelop'd mysteries, the old and unknown hive-bees,
    The north, the sweltering south, eastern Assyria, the Hebrews, the
          ancient of ancients,
    Vast desolated cities, the gliding present, all of these and more
          are in the pageant-procession.

    Geography, the world, is in it,
    The Great Sea, the brood of islands, Polynesia, the coast beyond,
    The coast you henceforth are facing--you Libertad! from your Western
          golden shores,
    The countries there with their populations, the millions en-masse are
          curiously here,
    The swarming market-places, the temples with idols ranged along the
          sides or at the end, bonze, brahmin, and llama,
    Mandarin, farmer, merchant, mechanic, and fisherman,
    The singing-girl and the dancing-girl, the ecstatic persons, the
          secluded emperors,
    Confucius himself, the great poets and heroes, the warriors, the
          castes, all,
    Trooping up, crowding from all directions, from the Altay mountains,
    From Thibet, from the four winding and far-flowing rivers of China,
    From the southern peninsulas and the demi-continental islands, from
          Malaysia,
    These and whatever belongs to them palpable show forth to me, and are
          seiz'd by me,
    And I am seiz'd by them, and friendlily held by them,
    Till as here them all I chant, Libertad! for themselves and for you.

    For I too raising my voice join the ranks of this pageant,
    I am the chanter, I chant aloud over the pageant,
    I chant the world on my Western sea,
    I chant copious the islands beyond, thick as stars in the sky,
    I chant the new empire grander than any before, as in a vision it
          comes to me,
    I chant America the mistress, I chant a greater supremacy,
    I chant projected a thousand blooming cities yet in time on those
          groups of sea-islands,
    My sail-ships and steam-ships threading the archipelagoes,
    My stars and stripes fluttering in the wind,
    Commerce opening, the sleep of ages having done its work, races reborn,
          refresh'd,
    Lives, works resumed--the object I know not--but the old, the Asiatic
          renew'd as it must be,
    Commencing from this day surrounded by the world.


    3

    And you Libertad of the world!
    You shall sit in the middle well-pois'd thousands and thousands of
          years,
    As to-day from one side the nobles of Asia come to you,
    As to-morrow from the other side the queen of England sends her
          eldest son to you.

    The sign is reversing, the orb is enclosed,
    The ring is circled, the journey is done,
    The box-lid is but perceptibly open'd, nevertheless the perfume pours
          copiously out of the whole box.

    Young Libertad! with the venerable Asia, the all-mother,
    Be considerate with her now and ever hot Libertad, for you are all,
    Bend your proud neck to the long-off mother now sending messages
          over the archipelagoes to you,
    Bend your proud neck low for once, young Libertad.

    Were the children straying westward so long? so wide the tramping?
    Were the precedent dim ages debouching westward from Paradise so long?
    Were the centuries steadily footing it that way, all the while
          unknown, for you, for reasons?

    They are justified, they are accomplish'd, they shall now be turn'd the
          other way also, to travel toward you thence,
    They shall now also march obediently eastward for your sake Libertad.


THE PRAIRIE STATES


    A newer garden of creation, no primal solitude,
    Dense, joyous, modern, populous millions, cities and farms,
    With iron interlaced, composite, tied, many in one,
    By all the world contributed--freedom's and law's and thrift's society,
    The crown and teeming paradise, so far, of time's accumulations,
    To justify the past.


IV

POEMS OF DEMOCRACY


TO FOREIGN LANDS


    I heard that you ask'd for something to prove this puzzle the New
          World,
    And to define America, her athletic Democracy,
    Therefore I send you my poems that you behold in them what you wanted.


TO THEE OLD CAUSE


    To thee old cause!
    Thou peerless, passionate, good cause,
    Thou stern, remorseless, sweet idea,
    Deathless throughout the ages, races, lands,
    After a strange sad war, great war for thee
    (I think all war through time was really fought, and ever will be
          really fought, for thee),
    These chants for thee, the eternal march of thee.

    (A war O soldiers not for itself alone,
    Far, far more stood silently waiting behind, now to advance in this
          book.)

    Thou orb of many orbs!
    Thou seething principle! thou well-kept, latent germ! thou centre!
    Around the idea of thee the war revolving,
    With all its angry and vehement play of causes
    (With vast results to come for thrice a thousand years),
    These recitatives for thee,--my book and the war are one,
    Merged in its spirit I and mine, as the contest hinged on thee,
    As a wheel on its axis turns, this book unwitting to itself,
    Around the idea of thee.


FOR YOU O DEMOCRACY


    Come, I will make the continent indissoluble,
    I will make the most splendid race the sun ever shone upon,
    I will make divine magnetic lands,
            With the love of comrades,
              With the life-long love of comrades.

    I will plant companionship thick as trees along all the rivers of
          America, and along the shores of the great lakes, and all over
          the prairies,
    I will make inseparable cities with their arms about each other's
          necks,
            By the love of comrades,
              By the manly love of comrades.

    For you these from me, O Democracy, to serve you ma femme!
    For you, for you I am trilling these songs.


THOU MOTHER WITH THY EQUAL BROOD


    1

    Thou Mother with thy equal brood,
    Thou varied chain of different States, yet one identity only,
    A special song before I go I'd sing o'er all the rest,
    For thee, the future.

    I'd sow a seed for thee of endless Nationality,
    I'd fashion thy ensemble including body and soul,
    I'd show away ahead thy real Union, and how it may be accomplish'd.

    The paths to the house I seek to make,
    But leave to those to come the house itself.

    Belief I sing, and preparation;
    As Life and Nature are not great with reference to the present only,
    But greater still from what is yet to come,
    Out of that formula for thee I sing.


    2

    As a strong bird on pinions free,
    Joyous, the amplest spaces heavenward cleaving,
    Such be the thought I'd think of thee America,
    Such be the recitative I'd bring for thee.

    The conceits of the poets of other lands I'd bring thee not,
    Nor the compliments that have served their turn so long,
    Nor rhyme, nor the classics, nor perfume of foreign court or indoor
          library;
    But an odour I'd bring as from forests of pine in Maine, or breath
          of an Illinois prairie,
    With open airs of Virginia or Georgia or Tennessee, or from Texas
          uplands, or Florida's glades,
    Or the Saguenay's black stream, or the wide blue spread of Huron,
    With presentment of Yellowstone's scenes, or Yosemite,
    And murmuring under, pervading all, I'd bring the rustling sea-sound,
    That endlessly sounds from the two Great Seas of the world.

    And for thy subtler sense subtler refrains dread Mother,
    Preludes of intellect tallying these and thee, mind-formulas fitted for
          thee, real and sane and large as these and thee,
    Thou! mounting higher, diving deeper than we knew, thou transcendental
          Union!
    By thee fact to be justified, blended with thought,
    Thought of man justified, blended with God,
    Through thy idea, lo, the immortal reality!
    Through thy reality, lo, the immortal idea!


    3

    Brain of the New World, what a task is thine,
    To formulate the Modern--out of the peerless grandeur of the modern,
    Out of thyself, comprising science, to recast poems, churches, art
    (Recast, maybe discard them, end them--maybe their work is done, who
          knows?),
    By vision, hand, conception, on the background of the mighty past, the
          dead,
    To limn with absolute faith the mighty living present.

    And yet thou living present brain, heir of the dead, the Old World
          brain,
    Thou that lay folded like an unborn babe within its folds so long,
    Thou carefully prepared by it so long--haply thou but unfoldest it,
          only maturest it,
    It to eventuate in thee--the essence of the bygone time contain'd in
          thee,
    Its poems, churches, arts, unwitting to themselves, destined with
          reference to thee;
    Thou but the apples, long, long, long a-growing,
    The fruit of all the Old ripening to-day in thee.


    4

    Sail, sail thy best, ship of Democracy,
    Of value is thy freight, 'tis not the Present only,
    The Past is also stored in thee,
    Thou holdest not the venture of thyself alone, not of the Western
          continent alone,
    Earth's _résumé_ entire floats on thy keel O ship, is steadied by thy
          spars,
    With thee Time voyages in trust, the antecedent nations sink or swim
          with thee,
    With all their ancient struggles, martyrs, heroes, epics, wars, thou
          bear'st the other continents,
    Theirs, theirs as much as thine, the destination-port triumphant;
    Steer then with good strong hand and wary eye O helmsman, thou carriest
          great companions,
    Venerable priestly Asia sails this day with thee,
    And royal feudal Europe sails with thee.


    5

    Beautiful world of new superber birth that rises to my eyes,
    Like a limitless golden cloud filling the western sky,
    Emblem of general maternity lifted above all,
    Sacred shape of the bearer of daughters and sons,
    Out of thy teeming womb thy giant babes in ceaseless procession
          issuing,
    Acceding from such gestation, taking and giving continual strength and
          life,
    World of the real--world of the twain in one,
    World of the soul, born by the world of the real alone, led to
          identity, body, by it alone,
    Yet in beginning only, incalculable masses of composite precious
          materials,
    By history's cycles forwarded, by every nation, language, hither sent,
    Ready, collected here, a freer, vast, electric world, to be constructed
          here
    (The true New World, the world of orbic science, morals, literatures to
          come),
    Thou wonder world yet undefined, unform'd, neither do I define thee,
    How can I pierce the impenetrable blank of the future?
    I feel thy ominous greatness evil as well as good,
    I watch thee advancing, absorbing the present, transcending the past,
    I see thy light lighting, and thy shadow shadowing, as if the entire
          globe,
    But I do not undertake to define thee, hardly to comprehend thee,
    I but thee name, thee prophesy, as now,
    I merely thee ejaculate!

    Thee in thy future,
    Thee in thy only permanent life, career, thy own unloosen'd mind, thy
          soaring spirit,
    Thee as another equally needed sun, radiant, ablaze, swift-moving,
          fructifying all,
    Thee risen in potent cheerfulness and joy, in endless great hilarity,
    Scattering for good the cloud that hung so long, that weigh'd so
          long upon the mind of man,
    The doubt, suspicion, dread, of gradual, certain decadence of man;
    Thee in thy larger, saner brood of female, male--thee in thy athletes,
          moral, spiritual, South, North, West, East,
    (To thy immortal breasts, Mother of All, thy every daughter, son,
          endear'd alike, forever equal),
    Thee in thy own musicians, singers, artists, unborn yet, but certain,
    Thee in thy moral wealth and civilization (until which thy proudest
          material civilization must remain in vain),
    Thee in thy all-supplying, all-enclosing worship--thee in no single
          bible, saviour, merely,
    Thy saviours countless, latent within thyself, thy bibles incessant
          within thyself, equal to any, divine as any
    (Thy soaring course thee formulating, not in thy two great wars,
          nor in thy century's visible growth,
    But far more in these leaves and chants, thy chants, great Mother!),
    Thee in an education grown of thee, in teachers, studies, students,
          born of thee,
    Thee in thy democratic fêtes en-masse, thy high original festivals,
          operas, lecturers, preachers,
    Thee in thy ultimata (the preparations only now completed, the
          edifice on sure foundations tied),
    Thee in thy pinnacles, intellect, thought, thy topmost rational
          joys, thy love and godlike aspiration,
    In thy resplendent coming literati, thy full-lung'd orators, thy
          sacerdotal bards, kosmic savans,
    These! these in thee (certain to come), to-day I prophesy.


    6

    Land tolerating all, accepting all, not for the good alone, all good
          for thee,
    Land in the realms of God to be a realm unto thyself,
    Under the rule of God to be a rule unto thyself.

    (Lo, where arise three peerless stars,
    To be thy natal stars my country, Ensemble, Evolution, Freedom,
    Set in the sky of Law.)

    Land of unprecedented faith, God's faith,
    Thy soil, thy very subsoil, all upheav'd,
    The general inner earth so long so sedulously draped over, now hence
          for what it is boldly laid bare,
    Open'd by thee to heaven's light for benefit or bale.

    Not for success alone,
    Not to fair-sail unintermitted always,
    The storm shall dash thy face, the murk of war and worse than war shall
          cover thee all over
    (Wert capable of war, its tug and trials? be capable of peace, its
          trials,
    For the tug and mortal strain of nations come at last in prosperous
          peace, not war);
    In many a smiling mask death shall approach beguiling thee, thou in
          disease shalt swelter,
    The livid cancer spread its hideous claws, clinging upon thy breasts,
          seeking to strike thee deep within,
    Consumption of the worst, moral consumption, shall rouge thy face with
          hectic,
    But thou shalt face thy fortunes, thy diseases, and surmount them all,
    Whatever they are to-day and whatever through time they may be,
    They each and all shall lift and pass away and cease from thee,
    While thou, Time's spirals rounding, out of thyself, thyself still
          extricating, fusing,
    Equable, natural, mystical Union thou (the mortal with immortal blent),
    Shalt soar toward the fulfilment of the future, the spirit of the
          body and the mind,
    The soul, its destinies.

    The soul, its destinies, the real real
    (Purport of all these apparitions of the real);
    In thee America, the soul, its destinies,
    Thou globe of globes! thou wonder nebulous!
    By many a throe of heat and cold convuls'd (by these thyself
          solidifying),
    Thou mental, moral orb--thou New, indeed new, Spiritual World!
    The Present holds thee not--for such vast growth as thine,
    For such unparallel'd flight as thine, such brood as thine,
    The FUTURE only holds thee and can hold thee.


WHAT BEST I SEE IN THEE

_To U. S. G. return'd from his World's Tour._


    What best I see in thee
    Is not that where thou mov'st down history's great highways,
    Ever undimm'd by time shoots warlike victory's dazzle,

    Or that thou sat'st where Washington sat, ruling the land in peace,
    Or thou the man whom feudal Europe fêted, venerable Asia swarm'd upon
    Who walk'd with kings with even pace the round world's promenade;
    But that in foreign lands, in all thy walks with kings,
    Those prairie sovereigns of the West, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois,
    Ohio's, Indiana's millions, comrades, farmers, soldiers, all to the
          front,
    Invisibly with thee walking with kings with even pace the round world's
          promenade,
    Were all so justified.


AS I WALK THESE BROAD MAJESTIC DAYS


    As I walk these broad majestic days of peace
    (For the war, the struggle of blood finish'd, wherein, O terrific
          Ideal,
    Against vast odds erewhile having gloriously won,
    Now thou stridest on, yet perhaps in time toward denser wars,
    Perhaps to engage in time in still more dreadful contests, dangers,
    Longer campaigns and crises, labours beyond all others),
    Around me I hear that éclat of the world, politics, produce,
    The announcements of recognized things, science,
    The approved growth of cities and the spread of inventions.

    I see the ships (they will last a few years),
    The vast factories with their foremen and workmen,
    And hear the indorsement of all, and do not object to it.

    But I too announce solid things,
    Science, ships, politics, cities, factories, are not nothing,
    Like a grand procession to music of distant bugles pouring,
          triumphantly moving, and grander heaving in sight,
    They stand for realities--all is as it should be.

    Then my realities;
    What else is so real as mine?
    Libertad and the divine average, freedom to every slave on the face
          of the earth,
    The rapt promises and luminè of seers, the spiritual world, these
          centuries-lasting songs,
    And our visions, the visions of poets, the most solid announcements
          of any.


THE UNITED STATES TO OLD WORLD CRITICS


    Here first the duties of to-day, the lessons of the concrete,
    Wealth, order, travel, shelter, products, plenty;
    As of the building of some varied, vast, perpetual edifice,
    Whence to arise inevitable in time, the towering roofs, the lamps,
    The solid-planted spires tall shooting to the stars.


YEARS OF THE MODERN


    Years of the modern! years of the unperform'd!
    Your horizon rises, I see it parting away for more august dramas,
    I see not America only, not only Liberty's nation but other nations
          preparing,
    I see tremendous entrances and exits, new combinations, the
          solidarity of races,
    The earth, restive, confronts a new era, perhaps a general divine war,
    No one knows what will happen next, such portents fill the days and
          nights;
    Years prophetical! the space ahead as I walk, as I vainly try to
          pierce it, is full of phantoms,
    Unborn deeds, things soon to be, project their shapes around me,
    This incredible rush and heat, this strange ecstatic fever of dreams O
          years!
    Your dreams O years, how they penetrate through me! (I know not
          whether I sleep or wake.)
    The perform'd America and Europe grow dim, retiring in shadow
          behind me,
    The unperform'd, more gigantic than ever, advance, advance upon me.


O STAR OF FRANCE

    1870-71


    O star of France,
    The brightness of thy hope and strength and fame,
    Like some proud ship that led the fleet so long,
    Beseems to-day a wreck driven by the gale, a mastless hulk,
    And 'mid its teeming madden'd half-drown'd crowds,
    Nor helm nor helmsman.

    Dim smitten star,
    Orb not of France alone, pale symbol of my soul its dearest hopes,
    The struggle and the daring, rage divine for liberty,
    Of aspirations toward the far ideal, enthusiast's dreams of
          brotherhood,
    Of terror to the tyrant and the priest.

    Star crucified--by traitors sold,
    Star panting o'er a land of death, heroic land,
    Strange, passionate, mocking, frivolous land.

    Miserable! yet for thy errors, vanities, sins, I will not now rebuke
          thee,
    Thy unexampled woes and pangs have quell'd them all,
    And left thee sacred.

    In that amid thy many faults thou ever aimedst highly,
    In that thou wouldst not really sell thyself however great the price,
    In that thou surely wakedst weeping from thy drugg'd sleep,
    In that alone among thy sisters thou, giantess, didst rend the ones
          that shamed thee,
    In that thou couldst not, wouldst not, wear the usual chains,
    This cross, thy livid face, thy pierced hands and feet,
    The spear thrust in thy side.

    O star! O ship of France, beat back and baffled long!
    Bear up O smitten orb! O ship continue on!

    Sure as the ship of all, the Earth itself,
    Product of deathly fire and turbulent chaos,
    Forth from its spasms of fury and its poisons,
    Issuing at last in perfect power and beauty,
    Onward beneath the sun following its course,
    So thee O ship of France!

    Finish'd the days, the clouds dispel'd,
    The travail o'er, the long-sought extrication,
    When lo! reborn, high o'er the European world,
    (In gladness answering thence, as face afar to face, reflecting ours
          Columbia),
    Again thy star O France, fair lustrous star,
    In heavenly peace, clearer, more bright than ever,
    Shall beam immortal.


THOUGHTS


    1

    Of these years I sing,
    How they pass and have pass'd through convuls'd pains, as through
          parturitions,
    How America illustrates birth, muscular youth, the promise, the sure
          fulfilment, the absolute success, despite of people--illustrates
          evil as well as good,
    The vehement struggle so fierce for unity in one's-self;
    How many hold despairingly yet to the models departed, caste, myths,
          obedience, compulsion, and to infidelity,
    How few see the arrived models, the athletes, the Western States, or
          see freedom or spirituality, or hold any faith in results
    (But I see the athletes, and I see the results of the war glorious and
          inevitable, and they again leading to other results).

