I thanked the Captain and went to look for my companions, who had not
yet left their cabin.  I invited them to follow me without saying where
we were.  They mounted the platform.  Conseil, who was astonished at
nothing, seemed to look upon it as quite natural that he should wake
under a mountain, after having fallen asleep under the waves.  But Ned
Land thought of nothing but finding whether the cavern had any exit.
After breakfast, about ten o'clock, we went down on to the mountain.

"Here we are, once more on land," said Conseil.

"I do not call this land," said the Canadian.  "And besides, we are not
on it, but beneath it."

Between the walls of the mountains and the waters of the lake lay a
sandy shore which, at its greatest breadth, measured five hundred feet.
On this soil one might easily make the tour of the lake.  But the base
of the high partitions was stony ground, with volcanic locks and
enormous pumice-stones lying in picturesque heaps.  All these detached
masses, covered with enamel, polished by the action of the
subterraneous fires, shone resplendent by the light of our electric
lantern.  The mica dust from the shore, rising under our feet, flew
like a cloud of sparks.  The bottom now rose sensibly, and we soon
arrived at long circuitous slopes, or inclined planes, which took us
higher by degrees; but we were obliged to walk carefully among these
conglomerates, bound by no cement, the feet slipping on the glassy
crystal, felspar, and quartz.

The volcanic nature of this enormous excavation was confirmed on all
sides, and I pointed it out to my companions.

"Picture to yourselves," said I, "what this crater must have been when
filled with boiling lava, and when the level of the incandescent liquid
rose to the orifice of the mountain, as though melted on the top of a
hot plate."

"I can picture it perfectly," said Conseil.  "But, sir, will you tell
me why the Great Architect has suspended operations, and how it is that
the furnace is replaced by the quiet waters of the lake?"

"Most probably, Conseil, because some convulsion beneath the ocean
produced that very opening which has served as a passage for the
Nautilus.  Then the waters of the Atlantic rushed into the interior of
the mountain.  There must have been a terrible struggle between the two
elements, a struggle which ended in the victory of Neptune.  But many
ages have run out since then, and the submerged volcano is now a
peaceable grotto."

"Very well," replied Ned Land; "I accept the explanation, sir; but, in
our own interests, I regret that the opening of which you speak was not
made above the level of the sea."

"But, friend Ned," said Conseil, "if the passage had not been under the
sea, the Nautilus could not have gone through it."

We continued ascending.  The steps became more and more perpendicular
and narrow.  The ceremony of baptism was immediately performed in the
church of St. Basil, in the city of Cherson, and then, at the same
hour, the marriage rites with the princess were solemnized. Vlademer
ordered a large church to be built at Cherson in memory of his visit.
He then returned to Kief, taking with him some preachers of distinction;
a communion service wrought in the most graceful proportions of Grecian
art, and several exquisite specimens of statuary and sculpture, to
inspire his subjects with a love for the beautiful.

He accepted the Christian teachers as his guides, and devoted himself
with extraordinary zeal to the work of persuading all his subjects to
renounce their idol-worship and accept Christianity. Every measure
was adopted to throw contempt upon paganism. The idols were collected
and burned in huge bonfires. The sacred statue of Péroune, the most
illustrious of the pagan Gods, was dragged ignominiously through the
streets, pelted with mud and scourged with whips, until at last,
battered and defaced, it was dragged to the top of a precipice and tumbled
headlong into the river, amidst the derision and hootings of the
multitude.

Our zealous new convert now issued a decree to all the people of Russia,
rich and poor, lords and slaves, to repair to the river in the vicinity
of Kief to be baptized. At an appointed day the people assembled by
thousands on the banks of the Dnieper. Vlademer at length appeared,
accompanied by a great number of Greek priests. The signal being given,
the whole multitude, men, women and children, waded slowly into
the stream.

Some boldly advanced out up to their necks in the water; others,
more timid, ventured only waist deep. Fathers and mothers led their
children by the hand.

The priests, standing upon the shore, read the baptismal prayers,
and chaunted the praises of God, and then conferred the name of
Christians upon these barbarians.

The multitude then came up from the water.
Vlademer was in a transport of joy."Yes, a hive," repeated the Canadian, "and bees humming round it."

I approached, and was bound to believe my own eyes.  There at a hole
bored in one of the dragon-trees were some thousands of these ingenious
insects, so common in all the Canaries, and whose produce is so much
esteemed.  Naturally enough, the Canadian wished to gather the honey,
and I could not well oppose his wish.  A quantity of dry leaves, mixed
with sulphur, he lit with a spark from his flint, and he began to smoke
out the bees.  The humming ceased by degrees, and the hive eventually
yielded several pounds of the sweetest honey, with which Ned Land
filled his haversack.

answered Zbyszko. "Therefore old Zych loves her dearly."
"And he said that the estate of Moczydoly will be her dowry; and
there on the pastures is a herd of mares with many colts."

"Are there not a great many marshes in the Moczydlowski
estate?"

"Never mind the gingerbread," said I; "let us continue our interesting
walk."

