Well might the South call that royal old soldier to lead its
hosts. Another half hour of Albert Sidney Johnston at Shiloh, and
the history of the United States might have been changed by his
unconquered sword. Lofty in his aims, adored by his subordinates,
he was a modern Marshal Ney. The Southern cypress took its darkest
tinge around his untimely grave. Sidney Johnston had all the sterling
qualities of Lee, and even a rarer magnetism of character.

Honor placed one fadeless wreath upon his tomb. He would not play
the ignoble part of a Twiggs or a Lynde. He offered a stainless
sword to the Bonnie Blue Flag.

The gravity of his farewell, the purity of his private character,
the affection of his personal friends, are tributes to the great
soldier. He nearly crushed the Union army in his tiger-like assault
at Shiloh. By universal consent, the ablest soldier of the "old
army," he was sacrificed to the waywardness of fate. Turns of
Fortune's wheel.

California was stunned by the rapidity of Sumner's grasp of the
reins of command. Before the Knights of the Golden Circle could move,
the control of the State and the coast was lost to them forever.
Forts and arsenals, towns and government depositories, navy-yards
and vessels, were guarded.

Following this action of Sumner, on May 10th the news of Sumter, and
the uprising of the North, burst upon friend and foe in California.
The loyal men rallied in indignation, overawing the Southern
element. The oath of fealty was renewed by thousands. California's
star was that day riveted in the flag. An outraged people deposed
Judge Hardy, who so feebly prosecuted the slayer of Broderick.
Every avenue was guarded. Conspiracy fled to back rooms and side
streets. Here were no Federal wrongs to redress. On the spot where
Broderick's body lay, under Baker's oratory, the multitude listened
to the awakened patriots of the West. The Pacific Coast was saved.

The madness of fools who fluttered a straggling "bear flag,"
"palmetto ensign," or "lone star," caused them to flee in terror.

Stanley, Lake, Crockett, Starr King, General Shields, and others,
echoed the pledges of their absent comrades in New York. Organization,
for the Union, followed. Even the maddest Confederate saw the only
way to serve the South was to sneak through the lines to Texas. The
telegraph was completed in October, 1861. The government had then
daily tidings from the loyal sentinels calling "All's well," on
fort and rampart, from San Juan Island to Fort Yuma.

Troops were offered everywhere. The only region in California
where secessionists were united was in San Joaquin.

While public discussion availed, Hardin and Valois listened
to Thornton, Crittenden, Morrison, Randolph, Dr. Scott, Weller,
Whitesides, Hoge, and Nugent. But the time for hope was past.
The golden sun had set for ever. Fifteen regiments of Californian
troops, in formation, were destined to hold the State. They guarded
the roads to Salt Lake and Arizona. The arsenals and strongholds
were secured. The chance of successful invasion from Texas vanished.
It was the crowning mistake of the first year of secession, not
to see the value of the Pacific Coast. From the first shot, the
Pacific Railroad became a war measure. The iron bands tied East
and West in a firm union.

Gwin's departure and Randolph's death added to the Southern
discomfiture. No course remained for rebels but to furtively join
the hosts of treason. Flight to the East.

In the wake of Sidney Johnston went many men of note. Garnett,
Cheatham, Brooks, Calhoun, Benham, Magruder, Phil Herbert, and
others, with Dan Showalter and David Terry, each fresh from the
deadly field of honor. Kewen, Weller, and others remained to be
silenced by arrest. All over the State a hegira commenced which ended
in final defeat. Many graves on the shallow-trenched battle-fields
were filled by the Californian exiles. Not in honor did these
devoted men and hundreds of their friends leave the golden hills.
Secretly they fled, lest their romantic quest might land them in
a military prison. Those unable to leave gave aid to the absent.
Sulking at home, they deserted court and mart to avoid personal
penalties.

It was different with many of the warm-hearted Californian sons
of the South who were attached to the Union. Cut off in a distant
land, they held aloof from approving secession. Grateful for the
shelter of the peaceful land in which their hard-won homes were
made, it was only after actual war that the ties of blood carried
them away and ranged them under the Stars and Bars. When the
Southern ranks fell, in windrows, on the Peninsula, hundreds of
these manly Californians left to join their brethren. They had
clung to the Union till their States went out one by one. They sadly
sought the distant fields of action, and laid down their lives for
the now holy cause.

The attitude of these gallant men was noble. They scorned the
burrowing conspirators who dug below the foundations of the national
constitution. These schemers led the eager South into a needless
civil war.

The holiest feelings of heredity dragged the Southerners who lingered
into war. It was a sacrifice of half of the splendid generation
which fought under the Southern Cross.

When broken ranks appealed for the absent, when invaded States and
drooping hopes aroused desperation, the last California contingents
braved the desert dangers. Indian attack and Federal capture were
defied, only to die for the South on its sacred soil. "Salut aux
braves!" The loyalists of California were restrained from disturbing
the safe tenure of the West by depleting the local Union forces.
Abraham Lincoln saw that the Pacific columns should do no more
than guard the territories adjacent. To hold the West and secure
the overland roads was their duty. To be ready to march to meet
an invasion or quell an uprising. This was wisdom.

But the country called for skilled soldiers and representative
men to join the great work of upholding the Union. A matchless
contingent of Union officers went East.

California had few arms-bearing young Americans to represent its
first ten years of State existence. But it returned to the national
government men identified with the Pacific Coast, who were destined
to be leaders of the Union hosts.

Grant, Sherman, Sheridan, Thomas, Halleck, Hancock, Hooker, Keyes,
Naglee, Baker, Ord, Farragut (the blameless Nelson of America),
Canby, Fremont, Shields, McPherson, Stoneman, Stone, Porter, Boggs,
Sumner, Heintzelman, Lander, Buell, with other old residents of the
coast, drew the sword. Wool, Denver, Geary, and many more, whose
abilities had been perfected in the struggles of the West, took
high rank.

Where the young were absent (by reason of the infancy of the
State), these men were returned to the government. They went with
a loyalty undimmed, in the prime of their powers. Even the graceful
McClellan was identified with the Pacific Railway survey. Around
the scenes of their early manhood, the halo of these loyal men
will ever linger, and gild the name of "Pioneer." It can never be
forgotten that without the stormy scenes of Western life, without
the knowledge of the great golden empire and the expansion of powers
due to their lessons on plain and prairie, many of these men would
have relapsed into easy mediocrity.

The completed telegraph, military extension of lines, and the active
Union League, secured California to the Union.

The gigantic game of war rolled its red pageantry over Eastern
fields. Bull Run fired the Southern heart. Hardin and Valois learned
the Southern Government would send a strong expedition to hold New
Mexico and Arizona. Local aid was arranged by the Knights of the
Golden Circle to, at last, seize California. It was so easy to whip
Yankees. The Knights were smiling.

At the risk of their lives, two Southern messengers reached San
Francisco. One by Panama. The other crossed Arizona and examined
the line of march. He rode, warning sympathizers to await the
Confederate flag, which now waved in triumph at Munson's Hill, in
plain sight of the guarded capitol.

Valois fears this Western raid may be too late. For the Navy
Department reinforces the Pacific fleet. Valois explains to Hardin
that his prophecy is being realized. The Confederates, with more
men than are needed, hold their lines of natural defence. The
fruits of Bull Run are lost. While letters by every steamer come
from Northern spies, Washington friends, and Southern associates,
the journals tell them of the deliberate preparation of the North
for a struggle to the death. The giant is waking up.

Valois mourns the madness of keeping the flower of the South inactive.
A rapid Northern invasion should humble the administration. The
ardent Texans should be thrown at once into California, leaving
New Mexico and Arizona for later occupation.

There is no reason why the attack should not be immediate. Under the
stimulus of Bull Run the entire Southern population of California
would flock to the new standard. Three months should see the Confederate
cavalry pasturing their steeds in the prairies of California.

The friends sicken at the delay, as weary months drag on. Sibley's
Texans should be now on the Gila. They have guides, leaders, scouts,
and spies from the Southern refugees pouring over the Gila. Every
golden day has its gloomy sunset. Hardin's brow furrows with deep
lines. His sagacity tells him that the time has passed for the
movement to succeed.

And he is right. Sibley wearies out the winter in Texas. The
magnet of Eastern fields of glory draws the fiery Texans across the
Mississippi. The Californian volunteers are arming and drilling.
They stream out to Salt Lake. They send the heavy column of General
Carleton toward El Paso.

The two chiefs of the Golden Circle are unaware of the destination
of Carleton. Loyalty has learned silence. There are no traitor
department clerks here, to furnish maps, plans, and duplicate
orders.

Canby in New Mexico, unknown to the secessionists of California,
aided by Kit Carson, gathers a force to strike Sibley in flank.
It is fatal to Californian conquest. Hardin and Valois learn of
the lethargy of the great Confederate army, flushed with success.
Sibley's dalliance at Fort Bliss continues.

The "army of New Mexico," on September 19, 1861, is only a few
hundreds of mounted rangers and Texan youth under feeble Sibley.

From the first, Jefferson Davis's old army jealousies and hatred
of able men of individuality, hamstring the Southern cause.
A narrow-minded man is Davis, the slave of inveterate prejudice.
With dashing Earl Van Dorn, sturdy Ben Ewell, and dozens of veteran
cavalry leaders at his service, knowing every foot of the road,
he could have thrown his Confederate column into California. Three
months after Sumter's fall, California should have been captured.
Davis allows an old martinet to ruin the Confederate cause in the
Pacific.

The operation is so easy, so natural, and so necessary, that
it looks like fatuity to neglect the golden months of the fall of
1861.

Especially fitted for bold dashes with a daring leader, the Texans
throw themselves, later, uselessly against the flaming redoubts
of Corinth. They are thrown into mangled heaps before Battery
Robinett, dying for the South. Their military recklessness has
never been surpassed in the red record of war.

Though gallant in the field, President Jefferson Davis, seated
on a throne of cotton, gazes across the seas for England's help.
He craves the aid of France. He allows narrow prejudice to blind
him to any part of the great issue, save the military pageantry of
his unequalled Virginian army. It is the flower of the South, and
moves only on the sacred soil of Virginia. Davis, restrained by
antipathies, haughty, and distant, is deaf to the thrilling calls
of the West for that dashing column. It would have gained him
California. Weakness of mind kept him from hurling his victorious
troops on Washington, or crossing the Ohio to divide the North while
yet unprepared. Active help could then be looked for from Northern
Democrats. But he masses the South in Virginia.

As winter wears on the movement of Carleton's and Canby's preparations
are disclosed by Southern friends, who run the gauntlet with these
discouraging news.

Sibley lingered with leaden heels at Fort Bliss. The Confederate
riders are not across the Rio Grande. Valois grows heartsick.

Broken in hopes, wearied with plotting, mistrusted by the community,
Hardin knows the truth at last. The words, "Too late!" ring in his
ears.

It will be only some secret plot which can now hope to succeed in
the West.

Davis and Lee are wedded to Virginia. The haughty selfishness
of the "mother of presidents" demands that every interest of the
Confederacy shall give way to morbid State vanity. Virginia is to
be the graveyard of the gallant Southern generation in arms.

Every other pass may be left unguarded. The chivalry of the Stars
and Bars must crowd Virginia till their graves fill the land.
Unnecessarily strong, with a frontier defended by rivers, forests,
and chosen positions, it becomes Fortune's sport to huddle the
bulk of the Confederate forces into Lee's army.

It allows the Border, Gulf, and Western States to fall a prey to
the North. The story of Lee's ability has been told by an adoring
generation. The record of his cold military selfishness is shown
in the easy conquests of the heart of the South. Their natural
defenders were drafted to fill those superb legions, operating
under the eyes of Davis and controlled by the slightest wish of
imperious Lee.

Albert Sidney Johnston, Beauregard, and the fighting tactician,
Joe Johnston, were destined to feel how fatal was the military
favoritism of Jefferson Davis. Davis threw away Vicksburg, and
the Mississippi later, to please Lee. All for Virginia.

Stung with letters from Louisiana, reproaching him for inaction
while his brethren were meeting the Northern invaders, Valois
decides to go East. He will join the Southern defence. For it is
defence--not invasion--now.

Directing Hardin to select a subordinate in his place, Valois returns
to Lagunitas. He must say farewell to loving wife and prattling
child. Too well known to be allowed to follow Showalter, Terry,
and their fellows over the Colorado desert, he must go to Guaymas
in Mexico. He can thus reach the Confederates at El Paso. From
thence it is easy to reach New Orleans. Then to the front. To the
field.

Valois feels it would be useless for him to go via Panama. The
provost-marshal would hold him as a "known enemy."

With rage, Valois realizes a new commander makes latent treason
uncomfortable in California. He determines to reach El Paso, and
hurl the Texans on California. Should he fail, he heads a Louisiana
regiment. His heart tells him the war will be long and bloody.
Edmund Randolph's loyalty, at the outbreak, prevented the seizure
of California. Sibley's folly and Davis's indifference complete
the ruin of the Western plan of action.

"Hardin, hold the Knights together. I will see if I can stop a
Yankee bullet!" says Valois. He notifies Hardin that he intends to
make him sole trustee of his property in his absence.

Hardin's term on the bench has expired. Like other Southerners
debarred from taking the field, he gives aid to those who go. The
men who go leave hostages behind them. The friendship of years causes
Yalois to make him the adviser of his wife in property matters.
He makes him his own representative. "Thank Heaven!" cries Valois,
"my wife's property is safe. No taint from me can attach to her
birthright. It is her own by law."

Valois, at Lagunitas, unfolds to the sorrowing padre his departure
for the war. Safe in the bosom of the priest, this secret is a heavy
load. Valois gains his consent to remain in charge of Lagunitas. The
little girl begins to feebly walk. Her infant gaze cannot measure
her possessions.

Lovely Dolores Valois listens meekly to her husband's plans. Devoted
to Maxime, his will is her only law. The beautiful dark eyes are
tinged with a deeper lustre.

Busied with his affairs, Maxime thinks of the future as he handles
his papers. Fran‡ois Ribaut is the depositary of his wishes. Dolores
is as incapable as her child in business. Will God protect these
two innocents?

Valois wonders if he will return in defeat like Don Miguel. Poor
old Don! around his tomb the roses creep,--his gentle Juanita by
his side.

He hopes the armies of the West will carry the banner, now flying
from Gulf to border, into the North. There the legendary friends
of the South will hail it.

Alas! pent up in California, Maxime hears not the murmurs of the
Northern pines, breathing notes of war and defiance. The predictions
of the leaders of the conspiracy are fallacious. Aid and comfort
fail them abroad. North of Mason and Dixon's line the sympathizers
are frightened.

In his heart he only feels the tumult of the call to the field. It
is his pride of race. Tired, weary of the crosses of fortune, he
waits only to see the enemy's fires glittering from hill and cliff.

With all his successes, the West has never been his home. Looking
out on his far-sweeping alamedas, his thoughts turn fondly back
to his native land. He is "going home to Dixie."


CHAPTER XI.

"I'SE GWINE BACK TO DIXIE."--THE FORTUNES OF WAR.--VAL VERDE.


The last weeks of Maxime Valois' stay at Lagunitas drift away.
Old "Kaintuck" has plead in vain to go. He yields to Valois' orders
not to dream of going with him. His martial heart is fired, but
some one must watch the home. Padre Fran‡ois Ribaut has all the
documents of the family, the marriage, and birth of the infant heir.
He is custodian also of the will of Donna Dolores. She leaves her
family inheritance to her child, and failing her, to her husband.
The two representatives of the departing master know that Philip
Hardin will safely guide the legal management of the estate while
its chieftain is at the wars.

Donna Dolores and the priest accompany Valois to San Francisco. He
must leave quietly. He is liable to arrest. He takes the Mexican
steamer, as if for a temporary absence.

It costs Maxime Valois a keen pang of regret, as he rides the last
time over his superb domain. He looks around the plaza, and walks
alone through the well-remembered rooms. He takes his seat, with
a sigh, by his wife's side, as the carriage whirls him down the
avenues. The orange-trees are in bloom. The gardens show the rare
beauties of midland California. As far as the eye can reach, the
sparkle of lovely Lagunitas mirrors the clouds flaking the sapphire
sky. Valois fixes his eyes once more upon his happy home. Peace,
prosperity, progress, mining exploration, social development, all
smile through this great interior valley of the Golden State. No war
cloud has yet rolled past the "Rockies." It is the golden youth of
the commonwealth. The throbbing engine, clattering stamp, whirling
saw, and busy factory, show that the homemakers are moving on
apace, with giant strides. No fairer land to leave could tempt a
departing warrior. But even with a loved wife and his only child
beside him, the Southerner's heart "turns back to Dixie."

Passing rapidly through Stockton, where his old friends vainly
tempt him to say, publicly, good-by, he refrains. No one must know
his destination. No parting cup is drained.

In San Francisco, Philip Hardin, in presence of Valois' wife and
the padre, receives his powers of attorney and final directions.
Letters, remittances, and all communications are to be sent through
a house in Havana. The old New Orleans family of Valois is well
known there. Maxime will be able, by blockade-runners and travelling
messengers, to obtain his communications.

The only stranger in San Francisco who knows of Maxime's departure
is the old mining partner, Joe Woods. He is now a middle-aged man
of property and vigor. He comes from the interior to say adieu to
his friend. "Old times" cloud their eyes. But the parting is secret.
Federal spies throng the streets.

At the mail wharf the Mexican steamer, steam up, is ready for
departure. The last private news from the Texan border tells of
General Sibley's gathering forces. Provided with private despatches,
and bundles of contraband letters for the cut-off friends in the
South, Maxime Valois repairs to the steamer. Several returning
Texans and recruits for the Confederacy have arrived singly. They
will make an overland party from Guaymas, headed by Valois. Valois,
under the orders of the Golden Circle, has been charged with
important communications. Unknown to him, secret agents of the
government watch his departure. He has committed no overt act. He
goes to a neutral land.

The calm, passionless face of Padre Fran‡ois Ribaut shows a tear
trembling in his eye. He leads the weeping wife ashore from the
cabin. The last good-by was sacred by its silent sorrow. Valois'
father's heart was strangely thrilled when he kissed his baby
girl farewell, on leaving the little party. Even rebels have warm
hearts.

Philip Hardin's stern features relax into some show of feeling as
Valois places his wife's hands in his. That mute adieu to lovely
Dolores moves him. "May God deal with you, Hardin, as you deal with
my wife and child," solemnly says Valois. The lips of Fran‡ois
Ribaut piously add "Amen. Amen."

Padre Francisco comes back to the boat. With French impulsiveness,
he throws himself in Valois' arms. He whispers a friend's blessing,
a priest's benediction.

The ORIZABA glides out past two or three watchful cruisers flying
the Stars and Stripes. The self-devoted Louisianian loses from sight
the little knot of dear ones on the wharf. He sees the flutter of
Dolores' handkerchief for the last time. On to Dixie! Going home!

Out on the bay, thronged with the ships of all nations, the steamer
glides. Its shores are covered with smiling villages. Happy homes
and growing cities crown the heights. Past grim Alcatraz, where
the star flag proudly floats on the Sumter-like citadel, the boat
slowly moves. It leaves the great metropolis of the West, spreading
over its sandy hills and creeping up now the far green valleys. It
slips safely through the sea-gates of the West, and past the grim
fort at the South Heads. There, casemate and barbette shelter the
shotted guns which speak only for the Union.

Valois' heart rises in his throat as the sentinel's bayonet glitters
in the sunlight. Loyal men are on the walls of the fort. Far away
on the Presidio grounds, he can see the blue regiments of Carleton's
troops, at exercise, wheel at drill. The sweeping line of a cavalry
battalion moves, their sabres flash as the lines dash on. These
men are now his foes. The tossing breakers of the bar throw their
spray high over bulwarks and guard. In grim determination he
watches the last American flag he ever will see in friendship, till
it fades away from sight. He has now taken the irrevocable step.
When he steps on Mexican soil, he will be "a man without a country."
Prudential reasons keep him aloof from his companions until Guaymas
is reached. Once ashore, the comrades openly unite. Without delay
the party plunges into the interior. Well armed, splendidly mounted,
they assume a semi-military discipline. The Mexicans are none too
friendly. Valois has abundant gold, as well as forty thousand
dollars in drafts on Havana, the proceeds of Lagunitas' future
returns advanced by Hardin.

Twenty days' march up the Yaqui Valley, through Arispe, where the
filibusters died with Spartan bravery, is a weary jaunt. But high
hopes buoy them up. Over mesa and gorge, past hacienda and Indian
settlement, they climb passes until the great mountains break away.
Crossing the muddy Rio Grande, Valois is greeted by old friends.
He sees the Confederate flag for the first time, floating over the
turbulent levies of Sibley, still at Fort Bliss.

Long and weary marches; dangers from bandit, Indian, and lurking
Mexican; regrets for the home circle at Lagunitas, make Maxime Valois
very grave. Individual sacrifices are not appreciated in war-time.
As he rides through the Confederate camp, his heart sinks. The
uncouth straggling plainsmen, without order or regular equipment,
recall to him his old enemies, the nomadic Mexican vaqueros.

There seems to be no supply train, artillery, or regular stores. These
are not the men who can overawe the compact California community.
Far gray rocky sandhills stretch along the Texan border. Over the
Rio Grande, rich mountain scenery delights the eye. It instantly
recalls to Valois the old Southern dream of taking the "Zona Libre."
Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Nueva Leon were coveted as a crowning
trophy of the Mexican war. Dreams of olden days.

Received kindly by General Sibley, the Louisianian delivers his
letters, despatches, and messages. After rest and refreshment, he
is asked to join a council of war. There are fleet couriers, lately
arrived, who speak of Carleton's column being nearly ready to cross
the Colorado. When the General explains his plan of attacking the
Federal forces in New Mexico, and occupying Arizona, Valois hastens
to urge a forced march down to the fertile Gila. He trusts to Canby
timidly holding on to Fort Union and Fort Craig. Alas, Sibley's
place of recruiting and assembly has been ill chosen! The animals,
crowded on the bare plains, suffer for lack of forage. Recruits
are discouraged by the dreary surroundings. The effective strength
has not visibly increased in three months. The Texans are wayward.
A strong column, well organized, in the rich interior of Texas, full
of the early ardor of secession might have pushed on and reached
the Gila. But here is only a chafing body of undisciplined men.
They are united merely by political sentiment.

General Sibley urges Valois to accompany him in his forward march.
He offers him a staff position, promising to release him, then
to move to the eastward. Valois' knowledge of the frontier is
invaluable, and he cannot pass an enemy in arms. Maxime Valois,
with fiery energy, aids in urging the motley command forward. On
February 7, 1862, the wild brigade of invasion reaches the mesa near
Fort Craig. The "gray" and "blue" meet here in conflict, to decide
the fate of New Mexico and Arizona. Feeble skirmishing begins. On
the 2lst of February, the bitter conflict of Val Verde shows Valois
for the first time--alas, not the last!--the blood of brothers
mingled on a doubtful field. It is a horrid fight. A drawn battle.

Instead of pushing on to Arizona, deluded by reports of local aid,
Sibley straggles off to Santa Fe and Albuquerque. Canby refits his
broken forces under the walls of strong Fort Union. Long before the
trifling affairs of Glorietta and Peralta, Valois, disgusted with
Sibley, is on his way east. He will join the Army of the West. His
heart sickens at the foolish incapacity of the border commander.
The Texan column melts away under Canby's resolute advance. The
few raiders, who have ridden down into Arizona and hoisted the
westernmost Confederate flag at Antelope Peak, are chased back
by Carleton's strong column. The boasted "military advance on
California" is at an end. Carleton's California column is well over
the Colorado. The barren fruits of Val Verde are only a few buried
guns of McRea's hard-fought battery. The gallantry of Colonel
Thos. P. Ochiltree, C.S.A., at Val Verde, under the modest rank of
"Captain," is the only remembered historic incident of that now
forgotten field. The First Regiment and one battalion of the Second
California Volunteer Cavalry, the Fifth California Infantry, and
a good battery hold Arizona firmly. The Second Battalion, Second
California Cavalry, the Fifth California Cavalry, and Third California
Infantry, under gallant General Pat Connor, keep Utah protected.
They lash the wild Indians into submission, and prevent any rising.

General Canby and Kit Carson's victorious troops keep New Mexico.
They cut the line of any possible Confederate advance. Only Sibley's
pompous report remains now to tell of the fate of his troops, who
literally disbanded or deserted. An inglorious failure attends the
dreaded Texan attack.

The news, travelling east and west, by fugitives, soon announce
the failure of this abortive attempt. The golden opportunity of
the fall of 1861 never returns.

The Confederate operations west of the Rio Grande were only
a miserable and ridiculous farce. Valois, leaving failure behind
him, learns on nearing the Louisiana line, that the proud Pelican
flag floats no longer over the Crescent City. It lies now helpless
under the guns of fearless Farragut's fleet. So he cannot even
revisit the home of his youth. Maxime Valois smuggles himself
across the Mississippi. He joins the Confederates under Van Dorn.
He is a soldier at last.

Here in the circling camps of the great Army of the West, Maxime
Valois joins the first Louisiana regiment he meets. He realizes
that the beloved Southern Confederacy has yet an unbeaten army. A
grand array. The tramp of solid legions makes him feel a soldier,
not a sneaking conspirator. He is no more a guerilla of the plains,
or a fugitive deserter of his adopted State.

The capture of New Orleans seals the Mississippi. The Confederacy
is cut in twain. It is positive now, the only help from the golden
West will be the arrival of parties of self-devoted men like
himself. They come in squads, bolting through Mexico or slipping
through Arizona. Some reach Panama and Havana, gaining the South by
blockade runners. He opens mail communication with Judge Hardin,
via Havana. He succeeds in exchanging views with the venerable
head of his house at New Orleans. It is all gloomy now. Old and
despondent, the New Orleans patriarch has sent his youthful son
away to Paris. Armand is too young to bear arms. He can only come
home and do a soldier's duty later. By family influence, Maxime
Valois finds himself soon a major in a Louisiana regiment. He wears
his gray uniform at the head of men already veterans. Shiloh's
disputed laurels are theirs. They are tigers who have tasted blood.
In the rapidly changing scenes of service, trusting to chance for
news of his family, Maxime Valois' whole nature is centred upon
the grave duties of his station. Southern victories are hailed
from the East. The victorious arms of the Confederacy roll back
McClellan's great force. Bruised, bleeding, and shattered from the
hard-fought fields of the Peninsula, the Unionists recoil. The
stars of the Southern Cross are high in hope's bright field. Though
Richmond is saved for the time, it is at a fearful cost. Malvern
Hill shakes to its base under the flaming cannon, ploughing the
ranks of the dauntless Confederates, as the Army of the Potomac
hurls back the confident legions of Lee, Johnston, and Jackson.
The Army of the Potomac is decimated. The bloody attrition of the
field begins to wear off these splendid lines which the South can
never replace. Losses like those of Pryor's Brigade, nine hundred
out of fifteen hundred in a single campaign, would appall any but
the grim Virginian soldiers. They are veterans now. They learn the
art of war in fields like Seven Pines and Fair Oaks. Even Pryor,
as chivalric in action as truculent in debate, now admits that the
Yankees will fight. Fredericksburg's butchery is a victory of note.
All the year the noise of battle rolls, while the Eastern war is
undecided, for the second Manassas and awful Antietam balance each
other. Maxime Valois feels the issue is lost. When the shock of
battle has been tried at Corinth, where lion-like Rosecrans conquers,
when the glow of the onset fades away, his heart sinks. He knows
that the iron-jointed men of the West are the peers of any race in
the field.

Ay! In the West it is fighting from the first. Donelson, Shiloh,
and Corinth lead up to the awful death shambles of Stone River,
Vicksburg, and Chickamauga. These are scenes to shake the nerve of
the very bravest.

Heading his troops on the march, watching the thousand baleful
fires of the enemy at night, when friend and foe go down in the
thundering crash of battle, Valois, amazed, asks himself, "Are
these sturdy foes the Northern mudsills?"

For, proud and dashing as the Louisiana Tigers and Texan Rangers
prove, steady and vindictive the rugged Mississippians, dogged and
undaunted the Georgians, fierce the Alabamans--the honest candor
of Valois tells him no human valor can excel the never-yielding
Western troops. Their iron courage honors the blue-clad men of Iowa,
Michigan, and the Lake States. No hired foreigners there; no helot
immigrants these men, whose glittering bayonets shine in the
lines of Corinth, as steadily as the spears of the old Tenth Roman
Legion--Caesar's pets.

With unproclaimed chivalry and a readiness to meet the foe
which tells its own story, the Western men come on. Led by Grant,
Sherman, Rosecrans, Sheridan, Thomas, McPherson, and Logan, they
press steadily toward the heart of the Confederacy. The rosy dreams
of empire in the great West fade away. Farragut, Porter, and the
giant captain, Grant, cut off the Trans-Mississippi from active
military concert with the rest of the severed Confederacy.

To and fro rolls the red tide of war. Valois' soldierly face,
bronzed with service, shows only the steady devotion of the soldier.
He loves the cause--once dear in its promise--now sacred in its
hours of gloomy peril and incipient decadence. Gettysburg, Vicksburg,
and Port Hudson are terrible omens of a final day of gloom. Letters
from his wife, reports from Judge Hardin, and news from the Western
shores give him only vague hints of the future straggling efforts
on the Pacific. The only comforting tidings are that his wife and
child are well, by the peaceful shores of Lagunitas. The absence
of foreign aid, the lack of substantial support from the Northern
sympathizers, and the slight hold on the ocean of the new government,
dishearten him. The grim pressure everywhere of the Northern lines
tells Valois that the splendid chivalry of the Southern arms is
being forced surely backward. Sword in hand, his resolute mind
unshaken, the Louisianian follows the Stars and Bars, devoted and
never despairing. "Quand meme."

In the long silent days at Lagunitas, the patient wife learns
much from the cautious disclosures of Padre Francisco. Her soldier
husband's letters tell her the absent master of Lagunitas is
winning fame and honor in a dreadful conflict. It is only vaguely
understood by the simple Californian lady.

Her merry child is rapidly forgetting the self-exiled father. Under
the bowers of Lagunitas she romps in leafy alley and shady bower.

Judge Hardin, grave-faced, cautious, frugal of speech, visits the
domain several times. In conference with Padre Francisco and the
vigilant "Kaintuck," he adjusts the accumulating business affairs.

Riding over the billowing fields, mounting the grassy hills,
threading the matchless forests of uncut timber, he sees all. He
sits plotting and dreaming on the porch by the lake side. Thousands
of horses and cattle, now crossed and improved, are wealth wandering
at will on every side. Hardin's dark eyes grow eager and envious.
He gazes excitedly on this lordly domain. Suppose Valois should never
come back. This would be a royal heritage. He puts the maddening
thought away. Within a few miles, mill and flume tell of the tracing
down of golden quartz lodes. The pick breaks into the hitherto
undisturbed quartz ledges of Mariposa gold. Is there gold to be
found here, too? Perhaps.

Only an old prating priest, a simple woman, and an infant, between
him and these thousands of rich acres, should Valois be killed.

Philip Hardin becomes convinced of final defeat, as 1863 draws to
a close. The days of Gettysburg and Vicksburg ring the knell of
the Confederacy. Even the prestige of Chancellorsville, with its
sacred victory sealed with Stonewall Jackson's precious blood,
was lost in the vital blow delivered when the columns of Longstreet
and Pickett failed to carry the heights of Gettysburg.

The troops slain on that field could never be replaced. Boyhood
and old age, alone, were left to fill the vacant ranks. Settling
slowly down, the gloomy days of collapse approach.

While Lee skilfully faced the Army of the Potomac, and the Confederacy
was drained of men to hold the "sacred soil," the Western fields
were lit up by the fierce light of Grant and Sherman's genius. Like
destroying angels, seconded by Rosecrans, Thomas, and McPherson,
these great captains drew out of the smoke of battle, gigantic
figures towering above all their rivals.

Maxime Valois bitterly deplored the uselessness of the war in the
trans-Mississippi section of the Confederacy. It is too late for
any Western divisions to affect the downward course of the sacred
cause for which countless thousands have already died.

The Potomac armies of the Union, torn with the dissensions of
warring generals, wait for the days of the inscrutable Grant and
fiery Philip Sheridan. In the West, the eagle eye of Rosecrans
has caught the weakness of the unguarded roads to the heart of the
Confederacy.

Stone River and Murfreesboro' tell of the wintry struggle to the
death for the open doors of Chattanooga. Though another shall wear
the laurels of victory, it is the proud boast of Rosecrans alone
to have divined the open joint in the enemy's harness. He points
the way to the sea for the irresistible Sherman. While the fearless
gray ranks thin day by day, in march and camp, Valois thinks often
of his distant home. Straggling letters from Philip Hardin tell
him of the vain efforts of the cowed secessionists of the Pacific
Coast. Loyal General George Wright holds the golden coast. Governor
and Legislature, Senators and Congressmen, are united. The press
and public sentiment are now a unit against disunion or separation.

Colonel Valois looked for some effective action of the Knights of
the Golden Circle on the Pacific. Alas, for the gallant exile!
Impending defeat renders the secret conspirators cautious. In the
cheering news that wife and child are well, still guarded by the
sagacious Padre Fran‡ois, Valois frets only over the consecutive
failures of Western conspiracy. Folly and fear make the Knights of
the Golden Circle a timid band. The "Stars and Stripes" wave now,
unchallenged, over Arizona and New Mexico. The Texans at Antelope
Peak never returned to carry the "Stars and Bars" across the
Colorado. Vain boasters!

While Bragg toils and plots to hurl himself on Rosecrans in the
awful day of Chickamauga, where thirty-five thousand dying and
wounded are offered up to the Moloch of Disunion, Valois bitterly
reads Hardin's account of the puerile efforts on the Pacific. It
is only boys' play.

All energy, every spark of daring seems to have left the men who,
secure in ease and fortune, live rich and unharassed in California.
Their Southern brethren in the ranks reel blindly in the bloody
mazes of battle, fighting in the field. A poor Confederate lieutenant
attempts a partisan expedition in the mountains of California. He
is promptly captured. The boyish plan is easily frustrated. Bands
of resolute marauders gather at Panama to attack the Californian
steamers, gold-laden. The vigilance of government agents baffles
them. The mail steamers are protected by rifle guns and bodies
of soldiers. Loyal officers protect passengers from any dash of
desperate men smuggled on board. Secret-service spies are scattered
over all the Western shores. Mails, telegraphs, express, and the
growing railway facilities, are in the hands of the government. It
is Southern defeat everywhere.

Valois sadly realizes the only help from the once enthusiastic
West is a few smuggled remittances. Here and there, some quixotic
volunteer makes his way in. An inspiring yell for Jeff Davis, from
a tipsy ranchero, or incautious pothouse orator, is all that the
Pacific Coast can offer.

The Confederate flag never sweeps westward to the blue Pacific,
and the stars and bars sink lower day by day. As the weakness of
American commerce is manifest on the sea, Colonel Valois forwards
despairing letters to California. He urges attacks from Mexico,
Japan, Panama, or the Sandwich Islands, on the defenceless ships
loaded with American gold and goods. Unheeded, alas! these last
appeals. Unfortunately, munitions of war are not to be obtained in
the Pacific. The American fleets, though poor and scattered, are
skilfully handled. Consuls and diplomats everywhere aid in detecting
the weakly laid plans of the would-be pirates.

Still Valois fumes, sword in hand, at the pusillanimity of the
Western sympathizers. They are rich and should be arming. Why do
they not strike one effective blow for the cause? One gun would sink
a lightly built Pacific liner, or bring its flag down. Millions
of gold are being exported to the East from the treasure fields
of the West. Though proud of the dauntless, ragged gray ranks he
loves, Valois feels that the West should organize a serious attack
on some unprotected Federal interest, to save the issue. But the
miserable failure of Sibley has discouraged Confederate Western
effort. The Confederate Californian grinds his teeth to think that
one resolute dash of the scattered tens of thousands lying in camp,
uselessly, in Arkansas and Texas, would even now secure California.
Even now, as the Confederate line of battle wastes away, desperate
Southern men dream of throwing themselves into Mexico as an
unwelcome, armed immigration. This blood is precious at home.

Stung by the taunts of Eastern friends, at last Philip Hardin and
his co-workers stir to some show of action.

Peacefully loading in San Francisco harbor for Mexico, a heavy schooner
is filled with the best attainable fittings for a piratical cruise.

The J.W. Chapman rises and falls at the wharves at half gun-shot from
the old U.S. frigate CYANE. Her battery could blow the schooner
into splinters, with one broadside. Tackle and gear load the
peaceful-looking cases of "alleged" heavy merchandise. Ammunition
and store of arms are smuggled on board. Mingling unsuspectedly
with the provost guard on the wharves, a determined crew succeed
in fitting out the boat. Her outward "Mexican voyage" is really an
intended descent on the treasure steamers.

Disguised as "heavy machinery," the rifled cannons are loaded.
When ready to slip out of the harbor, past the guard-boats, the
would-be pirate is suddenly seized. The vigilant Federal officials
have fathomed the design. Some one has babbled. Too much talk, or
too much whiskey.

Neatly conceived, well-planned, and all but executed, it was a bold
idea. To capture a heavy Panama steamer, gold-laden; to transfer
her passengers to the schooner, and land them in Mexico; and,
forcing the crew to direct the vessel, to lie in wait for the
second outgoing steamer, was a wise plan. They would then capture
the incoming steamer from Panama, and ravage the coast of California.

With several millions of treasure and three steamers, two of them
could be kept as cruisers of the Confederacy. They could rove over
the Pacific, unchallenged. Their speed would be their safety.

Mexican and South American ports would furnish coal and supplies.
The captured millions would make friends everywhere. The swift
steamers could baffle the antiquated U.S. war vessels on the
Pacific. A glorious raid over the Pacific would end in triumph in
India or China.

These were the efforts and measures urged by Valois and the anxious
Confederates of the East.

It was perfectly logical. It was absolutely easy to make an effective
diversion by sea. But some fool's tongue or spy's keen eye ruins
all.

When, months after the seizure of the CHAPMAN, Valois learns of
this pitiful attempt, he curses the stupid conspirators. They had
not the brains to use a Mexican or Central American port for the
dark purposes of the piratical expedition. Ample funds, resolute
men, and an unprotected enemy would have been positive factors of
success. Money, they had in abundance. Madness and folly seem to
have ruled the half-hearted conspirators of California. An ALABAMA
or two on the Pacific would have been most destructive scourges of
the sea. The last days of opportunity glide by. The prosaic records
of the Federal Court in California tell of the evanescent fame of
Harpending, Greathouse, Rubery, Mason, Kent, and the other would-be
buccaneers. The "Golden Circle" is badly shattered.

Every inlet of the Pacific is watched, after the fiasco of the
Chapman. She lies at anchor, an ignoble prize to the sturdy old
Cyane. It is kismet.

Maxime Valois mourns over the failure of these last plans to save
the "cause." Heart-sick, he only wonders when a Yankee bullet will
end the throbbings of his unconquerable heart. All is dark.

He fears not for his wife and child. Their wealth is secured. He loses,
from day to day, the feelings which tied him once to California.

The infant heiress he hardly knows. His patient, soft-eyed Western
wife is now only a placid memory. Her gentle nature never roused
the inner fires of his passionate soul. Alien to the Pacific
Coast, a soldier of fortune, the ties into which he drifted were
the weavings of Fate. His warrior soul pours out its devotion in
the military oath to guard to the last the now ragged silken folds
of his regimental banner, the dear banner of Louisiana. The eyes
of the graceful Creole beauties who gave it are now wet with bitter
tears. Beloved men are dying vainly, day by day, under its sacred
folds. Even Beauty's spell is vain.

The wild oats are golden once more on the hills of Lagunitas; the
early summer breezes waft stray leaf and blossom over the glittering
lake in the Mariposa Mountains. Heading the tireless riflemen
of his command, Valois throws himself in desperation on the Union
lines at Chickamauga. Crashing volley, ringing "Napoleons," the
wild yell of the onset, the answering cheers of defiance, sound
faintly distant as Maxime Valois drops from his charger. He lies
seriously wounded in the wild rush of Bragg's devoted battalions.
He has got his "billet."

For months, tossing on a bed of pain, the Louisianian is a sacred
charge to his admiring comrades. Far in the hills of Georgia, the
wasted soldier chafes under his absence from the field. The beloved
silken heralds of victory are fluttering far away on the heights of
Missionary Ridge. His faded eye brightens, his hollow cheek flushes
when the glad tidings reach him of the environment of Rosecrans.
His own regiment is at the front. He prays that he may lead it,
when it heads the Confederate advance into Ohio. For now, after
Chickamauga's terrific shock, the tide of victory bears northward
the flag of his adoration. Months have passed since he received any
news of his Western domain. No letters from Donna Dolores gladden
him. Far away from the red hills of Georgia, in tenderness his
thoughts, chastened with illness, turn to the dark-eyed woman who
waits for him. She prays before the benignant face of the Blessed
Virgin for her warrior husband. Alas, in vain!

Silent is Hardin. No news comes from Padre Francisco. Nothing from
his wife. Valois trusts to the future. The increasing difficulty of
contraband mails, hunted blockade-runners, and Federal espionage,
cut off his home tidings.

His martial soul thrilled at the glories of Chickamauga, Valois
learns that California has shown its mettle on the fiercest field
of the West. Cheatham, Brooks, and fearless Terry have led to the
front the wild masses of Bragg's devoted soldiery. These sons of
California, like himself, were no mere carpet knights. On scattered
Eastern fields, old friends of the Pacific have drawn the sword
or gallantly died for Dixie. Garnett laid his life down at Rich
Mountain. Calhoun Benham was a hero of Shiloh. Wild Philip Herbert
manfully dies under the Stars and Bars on the Red River.

The stain of cold indifference is lifted by these and other
self-devoted soldiers who battle for the South.

With heavy sighs, the wounded colonel still mourns for the failure
to raise the Southern Cross in the West. Every day proves how
useless have been all efforts on the Pacific Coast. Virginia is
now the "man eater" of the Confederacy. Valois is haunted with the
knowledge that some one will retrace the path of Rosecrans. Some
genius will break through the open mountain-gates and cut the
Confederacy in twain. It is an awful suspense.

While waiting to join his command, he hungers for home news. Grant,
the indomitable champion of the North, hurls Bragg from Missionary
Ridge. Leaping on the trail of the great army, which for the first
time deserts its guns and flags, the blue-clad pursuers press
on toward Chattanooga. They grasp the iron gate of the South with
mailed hand.

The "Silent Man of Destiny" is called East to measure swords with
stately Lee. He trains his Eastern legions for the last death-grapple.
On the path toward the sea, swinging out like huntsmen, the columns
of Sherman wind toward Atlanta. Bluff, impetuous, worldly wise,
genius inspired, Sherman rears day by day the pyramid of his
deathless fame. Confident and steady, bold and untiring, fierce
as a Hannibal, cunning as a panther, old Tecumseh bears down upon
the indefatigable Joe Johnston. Now comes a game worthy of the
immortal gods. It is played on bloody fields. The crafty antagonists
grapple in every cunning of the art of war. Rivers of human blood
make easy the way. The serpent of the Western army writhes itself
into the vitals of the torn and bleeding South. Everywhere the
resounding crash of arms. Alas, steadfast as Maxime Valois' nature
may be, tried his courage as his own battle blade, the roar of
battle from east to west tells him of the day of wrath! The yells
and groans of the trampled thousands of the Wilderness, are echoed
by the despairing chorus of the dying myriads of Kenesaw and
Dalton. A black pall hangs over a land given up to the butchery
of brothers. Mountain chains, misted in the blue smoke of battle,
rise unpityingly over heaps of unburied dead from the Potomac to
the Mississippi. Maxime Valois knows at last the penalty of the
fatal conspiracy. A sacrificed generation, ruined homes, and the
grim ploughshare of war rives the fairest fields of the Land of
the Cypress.

Fearless and fate-defying, under ringing guns, crashing volley, and
sweeping charge, the Southern veterans only close up the devoted
gray ranks. They are thinning with every conflict, where Lee and
Johnston build the slim gray wall against the resistless blue sea
sweeping down.

There is no pity in the pale moon. The cold, steady stars shine down
on the upturned faces of the South's best and bravest. No craven
blenching when the tattered Stars and Bars bear up in battle blast.
And yet the starry flag crowns mountain and rock. It sweeps through
blood-stained gorges and past battle-scarred defile. Onward,
ever southward. The two giant swordsmen reel in this duel of
desperation. Sherman and Johnston may not be withheld. The hour of
fate is beginning to knell the doom of the cause. Southern mothers
and wives have given up their unreturning brave as a costly sacrifice
on the altar of Baal. Valois, once more in command, a colonel now,
riding pale and desperate, before his men, sees their upturned
glances. The dauntless ranks, filing by, touch his heroic heart.
He fears, when Atlanta's refuge receives the beaten host, that
the end is nigh.

Bereft of news from his home, foreseeing the final collapse in
Virginia, assured that the sea is lost to the South, the colonel's
mood is daily sadder. His hungry eyes are wolfish in their steady
glare. Only a soldier now. His flag is his altar of daily sacrifice.

Port after port falls, foreign flatterers stand coldly aloof,
empty magazines and idle fields are significant signs of the end.
Useless cotton cannot be sent out or made available, priceless
though it be. The rich western Mississippi is now closed as a
supply line for the armies. The paper funds of the new nation are
mere tokens of unpaid promises, never to be redeemed.

Never to falter, not to shun the driving attacks of the pursuing
horse or grappling foot, to watch his battle-flag glittering in the
van, to lead, cheer, hope, inspire, and madly head his men, is the
second nature of Valois. He has sworn not to see his flag dishonored.

It never occurs to him to ask WHERE his creed came from. His blood
thrills with the passionate devotion which blots out any sense of
mere right and wrong. His motto is "For Dixie's Land to Death."


CHAPTER XII.

HOOD'S DAY.--PEACHTREE CREEK.--VALOIS' LAST TRUST.--DE GRESS'
BATTERY.--DEAD ON THE FIELD OF HONOR.


A lantern burns dimly before the tent of Colonel Valois on the night
of July 21, 1864. Within the lines of Atlanta there is commotion.
Myriad lights flicker on the hills. A desperate army at bay is
facing the enemy. Seven miles of armed environment mocks the caged
tigers behind these hard-held ramparts. Facing north and east,
the gladiators of the morrow lie on their arms, ready now for the
summons to fall in, for a wild rush on Sherman's pressing lines.
It is no holiday camp, with leafy bowers and lovely ladies straying
in the moonlight. No dallying and listening to Romeos in gray and
gold. No silver-throated bugles wake the night with "Lorena." No
soft refrain of the "Suwanee River" melts all the hearts. It is
not a gala evening, when "Maryland, my Maryland," rises in grand
appeal. The now national "Dixie" tells not of fields to be won.
It is a dark presage of the battle morrow. Behind grim redan and
salient, the footsore troops rest from the day's indecisive righting.
The foeman is not idle; all night long, rumbling trains and busy
movements tell that "Uncle Billy Sherman" never sleeps. His blue
octopus crawls and feels its way unceasingly. The ragged gray ranks,
whose guns are their only pride, whose motto is "Move by day; fight
always," are busy with the hum of preparation.

It is a month of horror. North and South stand aghast at the
unparalleled butchery of the Wilderness and Spottsylvania. The
awful truth that Grant has paved his bloody way to final victory
with one hundred thousand human bodies since he crossed the
Rapidan, makes the marrow cold in the bones of the very bravest.
Sixty thousand foes, forty thousand friends, are the astounding
death figures. As if the dark angel of death was not satisfied with
a carnage unheard of in modern times, Johnston, the old Marshal
Ney of the Confederacy, gives way, in command of the Southern army
covering Atlanta, to J.B. Hood. He is the Texan lion. Grizzled
Sherman laughs on the 18th of July, when his spies tell him Johnston
is relieved. "Replenish every caisson from the reserve parks;
distribute campaign ammunition," he says, briefly. "Hood would
assault me with a corporal's guard. He will fight by day or night.
I know him," Uncle Billy says.

The great Tecumseh feels a twinge as he whips out this verdict.
Hood's tactics are fearful. There are thousands of mute witnesses of
his own fatal rashness lying at Kenesaw, whose tongues are sealed
in death. On that sad clay, Sherman out-Hooded Hood. But the
blunt son of Ohio is right. He is a demi-god in intellect, and yet
he has the intuition of femininity. He has caught Hood's fighting
character at a glance.

There's no time to chaffer over the situation. McPherson, the pride
of the army, Thomas, the Rock of Chickamauga, and wary Schofield,
draw in the great Union forces. Gallant Howard is in this knightly
circle. "Black Jack" Logan, the "Harry Monmouth" of this coming
field, connects on the 19th. There has been hot work to-day. Firing
in Thomas's front tells the great strategist that Hood has tasted
blood. Enough!

Sherman knows how that mad Texan will throw his desperate men to
the front, in the snapping, ringing zone of fire and flame. Hooker
receives the shock of the onset, reinforced by heavy batteries, whose
blazing guns tear lightning-rent lanes through the Confederates.
Not a second to lose. The gray swarms are pouring on like mountain
wolves.

Fighting sharp and hot, the Union lines reach the strong defences
of Peachtree Creek. Here Confederate Gilmer's engineering skill
has prepared ditch and fraise, abattis and chevaux-de-frise, with
yawning graves for the soon-forgotten brave.

McPherson, Schofield, Howard, Hooker, and Palmer are all in line,
deployed with strong reserves.

Anxious Sherman sends clouds of orderly officers and scouts, right
and left. Hood's defiant volleys die away. Will the rush come to-day?
No; the hours wear away. The night brings quiet along the lines.
Though a red harvest lies on the field, it is not the crowning
effort of the entire enemy. It is only a rattling day of uneasy,
hot-tempered fight.

But the awful morrow is to come. Sherman soon divines the difficulty
of fathoming the Texan's real designs. Hood is familiar with the
ground. Drawing back to the lines of Atlanta, Hood crouches for
a desperate spring. The ridges of the red clay hills, with little
valleys running to the Chattahoochee in the west, and Ocmulgee
in the east, cover his manoeuvres. Corn and cotton patches, with
thick forests between, lie along the extended front. A tangled
undergrowth masks the entire movements of the lurking enemy.

Tireless Sherman, expectant of some demoniac rush, learns that the
array before him is under Hood, Hardee, and the audacious cavalry
leader, Wheeler. Stewart's and Smith's Georgian levies are also in
line.

Every disposition is made by the wary antagonists. Sherman,
eagle-eyed and prompt to join issue, gains a brief repose before
the gray of morning looses the fires of hell. McPherson, young and
brilliant, whose splendid star is in its zenith, firmly holds his
exposed lines along the railroad between two valleys. In his left
and rear, the forest throws out dark shades to cover friend and
foe. Between the waiting armies, petty murder stays its hands. The
stars sweep to the west, bringing the last morning to thousands.
They are now dreaming, perhaps, of the homes they will never see.
A thrill of nervous tension keeps a hundred thousand men in vague,
dumb expectancy. The coming shock will be terrible. No one can tell
the issue.

As the worn Confederate sentinel drags up and down before the tent
of Colonel Valois, he can see the thoughtful veteran sitting, his
tired head resting on a wasted hand.

Spirit and high soul alone animate now the Louisiana colonel. Hope
has fled. Over his devoted head the sentinel stars swing, with
neither haste nor rest, toward the occident. They will shine on
Lagunitas, smiling, fringed with its primeval pines.

In her sleep, perhaps his little girl calls for him in vain. He is
doomed not to hear that childish voice again.

A bundle of letters, carelessly tossed down at head-quarters,
have been carried in his bosom during the day's scattering fight.
They are all old in their dates, and travel-worn in following the
shifting positions of his skeleton regiment. They bring him, at
last, nearly a year's news.

Suddenly he springs to his feet, and his voice is almost a shriek.
"Sentinel, call the corporal." In a moment, Valois, with quivering
lip, says, "Corporal, ask Major Peyton to be kind enough to join
me for a few moments."

When his field-officer approaches, anticipating some important
charge of duty, sword and revolver in hand, the ghastly face of
Valois alarms him.

"Colonel!" he cries. Valois motions him to be seated.

"Peyton," begins Valois, brokenly, "I am struck to the heart."

He is ashy pale. His head falls on his friend's bosom.

"My wife!" He needs not finish. The open letters tell the story.
It is death news.

The major clasps his friend's thin hands.

"Colonel, you must bear up. We are fallen on sad, sad days." His
voice fails him. "Remember to-morrow; we must stand for the South."

The chivalric Virginian's voice sounds hollow and strange. He sought
the regiment, won over by Valois' lofty courage and stern military
pride. To-morrow the army is to grapple and crush bold Sherman.
It will be a death struggle.

Yes, out of these walls, a thunderbolt, the heavy column, already
warned, was to seek the Union left, and strike a Stonewall Jackson
blow. Its march will be covered by the friendly woods. The keen-eyed
adjutants are already warning the captains of every detail of
the attack. Calm and unmoved, the gaunt centurions of the thinned
host accepted the honorable charges of the forlorn hope. Valois'
powder-seasoned fragment of the army was a "corps d'elite." Peyton
wondered, as he watched his suffering colonel, if either would see
another sparkling jewel-braided night.

The blow of Hood must be the hammer of Thor.

"To-morrow, yes, to-morrow," mechanically replied Valois. "I will
be on duty to-morrow."

"To-night, Peyton," he simply said, "I must suffer my last agony.
My poor Dolores! Gone--my wife."

The tears trickled through his fingers as he bowed his graceful
head.

"And my little Isabel," he softly said; "she will be an orphan.
Will God protect that tender child? "Valois was talking to himself,
with his eyes fixed on the dark night-shadows hiding the Federal
lines. A stern, defiant gaze.

Peyton shivered with a nervous chill.

"Colonel, this must not be." In the silence of the brooding night,
it seems a ghastly call from another world, this message of death.

Valois proudly checks himself.

"Peyton, I have few friends left in this land now. I want you to
look these letters over." He hands him several letters from Hardin
and from the priest. With tender delicacy, his hands close on the
last words of affection from the gentle dark-eyed wife, who brought
him the great dowry of Lagunitas, and gave him his little Isabel.

Peyton reads the words, old in date but new in their crushing force
of sorrow to the husband. Resting on the stacked arms in front
of his tent, the colors of Louisiana and the silken shreds of the
Stars and Bars wait for the bugles of reveille calling again to
battle.

Dolores dying of sudden illness, cut off in her youthful prime, was
only able to receive the last rites of the Church, to smile fondly
in her last moments, as she kisses the picture of the absent soldier
of the Southern Cross. Fran‡ois Ribaut, the French gentleman, writes
a sad letter, with no formula of the priest. He knows Maxime Valois
is face to face with death, in these awful days of war. A costly
sacrifice on the altar of Southern rights may be his fate at any
moment.

It is to comfort, not admonish, to pledge every friendly office,
that the delicate-minded padre softens the blow. Later, the priest
writes of the lonely child, whose tender youth wards off the blow
of the rod of sorrow.

Philip Hardin's letter mainly refers to the important business
interests of the vast estate. The possibility of the orphanage of
Isabel occurs. He suggests the propriety of Colonel Valois' making
and forwarding a new will, and constituting a guardianship of the
young heiress. In gravest terms of friendship, he reminds Valois
to indicate his wishes as to the child, her nurture and education.
The fate of a soldier may overtake her surviving parent any day.

Other unimportant issues drop out of sight. Hardin has told of
the last attempt to fit out a schooner at a secluded lumber landing
in Santa Cruz County. They tried to smuggle on board a heavy
gun secretly transported there. An assemblage of desperate men,
gathering in the lonely woods, were destined to man the boat. By
accident, the Union League discovers the affair. Flight is forced
on the would-be pirates.

Valois' lip curls as he tells Peyton of the utter prostration of
the last Confederate hope beyond the Colorado. All vain and foolish
schemes.

"I wish your advice, Major," he resumes. In brief summing up,
he gives Peyton the outline of his family history and his general
wishes.

A final result of the hurried conclave is the hasty drawing up
of a will. It is made and duly witnessed. It makes Philip Hardin
guardian of the heiress and sole executor of his testament. His
newly descended property he leaves to the girl child, with directions
that she shall be sent to Paris. She is to be educated to the time
of her majority at the "Sacred Heart." There in that safe retreat,
where the world's storms cannot reach the defenceless child, he
feels she will be given the bearing and breeding of a Valois. She
must be fitted for her high fortunes.

He writes a fond letter to Father Francisco, to whom he leaves
a handsome legacy, ample to make him independent of all pecuniary
cares. He adjures that steadfast friend to shield his darling's
childhood, to follow and train her budding mind in its development.
He informs him of every disposition, and sends the tenderest thanks
for a self-devotion of years.

The farewell signature is affixed. Colonel Valois indites to Judge
Philip Hardin a letter of last requests. It is full of instructions
and earnest appeal. When all is done, he closes his letter. "I
send you every document suggested. My heart is sore. I can no longer
write. I will lead my regiment to-morrow in a desperate assault.
If I give my life for my country, Hardin, let my blood seal this
sacred bond between you and me. I leave you my motherless child.
May God deal with you and yours as you shall deal with the beloved
little one, whose face I shall never see.

"If I had a thousand lives I would lay them down for the flag which
may cover me to-morrow night. Old friend, remember a dying man's
trust in you and your honor."

When Peyton has finished reading these at Colonel Valois' request,
his eyes are moist. To-night the bronzed chief is as tender as a
woman. The dauntless soul, strong in battle scenes, is shaken with
the memories of a motherless little one. She must face the world
alone, God's mercy her only stay.

Colonel Valois, who has explained the isolation of the child, has
left his estate in remainder to the heirs of Judge Valois, of New
Orleans.

Old and tottering to his tomb is that veteran jurist. The
possible heir would be Armand, the boy student, cut off in Paris.
No home-comings now. The ports are all closed.

When all is prepared, Colonel Valois says tenderly: "Peyton, I
have some money left at Havana. I will endorse these drafts to you,
and give you a letter to the banker there. You can keep them for
me. I want you to ride into Atlanta and see these papers deposited.
Let there be made a special commission for their delivery to our
agent at Havana. Let them leave Atlanta at once. I want no failure
if Sherman storms the city. I will not be alive to see it."

Awed by the prophetic coolness of Valois' speech, Peyton sends for
his horse. He rides down to the town, where hundreds on hundreds
of wounded sufferers groan on every side. Thousands desperately
wait in the agony of suspense for the morrow's awful verdict. He
gallops past knots of reckless merry-makers who jest on the edge
of their graves. Henry Peyton bears the precious packet and delivers
it to an officer of the highest rank. He is on the eve of instant
departure for the sea-board. Cars and engines are crowded with the
frightened people, flying from the awful shock of Hood's impending
assault.

This solemn duty performed, the Major rejoins Colonel Valois at a
gallop. Lying on his couch, Valois' face brightens as he springs
from his rest. "It is well. I thank you," he simply says. He is
calm, even cheerful. The bonhomie of his race is manifest. "Major
Peyton," he says, pleasantly, "I would like you to remember the
matters of this evening. Should you live through this war the
South will be in wild disorder. I have referred to your kindness,
in my letter to Hardin and in a paper I have enclosed to him. It
is for my child. You will have a home at Lagunitas if you ever go
to California."

He discusses a few points of the movement of the morrow. There is
no extra solemnity in going under fire. They have lived in a zone
of fire since Sherman's pickets crossed the open, months ago. But
this supreme effort of Hood marks a solemn epoch. The great shops
and magazines of Atlanta, the railroad repair works, foundries and
arsenals, the geographical importance, studied fortifications, and
population to be protected, make the city a stronghold of ultimate
importance to the enfeebled South.

If the Northern bayonets force these last doors of Georgia, then
indeed the cause is desperate.

When midnight approached, Colonel Valois calmly bade his friend
"Good-night." Escorting him to his tent, he whispers, "Peyton, take
your coffee with me to-morrow. I will send for you."

Slumber wraps friend and foe alike. All too soon the gray dawn
points behind the hills. There is bustle and confusion. Shadowy
groups cluster around the waning fires long before daybreak. The
gladiators are falling into line. Softly, silently, day steals over
the eastern hills. Is it the sun of Austerlitz or of Waterloo?

Uneasy picket-firing ushers in the battle day. Colonel Valois and
Major Peyton share their frugal meal. The rattle of picket shots
grows into a steady, teasing firing. Well-instructed outpost officers
are carrying on this noisy mockery.

Massed behind the circling lines of Atlanta, within the radius of
a mile and a half, the peerless troops who DOUBT Hood's ability,
but who ADORE his dauntless bravery, are silently massed for the
great attack.

The officers of Valois' regiment, summoned by the adjutant, receive
their Colonel's final instructions. His steady eye turns fondly on
the men who have been his comrades, friends, and devoted admirers.
"Gentlemen," he says, "we will have serious work to-day. I shall
expect you to remember what Georgia hopes from Louisiana."

Springing to his saddle, he doffs his cap as the head of the regiment
files by, in flank movement. The lithe step, steady swing, and
lightly poised arms proclaim matchless veterans. They know his
every gesture in the field. He is their idol.

As Peyton rides up, he whispers (for the colors have passed), "Henry,
if you lead the regiment out of this battle, I ask you never to
forget my last wishes." The two friends clasp hands silently. With
a bright smile, whose light lingers as he spurs past the springy
column, he takes the lead, falcon-eyed, riding down silently into
the gloomy forest-shades of death.

A heavy mass of troops, pushing out in swift march, works steadily
to the Union left, and gains its ground rapidly. The Seventeenth
Corps of Blair, struck in flank, give way. The Sixteenth Union
Corps of Dodge are quickly rushed up. The enemy are struck hard.
Crash and roar of battle rise now in deafening clamor. Away to
the unprotected Union rear ride the wild troopers of Wheeler. The
whole left of Sherman's troops are struck at disadvantage. They are
divided, or thrown back in confusion toward Decatur. The desperate
struggle sways to and fro till late in the day. With a rush of
Hood's lines, Murray's battery of regular artillery is captured.
The Stars and Bars sweep on in victory.

Onward press the Confederate masses in all the pride of early
victory. The Fifteenth Corps, under Morgan L. Smith, make a desperate
attempt to hold on at a strong line of rifle pits. The seething
gray flood rolls upon them and sends them staggering back four
hundred yards. Over two cut-off batteries, the deadly carnage smites
blue and gray alike. Charge and countercharge succeed in the mad
struggle for these guns. Neither side can use them until a final
wave shall sweep one set of madmen far away.

With desperate valor, Morgan L. Smith at last claims the prize. His
cheering troops send double canister from the regained batteries
into the gray columns of attack. General Sherman, at a deserted
house, where he has made his bivouac, paces the porch like a restless
tiger. The increasing firing on the left, tells him of this heavy
morning attack. A map spread on a table catches his eye from time
to time. The waiting crowd of orderlies and staff officers have,
one by one, dashed off to reform the lines or strengthen the left.
While the firing all along the line is everywhere ominous, the
roar on the left grows higher and higher. Out from the fatal woods
begin to stream weary squads of the wounded and stragglers. The
floating skulkers hover at the edge of the red tide of conflict.

Ha! A wounded aide dashes up with tidings of the ominous gap on the
left. That fearful sweep of Wheeler's cavalry to the rear is known
at last by the fires of burning trains. With a few brief words of
counsel, and a nod of his stately head, McPherson, the splendid
light of battle on his brow, gallops away to reform these broken
lines. The eye of the chief must animate his corps.

Hawk-eyed Sherman watches the glorious young general as he turns
into the forest. A grim look settles on the general's face. He runs
his eye over the map. As the tiger's approach is heralded by the
clatter of the meaner animals, so from out that forest the human
debris tell of Hood's battle hammer crashing down on that left "in
air." Is there yet time to reform a battle, now fighting itself in
sudden bloody encounters? All is at haphazard. A sigh of relief.
McPherson is there. His ready wit, splendid energy, and inspiring
presence are worth a thousand meaner souls, in the wild maelstrom
of that terrible July day.

Old Marshal Tecumseh, with unerring intuition, knows that the
creeping skirmishers have felt the whole left of his position. With
the interior lines and paths of the forest to aid, if anything has
gone wrong, if gap or lap has occurred, then on those unguarded
key-points and accidental openings, the desperate fighters of the
great Texan will throw their characteristic fierceness. Atlanta's
tall chimneys rise on the hills to the west. There, thousands, with
all at stake, listen to the rolling notes of this bloody battle.
High in the air, bursting shells with white puffs light up the
clouds of musketry smoke. Charging yells are borne down the wind,
with ringing answering cheers. The staccato notes of the snapping
Parrotts accentuate the battle's din.

Sherman, with cloudy brow, listens for some news of the imperilled
left wing. Is the iron army of the Tennessee to fail him now? Seven
miles of bayonets are in that great line, from left to right, headed
by McPherson, Schofield, and Thomas, the flower of the Union Army.

Looking forward to a battle outside Atlanta, a siege, or a flanking
bit of military chesswork, the great Union commander is dragged
now into a purely defensive battle. Where is McPherson?

Sherman has a quarter of an hour of horrible misgiving. He saw the
mad panic of the first Bull Run. He led the only compact body of
troops off that fatal field himself. It was his own brigade. In
his first-fought field, he showed the unshakable nerve of Macdonald
at Wagram. But he has also seen the fruits of the wild stampede
of McCook and Crittenden's divisions since at Chickamauga. It tore
the laurels from Rosecrans' brow. Is this to be a panic? Rosecrans'
defeat made Sherman the field-marshal of the West.

At Missionary Ridge, even the invincibles of the South fled their
lines in sudden impulse, giving up an almost impregnable position.
The haughty old artillerist, Braxton Bragg, was forced to officially
admit that stampede. He added a few dozen corpses to his disciplinary
"graveyards," "pour encourager les autres." Panic may attack even
the best army.

Is it panic now swelling on the breeze of this roaring fight? Fast
and far his hastily summoned messengers ride. To add a crowning
disaster to the confusion of the early morning death grapple, the
sun does not touch the meridian before a bleeding aide brings back
McPherson's riderless horse. Where is the general? Alas, where?

Dashing far ahead of his staff and orderlies, tearing from wood
to wood, to close in the fatal gap and reface his lines--a volley
from a squad of Hood's pickets drops the great corps commander,
McPherson, a mangled corpse, in the forest. No such individual loss
to either army has happened since Stonewall Jackson's untimely end
at Chancellorsville.

His rifled body is soon recovered. With super-human efforts it is
borne to the house in the clearing and laid at General Sherman's
feet.

Lightning flashes of wit traverse Sherman's brain. Every rebel
straggler is instantly searched as he is swept in. The invaluable
private papers of General McPherson, the secret orders, and campaign
plans are found in the haversack of one of the captured skirmishers.
These, at least, are safe.

With this blow, comes the news of the Seventeenth Corps being thrown
back, far out of its place, by the wild rush of Hood's braves. All
goes wrong. The day is lost.

Will it be a Bull Run?

No! The impetuous Logan tears along his lines. "Black Jack's"
swarthy face brings wild cheers from the men, who throw themselves
madly on the attacking lines, seeking vengeance. The Fifteenth
Corps' rifles are sounding shotted requiem salvos for their lost
leader. The Seventeenth holds on and connects. The Sixteenth Corps,
struck heavily in flank by the victorious Confederates, faces into
line of battle to the left. It grimly holds on, and pours in its
leaden hail. Smith's left flank doubled back, joining Leggett,
completes the reformed line. From high noon till the darkness of
the awful night, a general conflict rages along the whole front.
War in its grim horror.

Sherman, casting a wistful glance on the body of McPherson, stands
alert. He is as bristling as a wild boar at bay. Sherman at his
best.

Is this their worst? No, for at four in the afternoon, a terrific
sally from Atlanta throws the very flower of the assailants on the
bloody knoll, evermore to be known as "Leggett's Hill." There is
madness and demoniac fury in the way those gray columns struggle
for that ridge.

In vain does Hood send out his bravest stormers to crown the
wished-for position of Leggett.

Sherman is as sure of Atlanta now, as if his eagles towered over
its domes. Drawing to the left the corps of Wood, massing Schofield
with twenty heavy guns playing on Hood's charging columns, Sherman
throws Wood, backed by John A. Logan's victorious veterans, on the
great body of the reeling assailants. The final blow has met its
stone wall, in the lines of Leggett. The blue takes up the offensive,
with wild cheers of triumph. They reach "Uncle Billy's" ears.

Some decisive stroke must cut the tangle of the involved forces.
When Hood sees that his devoted troops have not totally crushed the
Union left, when his columns reel back from Leggett's Hill, mere
fragments, he knows that even his dauntless men cannot be asked to
try again that fearful quest. It is checkmate!

But Wheeler is still careering in destruction around Sherman's rear
parks, and ravaging his supplies. Hood persists in his desperate
design to pierce the Union lines somewhere. He throws away his
last chance of keeping an army together. His fiery valor bade him
defend Atlanta from the OUTSIDE. He now sends a last thunderbolt
crashing on the Decatur road.

During the day Valois' regiment has been thrown in here and there.
The stern colonel gazes with pride on the seasoned fighters at
their grim work.

But it is after four when Colonel Valois is ordered to mass his
regiment, followed by the last reserve, and lead it to the front
in the supreme effort of this awful day. His enemy in front is a
Union battery, which has been a flail to the Southern army.

In dozens of encounters the four heavy twenty-pound Parrotts of De
Gress have been an object of the maddest attack. Superbly handled,
in the best equipment, its high power, long range, and dashing
energy have given to this battery the rank in the West, which John
Pelham's light artillery gained under Lee's eyes in Virginia. The
pride of Sherman's artillery is the famous battery of De Gress.
To-day it has been dealing out death incessantly, at half musket-range.
It has swept rank on rank of the foes away. Now, with the frenzy of
despair, General Hood sends a forlorn column to pierce the Union
lines, carry the road, and take those renowned guns. A lull betokens
the last rush.

Riding to the front, Colonel Valois reins up beside Major Peyton.
There is only time for a few last directions. A smile which haunts
Peyton for many a long day, flashes on Maxime Valois' stern lips.
He dashes on, waving his sword, and cries in his ringing voice,

"Come on, boys, for Louisiana!"

Springing like panthers into the open, the closed ranks bound toward
the fated guns at a dead run. Ha! There was a crashing salvo. Now,
it is load and fire at will. Right and left, fire pours in on the
guns, whose red flashes singe the very faces of the assailants.
Peyton's quick eye sees victory wavering. Dashing towards the
guns he cheers his men. As he nears the battery the Louisiana
color-bearer falls dead. Henry Peyton seizes the Pelican flag, and
dashes on over friends, dead and dying, as his frightened steed
races into the battery.

There, every horse is down. The guns are now silent. A knot of men,
with clubbed rammers, bayonet thrusts, and quick revolver shots,
fight for the smoking cannon. A cheer goes up. De Gress's guns are
taken. Peyton turns his head to catch a glimpse of Colonel Valois.
Grasping the star-spangled guidon of the battery with his bridle
hand, Valois cuts down its bearer.

A wild yell rises as a dozen rebel bayonets are plunged into a
defiant fugitive, for he has levelled his musket point-blank and
shot Valois through the heart.

The leader's frightened charger bounds madly to the front, and the
Louisiana colonel falls heavily to the ground.

Clasped in his clenched hands, the silken folds of the captured
battery flag are dyed with his blood. A dozen willing arms raise
the body, bearing it to one side, for the major, mindful of the
precious moments, yells to "swing the guns and pass the caissons."
In a minute, the heavy Parrotts of De Gress are pouring their
shrapnel into the faces of the Union troops, who are, three hundred
yards away, forming for a rush to recapture them.

As the cannon roar their defiance to the men who hold them dear,
Peyton bends over Maxime Valois. The heart is stilled forever.
With his stiffening fingers clutching his last trophy, the "Stars
and Stripes," there is the light of another world shining on the
face of the dead soldier of the Southern Cross. Before sending his
body to the rear, Henry Peyton draws from Valois' breast a packet
of letters. It is the last news from the loved wife he has rejoined
across the shadowy river. United in death. Childish Isabel is indeed
alone in the world. A rain of shrieking projectiles and bursting
shells tells of the coming counter-charge.

Drawing back the guns by hand to a cover for the infantry, and
rattling the caissons over a ridge to screen the ammunition boxes,
the shattered rebel ranks send volleys into the faces of the lines
of Schofield, now coming on at a run.

The captured Parrotts ring and scream. One over-heated gun of the
battery bursts, adding its horrors to the struggle. Logan's men are
leaping over the lines to right and left, bayoneting the gunners.
The Louisianians give way and drift to the rear. The evening shadows
drop over crest, wood, and vale. When the first stars are in the
skies Hood's shattered columns stream back into Atlanta. The three
guns of De Gress have changed hands again. Even the bursted piece
falls once more under the control of the despairing Union artillery
captain. He has left him neither men, horses, fittings, nor harness
available--only three dismantled guns and the wreck of his fourth
piece. But they are back again! Sherman's men with wildest shouts
crowd the field. They drive the broken remnants of the proud
morning array under the guns of the last lines of the doomed city.
Dare-devil Hood has failed. The desperate dash has cost ten thousand
priceless men. The brief command of the Texan fighter has wrecked
the invaluable army of which Joe Johnston was so mindful.

McPherson, who joined the subtlety of Stonewall to the superb bearing
of Sidney Johnston, a hero born, a warrior, and great captain to
be, lies under the stars in the silent chambers of the Howard House.

General Sherman, gazing on his noble features, calm in death,
silently mourns the man who was his right hand. Thomas, Schofield,
Howard, Logan, and Slocum stand beside the dead general. They bewail
the priceless sacrifice of Peachtree Creek.

In the doomed city of Atlanta, there is gloom and sadness. With
the fragments of the regiment which adored him, a shattered guard
of honor, watching over him with yet loaded guns, in charge of the
officers headed by Major Peyton, the body of Maxime Valois rests
within the Southern lines.

For the dear land of his birth he had abandoned the fair land of
his choice. With the captured banner of his country in his hand,
he died in the hour of a great personal triumph, "under the Stars
and Bars." Game to the last.

High-souled and devoted, the son of Louisiana never failed the call
of his kinsmen. He carried the purest principles to the altar of
Secession.

Watching by the shell from which the dauntless spirit had fled in
battle and in storm, Henry Peyton feels bitterly that the fate of
Atlanta is sealed. He knows the crushing of their weak lines will
follow. He can picture Sherman's heavy columns taking city after
city, and marching toward the blue sea.

The end is approaching. A gloomier darkness than the night of the
last battle broods over the Virginian. With pious reverence, he
hastens to arrange the few personal matters of his chief. He knows
not the morrow. The active duties of command will soon take up
all his time. He must keep the beloved regiment together.

For, of the two or three companies left of a regiment "whose
bayonets were once a thousand," Henry Peyton is the colonel now.
A "barren honor," yet inexpressibly dear to him.

In the face of the enemy, within the lines held hard by the reorganizing
fragments of yesterday's host, the survivors bury the brave leader
who rode so long at their head. Clad in his faded gray, the colonel
lies peacefully awaiting the great Reveille.

When the sloping bayonets of the regiment glitter, for the last
time, over the ramparts their generous blood has stained in fight,
as the defeated troops move away, many a stout heart softens as
they feel they are leaving alone and to the foe the lost idol of
their rough worship.

Major Peyton preserves for the fatherless child the personal relics
of his departed friend. Before it is too late, he despatches them
to the coast, to be sent to Havana, to await Judge Hardin's orders
at the bankers'. The news of the fate of Colonel Valois, and the
last wishes of the dead Confederate, are imparted in a letter to
Judge Hardin by Peyton.

In the stern realities of the last retreat, fighting and marching,
after the winter snows have whitened the shot-torn fields around
Atlanta; sick of carnage and the now useless bloodshed, Colonel
Peyton leads his mere detachment to the final scene of the North
Carolina surrender. Grant's iron hand has closed upon Petersburg's
weakened lines. Sheridan's invincible riders, fresh from the
Shenandoah, have shattered the steadfast at Five Forks.

Gloomy days have fallen, also, on the cause in the West. The
despairing valor of the day at Franklin and the assault on Nashville
only needlessly add to. the reputation for frantic bravery
of the last of the magnificent Western armies of the Confederacy.
Everywhere there are signs of the inevitable end. With even the sad
news of Appomattox to show him that the great cause is irretrievably
lost, there are bitter tears in Henry Peyton's eyes when he sees
the flags of the army he has served with, lowered to great Sherman
in the last surrender.

The last order he will ever give to them turns out for surrender
the men whose reckless bravery has gilded a "Lost Cause" with a
romantic halo of fadeless glory. Peyton sadly sheathes the sword he
took from Maxime Valois' dead hands. Southward, he takes his way.
Virginia is now only a graveyard and one vast deserted battle-field.
The strangers' bayonets are shining at Richmond. He cannot revisit
the scenes of his boyhood. A craving seizes him for new scenes
and strange faces. He yearns to blot out the war from his memory.
He dreams of Mexico, Cuba, or the towering Andes of South America.
His heart is too full to linger near the scenes where the red
earth lies heaped over his brethren of the sword. Back to Atlanta
he travels, with the returning fragments of the men who are now
homeward bound. All is silent now. From wood and hill no rattling
fire wakes the stillness of these days. The blackened ruins and
the wide swath cut by Sherman tell him how true was the prediction
that the men of the Northwest would "hew their way to the Gulf
with their swords." He finds the grave of Valois, when dismantled
and crippled Atlanta receives him again. Standing there, alone, the
pageantry of war has rolled away. The battle-fields are covered
with wild roses. The birds nest in the woods where Death once reigned
supreme. High in the air over Atlanta the flag of the country waves,
on the garrison parade, with not a single star erased.

On his way to a self-appointed exile, the Virginian has seen the
wasted fields, blackened ruins, and idle disheartened communities
of the conquered, families brought to misery, and the young
arms-bearing generation blotted out. Hut and manor-house have been
licked up by the red torch of war. The hollow-eyed women, suffering
children, and dazed, improvident negroes, wander around aimlessly.
Bridges, mills and factories in ruins tell of the stranger's torch,
and the crashing work of the artillery. Tall, smokeless chimneys
point skywards as monuments of desolation.

Bowed in defeat, their strongholds are yet occupied by the
blue-coated victors. All that is left of the Southern communities
lingers in ruined homes and idle marts. They now are counting the
cost of attempted secession, in the gloom of despair.

The land is one vast graveyard. The women who mourn husbands and
lovers stray over fields of strife, and wonder where the loved one
sleeps. Friend and foe, "in one red burial blent," are lying down
in the unbroken truce of death.

Atlanta's struggle against the restless Sherman has been only
wasted valor, a bootless sacrifice. Her terrific sallies, lightning
counter-thrusts, and final struggles with the after-occupation, can
be traced in the general desolation, by every step of the horrible
art of war.

Here, by the grave of his intrepid comrade, Henry Peyton reviews
the past four years. His scars and wasted frame tell him of many
a deadly fray, and the dangers of the insane fight for State rights.

The first proud days of the war return. Hopes that have failed
long since are remembered. The levy and march to the front, the
thousand watch-fires glittering around the unbroken hosts, whose
silken-bordered banners tell of the matchless devotion of the
women clinging blindly to the cause.

Peyton thinks now of the loved and lost who bore those flags,
to-day furled forever, to the front, at Bull Run, Shiloh, the Seven
Days, Groveton, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Chickamauga, and
Spottsylvania.

The foreign friends in Europe, the daring rovers of the sea
who carried the Stars and Bars from off New York to Singapore and
far Behring Straits. What peerless leaders. Such deep, sagacious
statesmen. The treasures of the rich South, the wealth of King
Cotton, all wasted uselessly. A popular devotion, which deeply
touched the magnanimous Grant in the supreme hour of victory, has
been lavished on the altar of the Confederacy where Davis, Lee,
and Jackson were enthroned. Fallen gods now, but still majestic
and yet revered.

Peyton thinks with an almost breaking heart of all these sacrifices
for the Lost Cause. By his friend's grave he feels that an awful
price has been paid for the glories of the short-lived Confederacy.

The noble-hearted Virginian dares not hope that there may yet be
found golden bands of brotherhood to knit together the children of
the men who fought under gray and blue. Frankly acknowledging the
injustice of the early scorn of the Northern foe, he knows, from
glances cast backward over the storied fields, the vigor of the
North was under-estimated. The men of Donelson, Antietam, Stone
River, Vicksburg, awful Gettysburg, of Winchester, and Five Forks,
are as true and tried as ever swung a soldier's blade.

He has seen the country's flag of stars stream out bravely against
the tide of defeat. If American valor needs a champion the men
who saw the "Yankees" at Seven Pines, Gaines Mill, Marye's Heights,
and holding in fire and flame the batteries of Corinth and Knoxville,
will swear the embittered foes were worthy of each other.

The defeated Confederate veteran, as he plucks a rose from the grass
growing over the gallant Valois, bitterly remembers the useless
sacrifices of the whole Southern army to the "Virginia policy." A
son of the "old State" himself, he can feel now, in the sorrow and
silence of defeat, that the early triumphs of the war were wasted.
The great warlike generation was frittered away on the Potomac.

Devoted to Lee, he still mourns the lost months of the fall of '61,
when, flushed with triumph, the Confederates could have entered
Washington. Then Maryland would have risen "en masse." Foreign
lands would have been won over. An aggressive policy even in 1862,
after the Peninsula, might have changed the final result. The dead
Californian's regrets for the abandonment of all effort in the
Pacific, the cutting-off and uselessness of the great trans-Mississippi
region, all return to him in vain sorrow.

By Maxime Valois' grave, Peyton wonders if the battle-consecrated
blood of the sons has washed away the sins of the fathers. He
knows not of the brighter days, when the past shall seem a vision
of romance. When our country will smile in peace and brotherhood,
from ocean to ocean. Sadly he uncovers his head. He leaves Maxime
Valois lying in the proud silence of the soldier's grave--"dead on
the field of honor."

To New Orleans Colonel Peyton repairs. On making search, he finds
that Judge Valois has not survived the collapse of the Confederacy.
His only son is abroad, in Paris. The abandoned plantations and
family property are under the usual load of debt, taxes, and all
the legal confusion of a change of rulers.

Peyton thanks the dead soldier in his heart for the considerable
legacy of his unused balances. He is placed beyond immediate
necessity. He leaves the land where the Southern Cross met defeat.
He wishes to wander over Cuba, Mexico, and toward the West. At
Havana, he finds that the documents and articles forwarded by the
agents to Judge Hardin have been duly sent though never acknowledged.

The letters taken from Colonel Valois' body he seals in a packet.
He trusts that fate may lead him some day westward. They are too
precious to risk. He may some day tell the little lady of Lagunitas,
of the gallant father whose thoughts, before his last battle, were
only for the beloved "little one." She is confided, as a trust,
from the dying to Judge Hardin. She is surely safe in the sheltering
care of Valois' oldest friend. A "Southern gentleman."

Peyton for years can bring back the tender solemnity of Maxime
Valois' face, as he reads his charge to Hardin.

"And may God deal with you and yours, as you deal with me and mine."

The devoted father's appeal would touch a heart of stone.

The folly of not beginning active war in the West; the madness of
not seizing California at the outset; the rich prizes of the Pacific
left ungathered, for has not Semmes almost driven Yankee ships from
the sea with the Alabama, and does not Waddell, with the cockle-shell
Shenandoah, burn and destroy the entire Pacific whaling fleet?
The free-booter sails half around the world, unchallenged, after
the war. Oh, coward Knights of the Golden Circle! Fools, and blind,
to let California slip from your grasp!

Maxime Valois was right. Virginian rule ruined the Confederacy.
Too late, too late!

Had Sidney Johnston lived; had Robert E. Lee been willing to
leave sacred Virginia uncovered for a fortnight in the days before
he marshalled the greatest army the Southerners ever paraded, and
invaded the North boldly, a peace would have resulted.

Peyton thinks bitterly of the irreparable loss of Sidney Johnston.
He recalls the death of peerless Jackson. Jackson, always aggressive,
active, eager to reach for the enemy, and ever successful.

Wasted months when the prestige was with the South, the fixed
determination of Lee to keep the war in Virginia, and Davis's deadly
jealousy of any leading minds, seem to have lost the brightest
chances of a glorious success.

Peyton condemns the military court of Davis and the intrenched
pageantry of Lee's idle forces. The other armies of the Confederacy
fought, half supplied, giving up all to hold the Virginia lines.
He cannot yet realize that either Sherman or Grant might have
baffled Sidney Johnston had he lived. Lee was self-conscious of
his weakness in invasion. He will not own that Philip Sheridan's
knightly sword might have reached the crest of the unconquered
Stonewall Jackson.

Vain regret, shadowy dreams, and sad imaginings fill Colonel
Peyton's mind. The thrilling struggles of the Army of the West, its
fruitless victories, and unrewarded heroism make him proud of its
heroes. Had another policy ruled the Confederate military cabinet,
success was certain. But he is now leaving his friend's grave.

The birds are singing in the forest. As the sun lights up the dark
woods where McPherson died, into Henry Peyton's war-tried soul
enters the peace which broods over field and incense-breathing trees.
Far in the East, the suns of future years may bring happier days,
when the war wounds are healed. The brothers of the Union may find
a nobler way to reach each other's hearts than ball or bayonet.
But he cannot see these gleams of hope.


BOOK IV.

A LOST HEIRESS.--MILLIONS AT STAKE.

CHAPTER XIII.

MOUNT DAVIDSON'S MAGIC MILLIONS.--A CALIFORNIA PLUTOCRACY.--THE
PRICE OF A CRIME.


Philip Hardin's library in San Francisco is a place for quiet labors.
A spider's parlor. September, 1864, hides the enchanted interior
with deeper shades from the idle sight-seer.

Since the stirring days of 1861, after the consecutive failures of
plot, political scheme, and plan of attack, the mysterious "chief
of the Golden Circle" has withdrawn from public practice. A marked
and dangerous man.

It would be an insult to the gallant dead whose blood watered the
fields of the South, for Philip Hardin to take the "iron-clad oath"
required now of practitioners.

Respected for his abilities, feared by his adversaries, shunned
for his pro-secession views, Philip Hardin walks alone. No overt
act can be fastened on him, Otherwise, instead of gazing on Alcatraz
Island from his mansion windows, he might be behind those frowning
walls, where the l5-inch Columbiads spread their radial lines of
fire, to cross those of the works of Black Point, Fort Point, and
Point Blunt. Many more innocent prisoners toil there. He does not
wish to swell their number. Philip Hardin dares not take that oath
in open court. His pride prevents, but, even were he to offer it,
the mockery would be too patent.

A happy excuse prevents his humiliation. Trustee of the vast
estate of Lagunitas, he has also his own affairs to direct. It is
a dignified retirement.

Another great passion fills his later days. Since the wandering
Comstock and Curry, proverbially unfortunate discoverers, like
Marshall, pointed to hundreds of millions for the "silver kings,"
along Mount Davidson's stony, breast, he gambles daily. The stock
board is his play-room.

The mining stock exchange gives his maturer years the wilder
excitements of the old El Dorado.

Washoe, Nevada Territory, or the State of Nevada, the new "Silverado"
drives all men crazy. A city shines now along the breast of the
Storey County peaks, nine thousand feet above the sea. The dulness
of California's evolution is broken by the rush to Washoe. Already
the hardy prospectors spread out in that great hunt for treasure
which will bring Colorado, Idaho, and Montana, crowned aspirants,
bearing gifts of gold and silver, to the gates of the Union. The
whole West is a land of hidden treasures.

Speculation's mad fever seized on Hardin from the days of 1860.
Shares, stocks, operations, schemes, all the wild devices of hazard,
fill up his days with exciting successes and damning failures.

His name, prestige, and credit, carry him to the front. As in
the early days, his cool brain and nerve mark him as a desperate
gamester. But his stakes are now gigantic.

Secure in his mansion house, with private wires in his study,
he operates through many brokers and agents. His interrupted law
business is transferred to less prominent Southern advocates.

Philip Hardin's fine hand is everywhere. Reliable dependants,
old prospecting friends and clients, keep him informed by private
cipher of every changing turn of the brilliant Virginia City
kaleidoscope.

Hardin gambles for pleasure, for vanity, and for excitement. Led
on by his desire to stand out from the mass of men, he throws his
fortune, mixed with the funds of Lagunitas, into the maelstrom of
California Street. Success and defeat alternate.

It is a transition time. While war rages in the East, the California
merchant kings are doubling fortunes in the cowardly money piracy
known as California's secession. The "specific contract act" is
the real repudiation of the government's lawful money. This stab in
the back is given to the struggling Union by the well-fed freedom
shriekers of the Union League. They howl, in public, over their
devotion to the interests of the land.

The future railroad kings of the Pacific, Stanford, Hopkins, Crocker,
Huntington, Colton, and their allies, are grasping the gigantic
benefits flowing from the Pacific Railroad, recommended by themselves
as a war measure. Heroes.

The yet uncrowned bonanza kings are men of obscure employment, or
salaried miners working for wages which would not in a month pay
their petty cash of a day in a few years.

Quiet Jim Flood, easy O'Brien, sly Jones, sturdy Mackay, and that
guileless innocent, "Jim Fair," are toiling miners or "business
men." Their peculiar talents are hidden by the obscurity of humdrum,
honest labor.

Hands soon to sway the financial sceptre, either mix the dulcet
cocktail, swing the pick, or else light with the miner's candle
the Aladdin caves to which they grope and burrow in daily danger,
deep hidden from public view. These "silver kings" are only in
embryo.

These two groups of remarkable men, the future railroad princes,
and the budding bonanza kings, represent cunning, daring, energy,
fortitude, and the remarkable powers of transition of the Western
resident.

The future land barons are as yet merely sly, waiting schemers. They
are trusting to compound interest, rotten officials, and neglected
laws to get possession of ducal domains. The bankers, merchant princes,
and stock operators are writing their names fast in California's
strange "Libro d'oro." All is restlessness. All is a mere waiting
for the turbid floods of seething human life to settle down. In
the newer discoveries of Nevada, in the suspense of the war, the
railroads are yet only half finished, croaked at mournfully by the
befogged Solons of the press. All is transition.

It is only when the first generation of children born in California
will reach maturity in the 'eighties; only when the tide of carefully
planned migration from North and South, after the war, reaches the
West, that life becomes regular. Only when the railways make the
new State a world's thoroughfare, and the slavery stain is washed
from our flag, that civilization plants the foundations of her
solid temples along the Pacific.

There is no crystallization until the generation of mere adventurers
begin to drop into graves on hillside and by the sea. The first
gold-seekers must pass out from active affairs before the real
State is honestly builded up.

No man, not even Philip Hardin, could foresee, with the undecided
problems of 1860, what would be the status of California in ten
years, as to law, finance, commerce, or morals.

A sudden start might take the mass of the people to a new Frazer
River or another Australia. They might rush to the wilds of some
frontier treasury of nature, now unknown.

Even Philip Hardin dared not dream that humble bar-keepers would
blossom out into great bank presidents, that signatures, once
potent only on the saloon "slate," would be smiled on by "friend
Rothschild" and "brother Baring." The "lightning changes" of the
burlesque social life of Western America begin to appear. It is
a wild dream that the hands now toiling with the pick or carrying
the miner's tin dinner-pail, would close in friendship on the
aristocratic palm of H.R.H. Albert Edward, the Prince of Wales.
The "chambermaid's own" romances would not dare to predict that
ladies bred to the broom and tub or the useful omnipotent "fry
pan," would smile on duchesses, crony with princesses, or regulate
their visiting lists by the "Almanach de Gotha."

Their great magician is Gold. In power, in pleasing witchery of
potent influence; insidious flattery of pleasure; in remorseless
persecution of the penniless, all wonders are its work. Ariel,
Mephisto, Moloch, thou, Gold! King Gold! and thy brother, Silver!

While Philip Hardin speculated from his lofty eyrie, the San
Francisco hills are now covered with the unsubstantial palaces of
the first successful residents. He dared not dream that the redwood
boxes called mansions, in which the wealthy lived in the days of
'60, would give way to the lordly castles of "Nob Hill."

These castles, whether of railroad tyrant, bonanza baron, or banking
conspirator, were yet castles in the air.

Perched in lofty isolation now, they architecturally dominate
the meaner huts below. Vulgar monuments of a social upheaval which
beggars the old stories of fairy changelings, of Sancho Panza, of
"Barney the Baron," or "Monte Cristo."

In the days of '60, Philip Hardin is too busy with plot and scheme,
with daily plunging, and dreaming over the fate of Lagunitas, to
notice the social elevation of the more aspiring male and female
adventurers. The rising tide of wealth grows. Judicious use of early
gained riches, trips to Europe, furtive lessons, the necessities
of the changed station, and an unlimited cheek and astounding
adaptability change the lucky men and women whom fortune's dower
has ennobled. They are all now "howling swells."

Some never reach as high as the "Monarchs of Mount Davidson," who
were pretty high up at the start, nearly a mile and a half. In many
cases, King Midas's Court shows very fairly scattered promotions.

Society's shoddy geometry gives a short-cut for "my lady's maid"
to become "my lady." She surely knows "how to dress." The lady who
entertains well, in some cases does so with long experience as
a successful professional cook.

Some who dropped into California with another woman's husband,
forget, while rolling in their carriages, that they ever had one
of their own. Children with no legal parents have not learned the
meaning of "filius nullius." From the bejewelled mass of vigorous,
keen upstarts, now enriched by stocks, the hardy children of the
great bonanzas, rises the chorus, "Let the past rest. We have passed
the gates of Gold."

To the "newer nobility of California," is given local golden patents.
They cover modest paternal names and many shady personal antecedents.

In a land without a past, the suddenly enriched speculators reign
in mart and parlor. They rule society and the Exchange. In a great
many cases, a judicious rearrangement of marriage proves that the
new-made millionnaires value their recently acquired "old wines"
and "ancient pictures," more than their aging wives. They bring
much warmth of social color into the local breezy atmosphere of
this animated Western picture, these new arrangements of Hymen.

Hardin, plunging into the general madness of stock speculation,
destined to reign for twenty years, keeps his own counsel. He sneers
not at the households queened over by the "Doubtful Loveliness"
of the "Rearranged Aristocracy of the Pacific." He has certain
twinges when he hears the laughing girl child at play in the bowers
of his park. While the ex-queen of the El Dorado, now a marvel of
womanly beauty, gazes on that dancing child, she cannot yet see,
among the many flashing gems loading her hands, the plain circlet
of a wedding ring.

No deeper consecration than the red blood of the murdered gambler
ever sealed the lawless union of the "Chief of the Golden Circle"
with the peerless "Empress of Rouge et Noir."

Her facile moods, restrained passions, blind devotion, and
self-acquired charms of education, keep Philip Hardin strangely
faithful to a dark bond.

Luxury, in its most insidious forms, woos to dreamy enjoyment the
not guileless Adam and Eve of this hidden western Paradise.

There is neither shame nor the canker of regret brooding over these
"children of knowledge," who have tasted the clusters of the "Tree
of Life."

Within and without, it is the same. Philip Hardin is not the only
knave and unpunished murderer in high place. His "Gulnare" is not
the only lovely woman here, who bears unabashed the burden of
a hideous past. A merit is peculiar to this guilty, world-defying
pair. They seek no friends, obtrude on no external circles, and
parade no lying sham before local respectability.

It is not so with others. The bench, the forum, the highest
places, the dazzling daily displays of rough luxury, are thronged
by transformed "Nanas" and resolute climbers of the social trapeze. The
shameless motto flaunts on their free-lance banners, golden-bordered:

"Pour y parvenir."

Philip Hardin smiles, on the rare occasions when he enters the
higher circles of "society," to see how many fair faces light up,
in strange places, with a smile of recognition. How many rosy lips
are closed with taper fingers, hinting, "Don't ask me how I got
here; I AM! here!"

In his heartless indifference to the general good, he greets the
promoted "ladies" with grave courtesy. It is otherwise with the
upstart men. His pride of brain and life-long station makes him
haughtily indifferent to them. He will not grovel with these meaner
human clods.

A sardonic grin relaxes his dark visage as he sees them go forth
to "shine" in the East and "abroad."

Why should not the men of many aliases, the heroes of brawl and
murder, of theft and speculation, freely mix with the more polished
money sharks swarming in the Eastern seas of financial piracy?

"Arcades ambo!" Bonanza bullion rings truer than the paper millions
of shoddy and petroleum. The alert, bright free-lances of the
West are generally more interesting than the "shoddy" magnates or
"contract" princes of the war. They are, at least, robust adventurers;
the others are only money-ennobled Eastern mushrooms.

The Western parvenu is the more picturesque. The cunning railroad
princes have, at least, built SOMETHING. It is a nobler work than
the paper constructions of Wall Street operators. It may be jeered,
that these men "builded better than they knew." Hardin feels that
on one point they never can be ridiculed, even by Eastern magnate,
English promoter, or French financier. They can safely affirm they
grasped all they could. They left no humble sheaf unreaped in the
clean-cut fields of their work. They took all in sight.

Hardin recognizes the clean work of the Western money grabbers,
as well and truly done. The railroad gang, bonanza barons, and
banking clique, sweep the threshing floor. Nothing escapes them.

He begins to feel, in the giant speculations of 1862 and 1863, that
luck can desert even an old gamester, at life's exciting table. He
suffers enormously, yet Lagunitas's resources are behind him.

In the long fight of the street, victory perches with the strongest
battalions. Philip Hardin cannot know that men toiling by the day
in obscure places now, will yet exchange cigars with royal princes.
They will hobnob with the Hapsburgs. They will enter racing bets
in the jewelled notebooks of grand dukes. They copy the luxuries,
the inborn vices of the blue blood of Europe's crowned Sardanapalian
autocrats.

From saloon to salon, from kitchen to kirmess, from the faro table
to the Queen's drawing-room, from the canvas trousers of the miner
to Poole's creations, from the calico frock of the housemaid to
Worth's dazzling masterpieces, from making omelets to sneering at
operas, the great social lightning-change act goes on.

Philip Hardin loves his splendid home, where the foot of Hortense
Duval sinks in the tufted glories of Persia and the Wilton looms.
He does not marvel to see ex-cattle-drovers, promoted waiters,
lucky lemonade-sellers, and Pike County discoverers, buying gold
watch-chains by the pound. They boast huge golden time-pieces,
like young melons. Their diamond cluster pins are as resplendent
as crystal door-knobs.

Fair hands, fresh from the healthful contact of washing-soda, wave
recognition to him from coupe or victoria. In some cases these are
driven by the millionnaire himself, who insists on "holding the
ribbons."

The newspapers, in the recherche society columns, refer to the
grandeur of the "Gold Hill" outfit, the Virginia City "gang," the
Reese River "hummers," or the Eberhardt "crowd." These are the
Golden Horde.

These lucky children of fortune mingle with the stock-brokers, who,
resplendent in attire, and haughty of demeanor, fill the thousand
offices of speculation. They disdain the meaner element, as they
tool their drags over the Cliff Road to bathe in champagne, and
listen to the tawdry Phrynes and bedraggled Aspasias who share
their vulture feast of the moment.

It is a second descent of male and female harpies. Human nature,
loosened from long restraint by the war, has flooded the coast with
the moral debris of the conflict. It is a reign of the Bacchanals.

"After all," thinks Philip Hardin, as he sees these dazzling rockets
rise, with golden trails, into the social darkness of the Western
skies, "they are really the upper classes here. Their power of
propulsion to the zenith is inherent in themselves. If they mingle,
in time, with the aristocratic noblesse of Europe, they may infuse
a certain picturesque element." Hardin realizes that some of the
children of these millionnaires of a day will play at school with
young princes, their girls will marry titles, and adorn their smallest
belongings with excrescent coronets and coats of arms, won in the
queer lottery of marriage.

"It is well," the cold lawyer muses. "After all, many of the
aristocracy of Europe are the descendants of expert horse-thieves,
hired bravos, knights who delighted to roast the merchant for his
fat money-bags, or spit the howling peasant on their spears. Many
soft-handed European dames feel the fiery blood burning in their
ardent bosoms. In some cases, a reminder of the beauty whose easy
complaisance caught a monarch's smile and earned an infamous title.
Rapine, murder, lust, oppression, high-handed bullying, servile
slavishness in every vile abandonment, have bred up delicate,
dreamy aristocrats. Their ancestors, by the two strains, were either
red-handed marauders, or easy Delilahs."

The God-given title to batten in luxury, is one which depends now
on the possession of golden wealth. It finally burns its gleaming
pathway through every barrier.

With direct Western frankness, the Pacific "jeunesse doree" will
date from bonanza or railroad deal. Spoliated don, stolen franchise,
giant stock-job, easy political "coup de main," government lands
scooped in, or vast tracts of timber stolen under the law's easy
formalities, are their quarterings. Whiskey sellers, adventuresses,
and the minor fry of fighting henchmen, make up the glittering
train of these knights. The diamond-decked dames of this "Golden
Circle" exclaim in happy chorus, as they sit in the easy-chairs of
wealth's thronging courts:

"This is the way we long have sought, And mourned because we found
it not."

But riding behind Philip Hardin is the grim horseman, Care. He mourns
his interrupted political career. The end of the war approaches.
His spirited sultana now points to the lovely child. Her resolute
lips speak boldly of marriage.

Hardin wonders if any refluent political wave may throw him up to
the senate or the governor's chair. His powers rust in retirement.
He fears the day when his stewardship of Lagunitas may be at an
end.

He warily determines to get rid of Padre Francisco as soon as
possible. The death of Donna Dolores places all in his hands. As he
confers with the quick-witted ex-queen of the El Dorado, he decides
that he must remove the young Mariposa heiress to San Francisco.
It is done. Philip Hardin cannot travel continually to watch over
a child.

"Kaintuck" and the sorrowing padre alone are left at Lagunitas. The
roses fall unheeded in the dead lady's bower. On this visit, when
Hardin takes the child to the mansion on the hill, he learns the
padre only awaits the return of Maxime Valois, to retire to France.
Unaware of the great strength of the North and East, the padre
feels the land may be held in the clutches of war a long period. He
would fain end his days among the friends of his youth. As he draws
toward old age, he yearns for France. Hardin promises to assist
the wishes of the old priest.

After Padre Francisco retires to the silent cottage by the chapel,
Hardin learns from "Kaintuck" a most momentous secret. There are
gold quartz mines of fabulous richness on the Lagunitas grant.
Slyly extracting a few tons of rock, "Kaintuck" has had these ores
worked, and gives Philip Hardin the marvellous results.

Hardin's dark face lights up: "Have you written Colonel Valois of
this?" "Not a word," frankly says "Kaintuck."

"Judge, I did not want to bring a swarm of squatters over our lines.
I thought to tell you alone, and you could act with secrecy. If
they stake off claims, we will have a rush on our hands."

Hardin orders the strictest silence. As he lies in the guest chamber
of Lagunitas, Philip Hardin is haunted all night by a wild unrest.
If Lagunitas were only his. There is only Valois between him and
the hidden millions in these quartz veins. Will no Yankee bullet
do its work?

The tireless brain works on, as crafty Philip Hardin slumbers
that night. Visions of violence, of hidden traps, of well-planned
crime, haunt his dreams. Only "Kaintuck" knows. Secretly, bit by
bit, he has brought in these ores. They have been smuggled out and
worked, with no trace of their real origin. No one knows but one.
Though old "Kaintuck" feels no shadow over his safety, the sweep
of the dark angel's wing is chilling his brow. He knows too much.

When Hardin returns to San Francisco he busies himself with
Lagunitas. His brow is dark as he paces the deck of the Stockton
steamer. Hortense Duval has provided him with a servant of great
discretion to care for the child. Marie Berard is the typical
French maid. Deft, neat-handed, she has an eye like a hawk. Her
little pet weaknesses and her vices give spice to an otherwise
colorless character.

The boat steams down past the tule sloughs. Hardin's cigar burns
late on the deck as he plots alone.

When he looks over his accumulated letters, he seizes eagerly a
packet of papers marked "Havana." Great God!

He has read of Sherman's occupation of Atlanta. The struggle of
Peachtree Creek brought curses on Tecumseh's grizzled head. Now,
with a wildly beating heart, he learns of the death of Colonel
Valois among the captured guns of De Gress. As the last pages are
scanned, he tears open the legal documents. The cold beads stand
out on his brow. He is master now. The king is dead!

He rings for Madame Duval. With shaking hand, he pours a draught
from the nearest decanter. He is utterly unnerved. The prize is at
last within his grasp. It shall be his alone!

Lighting a fresh cigar he paces the room, a human tiger. There is
but one frail girl child between him and Lagunitas, with its uncoined
millions. He must act. To be deep and subtle as a thieving Greek,
to be cold and sneaking as an Apache, to be as murderous as a Malay
creeping, creese in hand, over the bulwarks of a merchantman,--all
that is to be only himself. Power is his for aye.

But to be logically correct, to be wise and safe in secret moves.
Time to think? Yes. Can he trust Hortense Duval? Partly. He needs
that devilish woman's wit of hers. Will he tell her all? No.
Professional prudence rules. A dark scheme has formulated itself
in his brain, bounding under the blow of the brandy.

He will get Hortense out of the State, under the pretext of
sending the colonel's child to Paris. The orphan's education must
be brilliant.

He will have no one know of the existence of Valois' mine. If
"Kaintuck" were only gone. Yes! Yes! the secret of the mines. If
the priest were only in France and locked up in his cloister. The
long minority of the child gives time to reap the golden harvest.

A sudden thought: the child may not live! His teeth chatter. As he
paces the room, Hortense enters. She sees on his face the shadow
of important things.

"What has happened, Philip?" she eagerly asks.

"Sit down, Hortense. Listen to me," says Hardin, as he sees the
doors all secure.

Her heart beats fast. Is this the end of all? She has feared it
daily.

"How would you like to live in Paris?" he ejaculates.

He watches her keenly, pacing to and fro. A wild hope leaps up.
Will he retire, and live his days out abroad? Is the marriage to
come at last?

"Philip, I don't understand you," she murmurs. Her bosom heaves
within its rich silks, under its priceless laces. The sparkling
diamonds in her hair glisten, as she gazes on his inscrutable face.
Is this heaven or hell? Paradise or a lonely exile? To have a name
at last for her child?

"Colonel Valois was killed at the battles near Atlanta. I have
just received from the Havana bankers the final letters of Major
Peyton, his friend." Hardin speaks firmly.

"Under the will, that child Isabel inherits the vast property. She
must be educated in France. Some one must take care of her."

Hortense leans over, eagerly. What does he mean? "There is no one but
me to look after her. The cursed Yankees will probably devastate
the South. I dare not probate his will just now. There is confiscation
and all such folly."

Philip Hardin resumes his walk. "I do not wish to pay heavy war
taxes and succession tax on all this great estate. I must remain
here and watch it. I must keep the child's existence and where-abouts
quiet. The courts could worry me about her removal. Can I trust
you, Hortense?" His eyes are wolfish. He stops and fixes a burning
glance on her. She returns it steadily.

"What do you wish me to do?" she says, warily.

It will be years and years she must remain abroad.

"Can I trust you to go over with that child, and watch her while
I guard this great estate? You shall have all that money and my
influence can do for you. You can live as an independent lady and
see the great world."

She rises and faces him, a beautiful, expectant goddess. "Philip,
have I been true to you these years?"

He bows his head. It is so! She has kept the bond.

"Do I go as your wife?" Her voice trembles with eagerness.

"No. But you may earn that place by strictly following my wishes."
He speaks kindly. She is a grand woman after all. Bright tears
trickle through her jewelled fingers. She has thrown herself on
the fauteuil. The woman of thirty is a royal beauty, her youthful
promise being more than verified. She is a queen of luxury.

"Listen to me, Hortense," says Hardin, softly. He seats himself
by her side and takes the lovely hands in his. His persuasive voice
flows like honey. "I am now surrounded by enemies. I am badly
compromised. I am all tied up. I fear the Union League, the government
spies, and the damned Yankee officers here. One foolish move would
utterly ruin me. If you will take this child you can take any
name you wish. No one knows you in Paris. I will have the bankers
and our Southern friends vouch for you in society. I will support
you, so you can move even in the Imperial circles. If you are
true to me, in time I will do as you wish. I dare not now." He is
plausible, and knows how to plead. This woman, loving and beloved,
cannot hold out.

"Think of our child, Philip," cries Hortense, as she throws herself
on his breast. He is moved and yet he lies.

"I do at this very moment, Hortense. I am not a rich man, for I have
lost much for the South. These Yankee laws keep me out of court.
I dare not get in their power. If I hold this estate, I will soon
be able to settle a good fortune on Irene. I swear to you, she
shall be my only heiress except yourself. You can take Irene with
you and give her a superb education. You will be doing a true
mother's duty. I will place such a credit and funds for you that
the future has no fears. When I am free to act, 'when this foolish
war is over,' I can come to you. Will you do as I wish?"

"Philip, give me till to-morrow to think. I have only you in the
world." The beautiful woman clings to him. He feels she will yield.
He is content to wait.

While they talk, the two children chatter under the window in
childish glee.

"Hortense, you must act at once! to-morrow! The steamer leaves in
three days. I wish you to go by Panama direct to France. New York
is no place for you. I will have much to arrange. I will give you
to-night. Now leave me, for I have many papers to draw up."

In her boudoir, Hortense Duval sits hours dreaming, her eyes fixed
on vacancy. All the hold she has on Hardin is her daily influence,
and HIS child. To go among strangers. To be alone in the world.
And yet, her child's future interests. While Hardin paces the floor
below, or toils at his cunningly worded papers, she feels she is
in the hands of a master.

Philip Hardin's late work is done. By the table he dreams over the
future. Hortense will surely work his will. He will divest himself
of the priest. He must open these mines. He will get rid of
"Kaintuck;" but how?

Dark thoughts come to him. He springs up aghast at the clatter when
his careless arm brushes off some costly trifles. With the priest
gone forever and the child in Paris, he has no stumbling block in
his way but "Kaintuck." There are ways; yes, ways.----!----!----!----!

"He must go on a journey; yes, a long, long journey." Hardin stops
here, and throwing himself on his couch, drifts out on the sea of
his uneasy dreams.

Morning proves to him Hortense is resigned; an hour's conclave
enlightens her as to the new life. Every contingency will be met.
Hortense, living in wealth's luxurious retirement, will be welcomed
as Madame Natalie de Santos, everywhere. A wealthy young widow,
speaking French and Spanish, with the best references. She will
wear a discreet mask of Southern mystery, and an acknowledged
relationship to families of Mexico and California. Her personal
appearance, tact, and wealth will be an appropriate dower to the
new acquisition of the glittering Capital of Pleasure. She is GOOD
ENOUGH for Paris.

Rapidly, every preparation moves on. The luggage of Madame de
Santos is filled with the varied possessions indicating years of
elegance. Letters to members of the Confederate court circle at
Paris are social endorsements. Wealth will do the rest.

Hardin's anxiety is to see the heiress lodged at the "Sacred Heart"
at Paris. In his capacity as guardian, he delegates sole power to
Madame Natalie de Santos. She alone can control the little lady of
Lagunitas. With every resource, special attentions will be paid to
the party, from Panama, on the French line. The hegira consists of
the two children, Marie Berard, and the nameless lady, soon to be
rebaptized "Natalie de Santos." Not unusual in California,--!--a
golden butterfly.

Vague sadness fills Hortense Duval's heart as she wanders through
her silent mansion, choosing these little belongings which are dear
to her shadowed heart. They will rob a Parisian home of suspicious
newness. The control of the heiress as well as their own child,
the ample monetary provision, and the social platform arranged for
her, prove Hardin's devotion. It is the best she can do.

True, he cannot now marry with safety. He has promised to right
that wrong in time.

There has been no want of tenderness in his years of devotion.
Hortense Duval acknowledges to herself that he dares not own her
openly, as his wife, even here. But in Paris, after a year or so.
Then he could come, at least as far as New York. He could meet
her, and by marriage, legitimize his child. Her child. The tiger's
darling.

A sudden thought strikes her. Some other woman!--Some one of REAL
station and blood. Ah, no! She shivers slightly as she paces the
room. No corner of the earth could hide him from her vengeance if
he betrays her.

The dinner of the last evening is a serious feast. As Hortense
ministers to the dark master of the house, she can see he has not
fully disclosed his ultimate plans. It is positive the child must
be hidden away at Paris from all. Hardin enjoins silence as to
the future prospects of the orphan. The little one has already
forgotten her father. She is rapidly losing all memories of her
sweet mother.

In the silence of these last hours, Philip Hardin speaks to the
woman who has been his only intimate in years.

"Hortense, I may find a task for you which will prove your devotion,"
he begins with reluctance.

"What is it, Philip?" she falters.

He resumes. "I do not know how far I may be pushed by trouble. I
shall have to struggle and fight to hold my own. I am safe for a
time, but I may be pushed to the wall. Will you, for the sake of
our own child, do as I bid you with that Spanish brat?"

At last she sees his gloomy meaning. Is it murder? An orphan child!

"Philip," she sobs, "be careful! For MY SAKE, for YOUR OWN." She
is chilled by his cold designs.

"Only at the last. Just as I direct, I may wish you to control
the disappearance of that young one, who stands between me and our
marriage."

She seizes his hands: "Swear to me that you will never deceive me."

"I do," he answers huskily.

"On the cross," she sternly says, flashing before his startled eyes
a jewelled crucifix. "I will obey you--I swear it on this--as long
as you are true." She presses her ashy lips on the cross.

He kisses it. The promise is sealed.

In a few hours, Hortense Duval, from the deck of the swift Golden
Gate, sees the sunlight fall for the last time, in long years, on
San Francisco's sandy hills.

With peculiar adroitness, in defence of her past, for the sake of
her future position, she keeps her staterooms; only walking the
decks with her maid occasionally at night. No awkward travelling
pioneer must recognize her as the lost "Beauty of the El Dorado."
A mere pretence of illness is enough.

When safely out of the harbor of Colon, on the French steamer,
she is perfectly free. Her passage tickets, made out as Madame de
Santos, are her new credentials.

She has left her old life behind her. Keen and self-possessed, with
quiet dignity she queens it on the voyage. When the French coast is
reached, her perfect mastery of herself proves she has grown into
her new position.

Philip Hardin has whispered at the last, "I want you to get rid of
your maid in a few months. It is just as well she should be out of
the way."

When out of Hardin's influence, reviewing the whole situation,
Hortense, in her real character, becomes a little fearful. What
if he should drop her? Suppose he denies her identity. He can
legally reclaim the "Heiress of Lagunitas." Hortense Duval well
knows that Philip Hardin will stop at nothing. As the French coast
nears, Hortense mentally resolves NOT to part with Marie Berard.
Marie is a valuable witness of the past relations. She is the only
safeguard she has against Hardin's manifold schemes. So far there
is no "entente cordiale" between mistress and maid. They watch
each other.

By hazard, as the children are brought out, ready for the landing,
Hortense notices the similarity of dress, the speaking resemblance
of the children. Marie Berard, proud of their toilettes, remarks,
"Madame, they are almost twins in looks."

Hortense Duval's lightning mind conceives a daring plan. She broods
in calm and quiet, as the cars bear her from Havre to Paris. She
must act quickly. She knows Hardin may use more ways of gaining
information than her own letters. His brain is fertile. His purse,
powerful.

Going to an obscure hotel, she procures a carriage. She drives
alone to the Convent of the Sacre Coeur. With perfect tranquillity
she announces her wishes. The Mother Superior, personally, is charmed
with Madame de Santos. A mere mention of her banking references
is sufficient. Blest power of gold!

Madame Natalie de Santos is in good humor when she regains her
apartment. On the next morning, after a brief visit to her bankers,
who receive her "en princesse," she drives alone with her OWN
child to the Sacred Heart. While the little one prattles with some
engaging Sisters, Hortense calmly registers the nameless child
of sin as ISABEL VALOIS, THE HEIRESS OF LAGUNITAS. A year's fees
and payments are made. A handsome "outfit allowance" provides all
present needs suited to the child's station. Arranging to send the
belongings of the heiress to the convent, Hortense Duval buries
her past forever in giving to her own child the name and station
of the heiress of Lagunitas. To keep a hold on Hardin she will
place the other child where that crafty lawyer can never find her.
Her bosom swells with pride. Now, at last, she can control the
deepest plans of Philip Hardin. But if he should demand their own
child? He has no legal power over the nameless one--not even here.
Marriage first. After that, the secret. It is a MASTER STROKE.

Hortense Duval thinks only of her own child. She cares nothing
for the dead Confederate under the Georgia pines. Gentle Dolores
is sleeping in the chapel grounds at Lagunitas. Isabel Valois has
not a friend in the world!

But, Marie Berard must be won and controlled. Why not? It is
fortune for her to be true to her liberal mistress. Berard knows
Paris and has friends. She will see them. If the maid be discharged,
Hortense loses her only witness against Hardin; her only safeguard.
As Madame de Santos is ushered to her rooms, she decides to act
at once, and drop forever her past. But Marie?

Marie Berard wonders at the obscure hotel. Her brain finds no
reason for this isolation. "Ah! les modes de Paris." Madame will
soon emerge as a lovely vision.

In the years of her service with Hortense Duval, Marie has quietly
enriched herself. She knows the day of parting comes in all unlawful
connections. Time and fading charms, coldness and the lassitude of
habit, eat away the golden chain till it drops off. "On se range
enfin."

The "femme de chambre" knows too much to ever think of imposing
on Judge Hardin. He is too sly. It is from Madame de Santos the
golden stream must flow.

Self-satisfied, Marie Berard smiles in her cat-like way as she thinks
of a nice little house in Paris. Its income will support her. She
will nurse this situation with care. It is a gold mine.

There is no wonderment in her keen eyes when Madame de Santos returns
without the child she took away. A French maid never wonders. But
she is astonished when her mistress, calling her, calmly says,
pointing to the lonely orphan:

"Marie, I wish you to aid me to get rid of this child. Do you know
any one in Paris whom we can trust?"

"Will Madame kindly explain?" the maid gasps, her visions of that
snug house becoming more definite.

"Sit down, Marie," the newly christened Madame de Santos commands.
"I will trust you. You shall be richly rewarded."

The Frenchwoman's eyes glitter. The golden shower she has longed
for, "Auri sacra fames."

"You may trust me perfectly, Madame."

"I wish you to understand me fully. We must act at once. I will see
no friends till this girl is out of the way. Then I shall at once
arrange my household."

"Does the young lady not go to the convent?" says the astonished
servant, a trifle maliciously.

"Certainly not," coldly says Hortense. "My own child shall be the
heiress of that fortune. She is already at the Sacred Heart."

Marie Berard's keen eye sees the plot. An exchange of children.
The nameless child shall be dowered with millions. Her own future
is assured.

"Does any one know of this plan?" the maid eagerly asks.

"Only you and I," is the response.

Ah! Revenge on her stately tyrant lover. The maid dreams of a golden
shower. That snug hotel. It is a delicious moment. "What do you
wish me to do, Madame?" Marie is now cool.

"Find a place, at once, where the child can be well treated in
a 'bourgeois' family. I want you to place her as if she were your
own. I wish no one to ever see me or know of me in this matter."

The maid's eyes sparkle. Fortune's wheel turns. "And I shall be--"
she pauses.

"You may be suspected to be the mother. No one can learn anything
from the child. I wish her to be raised in ignorance."

Madame de Santos is a genius in a quiet way. It is true, the
prattling heiress, on the threshold of a new life, speaks only
Spanish and a little English. She has forgotten her father. Even
now her mother fades from her mind. A few passing months will sweep
away all memories of Lagunitas. The children are nearly the same
age, and not dissimilar.

"And the Judge?" murmurs the servant.

"I will take care of that," sharply says Hortense.

"Madame, it is a very great responsibility," begins the sly maid,
now confidante. There is a strong sharp accent on the "very."

"I will pay you as you never dreamed of being paid." Madame Natalie
is cool and quiet. Gold, blessed gold!

"It is well. I am yours for life," says Marie Berard. The two women's
eyes meet. They understand one another. Feline, prehensile nerves.

Then, action at once. Hortense hands the woman a package of
bank-notes. "Leave here as if for a walk. Take a 'fiacre' on the
street, and go to your friends. You tell me you have some discreet
ones. Tell them you have a child to take care of. Say no more.
They will guess the rest. I want the child to be left to-morrow
morning. After your return we can arrange her present needs. The
rest you can provide through your friends. I want you to see the
child once a week, not oftener. Go."

In ten minutes Marie Berard is rolling away to her advisers. Her
letter has already announced her arrival. She knows her Paris. If
a French maid has a heart history, hers is a succession of former
Parisian scenes.

Madame Natalie de Santos closes the doors. While her emissary is
gone she examines the child thoroughly. Not a single blemish or
peculiar mark on the girl, save a crossed scar on her left arm,
between the wrist and elbow. Some surgical operation of trifling
nature has left a mark in its healing, which will be visible for
many years.

Making careful mental note, the impatient woman awaits her servant's
return.

Seated, she watches the orphan child trifling with her playthings.
Hortense Duval feels no twinge of conscience. Her own child shall
be lifted far beyond the storms of fate. If Hardin acts rightly,
all is well. If he attempts to betray her, all the better. She
will guard the heiress of Mariposa with her life. She shall become
a "bourgeoise."

Should Hardin die before he marries her, the base-born child is
then sure of the millions. She will make her a woman of the world.
When the great property is safely hers, then she can trust HER OWN
daughter.

As to the poor orphan, buried in Paris, educated as a "bourgeoise,"
she will never see her face, save perhaps, as a passing stranger.
The child can be happy in the solid comforts of a middle-class
family. It is good enough for her.

And Marie Berard. She needs her, at all cost, as a protection, the
only bulwark against any dark scheme of Hardin's. Her tool, and
her one witness.

Ten years in the mansion on the hills of San Francisco have
given her an insight into Philip Hardin's desperate moves on the
chessboard of life. Love, faith, truth, she dares not expect. A
lack of fatherly tenderness to the child he has wronged; his refusal
to put a wedding ring on her own finger, tell her the truth. She
knows her hold is slight. But NOW the very millions of Lagunitas
shall fight against him. Move for move in the play. Blow for blow,
if it comes to a violent rupture.

Hortensc Duval might lose her hold on cold Philip Hardin. The
scheming beauty smiles when she thinks how true Marie Berard will
be to the new Madame de Santos. A thorough adventuress, she can
count on her fellow-conspirator. Two smart women, with a solid
golden bond, united against a distant, aging man.

Marie returns, her business-like manner showing no change. "I have
found the family," she says. "They will take the child at once."

In the evening every arrangement is made for an early departure.
It is a rare day's work.

Marie Berard conducts the friendless child to its new home, in the
morning hours. The luggage and belongings are despatched. All is
over. Safe at last.

Free to move, as soon as the maid returns, Hortense at once leaves
her modest quarters. The bills are all paid. Their belongings are
packed as for departure. To the Hotel Meurice, by a roundabout
route, mistress and maid repair. Hortense Duval is no more. A new
social birth.

Madame de Santos, in superb apartments, proceeds to arrange her
entree into future social greatness. A modern miracle.

No one has seen the children together in Paris. On the steamer not
a suspicion was raised. Natalie de Santos breathes freely. A few
days of preparation makes Madame "au fait" in the newest fashions.
Her notes, cartes de visite, dazzling "batterie de toilette," and
every belonging bear crest, monogram, and initial of the new-born
Senora Natalie.

Securely lodged in an aristocratic apartment, Madame de Santos
receives her bankers, and the members of the Southern circle,
to whom the Judge has given her the freemasonry of his influence.
Madame de Santos is now a social fact, soon to find her old life a
waning memory. The glittering splendors of the court gaieties are
her everyday enjoyments.

Keenly watching all Californians, protected by her former retirement,
her foreign appearance and glamour of wealth impose on all. She
soon almost forgets herself and that dark past before the days of
the El Dorado. She is at last secure within wealth's impregnable
ramparts, and defies adverse fate.

An apartment on the Champs Elysees is judiciously chosen by her
bankers. Marie Berard, with her useful allies, aids in the selection
of the exquisite adornment. Her own treasures aid in the "ensemble."

The servants, the equipage of perfect appointment, all her
surroundings bespeak the innate refinement of the woman who has
for long years pleased even the exacting Hardin.

Natalie de Santos has not neglected to properly report by telegraph
and mail to the guardian of the person and future millions of Col.
Valois' only child.

Her attitude toward society is quiet, dignified, without haste or
ostentation. A beautiful woman, talented, free, rich, and "a la
mode," can easily reach the social pleasures of that gaudy set who
now throng the Tuileries.

There is not a care on Natalie de Santos' mind. Her own child is
visited, with a growing secret pleasure. She thrives in the hands
of the gentle ladies of the Sacred Heart.

Regularly, Marie Berard brings reports of the other child, whose
existence is important for the present.

Madame de Santos, discreetly veiled, finds time to observe the
location and movements of the orphan. Marie Berard's selection
has been excellent.

"Louise Moreau" is the new name of the changeling heiress, now
daily becoming more contented in her new home.

Aristide Dauvray has a happy household. A master decorative workman,
only lacking a touch of genius to be a sculptor, his pride is in
his artistic handiwork. His happiness in his good wife Josephine.
His heart centres in his talented boy.

To educate his only son Raoul, to be able to develop his marked
talent as an artist, has been Aristide's one ambition. The
proposition to take the girl, and the liberal payments promised,
assure the artistic future of Raoul. Marie Berard has appreciated
that the life of this orphan child is the measure of her own golden
fortunes. Good Josephine becomes attached to the shy, sweet little
wanderer, who forgets, day by day, in the new life of Cinderella,
her babyish glimpses of any other land.

Natalie de Santos is safe. Pressing her silken couch, she rests
in splendor. Her letters from Hardin are clear, yet not always
satisfactory. Years of daily observance have taught her to read
his character. As letter after letter arrives she cons them all
together. Not a word of personal tenderness. Not an expression which
would betray any of their secrets. With no address or signature,
they are full only in directions. He is called for a length of time
to Lagunitas, to put the estate in "general order."

Removed from the sway of Hardin, Natalie relies upon herself. Her
buoyant wings bear her on in society. Recognized as an opponent
of the North, she meets those lingering Southern sympathizers who
have little side coteries yet in glittering Paris.

Adulation of her beauty and sparkling wit fires her genius. Her
French is classic. The sealed book of her youth gives no hint of
where her fine idiom came from. Merrily Marie Berard recounts to
the luxurious social star the efforts of sly dames and soft-voiced
messieurs to fathom the "De Santos'" past.

Marie Berard is irreproachable; never presuming. She can wait.

Madame Natalie's stormy past has taught her to trust no one. It
is her rule from the first that no one shall see Isabel Valois,
the pet of the Sacred Heart Convent, but herself. Little remains
in a month or two, with either child, of its cradle memories. The
months spent by the two girls in mastering a new language are final
extinguishers of the past.

Without undue affectation of piety, Madame de Santos gives liberally.
The good nuns strive to fit the young heiress for her dazzling
future.

Keenly curious of the dangers of the situation, Natalie writes Hardin
that she has sent her own child away to a country institution, to
prevent awkward inquiry. As months roll on, drawn in by the whirlpool
of pleasure, Natalie de Santos' letters become brief. They are only
statements of affairs to her absent "financial agent."

Hardin's letters are acknowledgments of satisfactory news, and
directions regarding the education of the child. He does not refer
to the future of the woman who ruled his home so long. No tenderness
for his own child appears. He is engrossed in BUSINESS, and she in
PLEASURE. Avarice is the gentlemanly passion of his later years.
"Royal days of every pleasure" for the brilliant woman; she,
ambitious and self-reliant, lives only for the happy moments.

And yet, as Natalie de Santos sweeps from palace ball or the opera,
she frames plans as to the future control of Hardin. To keep the
child he fears, where his agency can reach her, is her aim. To
place the child he would ignore, where millions will surround her,
is her ambition. With Marie Berard as friend, confidante, agent,
and spy, she can keep these two children apart. Hortense Duval and
Natalie Santos can defy the world.

Distrust of Hardin always burns in her breast. Will he dare to
attempt her life; to cut off her income; to betray her? When the
work of years is reflected in her own child's graces and charms,
will the man now aging ever give its mother the name of wife? Her
fears belie her hopes.

She must guard her own child, and conceal the other. He may live
and work out his schemes. If he acts well, she will be ready to
meet him. If not, the same.

But she has sworn in her heart of hearts, the orphan shall live.
If necessary to produce her, she alone knows her hiding place. If
fortune favors, the properties shall descend to her own child.

The year 1865 opens with the maddest gaieties. Though France is
drained of men and treasure for a foolish war in Mexico, glittering
streets, rich salons, mad merry-makings and imperial splendor do
not warn gay Lutetia she is tottering toward the dawning war-days
of gloom. The French are drunk with pleasure.

Marie Berard has now a nice little fund of ringing napoleons
securely invested, and that hoard is growing monthly. Natalie de
Santos gives freely, amply. The maid bides her time for a great
demand. She can wait.

A rare feminine genius is Natalie de Santos. The steady self-poise
of her nature prevents even a breath of scandal. Frank, daring, and
open in her pleasures, she individualizes no swain, she encourages
no one sighing lover. Her name needs no defence save the open record
of her social life. A solid, undisturbed position grows around
her. The dear-bought knowledge of her youth enables her to read
the vapid men and women around her.

As keen-eyed as a hawk, Madame Natalie watches the scholar of the
Sacred Heart. She takes good care, also, to verify the substantial
comfort and fair education of little Louise Moreau.

With silent lips she moves among the new associates of her later
days. Madame de Santos' position moves toward impregnability, as
the months roll on. A "lionne" at last.


CHAPTER XIV.

A MARIPOSA BONANZA.--NATALIE DE SANTOS BORN IN PARIS.--THE QUEEN
OF THE EL DORADO JOINS THE GALLIC "FOUR HUNDRED."


Philip Hardin's days are busy after the steamer bears away his
"Ex-Queen of the El Dorado." There are his tangled finances to
arrange; giant speculations to follow up. The Lagunitas affairs
are pressing. That hidden mine!

Hardin sets his house in order. The establishment is reduced. He
has, now, peace for his schemes. No petticoat rule now. No prying
eyes. As the winter rain howls among his trees, he realizes that
the crash of the Confederacy will bring back clouds of stragglers
from the ruin yet to come. He must take legal possession of Lagunitas.
He has a good reason. Its hidden gold will give him power.

His public life is only cut off for a time. Gold is potent; yes,
omnipotent! He can bide his time. He must find that mine. He has
now two points to carry in his game. To rid himself of the padre
is easy, in time. To disembarrass himself of old "Kaintuck" is
another thing.

His face grows bitter as he thinks of the boundless wealth to be
reached in Lagunitas's glittering quartz beds. The property must
remain in his care.

If the heiress were to die, the public administrator might take
it. He knows he is not popular. His disloyalty is too well known.
Besides, Valois' death is not yet officially proven. He has kept
his counsel. No one has seen the will. But the returning wave
of Confederates may bring news. The dead colonel was of too great
local fame to drop unheeded into his grave.

His carefully prepared papers make him the representative of Colonel
Valois. He is legal guardian of the child. He will try and induce
"Kaintuck" to quit the rancho. Then he will be able to open the
mines. If the Confederacy totters to its fall, with the control of
that wealth he may yet hold the highest place on the coast.

Dreaming over his cigar, he knows that legislatures can be bought,
governors approached, and high positions gained, by the adroit use
of gold. Bribery is of all times and places.

Telegraphing to "Kaintuck" to meet him near Stockton, at the
station, with a travelling carriage, the Judge revolves plans to
rid himself of this relic of the Valois r‚gime.

His stay at Lagunitas will be for some weeks. He has now several
agents ready to open up the mines.

A liberal use of the income of Lagunitas has buoyed up his sinking
credit. But his stock-gambling has been desperately unlucky.
Hardin revolves in his mind the displacement of old "Kaintuck."
The stage sweeps down the San Joaquin to the station, where his team
awaits him. An unwonted commotion greets him there. His arrival is
opportune. In the room which is the office, bar, and billiard-room
of the little hostelry, poor old "Kaintuck" lies dying, when the
Judge dismounts. It is the hand of fate.

During the hours of waiting, a certain freedom, induced by copious
draughts of fiery Bourbon, caused the old foreman to injudiciously
"Hurrah for Jeff Davis." He gave free vent to his peculiar Southern
opinions.

A sudden quarrel with a stranger results in a quick resort to
weapons. Benumbed with age and whiskey, the old trapper is shot
while tugging at his heavy "Colt."

Before the smoke cleared away the stranger was far away. Dashing
off, he spurred his horse at full speed into the chaparral. No one
dared, no one cared, to follow a desperate man riding for his life.

Hardin orders every attention to the sufferer. Old "Kaintuck" is
going out alone on the dark river.

Hardin, steeled to scenes like this, by an exciting life, blesses
this opportune relief. "Kaintuck" is off his hands forever. Before
the Judge leaves, a rude examination by a justice precedes the
simple obsequies of the dead ranger.

One more red mound by the wayside. A few pencilled words on a shingle
mark the grave, soon to be trampled down by the feet of cattle and
horses. So, one by one, many of the old pioneers leave the theatre
of their aimless lives.

The Judge, happy at heart, bears a grave face. He drives into
Lagunitas. Its fields looked never so fair. Seated in the mansion
house, with every luxury spread out before him, his delighted eye
rests on the diamond lake gleaming in the bosom of the fair landscape.
It already seems his own.

He settles in his easy-chair with an air of conscious lordship.
Padre Francisco, studiously polite, answers every deft question.
He bears himself with the self-possession of a man merely doing
his duty.

Does the priest know of the hidden gold mines? No. A few desultory
questions prove this. "Kaintuck's" lips are sealed forever in
death. The secret is safe.

Padre Francisco does not delay his request to be allowed to depart.
As he sips his ripe Mission claret, he tells Judge Hardin of the
desire of years to return to France. There are now no duties here
to hold him longer. He desires to give the Judge such family papers
as are yet in his charge. He would like practical advice as to his
departure. For he has grown into his quiet retreat and fears the
outer world.

With due gravity the lawyer agrees in the change. He requests the
padre to permit him to write his San Francisco agent of the arrival
of the retiring missionary.

"If you will allow me," he says, "my agent shall furnish your
passage to Paris and arrange for all your wants."

Padre Francisco bows. It is, after all, only his due.

"When will you wish to leave?" queries Hardin.

"To-morrow, Judge. My little affairs are in readiness."

During the evening the light of the good priest glimmers late in
the lonely little sacristy. The chapel bell tolls the last vespers,
for long years, at Lagunitas.

All the precious family papers are accepted by the Judge when the
padre makes ready for his departure. The priest, with faltering
voice, says early mass, with a few attendants. Delivering up the
keys of the sacristy, chapel, and his home to the Judge, he quietly
shares the noonday meal.

If there is sadness in his heart his placid face shows it not. He
sits in the lonely room replete with memories of the past.

He is gone for a half hour, after the wily Judge lights his cigar,
to contemplate the rich domain which shall be his, from the porch
of the old home. When the priest returns, it is from the graves
of the loved dead. He has plucked the few flowers blooming there.
They are in his hand.

His eyes are moist with the silent tears of one who mourns the useless
work of long years. They have been full of sadness, separation,
spiritual defeat, and untimely death. Even Judge Hardin, merciless
as he is, feels compassion for this lonely man. He has asked nothing
of him. The situation is delicate.

"Can I do anything for you, Father Francisco?" says Hardin, with
some real feeling. He is a gentleman "in modo." The priest may be
penniless. He must not go empty-handed.

"Nothing, thank you, save to accept my adieux and my fondest blessing
for the little Isabel."

He hands Judge Hardin the address of the religious house to which
he will retire in Paris.

"I will deliver to your agent the other papers and certificates
of the family. They are stored for safety at the Mission Dolores
church."

"My agent will have orders to do everything you wish," remarks the
Judge, as the carriage drives up for the priest.

Hardin arises, with a sudden impulse. The modest pride of this grave
old French gentleman will not be rudely intruded on. He must not,
he shall not, go away entirely empty-handed. The lawyer returns
with an envelope, and hands it to the padre.

"From the colonel," he says. "It is an order for ten thousand
dollars upon his San Francisco bankers."

"I will be taken care of by those who sent me here," simply remarks
the padre.

Hardin flushes.

"You can use it, father, in France, for the poor, for the friendless;
you will find some worthy objects."

The priest bows gravely, and presses the hand of the lawyer. With
one loving look around the old plaza, the sweeping forest arches,
and the rolling billows of green, he leaves the lonely lake gleaming
amid its wooded shores. Its beauty is untouched by the twenty
long years since first he wandered by its shores. A Paradise in a
forest. His few communicants have said adieu. There is nothing to
follow him but the incense-breathing murmurs of the forest branches,
from fragrant pine and stately redwood, sighing, "Go, in God's
name."

Their wind-wafted voices speak to him of the happy past. The quiet,
saddened, patient padre trusts himself as freely to his unknown
future, as a child in its mother's cradling arms. In his simple
creed, "God is everywhere."

So Fran‡ois Ribaut goes in peace to spend a few quiet days at the
Mission Dolores church. He will then follow the wild ocean waves
back to his beloved France. "Apres vingt ans." A month sees him
nearing the beloved shores.

Walking the deck, he thinks often of that orphan child in Europe.
He remembers, strangely, that the Judge had neglected to give him
any clew to her present dwelling. Ah! he can write. Yes, but will
he be answered? Perhaps. But Judge Hardin is a cunning old lawyer.

Disembarrassed of the grave priest, Hardin at once sends orders
for his prospectors. A new man appears to superintend the grant.

It is with grim satisfaction he reflects that the hand of fate has
removed every obstacle to his control. His fiery energy is shown by
the rapidity with which hundreds of men swarm on ditch and flume.
They are working at mill and giant water-wheels. They are delving
and tracing the fat brown quartz, gold laden, from between the
streaks of rifted basalt and porphyry.

There is no one to spy, none to hinder now. Before the straggling
veterans of Lee and Johnston wander back to the golden West, the
quartz mine of Lagunitas yields fabulous returns.

The legacy of "Kaintuck" was wonderful. The golden bars, run
out roughly at the mine, represented to Hardin the anchor of his
tottering credit. They are the basis of a great fortune, and the
means of political prestige.

When the crash came, when the Southern flags were furled in the
awful silence of defeat and despair, the wily lawyer, safe in
Lagunitas, was crowning his golden fortunes.

Penniless, broken in pride and war-worn, the survivors of the men
whom he urged into the toils of secession, returned sadly home,
scattering aimlessly over the West. Fools of fortune.

Philip Hardin, satisfied with the absence of the infant heiress,
coldly stood aloof from the ruin of his friends.

As the months ran on, accumulating his private deposits, Judge
Hardin, engrossed in his affairs, grew indifferent even to the fate
of the woman he had so long cherished. His unacknowledged child is
naught to him.

It was easy to keep the general income and expenses of the ranch
nearly even in amount.

But the MINE was a daily temptation to the only man who knew its
real ownership. It must be his at any cost. Time must show the way.
He must have a title.

Hardin looked far into the future. His very isolation and inaction
was a proof of no overt treason. With the power of this wealth
he might, when a few years rolled away, reach lofty civic honors.
Young at sixty, as public men are considered, he wonders, looking
over the superb estate, if a high political marriage would not
reopen his career. In entertaining royally at San Francisco and
Sacramento, with solid and substantial claims in society, he may
yet be able to place his name first in the annals of the coast. A
senator. Why not? Ambition and avarice.

With prophetic insight, he knows that sectional rancor will not long
exist in California. Not really, in the war, a divided community,
a debatable land, there will be thousands of able, hardy men,
used to excitement, spreading over the West. It is a land of easy
and liberal opinion. Business and the mine's affairs cause him to
visit San Francisco frequently. He reaches out for all men as his
friends. Seated in his silent parlors, walking moodily through the
beautiful rooms, haunted with memories of the splendid "anonyma"
whose reign is yet visible, he dreams of his wasted past, his
lonely future. Can he repair it? Enveloped in smoke wreaths, from
his portico he surveys the thousand twinkling city lights below.
He is careless of the future movements of his Parisian goddess.

It cost Philip Hardin no heart-wrench to part with voluptuous Hortense
Duval. Partners in a crime, the stain of "French Charlie's" blood
crimsoned their guilty past. An analytical, cold, all-mastering
mind, he had never listened to the heart. He supposed Hortense
to be as chilly in nature as himself. Yet she writes but seldom.
Taught by his profession to dread silence from a woman, he casually
corresponds with several trusted friends of the Confederate
colony in France. What is her mystery? Madame Natalie de Santos is
now a personage. The replies tell him of her real progress in the
glittering ranks of the capital, and her singularly steady life.
As the months roll on, he becomes a little anxious. She is far
too cool and self-contained to suit him. He wishes women to lean
on him and to work his will. Does she intend to establish a thorough
position abroad, and claim some future rights? Has she views of a
settlement? Who knows?

Hardin sees too late, that in the control of both children, and
her knowledge of his past, she is now independent of his mere daily
influence. The millions of Lagunitas mine cannot be hidden. If he
recalls the heiress, will "Natalie de Santos" be as easily controlled
as "Hortense Duval"?

And his own child, what of her? Hardin dares not tie himself up by
acknowledging her claims. If he gives a large sum to the girl, it
will give his "sultana" a powerful weapon for the future.

Is she watching him through spies? She betrays no anxiety to know
anything, save what he imparts. He dare not go to Paris, for fear
of some public scandal and a rupture. He must confirm his position
there. What new friends has she there?

Ah! He will wait and make a final settlement of a handsome fortune
on the child. He will provide a future fixed income for this new
social star, now, at any rate, dependent on her obedience. Reports,
in due form, accompany the occasional communications forwarded
from the "Sacred Heart" as to the heiress. This must all be left
to time.

With a deep interest, Hardin sees the cessation of all hostilities,
the death of Lincoln, the disbandment, in peace, of the great
Union armies.

Bayonets glitter no more upon the crested Southern heights.
The embers of the watchfires are cold, gray ashes now. The lonely
bivouac of the dead is the last holding of the foughten fields.

While the South and East is a graveyard or in mourning, strange
to say, only a general relief is felt in the West. The great issue
easily drops out of sight. There are here no local questions, no
neighborhood hatreds, no appealing graves. Happy California! happy,
but inglorious. The railway approaches completion. A great activity
of scientific mining, enterprises of scope and local development,
urge the Western communities to action. The bonanza of Lagunitas
gives Judge Hardin even greater local prominence. He establishes
his residence at the old home in the Sierras.

With no trusted associates, he splits and divides the funds from
the mine, placing them in varied depositories. He refrains from an
undue appearance of wealth or improvement at the rancho itself.
No one knows the aggregates, the net returns, save himself. Cunning
old robber.

To identify himself with the interior and southern part of the State,
he enters the higher body of the Legislature. His great experience
and unflagging hospitalities make him at once a leader.

Identified with State and mining interests, he engages public
attention. He ignores all contention, and drops the question of
the Rebellion. A hearty welcome from one and all, proves that his
commanding talents are recognized.

There are no relatives, no claims, no meddlesome legatees to question
the disposition of Colonel Valois' estate. His trusteeship is well
known, and his own influence is pre-eminent in the obscure District
Court having control of the legal formalities.

Hardin is keenly watchful of all returning ex-Confederates who might
have been witnesses of Maxime Valois' death. They do not appear.
His possession is unchallenged. His downy couch grows softer daily.

He has received the family papers left by the departing padre. They
are the baptismal papers of the little heiress. The last vouchers.

Hardin, unmoved by fear, untouched by sympathy, never thinks of
the lowly grave before the ramparts of Atlanta. The man lies there,
who appealed to his honor, to protect the orphaned child, but he
is silent in death.

He decides to quietly strip the rancho of its great metallic wealth.
He will hold the land unimproved, to be a showing in future years
should trouble come as to the settlement of the estate.

With the foresight of the advocate, Hardin fears the Valois heirs of
New Orleans. He must build up his defensive works in that quarter.
From several returned "Colonels" and "Majors" he hears of the
death of old Judge Valois.

The line of the family is extinct, save the boy in Paris, who has
been lost sight of. A wandering artist.

A sudden impulse seizes him. He likes not the ominous silence of
Natalie as to important matters.

Selecting one of his law clerks (now an employee of the estate),
he sends him to Paris, amply supplied with funds, to look up the
only scion left of the old family. He charges his agent to spare
neither money nor time in the quest. A full and detailed report of
Madame de Santos' doings and social surroundings is also ordered.

"Mingle in the circles of travelling Americans, spend a little money,
and find out what you can of her private life," are his orders. He
says nothing of the heiress.

In the gay season of 1866, Hardin, still bent on the golden quest
in the hills, reads with some astonishment, the careful "precis"
of his social spy. He writes:

"I have searched Paris all over. The old Confederate circles are
scattered now. They are out of favor at the imperial court. Even
Duke Gwin, the leader of our people, has departed. His Dukedom of
Sonora has gone up with our Confederacy. From one or two attaches
of the old Confederate agency, I learned that the boy Armand Valois
is now sixteen or seventeen years old, if living. He was educated
in one of the best schools here, and is an artist by choice. When
his father died he was left without means. I understand he intended
to make a living by selling sketches or copying pictures. I have
no description of him. There are thousands of young students lost
in this maze. I might walk over him in the Louvre and not know him.
If you wish me to advertise in the journals I might do so."

"Fool," interjects Hardin, as he reads this under the vines at
Lagunitas. "I don't care to look up an heir to Lagunitas. One is
enough."

"Now for Madame de Santos: I have by some effort worked into the
circle of gayety, where I have met her. She is royally beautiful.
I should say about thirty-five. Her position is fixed as an
'elegante." Her turnout in the Bois is in perfect taste. She goes
everywhere, entertains freely, and, if rumor is true, is very
rich. She receives great attention, as they say she is guardian of
a fabulously wealthy young girl at one of the convents here.

"Madame de Santos is very accomplished, and speaks Spanish,
French, and English equally well. I have made some progress in
her acquaintance, but since, by accident, she learned I was from
California she has been quite distant with me. No one knows her
past, here. It is supposed she has lived in Mexico, and perhaps
California. The little feminine 'Monte Cristo' is said to be Spanish
or Mexican. Madame Santos' reputation is absolutely unblemished.
In all the circle of admirers she meets, she favors but one. Count
Ernesto de Villa Rocca, an Italian nobleman, is quite the 'ami de
maison.'

"I have not seen the child, save at a distance. Madame permits no
one to meet her. She only occasionally drives her out, and invariably
alone with herself.

"She visits the convent school regularly. She seems to be a vigilant
wide-awake woman of property. She goes everywhere, opera, balls,
theatres, to the Tuileries. She is popular with women of the best
set, especially the French. She sees very few Americans. She is
supposed to be Southern in her sympathies. Her life seems to be
as clear as a diamond. She has apparently no feminine weaknesses.
If there is a sign of the future, it is that she may become 'Countess
de Villa Rocca.' He is a very fine fellow, has all the Italian
graces, and has been in the 'Guardia Nobile.' He is desperately
devoted to Madame, and to do him justice, is an excellent fellow,
as Italian counts go.

"By the way, I met old Colonel Joe Woods here. He entertained me
in his old way. He showed me the sights. He has become very rich,
and operates in New York, London, and Paris. He is quite a swell
here. He is liberal and jolly. Rather a change from the American
River bar, to the Jockey Club at Paris. He sends you remembrances.

"I shall wait your further orders, and return on telegraph. I
cannot fathom the household mysteries of the Madame. When all Paris
says a woman is 'dead square,' we need not probe deeper. There is
no present sign of her marrying Villa Rocca, but he is the first
favorite."

"So," muses the veteran intriguer Hardin, as he selects a regalia,
"my lady is wary, cautious, and blameless. Danger signals these.
I must watch this Villa Rocca. Is he a 'cavalier servente'? Can he
mean mischief? She would not marry him, I know," he murmurs.

The red danger signal's flash shows to Hardin, Marie Berard standing
by the side of Natalie and the two girls. Villa Rocca is only a
dark shade of the background as yet.

He smiles grimly.

The clicking telegraph key invokes the mysterious cable. For two
days Judge Philip paces his room a restless wolf.

His prophetic mind projects the snares which will bring them all
to his feet. He will buy this soubrette's secrets.

A French maid's greed and Punic faith can be counted on always.

With trembling fingers he tears open the cipher reply from his spy.
He reads with flaming eyes:

"Have seen girl; very knowing. Says she can tell you something
worth one hundred thousand francs. Will not talk now. Money useless
at present. She wants your definite instructions, and says, wait.
Cable me orders."

Hardin peers through the grindstone, and evolves his orders. He
acts with Napoleon's rapidity. His answer reads:

"Let her alone. Tell her to notify Laroyne & Co., 16 Rue Vivienne,
when ready to sell her goods. Wait orders."

Hardin revolves in his busy brain every turn of fortune's wheel.

Has Natalie an intrigue?

Is she already secretly married? Is the heiress of Lagunitas dead?

The labors of his waking hours and the brandy bottle only tell him
of an unfaithful woman's vagaries; a greedy lover's plots, or the
curiosity of the dark-eyed maid, whose avarice is above her fidelity.

Bah! she will tattle. No woman can resist it; they all talk.

But this Italian cur; he must be watched.

The child! Pshaw; she is a girl in frocks. But Villa Rocca is a
needy man of brains and nerve; he must be foiled.

Now, what is her game? Hardin must acknowledge that she is true
to her trust, so far.

The Judge walks over to his telegraph office, for there is a post,
telegraph, and quite a mining settlement now on the Lagunitas
grant.

He sends a cable despatch to Paris to his agent, briefly:

"Stop work. Report acceptable. Come back. Take your time leisurely,
East. Well pleased."

He does not want any misplaced zeal of his spy to alarm Natalie.
As the year 1866 rolls on, the regular reports, business drafts and
details as to Isabel Valois are the burden of the correspondence.
Natalie's heart is silent. Has she one? She has not urged him to
come back; she has not pressed the claims of her child. His agent
returns and amplifies the general reports, but he has no new facts.

The clerk drops into his usual life. He is not curious as to the
Madame. "Some collateral business of the Judge, probably," is his
verdict.

While the stamps rattle away in the Lagunitas quartz mills, Judge
Hardin takes an occasional run to the city by the bay. The legislative
season approaches. Senator Hardin's rooms at the Golden Eagle are
the centre of political power. Railroads are worming their way into
politics. Franchises and charters are everywhere sought. Over the
feasts served by Hardin's colored retainers, he cements friendships
across old party lines.

As Christmas approaches in this year, the Judge receives a letter
from Natalie de Santos which rouses him from his bed of roses. He
steadies his nerves with a glass of the best cognac, as he reads
this fond epistle:

I have waited for you to refer to the future of our child. I will
not waste words. If you wished to make me happy, you would have,
before now, provided for her. I do not speak of myself. You have been
liberal enough to me. I am keeping up the position you indicated.
My child is now old enough to ask meaning questions, to be informed
of her place in the world and to be educated for it. You spoke of
a settlement for her. If anything should happen to me, what would
be her future? Isabel will be of course, in the future, a great
lady. There is nothing absolutely my own. I am dependent on you.
What I asked you, Philip, you have not given me: the name of wife.
It is for her, not for myself, I asked it. I have made myself worthy
of the position I would hold. You know our past. I wish absolutely
now, to know my child's destiny. If you will not do the mother
justice, what will you do for the child? Whose name shall she
bear? What shall she have?

Philip, I beg you to act in these matters and to remember that, if
I once was Hortense Duval, I now am NATALIE DE SANTOS.

Danger signals. Red and flaring they burn before Hardin's steady
eyes. What does she mean? Is her last clause a threat? Woman!
Perfidious woman!

Hardin tosses on a weary couch several nights before he can frame
a reply. It is not a money question. In his proud position now,
forming alliances daily with the new leaders of the State, he could
not stoop to marry this woman. Never. To give the child a block sum
of money would be only to give the mother more power. To settle an
income on her might be a future stain on his name. Shall he buy
off Natalie de Santos? Does she want money alone? If he did so,
would not Villa Rocca marry her and he then have two blackmailers
on his hands? To whom can he trust Isabel Valois if he breaks with
Natalie? The girl is growing, and may ask leading questions. She
must be kept away. In a few years she not only will be marriageable,
but at eighteen her legal property must be turned over.

And to give up the Lagunitas quartz lead? Hardin's brow is gloomy. He
uses days for a decision. The letter makes him very shaky in his
mind. Is the "ex-Queen of the El Dorado" ready to strike a telling
blow?

He remembers how tiger-like her rage when she drew her dagger over
the hand of "French Charlie." She can strike at need, but what will
be her weapon now?

He sets the devilish enginery of his brain at work. His answer to
Natalie de Santos is brief but final:

"You may trust my honor. I shall provide a fund as soon as I can,
to be invested as you direct, either in your name or the other.
You can impart to the young person what you wish. In the meantime
you should educate her as a lady. If you desire an additional
allowance, write me. I have many burdens, and cannot act freely
now. Trust me yet awhile."

Philip Hardin feels no twinge as he seals this letter. No voice
from the grave can reach him. No proof exists in Natalie de Santos'
hands to verify her story.

As for Lagunitas, and orphan Isabel, he pores over every paper
left by the unsuspicious Padre Francisco. He smiles grimly. It was
a missionary parish. Its records have been all turned over to him.
He quietly destroys the whole mass of papers left at Lagunitas by
the priest. As for the marriage papers of her parents and certificate
of baptism of Isabel, he conceals them, ready for destruction at
a moment's notice.

He will wait till the seven years elapse before filing legal proof
of Maxime Valois' death.

Securing from the papers of the old mansion house, materials, old
in appearance, he quietly writes up a bill of sale of the quartz
lead known as the Lagunitas mine, to secure the forty thousand
dollars advanced by him to Maxime Valois, dated back to 1861. Days
of practice enable him to imitate the signature of Valois. He appends
the manual witness of "Kaintuck" and "Padre Francisco." They are
gone forever; one in the grave, one in a cloister.

This paper he sends quietly to record. It attracts no attention.
"Kaintuck" is dead. Valois sleeps his last sleep. From a lonely cell
in a distant French monastery, Padre Francisco will never hear of
this.

As for Isabel Valois, he has a darker plot than mere theft and
forgery, for the future.

The years to come will strengthen his possession and drown out all
possible gossip.

Natalie de Santos must hang dependent on his bounty. He will not
arm her with weapons against himself. He knows she will not return
to face him in California. His power there is too great. If she
dares to marry any one, her hold on him is lost. She must lie to
hide her past. Hardin smiles, for he counts upon a woman's vanity
and love of luxury. The veteran lawyer sums up the situation to
himself. She is powerless. She dares not talk. Time softens down
all passions. When safe, he will give the child some funds, but
very discreetly.

And to bury the memory of Maxime Valois forever is his task.

Broadening his political influence, Hardin moves on to public
prominence. He knows well he can bribe or buy judge and jury,
suppress facts, and use the golden hammer in his hands, to beat
down any attack. Gold, blessed gold!

The clattering stamps ring out merry music at Lagunitas as the
months sweep by.


CHAPTER XV.

AN OLD PRIEST AND A YOUNG ARTIST.--THE CHANGELINGS.


As a thoroughfare of all nations, nothing excels the matchless
Louvre. Though the fatal year of 1870 summons the legions of France
under the last of the Napoleons to defeat, Paris, queen of cities,
has yet to see its days of fire and flame. The Prussians thunder
at its gates. It is "l'annee terrible. "Dissension and rapine
within. The mad wolves of the Commune are yet to rage over the
bloody paths of the German conqueror.

Yet a ceaseless crowd of strangers, a polyglot procession of all
ages and sexes, pours through these wonderful halls of art.

In the sunny afternoons of the battle year, an old French priest
wanders through these noble galleries. Pale and bowed, Fran‡ois
Ribaut dreams away his waning hours among the priceless relics of
the past. These are the hours of release from rosary and breviary.
The ebb and flow of humanity, the labors of the copyists, the
diverse types of passing human nature, all interest the padre.

He has waited in vain for responses to his frequent letters
to Judge Hardin. Perhaps the Judge is dead. Death's sickle swings
unceasingly. The little heiress may have returned to her western
native land. He waits and marvels. He finally sends a last letter
through the clergy at Mission Dolores. To this he receives a response
that they are told the young lady has returned to America and is
being educated in the Eastern States.

With a sigh Fran‡ois Ribaut abandons all hopes of seeing once more
the child he had baptized, the orphaned daughter of his friend.
She is now far from him. He feels assured he will never cross the
wild Atlantic again.

Worn and weary, waiting the approach of old age, he yet participates,
with a true Frenchman's patriotism, in the sorrows of "l'annee
terrible." Nothing brightens the future! Human nature itself seems
giving way.

All is disaster. Jacques Bonhomme's blood waters in vain his native
fields. Oh, for the great Napoleon! Alas, for the days of 1805!

As he wanders among the pictures he makes friendly acquaintance
with rising artist and humble imitator. The old padre is everywhere
welcome. His very smile is a benediction.

He pauses one day at the easel of a young man who is copying a
Murillo Madonna. Intent upon his work, the artist politely answers,
and resumes his task. Spirited and artistic in execution, the copy
betokens a rare talent.

Day after day, on his visits, the padre sees the glowing canvas
nearing completion. He is strangely attracted to the resolute young
artist.

Dark-eyed and graceful, the young painter is on the threshold
of manhood. With seemingly few friends or acquaintances, he works
unremittingly. Padre Francisco learns that he is a self-supporting
art-student. He avows frankly that art copying brings him both his
living and further education.

Fran‡ois Ribaut is anxious to know why this ardent youth toils,
when his fellows are in the field fighting the invaders. He is
astonished when the young man tells him he is an American.

"You are a Frenchman in your language and bearing," says the priest
doubtfully.

The young artist laughs.

"I was educated here, mon pere, but I was born in Louisiana. My
name is Armand Valois."

The old priest's eyes glisten.

"I knew an American named Valois, in California. He was a Louisianan
also."

The youth drops his brush. His eyes search the padre's face. "His
name?" he eagerly asks.

"He was called Maxime Valois," says the priest, Sadly. "He went
into the Southern war and was killed."

The artist springs from his seat. Leading the priest to a recessed
window-seat, he says, quietly:

"Mon pere, tell me of him. He was my cousin, and the last of my
family. I am now the only Valois."

Padre Francisco overstays his hour of relaxation. For the artist
learns of the heroic death of his gallant kinsman, and all the
chronicles of Lagunitas.

"But you must come to me. I must see you often and tell you more,"
concludes the good old priest. He gives Armand his residence,
a religious establishment near Notre Dame, where he can spend his
days under the shadows of the great mystery-haunted fane.

Armand tells the priest his slender history.

Left penniless by his aged father's death, the whirlwind of
the Southern war swept away the last of his property. Old family
friends, scattered and poor, cannot help him. He has been his own
master for years. His simple annals are soon finished. He tells
of his heart comrade, Raoul Dauvray (his senior a few years), now
fighting in the Army of the Loire. The priest learns that the
young American remained, to be a son in the household, while Raoul,
a fellow art-student of past years, has drawn his sword for France.

Agitated by the discovery, Padre Francisco promises to visit the
young man soon. It seems all so strange. A new romance! Truly the
world is small after all. Is it destiny or chance?

In a few weeks, Fran‡ois Ribaut is the beloved of that little circle,
where Josephine Dauvray is the household ruler. Priest and youth
are friends by the memory of the dead soldier of the Confederacy.
Armand writes to New Orleans and obtains full details of the death,
in the hour of victory, of the gallant Californian. His correspondent
says, briefly, "Colonel Henry Peyton, who succeeded your relative
in command of the regiment, left here after the war, for Mexico
or South America. He has never been heard from. He is the one man
who could give you the fullest details of the last days of your
kinsman--if he still lives."

Thundering war rolls nearer the gates of Paris. The horrible days
of approaching siege and present danger, added to the gloom of the
national humiliation, make the little household a sad one. Padre
Francisco finds a handsome invalid officer one day at the artist's
home. Raoul Dauvray, severely wounded, is destined to months of
inaction. There is a brother's bond between the two younger men.
Padre Francisco lends his presence to cheer the invalid. Father and
mother are busied with growing cares, for the siege closes in.

The public galleries are now all closed. The days of "decheance"
are over. France is struggling out of the hands of tyranny under
the invaders' scourge into the nameless horrors of the Commune.

It is impossible to get away, and unsafe to stay. The streets are
filled with the mad unrest of the seething population. By the side
of the young officer of the Garde Mobile, Fran‡ois Ribaut ministers
and speeds the recovery of the chafing warrior. Thunder of guns
and rattle of musketry nearer, daily, bring fresh alarms. Armand
Valois has thrown away the palette and is at last on the ramparts
with his brother artists, fighting for France. The boy has no
country, for his blood is as true to the Lost Cause as the gallant
cousin who laid down his life at Atlanta. He can fight for France,
for he feels he has no other country now. It has been his foster-mother.

Bright and helpful, demure and neat-handed, is the little nurse,
who is the life of the household. Padre Francisco already loves
the child. "Louise Moreau" is a pretty, quiet little maiden of
twelve. Good Josephine Dauvray has told the priest of the coming
of the child. He listens to the whole story. He sighs to think
of some dark intrigue, behind the mask of this poor child's humble
history. He gravely warns Josephine to tell him all the details of
this strange affair. The motherly care and protection of Josephine
has rendered the shy child happy. She knows no home but her little
nest with the Dauvrays. Her education is suited to her modest station
in life. The substantial payments and furtive visits of the woman
who is responsible for her, tell the priest there is here a mystery
to probe.

Josephine casts down her eyes when PŠre Fran‡ois asks her sternly
if she has not traced the woman who is the only link between her
charge and the past. Interest against duty.

"I have followed her, mon pere, but I do not know her home. She
comes irregularly, sometimes on foot, sometimes in a carriage. I have
always lost all traces. She must have friends here, but I cannot
find them, for she was sent to us by others to give this child a
home."

"This must be looked into," murmurs the priest.

He interrogates the soldier and also Armand when he returns from
the lines, as the siege drags slowly on. They know nothing save
the fact of the child's being friendless. It may be right; it may
be wrong. "Voila tout." It's the way of Paris.

The priest is much disturbed in mind. Since his conversations with
Armand Valois he feels a vague unrest in his heart as to the young
artist's rights in Lagunitas. Does none of that great estate go to
Armand? Is this equitable? There must be some share of the domain,
which would legally descend to him. In the days of the convalescence
of Raoul Dauvray, the two friends of the soldier-artist, now waiting
the orders for the great attack, commune as to his rights. It would
not be well to disturb him with false hopes.

The gentle old priest tells Raoul the whole story of Lagunitas.

"Mon pere," says the sculptor, "I think there is something wrong
with the affairs of that estate. This great Judge may wish you
out of the way. He may wish to keep Armand out of his rights. He
is deceiving you. It would be well, when brighter days come, that
Armand should go to the western land and see this man."

"But he is poor," Raoul sighs, "and he cannot go."

"If he writes to the 'avocat,' the man will be on his guard."

PŠre Fran‡ois takes many a pinch of snuff. He ponders from day to
day. When the fatal days of the surrender of Paris come, Armand
returns saddened and war-worn, but safe. The victorious columns
of the great German "imperator" march under the Arc de Triomphe.
Their bayonets shine in the Bois de Boulogne. Thundering cannon at
Versailles bellow a salute to the new-crowned Emperor of Germany.

The days of the long siege have been dreadful. Privation, the
streams of wounded, and the dull boom of the guns of the forts are
sad witnesses of the ruin of war.

When to the siege and the shame of surrender, the awful scenes
of the Commune are added, each day has a new trial. Raoul is well
enough to be out, now. The two young men guard the household.
Aristide Dauvray is gloomily helpless at his fireside. Armand
busies himself in painting and sketching. PŠre Fran‡ois' visits are
furtive, for the priest's frock is a poor safeguard now. Already
the blood of the two murdered French generals, Lecomte and
Clement-Thomas, cries to heaven for vengeance against rash mutiny.

Raoul Dauvray foresees the downfall of the socialistic mob. After
consultation, he decides to take a place where he can protect the
little household when the walls are stormed. He escapes by night
to the lines of the Versaillese.

For, maddened Paris is now fighting all France. In his capacity of
officer, he can at once insure the personal safety of his friends
when the city is taken.

The red flag floats on the Hotel de Ville. The very streets
are unsafe. Starvation faces the circle around Aristide Dauvray's
hearth. Mad adventurers, foolish dreamers, vain "bourgeois"
generals, head the Communists. Dombrowski, Cluseret, Flourens, the
human tigers Ferre and Lullier, Duval, Bergeret, and Eudes, stalk
in the stolen robes of power. Gloomy nights close sad and dreary
days. From Issy and Vanvres huge shells curve their airy flight,
to carry havoc from French guns into French ranks.

Hell seems to have vomited forth its scum. Uncanny beings lurk at
the corners. Wild with cognac and absinthe, the unruly mob commits
every wanton act which unbridled wickedness can suggest. Good men
are powerless, and women exposed to every insult. Public trade is
suspended. Robbery and official pillage increase. The creatures of
a day give way quickly to each other. Gallant Rossell, who passed
the Prussian lines to serve France, indignantly sheathes his sword.
He is neither a Nero nor a mountebank.

Alas, for the talented youth! a death volley from his old engineer
troops awaits him at the Buttes de Chaumont. To die the dishonored
death of a felon, a deserter!

Alas, for France: bright of face and hard of heart! Tigress queen,
devouring your noblest children.

While Thiers proclaims the law, he draws around him the wreck of
a great army. A bloody victory over demented brethren hangs awful
laurels on the French sword: De Gallifet, Vinoy, Ducrot, L'Admirault,
Cissey, D'Aurelle de Palladines, Besson and Charrette surround the
unlucky veteran, Marshal McMahon, Duc de Magenta. General Le Flo,
the Minister of War, hurls this great army against the two hundred
and fifty-two battalions of National Guards within the walls of
Paris. These fools have a thousand cannon.

Down in the Bois de Boulogne, the fighting pickets pour hissing
lead into the bosoms of brothers. From the heights where the
brutal Prussian soldiery grinned over the blackened ruins of the
ill-starred Empress Eugenie's palace of St. Cloud, the cannon of
the Versaillese rain shot and shell on the walls of defenceless
Paris.

PŠre Fran‡ois is a blessing in these sad and weary days. Clad
"en bourgeois," he smuggles in food and supplies. He cheers the
half-distracted Josephine. Armand Valois keeps the modest little
maiden Louise, fluttering about the home studio which he shares with
Raoul. Their casts and models, poor scanty treasures, make their
modest sanctum a wonder to the girl. Her life's romance unfolds.
Art and dawning love move her placid soul. The days of wrangling
wear away. An occasional smuggled note from Raoul bids them be of
cheer. Once or twice, the face of Marie Berard is seen at the door
for a moment.

Thrusting a packet of notes in Josephine's hand, she bids her guard
the child and keep her within her safe shelter.

The disjointed masses of Communists wind out on April 3d of the
terrible year of '71, to storm the fortified heights held by the
Nationalists.

Only a day before, at Courbevoie, their bayonets have crossed
in fight. Mont Valerien now showers shells into Paris. Bergeret,
Duval, and Eudes lead huge masses of bloodthirsty children of the
red flag, into a battle where quickening war appalls the timid
Louise. It makes her cling close to Armand. The human family seems
changed into a pack of ravening wolves. Pouring back, defeated and
dismayed, the Communists rage in the streets. The grim fortress
of Mont Valerien has scourged the horde of Bergeret. Duval's column
flees; its defeated leader is promptly shot by the merciless
Vinoy. Fierce De Gallifet rages on the field--his troopers sabring
the socialists without quarter.

Flourens' dishonored body lies, riddled with bullets, on a dung
heap at St. Cloud.

Eudes steals away, to sneak out and hide his "loot" in foreign lands.
Red is the bloody flail with which McMahon thrashes out Communism.

The prisoned family, joined by PŠre Fran‡ois, now a fugitive, day
by day shudder at the bedlam antics and reign of blood around them.

Saintly Archbishop Darboy dies under the bullets of the Communists.
His pale face appeals to God for mercy.

Vengeance is yet to come. The clergy are now hunted in the streets!
Plunder and rapine reign! Orgies and wild wassail hold a mocking
sway in the courts of death. Unsexed women, liberated thieves, and
bloodthirsty tramps prey on the unwary, the wounded, or the feeble.
On April 3Oth, the great fort of Issy falls into the hands of the
government. Blazing shells rain, in the murky night air, down on
Paris. Continuous fighting from April 2d until May 21st makes the
regions of Auteuil, Neuilly, and Point du Jour a wasted ruin.

Frenzied fiends drag down the Colonne Vendome where the great Corsican
in bronze gazed on a scene of wanton madness never equalled. Not
even when drunken Nero mocked at the devastation of the imperial
city by the Tiber, were these horrors rivalled.

Down the beautiful green slopes into the Bois de Boulogne, the
snaky lines of sap and trench bring the octopus daily nearer to
the doomed modern Babylon. Flash of rifle gun and crack of musketry
re-echo in the great park. It is now shorn of its lovely trees,
where man and maid so lately held the trysts of love. A bloody dew
rains on devoted Paris.

A fateful Sunday is that twenty-first of May when the red-mouthed
cannon roar from dawn till dark. At eventide, the grim regulars
bayonet the last defenders of the redoubts at the Point du Jour
gates. The city is open to McMahon.

The lodgment once made, a two nights' bombardment adds to the
horrors of this living hell.

On the twenty-third, Montmartre's bloody shambles show how merciless
are the stormers. Dombrowski lies dead beside his useless guns.
All hope is lost. Murder and pillage reign in Paris.

Behind their doors, barricaded with the heavier furniture, the
family of Aristide Dauvray invoke the mercy of God. They are led
by PŠre Fran‡ois, who thinks the awful Day of Judgment may be near.
Humanity has passed its limits. Fiends and furies are the men and
women, who, crazed with drink, swarm the blood-stained streets.

In their lines, far outside, the stolid Prussians joke over their
beer, as they learn of the wholesale murder finishing red Bellona's
banquet. "The French are all crazy." They laugh.

The twenty-fourth of May arrives. Paris is aflame. Battle unceasing,
storm of shell, rattle of rifles, and cannon balls skipping down
the Champs Elysees mark this fatal day. A deep tide of human blood
flows from the Madeleine steps to the Seine. The river is now
filled with bodies. Columns of troops, with heavy tramp and ringing
platoon volleys, disperse the rallying squads of rebels, or storm
barricade after barricade. Squadrons of cavalry whirl along, and
cut down both innocent and guilty.

After three awful days more, the six thousand bodies lying among
the tombs of PŠre la Chaise tell that the last stronghold of the
Commune has been stormed. Belleville and Buttes de Chaumont are
piled with hundreds of corpses. The grim sergeants' squads are
hunting from house to house, bayoneting skulking fugitives, or
promptly shooting any persons found armed.

The noise of battle slowly sinks away. Flames and smoke soar to the
skies: the burnt offering now; the blood offering is nearly over.

Thirty superb palaces of the municipality are in flames. Under
Notre Dame's sacred roof, blackened brands and flooded petroleum
tell of the human fiends' visit.

The superb ruins of the Tuileries show what imperial France has
been. Its flaming debris runs with streams of gold, silver, and
melted crystal.

Banks, museums, and palaces have been despoiled. Boys and old
crones trade costly jewels in the streets for bread and rum. The
firing parties are sick of carnage.

Killing in cold blood ceases now, from sheer mechanical fatigue.

On the twenty-eighth, a loud knocking on the door of the house
brings Aristide Dauvray to the door. A brief parley. The obstructions
are cleared. Raoul is clasped in his father's arms. Safe at last.
Grim, bloody, powder-stained, with tattered clothes, he is yet
unwounded. A steady sergeant and half-dozen men are quickly posted
as a guard. They can breathe once more. This help is sadly needed.
In a darkened room above, little Louise Moreau lies in pain and
silence.

Grave-faced PŠre Fran‡ois is the skilful nurse and physician.
A shell fragment, bursting through a window, has torn her tender,
childish body.

Raoul rapidly makes Armand and his father known to the nearest
"poste de garde." He obtains protection for them. His own troops
are ordered to escort drafts of the swarming prisoners to the
Orangery at Versailles. Already several thousands of men, women,
and children, of all grades, are penned within the storied walls.
Here the princesses of France sported, before that other great
blood frenzy, the Revolution, seized on the Parisians.

With a brief rest, he tears himself away from a mother's arms, and
departs for the closing duties of the second siege of Paris. The
drawing in of the human prey completes the work.

Safe at last! Thank God! The family are able to look out to the
light of the sun again. They see the glittering stars of night
shine calmly down on the slaughter house, the charnel of "Paris
incendie." The silence is brooding. It seems unfamiliar after
months of siege, and battle's awful music.

In a few days the benumbed survivors crawl around the streets. Open
gates enable provisions to reach the half-famished dwellers within
the walls. Over patched bridges, the railways pour the longed-for
supplies into Paris. Fair France is fruitful, even in her year
of God's awful vengeance upon the rotten empire of "Napoleon the
Little."

PŠre Fran‡ois lingers by the bedside of the suffering girl. She
moans and tosses in the fever of her wound. Her mind is wandering.

A slender, girlish arm wanders out of the coverlid often. She lies,
with flushed cheeks and eyes strangely bright.

Tenderly replacing the innocent's little hands under the counterpane,
Fran‡ois Ribaut starts with sudden surprise.

He fastens his gaze eagerly on the poor girl's left arm.

Can there be two scars like this?

The sign of the cross.

He is amazed. The little Spanish girl, from whose baby arm he
extracted a giant poisonous thorn, bore a mark like this,--a record
of his own surgery.

At far Lagunitas, he had said, playfully to Dolores Valois:

"Your little one will never forget the cross; she will bear it
forever."

For the incision left a deep mark on baby Isabel Valois' arm.

The old priest is strangely stirred. He has a lightning flash of
suspicion. This girl has no history; no family; no name. Who is
she?

Yet she is watched, cared for, and, even in the hours of danger,
money is provided for her. Ah, he will protect this poor lamb. But
it is sheer madness to dream of her being his lost one. True, her
age is that of the missing darling. He kneels by the bed of the
wounded innocent, and softly quavers a little old Spanish hymn. It
is a memory of his Californian days.

Great God! her lips are moving; her right hand feebly marks his
words, and as he bends over the sufferer, he hears "Santa Maria,
Madre de Dios."

Fran‡ois Ribaut falls on his knees in prayer. This nameless waif,
in her delirium, is faltering words of the cradle hymns, the baby
lispings of the heiress of Lagunitas.

A light from heaven shines upon the old priest's brow.

Is it, indeed, the heiress!

He can hear his own heart beat.

The wearied, hunted priest feels the breezes from the singing pines
once more on his fevered brow. Again he sees the soft dark eyes
of Dolores as they close in death, beautiful as the last glances
of an expiring gazelle. Her dying gaze is fixed on the crucifix in
his hand.

"I will watch over this poor lonely child," murmurs the old man,
as he throws himself on his knees, imploring the protection of the
Virgin Mother mild.

Sitting by the little sufferer, softly speaking the language of her
babyhood, the padre hears word after word, uttered by the girl in
the "patois" of Alta California.

And now he vows himself to a patient vigil over this defenceless
one. Silence, discretion, prudence. He is yet a priest.

He will track out this mysterious guardian.

In a week or so, a normal condition is re-established in conquered
Paris. Though the yellowstone houses are pitted with the scourge
of ball and mitraille, the streets are safe. Humanity's wrecks
are cleared away. Huge, smoking ruins tell of the mad barbarity of
the floods of released criminals. The gashed and torn beauties of
the Bois de Boulogne; battered fortifications, ruined temples of
Justice, Art, and Commerce, and the blood-splashed corridors of
the Madeleine are still eloquent of anarchy.

The reign of blood is over at last, for, in heaps of shattered
humanity, the corses of the last Communists are lying in awful
silence in the desecrated marble wilderness of PŠre la Chaise.

The heights of Montmartre area Golgotha. Trade slowly opens its
doors. The curious foreigner pokes, a human raven, over the scenes
of carnage. Disjointed household organizations rearrange themselves.
The railway trains once more run regularly. Laughter, clinking
of glasses, and smirking loiterers on the boulevards testify that
thoughtless, heartless Paris is itself once more. "Vive la bagatelle."

Fran‡ois Ribaut at last regains his home of religious seclusion.
Louise is convalescent, and needs rest and quiet. There is no want
of money in the Dauvray household. The liberal douceurs of Louise
Moreau's mysterious guardian, furnish all present needs.

"Thank God!" cries PŠre Frangois, when he remembers that he has
the fund intact, which he received from the haughty Hardin.

He can follow the quest of justice. He has the means to trace
the clouded history of this child of mystery. A nameless girl who
speaks only French, yet in her wandering dreams recalls the Spanish
cradle-hymns of lost Isabel.

Already the energy of the vivacious French is applied to the care
of what is left, and the repair of the damages of the reign of
demons. The rebuilding of their loved "altars of Mammon" begins.
The foreign colony, disturbed like a flock of gulls on a lonely
rock, flutters back as soon as the battle blast is over. Aristide
Dauvray finds instant promotion in his calling. The hiding Communists
are hunted down and swell the vast crowd of wretches in the Orangery.

Already, all tribunals are busy. Deportation or death awaits the
leaders of the revolt.

Raoul Dauvray, whose regiment is returned from its fortnight's guard
duty at Versailles, is permitted to revisit his family. Peace now
signed--the peace of disgrace--enables the decimated Garde Mobile
to be disbanded. In a few weeks, he will be a sculptor again. A
soldier no more. France needs him no longer in the field.

By the family Lares and Penates the young soldier tells of
the awful sights of Versailles. The thousand captured cannon of
the Communists, splashed with human blood, the wanton ruin of the
lovely grounds of the Bois, dear to the Parisian heart, and all the
strange scenes of the gleaning of the fields of death show how the
touch of anarchy has seared the heart of France. Raoul's adventures
are a nightly recital.

"I had one strange adventure," says the handsome soldier, knocking
the ashes from his cigar. "I was on guard with my company in command
of the main gate of the Orangery, the night after the crushing of
these devils at Montmartre. The field officer of the day was away.
Among other prisoners brought over, to be turned into that wild
human menagerie, was a beautiful woman, richly dressed. She was
arrested in a carriage, escaping from the lines with a young girl.
Their driver was also arrested. He was detained as a witness.

"She had not been searched, but was sent over for special examination.
She was in agony. I tried to pacify her. She declared she was an
American, and begged me to send at once for the officers of the
American Legation. It was very late. The best I could do was to give
her a room and put a trusty sergeant in charge. I sent a messenger
instantly to the American Legation with a letter. She was in mortal
terror of her life. She showed me a portmanteau, with magnificent
jewels and valuables. I calmed her terrified child. The lady insisted
I should take charge of her jewels and papers. I said:

"'Madame, I do not know you.'

"She cried, 'A French officer is always a gentleman.'

"In the morning before I marched off guard, a carriage with a foreign
gentleman and one of the attach‚s of the United States Embassy,
came with a special order from General Le Fl“ for her release. She
had told me she was trying to get out of Paris with her child, who
had been in a convent. It was situated in the midst of the fighting
and had been cut off. Passing many fearful risks, she was finally
arrested as 'suspicious.'

"She persists in saying I saved her life. She would have been
robbed, truly, in that mad whirl of human devils penned up there
under the chassepots of the guards on the walls. Oh! it was horrible."

The young soldier paused.

"She thanked me, and was gracious enough not to offer me a reward.
I am bidden to call on her in a few days, as soon as we are tranquil,
and receive her thanks.

"I have never seen such beauty in woman," continues the officer.

"A Venus in form; a daughter of the South, in complexion,--and her
thrilling eyes!"

Gentle Louise murmurs, "And the young lady?"

"A Peri not out of the gates of Paradise," cries the enthusiastic
artist.

"What is she? who is she?" cried the circle. Even PŠre Fran‡ois
lifted his head in curiosity. Raoul threw two cards on the table.
A dainty coronet with the words,

{Madame Natalie de Santos, 97 Champs Elysees.}

appeared on one; the other read,

{Le Comte Ernesto Villa Rocca, Jockey Club.}

"And you are going to call?" said Armand.

"Certainly," replies Raoul. "I told the lady I was an artist.
She wishes to give me a commission for a bust of herself. I hope
she will; I want to be again at my work. I am tired of all this
brutality."

That looked-for day comes. France struggles to her feet, and loads
the Teuton with gold. He retires sullenly to where he shows his
grim cannons, domineering the lovely valleys of Alsace and the
fruitful fields of Lorraine.

Louise Moreau is well now. The visits of her responsible guardian
are resumed. Adroit as a priest can be, PŠre Fran‡ois cannot run
down this visitor. Too sly to call in others, too proud to use a
hireling, in patience the priest bides his time.

Not a word yet to the fair girl, who goes singing now around the
house. A few questions prove to Fran‡ois Ribaut that the girl has
no settled memory of her past. He speaks, in her presence, the
language of the Spaniard. No sign of understanding. He describes
his old home in the hills of Mariposa. The placid child never
raises her head from her sewing.

Is he mistaken? No; on her pretty arm, the crucial star still
lingers.

"How did you get that mark, my child?" he asks placidly.

"I know not, mon pŠre; it has been there since I can remember."

The girl drops her eyes. She knows there is a break in her
history. The earliest thing she can remember of her childhood is
sailing--sailing on sapphire seas, past sculptured hills. Long days
spent, gazing on the lonely sea-bird's flight.

The priest realizes there is a well-guarded secret. The regular
visitor does not speak TO the child, but OF her.

PŠre Fran‡ois has given Josephine his orders, but there is no
tripping in the cold business-like actions of the woman who pays.

PŠre Fran‡ois is determined to take both the young men into his
confidence. He will prevent any removal of this child, without the
legal responsibility of some one. If they should take the alarm?
How could he stop them? The law! But how and why?

Raoul Dauvray is in high spirits. After his regiment is disbanded,
he is not slow to call at the splendid residence on the Champs
Elys‚es. In truth, he goes frequently.

The splendors of that lovely home, "Madame de Santos'" gracious
reception, and a royal offer for his artistic skill, cause him to
feel that she is indeed a good fairy.

A modelling room in the splendid residence is assigned him. Count
Villa Rocca, who has all an Italian's love of the arts, lingers
near Natalie de Santos, with ill-concealed jealousy of the young
sculptor. To be handsome, smooth, talented, jealous--all this is
Villa Rocca's "m‚tier." He is a true Italian.


CHAPTER XVI.

NEARING EACH OTHER.--THE VALOIS HEIRS.


Paris is a human hive. Thousands labor to restore its beauty. The
stream of life ebbs and flows once more on the boulevards. The
galleries reopen. Armand labors in the Louvre. He finished the
velvet-eyed Madonna, copied after Murillo's magic hand. He chafes
under Raoul's laurels. The boy would be a man. Every day the
sculptor tells of the home of the wealthy Spaniard. The girl is at
her convent again. Raoul meets Madame Natalie "en ami de maison."

He tells of Count Villa Rocca's wooing. Marriage may crown the
devotion of the courtly lover.

The bust in marble is a success. Raoul is in the flush of glory.
His patroness directs him to idealize for her "Helen of Troy."

Armand selects as his next copy, a grand inspiration of womanly
beauty. He, too, must pluck a laurel wreath.

Under the stress of emulation, his fingers tremble in nervous ardor.
He has chosen a subject which has myriad worshippers.

Day by day, admirers recognize the true spirit of the masterpiece.

Throngs surround the painter, who strains his artistic heart.

A voice startles him, as the last touches are being laid on:

"Young man, will you sell this here picture?"

"That depends," rejoins Armand. His use of the vernacular charms
the stranger.

"Have you set a price?" cries the visitor, in rough Western English.

"I have not as yet," the copyist answers.

He surveys the speaker, a man of fifty years, whose dress and manner
speak of prosperity in efflorescent form.

The diamond pin, huge watch-chain, rich jewelled buttons, and
gold-headed cane, prove him an American Croesus.

"Well, when it's done, you bring it to my hotel. Everyone knows
me. I will give you what you want for it. It's way up; better than
the original," says the Argonaut, with a leer at its loveliness.

He drops his card on the moist canvas. The nettled artist reads,

{{Colonel Joseph Woods, California. Grand Hotel.}}

on the imposing pasteboard.

The good-humored Woods nods.

"Yes sir, that's me. Every one in London, Paris, and New York,
knows Joe Woods.

"Good at the bank," he chuckles.

"What's your name?" he says abruptly.

Armand rises bowing, and handing his card to the stranger:

"Armand Valois."

Woods whistles a resounding call. The "flaneurs" start in
astonishment.

"Say; you speak English. By heavens! you look like him. Did you ever
know a Colonel Valois, of California?" He gazes at the boy eagerly.

"I never met him, sir, but he was the last of my family. He was
killed in the Southern war."

"Look here, young man, you pack up them there paint-brushes, and
send that picture down to my rooms. You've got to dine with me
to-night, my boy. I'll give you a dinner to open your eyes."

The painter really opens his eyes in amazement.

"You knew my relative in California?"

"We dug this gold together," the stranger almost shouts, as he
taps his huge watch-chain. "We were old pardners," he says, with
a moistened eye.

There was a huskiness in the man's voice; not born of the mellow
cognac he loved.

No; Joe Woods was far away then, in the days of his sturdy youth.
He was swinging the pick once more on the bars of the American
River, and listening to its music rippling along under the giant
pines of California.

The young painter's form brought back to "Honest Joe" the unreturning
brave, the chum of his happiest days.

Armand murmurs, "Are you sure you wish this picture?"

"Dead sure, young man. You let me run this thing. Now, I won't take
'no.' You just get a carriage, and get this all down to my hotel.
You can finish it there. I've got to go down to my bank, and you
be there to meet me. You'll have a good dinner; you bet you will.
God! what a man Valois was. Dead and gone, poor fellow!

"Now, I'm off! don't you linger now."

He strides to his carriage, followed by a crowd of "valets de place."
All know Joe Woods, the big-souled mining magnate. He always leaves
a golden trail.

Armand imagines the fairy of good luck has set him dreaming. No;
it is all true.

He packs up his kit, and sends for a coupe. Giving orders as to
the picture, he repairs to the home of the Dauvrays for his toilet.
He tells PŠre Fran‡ois of his good fortune.

"Joe Woods, did you say," murmurs the priest. "He was a friend of
Valois. He is rich. Tell him I remember him. He knows who I am. I
would like to see him."

There is a strange light in Fran‡ois Ribaut's eye. Here is a
friend; perhaps, an ally. He must think, must think.

The old priest taps his snuff-box uneasily.

In a "cabinet particulier" of the Grand Hotel restaurant, Woods
pours out to the young man, stories of days of toil and danger;
lynching scenes, gambling rows, "shooting scrapes," and all
kaleidoscopic scenes of the "flush days of the Sacramento Valley."

Armand learns his cousin's life in California. He imparts to the
Colonel, now joyous over his "becassine aux truffes" and Chambertin,
the meagre details he has of the death of the man who fell in the
intoxicating hour of victory on fierce Hood's fiercest field.

Colonel Joe Woods drains his glass in silence.

"My boy," he suddenly says, "Valois left an enormous estate; don't
you come in anywhere?"

"I never knew of his will," replies Armand. "I want you, Colonel,
to meet my old friend PŠre Fran‡ois, who was the priest at
this Lagunitas. He tells me, a Judge Hardin has charge of all the
property."

Joe Woods drops the knife with which he is cutting the tip of his
imperial cigar.

"By Heavens! If that old wolf has got his claws on it, it's a long
fight. I'll see your Padre. I knew him. Now, my boy," says Colonel
Joe, "I've got no wife, and no children," he adds proudly.

"I'll take you over to California with me, and we'll see old Hardin.
I'm no lawyer, but you ought to hear of the whole details. We'll
round him up. Let's go up to my room and look at your picture."

Throwing the waiter a douceur worthy of his financial grade, the
new friends retire to the Colonel's rooms.

Here the spoils of the jeweler, the atelier, and studio, are
strangely mingled. Joe Woods buys anything he likes. A decanter
of Bourbon, a box of the very primest Havanas, and a business-like
revolver, lying on the table, indicate his free and easy ways.

Letters in heaps prove that "mon brave Colonel Woods" is even known
to the pretty free-lances who fight under the rosy banner of Venus
Victrix.

In hearty terms, the Californian vents his enthusiasm.

"By the way, my boy, I forgot something." He dashes off a check
and hands it to the young painter.

"Tell me where to send for a man to frame this picture in good
shape," he simply says.

He looks uneasily at the young man, whose senses fail him when he
sees that the check is for five thousand francs.

"Is that all right?" he says cheerfully, nudging Armand in the ribs.
"Cash on delivery, you know. I want another by and by. I'll pick
out a picture I want copied. I'm going to build me a bachelor
ranch on Nob Hill: Ophir Villa." He grins over some pet "deal" in
his favorite Comstock. Dulcet memories.

For Colonel Joe Woods is a man of "the Golden Days of the Pacific."
He too has "arrived."

The boy murmurs his thanks. "Now look here, I've got to run over
to the Cafe Anglais, and see some men from the West. You give me
your house number. I'll come in and see the padre to-morrow evening.

"Stay; you had better come and fetch me. Take dinner with me
to-morrow, and we'll drive down in a hack."

The Colonel slips his pistol in its pocket, winks, takes a pull
at the cocktail of the American, old Kentucky's silver stream, and
grasps his gold-headed club. He is ready now to meet friend or
foe.

Joy in his heart, good humor on his face, jingling a few "twenties,"
which he carries from habit, he grasps a handful of cigars, and
pushes the happy boy out of the open door.

"Oh! never mind that; I've got a French fellow sleeping around here
somewhere," he cries, as Armand signals the sanctum is unlocked.
"He always turns up if any one but HIMSELF tries to steal anything.
He's got a patent on that," laughs the "Croesus of the American
River."

Armand paints no stroke the next day. He confers with PŠre Fran‡ois.
He is paralyzed when the cashier of the "Credit Lyonnais" hands
him five crisp one-thousand-franc notes. Colonel Joe Woods' check
is of international potency. It is not, then, a mere dream.

When the jovial Colonel is introduced to the family circle he
is at home in ten minutes. His good nature carries off easily his
halting French. He falls into sudden friendship with the young
soldier-sculptor. He compliments Madame Josephine. He pleases the
modest Louise, and is at home at once with Padre Francisco.

After a friendly chat, he says resolutely:

"Now, padre, you and I want to have a talk over our young friend
here. Let us go up to his room a little."

Seated in the boy's studio, Woods shows the practical sense which
carried him to the front in the struggle for wealth.

"I tell you what I'll do," he says. "I'm going out to the coast
in a month or so. I'll look this up a little. If I want our young
friend here, I'll send you a cable, and you can start him out to
me. My banker will rig him out in good style. Just as well he comes
under another name. See? Padre, you take a ride with me to-morrow.
We will talk it all over."

The Californian's questions and sagacity charm the padre. He is
now smoking one of those blessed "Imperiales." An innocent pleasure.

They rise to join the circle below. A thought animates the priest.

Yes, he will confer with the clear-headed man and tell him of the
child below, whose pathway is unguarded by a parent's love.

Around the frugal board Colonel Joe enters into the family spirit.
He insists on having Raoul come to him for a conference about his
portraiture in marble.

"I have just finished a bust of Madame de Santos, the beautiful
Mexican lady," remarks Raoul.

Colonel Joe bounds from his chair. "By hokey, young man, you are
a bonanza. Do you know her well?" he eagerly asks.

The sculptor tells how he saved her from the bedlam horrors of the
Orangery.

The miner whistles. "Well, you control the stock, I should say.
Now, she's the very woman, Gwin, and Erlanger, and old Slidell,
and a whole lot told me about. I want you to take me up there," he
says.

"I will see Madame de Santos to-morrow," remarks Raoul, diplomatically.

"Tell her I'm a friend of her Southern friends. They're scattered
now. Most of them busted," says Wood calmly. "I must see her. See
here, padre; we'll do the thing in style. You go and call with me,
and keep me straight." The priest assents.

In gayest mood the Colonel bids Raoul come to him for this most
fashionable call. Claiming the padre for breakfast and the ride
of the morrow, he rattles off to his rooms, leaving an astounded
circle.

Golden claims to their friendly gratitude bound them together.

Colonel Joe has the "dejeuner a deux" in his rooms. He says, "More
homelike, padre, you know," ushering the priest to the table. Under
the influence of Chablis, the Californians become intimate.

Raoul arrives with news that Madame de Santos will be pleased to have
the gentlemen call next day in the afternoon. After an arrangement
about the bust, the horses, champing before the doors, bear the elders
to the Bois, now beginning to abandon its battle-field appearance.

Long is their conference on that ride. PŠre Fran‡ois is thoughtful,
as he spends his evening hour at dominoes with Aristide Dauvray.
His eyes stray to fair Louise, busied with her needie. At last,
he has a man of the world to lean on, in tracing up this child's
parentage. Raoul and Armand are deep in schemes to enrich Joe's queer
collection, the nucleus of that "bachelor ranch," "Ophir Villa."

In all the bravery of diamonds and goldsmithing the Westerner
descends from his carriage, at the doors of Madame de Santos, next
day.

Pale-faced, aristocratic PŠre Fran‡ois is a foil to the "occidental
king." Mind and matter.

Waiting for the Donna, the gentlemen admire her salon.

Pictures, objets d'art, dainty bibelots, show the elegance of a
queen of the "monde."

"Beats a steamboat," murmurs Colonel Joe, as the goddess enters
the domain.

There is every grace in her manner. She inquires as to mutual
friends of the "Southern set." Her praises of Raoul are justified
in the beautiful bust, a creation of loveliness, on its Algerian
onyx pedestal.

Colonel Joe Woods is enchanted. He wonders if he has ever seen this
classic face before.

"I drive in the Bois," says madame, with an arch glance.

She knows the Californian is a feature of that parade, with his
team. Paris rings with Colonel Joe's exploits.

"No poor stock for me," is Colonel Joe's motto.

With a cunning glance in his eyes, the miner asks: "Were you ever
in California, madame?"

Her lips tremble as she says, "Years ago I was in San Francisco."

Colonel Joe is thoughtful. His glance follows madame, who is ringing
a silver bell.

The butler bows.

"I shall not drive this afternoon," she says.

With graceful hospitality, she charms PŠre Fran‡ois. Chat about
the Church and France follows.

The gentlemen are about to take their leave. Madame de Santos,
observing that PŠre Fran‡ois speaks Spanish as well as French,
invites him to call again. She would be glad to consult him in
spiritual matters.

Colonel Joe speaks of California, and asks if he may be of any
service.

"I have no interests there," the lady replies with constraint.

Passing into the hall, PŠre Fran‡ois stands amazed as if he sees
a ghost.

"What's the matter, padre?" queries Colonel Joe as they enter their
carriage.

"Did you see that maid who passed us as we left the salon?" remarks
the padre.

"Yes, and a good-looking woman too," says the Californian.

"That woman is the guardian of Louise Moreau," the padre hastily
replies.

"Look here! What are you telling me?" cries the Colonel.

"There's some deviltry up! I'm sorry I must leave. But how do you
know?" he continues.

The priest tells him about artful Josephine, whose womanly curiosity
has been piqued. He has seen this person on her visits. Useless to
trace her. Entering an arcade or some great shop, she has baffled
pursuit. Through the Bois, the friends commune over this mystery.

"I'll fix you out," says Woods, with a shout. "I've got a fellow
here who watched some people for me on a mining deal. I'll rip that
household skeleton all to pieces. We'll dissect it!"

He cries: "Now, padre, I'm a-going to back you through this affair,"
as they sit in his rooms over a good dinner. Colonel Joe has sent
all his people away. He wants no listeners. As he pours the Cliquot,
he says, "You give me a week and I'll post you. Listen to me. You
can see there is an object in hiding that child. Keep her safely
guarded. Show no suspicion. You make friends with the lady. Leave
the maid dead alone. Take it easy, padre; we'll get them. I'll tell
my bankers to back you up. I'll take you down; I'll make you solid.

"All I fear is they will get frightened and take her off. You people
have got to watch her. They'll run her off, if they suspect. Poor
little kid.

"It's strange," says the miner; "they could have put this poor
little one out of the way easy. But they don't want that. Want her
alive, but kept on the quiet. I suppose there's somebody else," he
mutters.

"By Jove! that's it. There's property or money hanging on her
existence. Now, padre, I'll talk plain. You priests are pretty sly.
You write your people about this child. I'll see you have money.
My banker will work the whole municipality of Paris for you.

"That's it; we've got it." The miner's fist makes the glasses
rattle, as he quaffs his wine.

"Don't lose sight of her a minute. Don't show your hand."

The priest rolls home in Joe's carriage. He busies himself the
next days with going to the bank, conferring with his fellows, and
awaking the vigilance of Josephine.

It is left to the priest and his ally from the ranks of "Mammon" to
follow these tangled threads. The younger men know nothing, save
the injunctions to Josephine.

Ten days after this visit, Colonel Joe, who has run over to London,
where he closed some financial matters of note, sends post-haste
to PŠre Fran‡ois this note:

"Come up, padre. I've got a whole history for you. It will make
your eyes open. I want you to talk to the detective."

Even the Californian's horses are not quick enough to-day for the
priest.

Ushered in, he finds Colonel Joe on the broad grin.

Accepting a cigar, his host cries, "We've struck it rich. A mare's
nest. Now, Vimont, give my friend your report."

Joe Woods smokes steadily, as Jules Vimont reads from his note-book:

"Madame Natalie de Santos arrived in Paris with two young girls,
one of whom is at the Sacre-Coeur under the name of Isabel Valois;
the other is the child who is visited by Marie Berard, her maid.
She is called Louise Moreau."

PŠre Fran‡ois listens to this recital. The detective gives a
description of the beautiful stranger, and at length.

Joe interrogates. The priest gravely nods until the recital is
finished. Vimont shuts his book with a snap and disappears, at a
nod from the miner. The friends are alone.

PŠre Fran‡ois is silent. His face is pale. Joe is alarmed at his
feeling. Forcing a draught of Bourbon on the padre, Joe cries,
"What is the matter?"

"I see it now," murmurs the priest. "The children have been changed.
For what object?"

He tells Woods of the proofs gained in days of Louise's illness.

"Your little friend is the heiress of Lagunitas?" Woods asks.

"I am sure of it. We must prove it."

"Leave that to me," bursts out Joe, striding the room, puffing at
his cigar.

"How will you do it?" falters the priest.

"I will find the father of the other child," Joe yells. "I am
going to California. I will root up this business. I have a copy
of Vimont's notes. You write me all you remember of this history.
Meanwhile, not a word. No change in your game. You make foothold
in that house on the Elysees.

"There was no railroad when these people came here. I will get
the lists of passengers and steamer reports, I have friends in the
Pacific Mail."

Joe warms up. "Yes, sir. I'll find who is responsible for that
extra child. The man who is, is the party putting up for all this
splendor here. I think if I can stop the money supplies, we can
break their lines. I think my old 'companero,' Judge Hardin, is
the head-devil of this deal.

"It's just like him.

"Now, padre, I have got something to amuse me. You do just as I
tell you, and we'll checkmate this quiet game.

"We are not on the bedrock yet, but we've struck the vein. Don't
you say a word to a living soul here.

"I'll have that maid watched, and tell Vimont to give you all the
particulars of her cuttings-up.

"She's not the master-mind of this. She has never been to the
convent. There's a keynote in keeping these girls apart. I think
our handsome friend, Madame de Santos, is playing a sharp game."
In two days he has vanished.

In his voyage to New York and to the Pacific, Joe thinks over
every turn of this intrigue. If Hardin tries to hide Armand Valois'
fortune, why should he dabble in the mystery of these girls?

Crossing the plains, where the buffalo still roam by thousands,
Woods meets in the smoking-room many old friends. A soldierly-looking
traveller attracts his attention. The division superintendent
makes Colonel Peyton and Colonel Woods acquainted. Their friendship
ripens rapidly. Joe Woods, a Southern sympathizer, has gained his
colonelcy by the consent of his Western friends. It is a brevet
of financial importance. Learning his friend is a veteran of the
"Stars and Bars," and a Virginian, the Westerner pledges many a cup
to their common cause. To the battle-torn flag of the Confederacy,
now furled forever.

As the train rattles down Echo Canyon, Peyton tells of the hopes
once held of a rising in the West.

Woods is interested. When Peyton mentions "Maxime Valois," the
Croesus grasps his hand convulsively.

"Did you serve with him?" Joe queries with eagerness. "He was my
pardner and chum."

"He died in my arms at Peachtree Creek," answers Peyton.

Joe embraces Peyton. "He was a game man, Colonel."

Peyton answers: "The bravest man I ever saw. I often think of
him, in the whirl of that struggle for De Gress's battery. Lying
on the sod with the Yankee flag clutched in his hand, its silk was
fresh-striped with his own heart's blood. The last sound he heard
was the roar of those guns, as we turned them on the enemy."

"God! What a fight for that battery!" The Californian listens,
with bated breath, to the Virginian. He tells him of the youthful
quest for gold.

The war brotherhood of the two passes in sad review. Peyton tells
him of the night before Valois' death.

Joe Woods' eyes glisten. He cries over the recital. An eager
question rises to his lips. He chokes it down.

As Peyton finishes, Woods remarks:

"Peyton, I am going to get off at Reno, and go to Virginia City.
You come with me. I want to know about Valois' last days."

Peyton is glad to have a mentor in the West. He has gained neither
peace nor fortune in wandering under the fringing palms of Latin
America.

Toiling up the Sierra Nevada, Woods shows Peyton where Valois won
his golden spurs as a pathfinder.

"I have a favor to ask of you, Peyton," says Joe. "I want to hunt
up that boy in Paris. I'm no lawyer, but I think he ought to have
some of this great estate. Now, Hardin is a devil for slyness. I
want you to keep silent as to Valois till I give you the word.
I'll see you into some good things here. It may take time to work
my game. I don't want Hardin to suspect. He's an attorney of the
bank. He counsels the railroad. He would spy out every move."

"By the way, Colonel Woods," Peyton replies, "I have the papers
yet which were found on Valois' body. I sealed them up. They are
stained with his blood. I could not trust them to chances. I intended
to return them to his child. I have never examined them."

Joe bounds from his seat. "A ten-strike! Now, you take a look at
them when we reach 'Frisco.' If there are any to throw a light on
his affairs, tell me. Don't breathe a word till I tell you. I will
probe the matter. I'll break Hardin's lines, you bet." The speculator
dares not tell Peyton his hopes, his fears, his suspicions.

San Francisco is reached. Peyton has "done the Comstock." He is
tired of drifts, gallery, machinery, miners, and the "laissez-aller"
of Nevada hospitality. The comfort of Colonel Joe's bachelor
establishment places the stranger in touch with the occidental
city.

Received with open arms by the Confederate sympathizers, Peyton is
soon "on the stock market." He little dreams that Joe has given
one of his many brokers word to carry a stiff account for the
Virginian. Pay him all gains, and charge all losses to the "Woods
account."

Peyton is thrilled with the stock gambling of California Street.
Every one is mad. Servants, lawyers, hod carriers, merchants,
old maids, widows, mechanics, sly wives, thieving clerks, and the
"demi-monde," all throng to the portals of the "Big Board." It
is a money-mania. Beauty, old age, callow boyhood, fading manhood,
all chase the bubble values of the "kiting stocks."

From session to session, the volatile heart of San Francisco throbs
responsive to the sliding values of these paper "stock certificates."

Woods has departed for a fortnight, to look at a new ranch in San
Joaquin. He does not tell Peyton that he lingers around Lagunitas.
He knows Hardin is at San Francisco. A few hours at the county seat.
A talk with his lawyer in Stockton completes Joe's investigations.
No will of Maxime Valois has ever been filed. The estate is held
by Hardin as administrator after "temporary letters" have been
renewed. There are no accounts or settlements. Joe smiles when
he finds that Philip Hardin is guardian of one "Isabel Valois," a
minor. The estate of this child is nominal. There is no inventory
of Maxima Valois' estate on file. County courts and officials are
not likely to hurry Judge Philip Hardin.

On the train to San Francisco, Woods smokes very strong cigars
while pondering if he shall hire a lawyer in town.

"If I could only choose one who would STAY bought when I BOUGHT>
him, I'd give a long price," Joe growls. With recourse to his great
"breast-pocket code," the Missourian runs over man after man, in
his mind. A frown gathers on his brow.

"If I strike a bonanza, I may have to call in some counsel. But I
think I'll have a few words with my friend Philip Hardin."

Woods is the perfection of rosy good-humor, when he drags Hardin
away from his office next day to a cosey lunch at the "Mint."

"I want to consult you, Judge," is his excuse. Hardin, now counsel
for warring giants of finance, listens over the terrapin and birds,
to several legal posers regarding Joe's affairs. Woods has wide
influence. He is a powerful friend to placate. Hardin, easy now
in money matters, looks forward to the United States Senate. Woods
can help. He is a tower of strength.

"They will need a senator sometime, who knows law, not one of those
obscure MUD-HEADS," says Hardin to himself.

Colonel Joe finishes his Larose. He takes a stiff brandy with his
cigar, and carelessly remarks:

"How's your mine, Judge?"

"Doing well, doing well," is the reply.

"Better let me put it on the market for you. You are getting old
for that sort of bother."

"Woods, I will see you by and by. I am trustee for the Valois
estate. He left no will, and I can't give a title to the ranch till
the time for minor heirs runs out. So I am running the mine on my
own account. Some outside parties may claim heirship."

"Didn't he leave a daughter?" says Woods.

"There is a girl--she's East now, at school; but, between you and
me, old fellow, I don't know if she is legitimate or not. You know
what old times were."

Colonel Joe grins with a twinge of conscience. He has had his
"beaux-jours."

"I will hold on till the limitation runs out. I don't want to cloud
the title to my mine, with litigation. It comes through Valois."

"You never heard of any Eastern heirs?" Joe remarks, gulping a
"stiffener" of brandy.

"Never," says Hardin, reaching for his hat and cane. "The Judge
died during the war. I believe his boy died in Paris. He has never
turned up. New Orleans is gone to the devil. They are all dead."

"By the way, Judge, excuse me." Woods dashes off a check for Hardin.
"I want to retain you if the 'Shooting Star' people fool with my
working the 'Golden Chariot;' I feel safe in your hands."

Even Hardin can afford to pocket Joe's check. It is a prize. Golden
bait, Joseph.

Woods says "Good-bye," floridly, to his legal friend. He takes a
coupe at the door. "Cute old devil, Hardin; I'll run him down yet,"
chuckles the miner. Joe is soon on his way to the Pacific Mail
Steamship office.

Several gray-headed officials greet the popular capitalist.

He broaches his business. "I want to see your passenger lists for
1865." He has notes of Vimont's in his hand. While the underlings
bring out dusty old folios, Joe distributes his pet cigars. He is
always welcome.

Looking over the ancient records he finds on a trip of the Golden
Gate, the following entries:

    Madame de Santos,
    Miss Isabel Valois,
    Marie Berard and child.

He calls the bookkeeper. "Can you tell about these people?"

The man of ink scans the entry. He ponders and says:

"I'll tell you who can give you all the information, Colonel Joe.
Hardin was lawyer for this lady. He paid for their passages with
a check. We note these payments for our cash references. Here is
a pencil note: 'CK Hardin.' I remember Hardin coming himself."

"Oh, that's all right!" says the Argonaut.

An adjournment of "all hands," to "renew those pleasing assurances,"
is in order.

"Ah, my old fox!" thinks Woods. "I am going to find out who gave
Marie Berard that other child. But I won't ask YOU. YOUR TIME IS
TOO VALUABLE, Judge Philip Hardin."

He gives his driver an extra dollar at the old City Hall.

Joe Woods thinks he is alone on the quest. He knows not that the
Archbishop's secretary is reading some long Latin letters, not three
blocks away, which are dated in Paris and signed Fran‡ois Ribaut.
They refer to the records of the Mission Dolores parish. They invoke
the aid of the all-seeing eye of the Church as to the history and
rights of Isabel Valois.

PŠre Ribaut humbly begs the protection of his Grace for his protege,
Armand Valois, in case he visits California.

Philip Hardin, in his office, weaving his golden webs, darkened
here and there with black threads of crime, is deaf to the cry of
conscience. What is the orphaned girl to him? A mere human puppet.
He hears not the panther feet of the avengers of wrong on his trail.
Blind insecurity, Judge Hardin.

Woods has seized Captain Lee, and taken him out of his sanctum to
the shades of the "Bank Exchange."

The great detective captain, an encyclopedia of the unwritten
history of San Francisco, regards Woods with a twinkle in his gray
eye. The hunted, despairing criminal knows how steady that eye can
be. It has made hundreds quail.

Lee grins over his cigar. Another millionaire in trouble. "Some
woman, surely." The only question is "What woman?"

The fair sex play a mighty part in the mysteries of San Francisco.

"Lee, I want you to hunt up the history of a woman for me," says
the old miner.

The captain's smile runs all over his face. "Why, Colonel Joe!" he
begins.

"Look here; no nonsense!" says Joseph, firmly. "It's a little matter
of five thousand dollars to you, if you can trace what I want."

There is no foolishness in Lee's set features. He throws himself
back, studying his cigar ash. That five thousand dollars is an
"open sesame."

"What's her name?"

Joseph produces his notes.

"Do you remember Hardin sending some people to Panama, in '65?"
begins the Colonel. "Two women and two children. They sailed on
the GOLDEN GATE."

"Perfectly," says the iron captain, removing his cigar. "I watched
these steamers for the government. He was a Big Six in the K.G.C.,
you remember, Colonel Joe?"

Joe winces; that Golden Circle dinner comes back, when he, too,
cheered the Stars and Bars.

"I see you do remember," says Lee, throwing away his cigar. "Now
be frank, old man. Tell me your whole game."

Woods hands him the list of the passengers. He is keenly eying Lee.

"Who was that Madame de Santos?" he says eagerly.

"Is it worth five thousand to know?" says the detective, quietly.

"On the dead square," replies Joe, "Cash ready."

"Do you remember the 'Queen of the El Dorado'?" Lee simply says.

"Here! Great God, man!" cries Lee, for Joe Woods' fist comes down
on the table. Flying cigars, shattered glasses, and foaming wine
make a rare havoc around.

"By God!" shouts the oblivious Joe," the woman Hardin killed 'French
Charlie' for."

"The same," says Lee, steadily, as he picks some splintered glass
out of his goatee. "Joe, you can add a suit of clothes to that
check."

"Stop your nonsense," says the happy Joe, ringing for the waiter
to clear away the wreck of his cyclonic fist. "The clothes are
O.K."

"Where did she come from to take that boat?" demands Woods.

"From Hardin's house," says Lee.

A light breaks in on Colonel Joe's brain.

"And that woman with her?"

"Was her maid, who stayed with her from the time she left the El
Dorado, and ran the little nest on the hill. The mistress never
showed up in public."

"And the child who went with the maid?" Joe's voice trembles.

"Was Hardin's child. Its mother was the 'Queen of the El Dorado.'"

Woods looks at Lee.

"Can you give me a report, from the time of the killing of 'French
Charlie' down to the sailing?"

"Yes, I can," says the inscrutable Lee.

"Let me have it, to-morrow morning. Not a word to Hardin."

"All right, Colonel Joe," is the answer of silent Lee.

Joseph chokes down his feelings, orders a fresh bottle of wine,
some cigars, and calls for pen and ink.

While the waiter uncorks the wine, Joe says: "What do you pay for
your clothes, Lee?"

"Oh, a hundred and fifty will do," is the modest answer. "That
carries an overcoat."

Joe laughs as he beautifies a blank check with his order to himself,
to pay to himself, five thousand one hundred and fifty dollars,
and neatly indorses it, "Joseph Woods." "I guess that's the caper,
Captain," he says. This "little formality" over, the wine goes to
the right place THIS TIME.

"Now I don't want to see you any more till I get your reminiscences
of that lady," remarks Joe, reaching for his gold-headed club.

"On time, ten o'clock," is the response of the police captain.

"Have you seen her since, Joe? She was a high stepper," muses the
Captain. He has been a great connoisseur of loveliness. Many fair
ones have passed under his hands in public duty or private seance.

"That's my business," sturdy Joe mutters, with an unearthly wink.
"You give me back my check, old man, and I'll tell you what _I_
know."

Lee laughs. "I'm not so curious, Colonel."

They shake hands, and the gray old wolf goes to his den to muse
over what has sent Joe Woods on a quest for this "fallen star."

Lee wastes no time in mooning. The check is a "pleasing reality."
The memories of Hortense Duval are dearer to Joe than to him. His
pen indites the results of that watchful espionage which covers
so many unread leaves of private life in San Francisco.

There is an innocent smile on Woods' face when he strolls into
his own office and asks Peyton to give him the evening in quiet.
Strongly attracted by the Virginian, Woods has now a double interest
in his new friend.

In the sanctum, Woods says, "Peyton, I am going to tell you a
story, but you must first show me the papers you have kept so long
of poor Valois."

Peyton rises without a word. He returns with a packet.

"Here you are, Woods. I have not examined them yet. Now, what is
it?"

"You told me Valois made a will before he died, Peyton," begins
Woods.

"He did, and wrote to Hardin. He wrote to the French priest at his
ranch."

Woods starts. "Ha, the damned scoundrel! Go on; go on." Joe knows
PŠre Fran‡ois never got that letter. "I read those documents. His
letter of last wishes to Hardin. When I was in Havana, I found
Hardin never acknowledged the papers."

Woods sees it all. He listens as Peyton tells the story.

"We have to do with a villain," says Joe. "He destroyed the papers
or has hidden them. Colonel, open this packet." Joe's voice is
solemn.

With reverent hand, Peyton spreads the papers before the miner.
There are stains upon them. Separating them, he arranges them one
by one. Suddenly he gives a gasp.

"My God! Colonel Joe, look there!"

Woods springs to his side.

It is a "message from the dead."

Yes, lying for years unread, between the last letters of his wife
and the tidings of her death, is an envelop addressed:

    Major Henry Peyton,
        Fourteenth Louisiana Inf'y,
            C.S.A."

Tears trickle through Peyton's fingers, as he raises his head, and
breaks the seal.

"Read it, Major," says Woods huskily. He is moved to the core of
his heart. It brings old days back.

Peyton reads:

        Atlanta--In the field,
            July 21, 1864.

My Dear Peyton:--I am oppressed with a strange unrest about my
child! I do not fear to meet death to-morrow. I feel it will take
me away from my sadness. I am ready. Our flag is falling. I do not
wish to live to see it in the dust. But I am a father. As I honor
you, for the brotherhood of our life together, I charge you to
watch over my child. Hardin is old; something might happen to him.
I forgot a second appointment in the will; I name you as co-executor
with him. Show him this. It is my dying wish. He is a man of honor.
I have left all my estate to my beloved child, Isabel Valois. It
is only right; the property came by my marriage with my wife, her
dead mother. In the case of the death of my child, search out the
heirs of Judge Valois and see the property fairly divided among
them. Hardin is the soul of honor, and will aid you in all. I desire
this to be a codicil to my will, and regarded as such. I could not
ask you to ride out again for me this wild night before my last
battle.

The will you witnessed, is the necessary act of the death of my
wife. If you live through the war, never forget

Your friend and comrade, MAXIME VALOIS.

P.S. If you go to California, look up Joe Woods. He is as true a
man as ever breathed, and would be kind to my little girl. Padre
Francisco Ribaut married me at Lagunitas to my Dolores. Good-bye
and good-night. M.V.

The men gaze at each other across the table, touched by this solemn
voice sweeping down the path of dead years. That lonely grave by
the lines of Atlanta seemed to have opened to a dead father's love.
Peyton saw the past in a new light. Valois' reckless gallantry that
day was an immolation. His wife's death had unsettled him.

Joe Woods' rugged breast heaved in sorrow as he said, "Peyton,
I will stand by that child. So help me, God! And he thought of me
at the last--he thought of me!" The old miner chokes down a rising
sob. Both are in tears.

"Look here, Colonel!" said Woods briskly. "This will never do! You
will want to cheer up a little, for your trip, you know."

"Trip?" says the wondering Virginian.

"Why, yes," innocently remarks Joseph Woods. "You are going to
New Orleans to look up about the Valois boy. Then you are to see
those bankers at Havana, and get proof before the Consul-General
about the documents. I want you to send your affidavit to me. I've
got a lawyer in New York, who is a man. I'll write him. You can
tell him all. I'm coming on there soon. After you get to New York
from Havana, you will go to Paris and stay there till I come."

Peyton smiles even in his sadness. "That's a long journey, but I
am yours, Colonel. Why do I go to Paris?"

"You are going to answer the letter of that dead man," impressively
remarks Joseph.

"How?" murmurs Peyton.

"By being a father to his lonely child and watching over her.
There's two girls there. You can keep an eye on them both. I'll
trap this old scoundrel here. You've got to leave this town. He
might suspect YOU when I start MY machinery.

"I'll plow deep here. I'll meet you in New York. Now, I want you
to take to-morrow's train. I'll run your stock account, Colonel
Henry," Woods remarks, with a laugh.

The next day, Peyton speeds away on his errand after receiving the
old miner's last orders. His whispered adieu was: "I'm going to
stand by my dead pardner's kid, for he thought of me at the last."


CHAPTER XVII.

WEAVING SPIDERS.--A COWARD BLOW.--MARIE BRARD'S DOOM.


Peyton's good-bye rings in Woods' ears as the train leaves. The
boxes and parcels forced on the Confederate veteran, are tokens
of his affection. The cognac and cigars are of his own selection.
Joe's taste in creature comforts is excellent, and better than his
grammar.

On the ferry, Joe surveys San Francisco complacently from the
steamer.

"I've got those documents in the vaults. I'll have Peyton's evidence.
I rather fancy Captain Lee's biography will interest that dame in
Paris. I will prospect my friend Hardin's surroundings. He must
have some devil to do his dirty work. I will do a bit of 'coyote
work' myself. It's a case of dog eat dog, here."

Joseph classes all underhand business as "coyote work." He appreciates
the neatness with which that furtive Western beast has taken his
boots, soap, his breakfast and camp treasures under his nose.

Invincible, invisible, is the coyote.

"By Heavens! I'll make that old wolf Hardin jump yet!" Joseph swears
a pardonable oath.

After writing several telling letters to the Padre and Vimont, he
feels like a little stroll. He ordered Vimont to guard Louise Moreau
at any cost. "No funny business," he mutters.

"If she's the girl, that scoundrel might try to remove her from
this world," thinks Joseph. "As for the other girl, he's got a
tiger cat to fight in the 'de Santos.'"

Colonel Woods beams in upon the clerks of Judge Hardin. That magnate
is absent. The senatorial contest is presaged by much wire-pulling.

"I don't see the young man who used to run this shebang," carelessly
remarks the Croesus.

"Mr. Jaggers is not here any longer," smartly replies his pert
successor, to whom the fall of Jaggers was a veritable bonanza.

"What's the matter with him?" says Woods. "I wanted him to do a
job of copying for me."

The incumbent airily indicates the pantomime of conveying the too
frequent Bourbon to his lips.

"Oh, I see! The old thing," calmly says Woods. "Fired out for
drinking."

The youth nods. "He is around Montgomery Street. You 'most always
will catch him around the 'old corner' saloon."

Joseph Woods is familiar with that resort of bibulous lawyers. He
wanders out aimlessly.

While Barney McFadden, the barkeeper, surveys Colonel Joseph
swallowing his extra cocktail, he admires himself in the mirror.
He dusts off his diamond pin with a silk handkerchief.

"Jaggers! Oh, yes; know him well. In back room playing pedro. Want
him?"

Woods bows. The laconic Ganymede drags Jaggers away from his ten-cent
game.

Impelled by a telegraphic wink, Barney deftly duplicates the favorite
tipple of the Californian. The Golden State has been sustained in
its growth, by myriads of cocktails. It is the State coat of arms.

"Want to see me? Certainly, Colonel." Jaggers is aroused.

In a private room, Jaggers wails over his discharge. His pocket
is his only fear. Otherwise, he is in Heaven. His life now, is all
"Cocktails and poker!" "Poker and cocktails!" It leaves him little
time for business. Woods knows his man--a useful tool.

"Look here, Jaggers; I know your time is valuable." Jaggers bows
gravely; he smells a new twenty-dollar piece; it will extend his
"cocktail account." "I want you to do some business for me." Jaggers
looks stately.

"I'm your man, Colonel," says Jaggers, who is, strange to say, very
expert in his line. The trouble with Jaggers is, the saloon is not
near enough to Judge Hardin's office. The OFFICE should be in the
SALOON. It would save useless walking.

"I want you to search a title for me," says Colonel Joe, from
behind a cloud of smoke. Jaggers sniffs the aroma. Joseph hands
him several "Excepcionales."

Jaggers becomes dignified and cool. "Is there money in it, Colonel?"
he says, with a gleam of his ferret eyes.

"Big money," decisively says Woods.

"I'm very busy now," objects Jaggers. He thinks of his ten-cent
ante in that pedro game.

"I want you to give me your idea of the title to the Lagunitas
mine. I am thinking of buying in," continues Joe. "I'll give you
five hundred dollars, in cold twenties, if you tell me what you
know."

"How soon?" Jaggers says, with a gasp.

"Right off!" ejaculates Woods, banging the bell for two more
cocktails.

Jaggers drains the fiery compound. He whispers with burning breath
in Woods' ears:

"Make it a cool thousand, and swear you'll look out for me. I'll
give the thing dead away. You know what a son-of-a-gun Hardin is?"

Woods bows. He DON'T know, but he is going to find out. "I'll give
you a job in my mine (the Golden Chariot), as time-keeper. You can
keep drunk all your life, except at roll-call. If Hardin hunts you
up there, I'll have the foreman pitch him down the shaft. Is this
square?"

"Honor bright!" says Jaggers, extending his palm. "Honor bright!"
says Joseph, who dares not look too joyous.

Jaggers muses over another cocktail. "You go to the bank, and get
a thousand dollars clean stuff. Give me a coup‚. I'll give you the
things you want, in half an hour. I've got 'em stowed away. Don't
follow me!"

Woods nods, and throws him a double-eagle. "I'll be here when
you come back. Keep sober till we're done. I'll give you a pass
to Virginia City, so you can finish your drunk in high altitudes.
It's healthier, my boy!" Joe winks.

Jaggers is off like a shot. Colonel Joseph walks two blocks to the
bank. He returns with fifty yellow double-eagles.

"Got to fight coyote style to catch a coyote!" is the murmur
of Colonel Woods to his inward monitor. "It's for the fatherless
kid."

"Barney," impressively says Joseph, "make me a good cocktail this
time! Send 'em in, ANY WAY, when that young man returns. His life
is insured. _I_ have to work for a living. Make one for yourself.
YOU are responsible."

Barney's chef d'oeuvre wins a smile from the genial son of Missouri.
As the last drops trickle down his throat, Jaggers enters. He has
had external cocktails. He is flushed, but triumphant.

"Colonel, you're a man of honor. There's your stuff." He throws an
envelope on the table.

Joseph Woods opens the packet. "Just count that, young man, while
I look at these."

He peruses the papers handed him, with interest. Jaggers follows
him.

"This is all you have. Anything else in the office?" says Woods.

"Not a scratch. Colonel, I thought they would come in handy."
Jaggers' work is done.

"Take care of your money, my lad. It is yours," says Woods. He
rings for Barney, and indites a note to his foreman at the "Golden
Chariot." "You better get up there, to-night, Jaggers," he says,
handing him the note and a pass. "Your appointment is only good
for that train. You give that note to Hank Daly. He'll supply you
all the whiskey you want, free. By the way, the boys up there play
poker pretty well. Now you keep cool, or you'll get shot as well
as lose your money. Don't you forget to stay there, if it's ten
years till I want you. Daly will have orders for you.

"If you come back here, Hardin will kill you like a dog, if he
finds this out."

"And you?" murmurs Jaggers, who is imbibing the stirrup cup.

"Oh, I'll look out for that!" remarks cheerful Joe Woods. Armed
with substantial "persuaders," Jaggers leaves with an agent of
Barney's. He has orders to see Jaggers and his "baggage," started
for Virginia City.

Jaggers beams. Joe Woods never drops a friend. His future smiles
before him. Exit Jaggers.

Woods reads the documents. One is a press copy of a letter dated
January, 1864, addressed to Colonel Maxime Valois, from Hardin,
asking him to sell him the quartz claims on the Lagunitas grant.

The answer of Valois is written while recovering from his wounds.
It reads:

"TALLULAH, GEORGIA, March 1, 1864.

"MY DEAR HARDIN: I have your letter, asking me to sell you the
quartz leads on the Lagunitas grant. I am still suffering from my
wound, and must be brief.

"I cannot do this. My title is the title of my wife. I have no right
to dispose of her property by inheritance, without her consent.
She has my child to look after. As the ranch income may fail some
day, I will not cut off her chances to sell. It is her property. I
would not cloud it. I will join my regiment soon. If the war ends
and I live to return, I will arrange with you. I have no power to
do this, now, as my wife would have to join in the sale. I will
not ask her to diminish the value of the tract. I leave no lien on
this property. My wife and child have it free from incumbrance if
I die.

"Address me at Atlanta, Georgia.

"YOURS, MAXIME VALOIS."

"I think I hold four aces now, Mr. Philip Hardin," says Woods,
contemplating himself in the mirror over the bar as he settles with
the gorgeous Barney.

"By the way," remarks Woods, "Barney; if that young man owes you a
bill, send it around to my office." Barney escorts his visitor to
the door, bowing gratefully. Woods departs in a quandary.

"I guess I'll gather up all my documents, and take a look over
things. New York is the place for me to get a square opinion."

When Woods reaches New York he meets Peyton, successful in his
tour for evidence. On consultation with Judge Davis, his adviser,
Woods sends Peyton to Tallulah. It is likely Valois' papers may be
found, for the Colonel "joined" hurriedly on the last advance of
Sherman. Colonel Joseph imparts his ideas to his counsel. A certified
copy of the transfer recorded by Hardin, of the Lagunitas mine,
is sent on by Jaggers, directed in his trip by Hank Daly from the
mine.

In five days a despatch from Tallulah gladdens the miner, who longs
for Paris:

"Found and examined baggage. Original letter in my hands. Coming
with all. Many other papers.

"PEYTON."

On the Virginian's arrival Judge Davis instructs the friends. Woods
insists on Peyton taking joint charge of the quest for the orphan's
fortune.

"Hardin is responsible under his trusteeship. You can't force
Peyton on him as co-executor. He has concealed the will. A suit
now would warn the villain and endanger the child's life. Take the
certified copy of the transfer to Paris. Get the priest's deposition
that the document is forged; then guard the girl as if she were
your life. In a few years the heiress will be entitled to claim her
estate. Keep the child near Paris, but change her residence often.
Watch the maid and Madame de Santos. Follow them to California.
Produce the girl you claim to be the heiress. I will give you a
letter to an advocate in Paris, who will close up the proof. Beware
of Hardin! If he suspects, the child's life may be in danger!"

"I'll kill him myself if there is any foul play!" roars Joe Woods.

"My dear Colonel, that would not bring the child back," remarks
Judge Davis, smiling at his handsome counsel fee. "Count on me!
Use the cable."

On the Atlantic the guardians agree on their duties. "I will
interview Madame de Santos when I close some business in London,"
says Woods grimly.

Peyton, with credentials to Padre Francisco, speeds from Liverpool
to Paris. He arrives none too soon.

Philip Hardin's villany strikes from afar!

Judge Hardin, passing the county seat, on his way to the mine,
looks in to obtain his annual tax papers. A voluble official remarks:

"Going to sell your mine, Judge?"

"Certainly not, sir," replies the would-be Senator, with hauteur.

"Excuse me. You sent for certified copies of the title. We thought
you were putting it on the market."

Hardin grows paler than his wont. Some one has been on the trail.
He asks no questions. His cipher-book is at San Francisco. Who is
on the track? He cannot divine. The man applying was a stranger
who attracted no attention. The Judge telegraphs to the mine for
his foreman to come to San Francisco. He returns to his house on
the hill. From his private safe he extracts the last letters of
Natalie de Santos.

Since her urgent appeal, she has been brief and cold. She is
waiting. Is this her stroke? He will see. Has anyone seen the child
and made disclosures? His heart flutters. He must now placate
Natalie. The child must be quickly removed from Paris. He dare not
give a reason. No, but he can use a bribe.

After several futile attempts he pens this cipher:

Remove child instantly to Dresden. Telegraph your address on
arrival. Definite settlement as you wished. Remember your promise.
Directions by mail. Imperative.

PHILIP.

Hardin chafes anxiously before a reply reaches him. When he reads
it, he rages like a fiend. It clearly reads:

I will not obey. Marry me first. Come here. Keep your oath. I will
keep my promise. A settlement on the other child is no safeguard
to me. She must have a name. Letters final. Useless to telegraph.
HORTENSE.

When Hardin's rage subsides, he reviews the situation in his
palace. He is safe for years from an accounting, yet it is coming
on. If he brings the heiress to California, it will precipitate it.
Secret plans for the Senate of the United States are now maturing.
Marriage with Hortense. Impossible. His friends urge his giving
his name to an ambitious lady of the "blue blood" of his Southern
home. She is a relative of the head of the Democratic capitalists.
This is a "sine qua non." The lady has claims on these honors.
It has been a secret bargain to give his hand in return for that
seat. Hortense talks madness. Never.

As for facing her, he dare not. He has established her. She is
too subtle to risk herself out of the lines she has found safe.
Who can be the "Deus ex machina"?

Ah, that Italian meddler, Villa Rocca! Hardin weaves a scheme. He
will wait her letters. If the Italian is his enemy, he will lure
him to California and then----

Ah, yes, till then, patience--the patience of the tiger crouching
at the water-pool for his coming prey.

Peyton loses no time in Paris. He reaches the home of Aristide
Dauvray. He is welcomed by the circle. The young artists are busy
with brush and modelling tool. Woods' patronage has been a blessing.
The fame of his orders has been extended by the exhibition of the
works ordered by him. His bankers have directed the attention of
the travelling Americans to the young man.

Louise Moreau is no longer a bud, but an opening rose. So fair is
she, so lovely, that Armand feels his heart beat quicker when the
girl nears his canvas to admire his skill. By the direction of PŠre
Fran‡ois, she leaves the house no more for her lessons. There is
a secret guard of loving hearts around her.

PŠre Fran‡ois meets Peyton with open arms. They are to be joint
guardians over the innocent child of destiny.

At Peyton's hotel, the men commune. It is not strange that the
ex-Confederate is comfortably settled opposite the Dauvray mansion!
In an exchange of opinion with the able Josephine, it is agreed
that one of the young men or the Colonel shall be always at hand.

Woods meditates a "coup de maŒtre." He intends, on his arrival, to
remove the girl Louise where no malignity of Hardin can reach her,
to some place where even Marie B‚rard will be powerless. He will
force some one to show a hand. Then, God keep the villain who
leaves his tree to fight in the open! It is war to the death. Woods
directs Peyton to use his bankers and the police, telegraphing him
at London. He has a fear they have been followed to Europe. The
bankers understand that Peyton and the priest are Woods' ambassadors.

Marie B‚rard comes no more to the home of her charge. Her letters
are sent by a commissionaire. Peyton reads in this a danger signal.
The soldier is on the watch for treachery. His quiet habits are
easily satisfied. He has his books, daily journals, and also French
lessons from charming Louise.

It is sunny splendor at the house on the Champs Elys‚es, where
Natalie de Santos moves in her charmed circle of luxury. While
Peyton waits for the "Comstock Colonel," an anxious woman sits in
her queenly boudoir.

Natalie's beauty is ravishing. The exquisite elegance of her manner
is in keeping with the charms of the shining loveliness which makes
her a cynosure in the "Bois."

Face to face with a dilemma, the fair "chƒtelaine" racks her brain
for a new expedient. Her woman's wit is nonplussed.

Villa Rocca DEMANDS, URGES, PLEADS, SUES for marriage. Is it love?
Of all her swains he is the only one who touches her heart. At his
approach, her tell-tale pulse beats high. She dare not yet quit
Hardin. There is a campaign before her. To force Hardin to marry
her, even secretly, is the main attack. He is now old. Then, to
establish her daughter as the heiress of Lagunitas. After Hardin's
death, marriage with Villa Rocca. That is the goal. But how to
restrain his lover-like ardor.

She smiles at her reflection in the glass. She knows "the fatal
gift of beauty." It is another woman than the "queen of the gambling
hell" who smiles back at her. The pearls on her neck rise and fall.
Hardin! Ah, yes; his possible treachery! Would he dare to take the
convent pupil away from her? Perhaps.

A devilish smile plays on her lips. She will let him steal his own
child; the other, the REAL Lady of Lagunitas, he never shall know.
Gods! If he should be aware of it. It must be prevented. Whom can
she trust? No one.

Villa Rocca? Triumph shines in her eyes! She must definitely
promise him marriage in these happy years, and give him the child
as a gage. He can hide her in his Italian hills. He really has a
bit of a castle under the olive-clad hills of Tuscany.

But Marie B‚rard. She must outwit that maid. When the child is
gone, Marie's power ceases. No one will ever believe her. A few
thousand francs extra will satisfy the greedy soubrette.

Seizing her pen, she sends a note to the club where baccarat
and billiards claim Villa Rocca's idle hours. He meets her in the
Bois de Boulogne, now splendid in transplanted foliage. His coup‚
dismissed, they wander in the alleys so dear to lovers. There
is triumph in her face as they separate. A night for preparation;
next day, armed with credentials in "billets de banque," Villa Rocca
will lure the girl to her mysterious guardian who will be "sick"
near Paris. Once under way, Villa Rocca will not stop till the girl
is in his Italian manor.

With bounding heart, he assents. He has now Natalie's promise to
marry him. They are one in heart.

"I am yours to the death," he says.

While Natalie sips her chocolate next morning, a carriage draws
up before Aristide Dauvray's home. Josephine is busied with the
household. Louise, singing like a lark, gayly aids her foster-mother.
Aristide is far away. He toils at the new structures of beauty.
Arm in arm, the young artists are taking a long stroll.

A gentleman of elegant appearance descends, with anxious visage. The
peal of the bell indicates haste. Josephine receives her visitor.
He curtly explains his visit. The guardian of Louise Moreau needs
her instant presence. She is ill, perhaps dying. In her excitement,
Josephine's prudence is forgotten. To lose the income from the
child, to hazard the child's chances of property. "But the child
must go: at once!" Josephine is awed and flurried. As she hastily
makes preparation, a ray of suspicion darts through her mind. Who
is this messenger?

"I think I had better accompany you," cries Josephine. Then, "her
house," to be left to only one feeble old servant.

"Ah, ciel! It is terrible."

"Madame, we have no time to lose. It is near the train time. We will
telegraph. You can follow in two hours," the stranger remarks, in
silken voice.

The visitor urges. The girl is cloaked and bonneted. Josephine
loses her head. "One moment,"--she rushes for her hat and wrap;
she will go at once, herself.

As she returns, there is a muffled scream at the door of the coup‚.

"Mon Dieu!" Josephine screams. "My child! my Louise!" The coup‚
door is closing.

A strong voice cries to the driver, "Allez vite!"

As "Jehu" is about to lash his horses, an apparition glues him to
his seat.

A gray-haired man points an ugly revolver at his head.

"Halt!" he says. The street is deserted. Villa Rocca opens the
door. A strong hand hurls him to the gutter. Louise is urged from
the coach. She is in her home again!

Peyton turns to grasp the man, who picks himself from the gutter.
He is ten seconds too late. The carriage is off like a flash; it
turns the corner at a gallop. Too cool to leave the fort unguarded,
Peyton enters the salon. He finds Josephine moaning over Louise,
who has fainted.

In a half-hour, PŠre Fran‡ois and the young men are a bodyguard on
duty. Peyton drives to the bank, and telegraphs Woods at London:

"Come instantly! Attempt to abduct, prevented by me! Danger!
PEYTON."

The next night, in the rooms of the miner, the padre and Peyton
hold a council of war. An engine waits at the "Gare du Nord." When
sunlight gilds once more Notre Dame, Peyton enters the car with a
lady, clad in black. A maid, selected by Joseph Vimont, is of the
party. "Monsieur Joseph" himself strolls into the depot. He jumps
into the cab with the engineer. "Allons!" They are off.

From forty miles away a few clicks of the telegraph flash the news
to Woods. The priest knows that Peyton and his ward are safely "en
route." "TrŠs bien!"

It is years before the light foot of Louise Moreau presses again
the threshold of her childhood's home. In a sunny chateau, near
Lausanne, a merry girl grows into a superb "Lady of the Lake." She
is "Louise Moreau," but Louise "en reine." She rules the hearts
of gentle Henry Peyton and the "autocrat of the Golden Chariot."
It is beyond the ken of "Natalie de Santos," or Philip Hardin, to
pierce the mystery of that castle by the waters of the Swiss lake.

Visions of peace lend new charms to the love of the pure-souled
girl who wanders there.

Louise is not always alone by Leman's blue waters. Colonel Peyton
is a thoughtful, aging man, saddened by his fiery past.

He sees nothing. He dreams of the flag which went down in battle
and storm. The flag of which Father Ryan sang--"in fond recollection
of a dead brother"--the ill-fated stars and bars:

   "Furl that banner, for 'tis weary,
    Round its staff 'tis drooping dreary.
        Furl it, fold it, it is best;
    For there's not a man to wave it--
    And there's not a sword to save it--
    And there's not one left to lave it
    In the blood which heroes gave it;
    And its foes now scorn and brave it;
        Furl it, hide it; let it rest."

But younger and brighter eyes than his own, dimmed with battle smoke,
look love into each other. Louise and Armand feel the throbbing
whispers of the lake in their own beating hearts.

Far above them there, the silver peaks lift unsullied altars to
the God of nature, life, and love.

And as the rosy flush of morning touches the Jungfrau, as the tender
light steals along the sunlit peaks of the Alps, so does the light
of love warm these two young hearts. Bounding pulse and melting
accent, blush of morning on rosy peak and maiden's cheek, tell of
the dawning day of light and love.

Shy and sweet, their natures mingle as two rivulets flowing to
the sea. Born in darkness and coldness, to dance along in warmth
and sunlight, and mingle with that great river of life which flows
toward the unknown sea.

In days of bliss, in weeks of happiness, in months of heart growth,
the two children of fortune drink in each other's eyes the philter
of love. They are sworn a new Paul and Virginia, to await the
uncertain gifts of the gods. The ardor of Armand is reflected in
the tender fidelity of graceful Louise, who is a radiant woman now.

While this single car flies out of Paris, a "mauvais quart d'heure"
awaits Ernesto de Villa Rocca, at the hands of Natalie.

Bounding from her seat, she cries, "Imbecile fool, you have ruined
both of us! The girl is lost now!"

In an hour the Italian evolves a new plan. Marie B‚rard shall
herself find and abduct the child! The Comte de Villa Rocca will
escort them to the Italian tower, where Natalie's dangerous ward
will be lost forever to Hardin.

But Marie must now be placated! Natalie de Santos smiles as she
points to a plump pocket-book.

"A magic sceptre, a magnetic charm, my dear Count." Her very voice
trickles with gold.

While Ernesto Villa Rocca and his promised bride dine in the
lingering refinement of a Parisian table, they await the return
of the baffled Marie. The maid has gone to arrange the departure
of Louise. No suspicion must be awakened! Once under way, then
silence!--quietly enforced. Ah, chloroform!

There was no etiquette in the sudden return of the pale-faced
maid; she dashed up, in a carriage, while the lovers dallied with
the dessert.

"Speak, Marie! What has happened?" cries Natalie, with a sinking
heart.

"Madame, she is gone! Gone forever!"

Madame de Santos bounds to the side of the defeated woman. "If
you are lying, beware!" she hisses. Her hand is raised. There is a
dagger flashing in the air. Villa Rocca wrests it from the raging
woman's hand. "No folly, Madame! She speaks the truth!"

Marie stubbornly tells of her repulse. Josephine was "not alone!"
Blunt Aristide elbowed her out of the house, saying:

"Be off with you! The girl is gone! If you want to know where she
is, apply to the police. Now, don't show your lying face here
again! I will have you arrested! You are a child stealer! You and
your ruffian had better never darken this door. Go!"

Natalie de Santos sinks back in her chair. Her teeth are chattering.
A cordial restores her nerves. Count Villa Rocca lingers, moody
and silent.

What powerful adversary has baffled them?

"Marie, await me in my room!" commands Natalie. In five minutes the
roll of rubber-tired wheels proves that madame and the count have
gone out. "To the opera?" "To the theatre?" The sly maid does not
follow them. Her brain burns with a mad thirst for vengeance. Her
hoard must now be completed. "Has she been tricked?" "Thousand
devils, no!"

Softly moving over the driveway, Natalie eagerly pleads with Villa
Rocca. Her perfumed hair brushes his cheek. Her eyes gleam like
diamonds, as they sweep past the brilliantly lighted temples of
pleasure. She is Phryne and Aspasia to-night.

Villa Rocca is drunk with the delirium of passion. His mind reels.

"I will do it," he hoarsely murmurs. Arrived at the "porte cochŠre,"
the count lifts his hat, as madame re‰nters her home.

There is a fatal glitter in Natalie's eyes, as she enters alone
her robing room.

When madame is seated in the freedom of a wonderful "robe de
chambre," her face is expectant, yet pleasant. Marie has fulfilled
every duty of the eyening.

"You may go, Marie. I am tired. I wish to sleep," remarks the lady,
nonchalantly.

"Will madame pardon me?"

Marie's voice sounds cold and strange. Ah, it has come, then!
Natalie has expected this. What is the plot?

Natalie looks her squarely in the eyes. "Well?" she says, sharply.

"I hope madame will understand that I close my duties here to-night!"
the maid slowly says.

"Indeed?" Madame lifts her eyebrows.

"I would be glad to be permitted to leave the house to-morrow."

"Certainly, Marie!" quietly rejoins Natalie. "You may leave when
you wish. The butler will settle your account. I shall not ring
for you to-morrow." She leans back. Checkmate!

"Will madame excuse me?" firmly says the maid, now defiantly looking
her mistress in the eyes. "The butler can probably not settle my
little account."

"What is it?" simply asks Madame de Santos.

"It is one hundred thousand francs," firmly replies the woman.

"I shall not pay it! decidedly not!" the lady answers.

"Very good. Judge Hardin might!"

The maid moves slowly to the door.

"Stay!" commands Natalie. "Leave my house before noon to-morrow.
You can come here with any friend you wish at this hour to-morrow
night. You will have your money. How do you wish it?"

"In notes," the maid replies, with a bow. She walks out of the
room. She pauses at the threshold. "Will madame ask Georgette to
look over the property of madame?"

"Certainly. Send her to me!"

Marie B‚rard leaves her world-wearied mistress, forever, and without
a word.

When the other maid enters, madame finds need for the assistant.
"You may remain in my apartment and occupy the maid's couch. I
may want you. I am nervous. Stay!"

The under-maid is joyous at her promotion. Madame de Santos sleeps
the sleep of the just. Happy woman!

Marie B‚rard rages in her room, while her mistress sleeps in a
bed once used by a Queen of France.

The ticking clock drives her to madness. She throws it into the
court-yard.

Spurned! foiled! baffled!

Ah, God! She will have both fortunes. She remembers that little
paper of years ago.

Yes, to find it now. Near her heart. By the candle, she reads the
cabalistic words:

"Leroyne & Co., 16 Rue Vivienne."

Was it an imprudence to speak of Hardin? No, it was a mere threat.
Marie's cunning eyes twinkle. She will get this money here quietly.
Then, to the bank--to the bank! Two fortunes at one "coup."

But she must see Jules! Jules Tessier! He must help now; he must
help. And how? He is at the Caf‚ Ney.

Yet she has often slipped out with him to the "bals de minuit." A
friend can replace him; servants keep each others' secrets. Victory!

She must see him at once. Yes, Jules will guide her. He can go to
the bank, after she has received her money. And then the double
payment and vengeance on madame!

Like lightning, she muffles herself for the voyage. A coup‚, ten
minutes, and above all--a silent exit. All is safe; the house
sleeps. She steals to her lover. Jules Tessier starts, seeing Marie
in the ante-room at the Caf‚ Ney. There are, even here, curious
spies.

Marie's eyes are flashing; her bosom heaves. "Come instantly,
Jules! it is the hour. My coup‚ is here."

"Mon Dieu, in an instant!" The sly Jules knows from her shaken
voice the golden hoard is in danger.

In a few moments he is by her side in the coup‚. "Where to?"
huskily asks the head-waiter.

"To the 'bal de minuit.' We can talk there."

"Allons! au Jardin Bullier," he cries.

Before the "fiacre" stops, Jules has an idea of the situation. Ah!
a grand "coup." Jules is a genius!

Seated in a bosky arbor, the two talk in lowest tones over their
chicken and Burgundy.

There is a noisy party in the next arbor, but a pair of dark Italian
eyes peer like basilisks through the leaves of the tawdry shade.
The lovers are unconscious of the listener.

With joint toil, the pair of lovers prepare a letter to Leroyne &
Co., bankers, 16 Rue Vivienne.

Marie's trembling hand draws the paper from her bosom. She knows
that address by heart.

"Give it to me, Marie," he pleads, "for safety." A FRENCHWOMAN can
deny her lover nothing.

"Now, listen, 'ma cherie,'" Jules murmurs. "You get the one treasure.
To-morrow I go to the bank, the telegraph, you understand, but not
till you have the other money safe." Her eyes sparkle. A double
fortune! A double revenge! A veritable "coup de Machiavelli."

"And I must go, dearest. I wait for you to-morrow. You get your
money; then I am off to the bank, and we will secure the rest.
Bravo!"

Jules snaps his fingers at the imbeciles. He sees the "Hotel Tessier"
rising in cloudland.

"Press this proud woman hard now. Be careful. I will pay the coup‚;
we might be followed."

While Jules is absent, Marie dreams the rosy dreams of fruition.
Love, avarice, revenge!

Down through the entrance, they saunter singly. Both are Parisians.
After a square or two brings them to night's obscurity, parting
kisses seal the dark bond; Judge Hardin shall pay after madame;
Marie's velvet hand grips Jules' palm in a sinful compact.

Home by the usual way, past Notre Dame, and Jules will discreetly
watch her safety till she reaches the omnibus.

She knows not when she reaches Notre Dame that Tessier lies behind
her, stunned upon the sidewalk, his pockets rifled, and his senses
reeling under brutal blows. Her heart is blithe, for here, under
the shade of Notre Dame, she is safe. Twenty steps bring her to
the glaring street. Yet the avenger has panther feet.

Out of the shadow, in a moment, she will be. "Oh, God!" the cry
smothers in her throat. Like lightning, stab after stab in her back
paralyzes her.

Bubbling blood from her quivering lips, Marie falls on her face.
A dark shadow glides away, past buttress and vaulted door.

Is it Villa Rocca's ready Italian stiletto?


BOOK V.

REAPING THE WHIRLWIND.

CHAPTER XVIII.

JOE WOODS SURPRISES A LADY.--LOVE'S GOLDEN NETS.


When a cab is halted, the horses shying at a prostrate body, knots
of street loungers gather at the cries of the discoverers of
Marie B‚rard's body. The "sergents de ville" raise the woman. Her
blood stains the sidewalk, in the shadow of the Church of Christ.
Twinkling lights flicker on her face. A priest passing by, walks
by the stretcher. He is called by his holy office to pray for the
"parting soul."

It is PŠre Fran‡ois. He has been in Notre Dame. To the nearest
hospital the bearers trudge. It is only a few rods. When the body
is examined, the pale face is revealed. PŠre Fran‡ois clasps his
hands.

It is, indeed, the mysterious guardian of Louise, stabbed and dying.
It is the hand of fate!

Breathing faintly, the poor wretch lies prone. There is no apparent
clue to her assailant. She is speechless. It has not been robbery;
her valuables are intact. Hastily anointing her, PŠre Fran‡ois
departs. He promises to return in the morning. He hastens to the
nearest cabstand, and whirls away to Colonel Woods' hotel. Whose
hand has dealt this blow? The financier is startled at the priest's
face. Joseph has been jocular since the safe departure of Louise.

He listens. A prodigious whistle announces his feelings. "Padre,"
says he, "if that Frenchwoman is alive to-morrow, you must see
her. Find out all she knows. I'll turn out at daybreak, and watch
Madame Santos' house myself. I think that handsome 'she devil'
had something to do with this.

"Got done with the maid. No more use for her. Now, my dear friend,
I will be here to-morrow when you show up. We will interview the
madame. She's the spider in this game."

Woods sleeps like a man in a tossing storm. He knows from the padre's
repeated visits at the Santos mansion that dying Marie holds the
secret of these two children's lives. If she could only talk.

All night the miner battles for Valois' unknown child.

Up with the lark, Joe sends his "French fellow" for detective
Vimont. "Voila! un grand procŠs."

Vimont sees gold ahead.

By eight o'clock, ferret eyes are watching the Santos mansion, the
home of discreet elegance.

A stunning toilet is made by Joseph, in the vain hope of impressing
the madame. He will face this Lucrezia Borgia "in his raiment
of price." He has a dim idea, that splendid garb will cover his
business-like manner of coming to "first principles."

A happy man is he at his well-ordered d‚jeuner, for though Joe is
no De Rohan or Montmorency, yet he eats like a lord and drinks like
a prince of the blood. He is the "first of his family"--a golden
fact.

He revenges himself daily for the volunteer cuisine of the American
River. Often has he laughed over haughty Valois' iron-clad bread,
his own flinty beans, the slabs of pork, cooked as a burnt offering
by slow combustion. Only one audacious Yankee in the camp ever
attempted a pie. That was a day of crucial experiment, a time of
bright hopes, a period of sad failure.

Vimont reports at noon. A visit from Villa Rocca of a half-hour.
Sauntering up the Elys‚es, after his departure, the count, shadowed
carefully, strolled to his club. He seemed to know nothing. The
waxen mask of Italian smoothness fits him like a glove. He hums a
pleasant tune as he strolls in. The morning journals? Certainly;
an hour's perusal is worthy the attention of the elegant "flƒneur."
Ah! another murder. He enjoys the details.

PŠre Fran‡ois enters the colonel's rooms, with grave air. While
Vimont frets over his cigar, in the courtyard, the story of Marie
B‚rard is partly told.

She will not live through the night. At her bedside, Sisters of
Charity twain, tell the beads and watch the flickering pulse of the
poor lost girl. The police have done their perfunctory work. They
are only owls frightened by sunlight. Fools! Skilful fools! She knows
nothing of her assailant. Her feeble motions indicate ignorance.
She must have rest and quiet. The saddened PŠre Fran‡ois can not
disguise from Woods that he suspects much. Much more than the
police can dream in their theories.

What is it? Hopes, fears, the rude story of a strange life, and upon
it all is the awful seal of the confessional. For, Marie B‚rard has
unfolded partly, her own life-story. Joe Woods clasps the padre's
hands.

"You know which of these children is a million-heiress, and which
a pauper?"

The padre's eyes are blazing. He is mute. "Let us trust to God.
Wait, my friend," says PŠre Fran‡ois solemnly. Before that manly
voice, the miner hushes his passionate eagerness. Violence is vain,
here.

It seems to him as if the dead mother of an orphan child had placed
her hand upon his brow and said: "Wait and hope!"

Monte Cristo's motto once more.

The padre eyes the Comstock colonel under his thin lashes.

"My friend"--his voice trembles--"I can tell you nothing yet, but
I will guide you. I will not see you go wrong."

"Square deal, padre!" roars Joseph, with memories of gigantic
poker deals. Irreverent Joe.

"Square deal," says the priest, solemnly, as he lays an honest
man's hand in that of its peer. He knows the Californian force of
this appeal to honor. Joseph selects several cigars. He fusses with
his neckgear strangely.

"Vamos, amigo," he cries, in tones learned from the muleteers of
the far West.

Once in the halls of "Madame de Santos," Colonel Joe is the pink
of Western elegance. The acute sense of the Missourian lends him
a certain dignity, in spite of his gaudy attire.

Under fire, this Western pilgrim can affect a "sang froid" worthy
of Fontenoy.

Radiant in white clinging "crˆpe de Chine," her "prononc‚e" beauty
unaccentuated by the baubles of the jeweller, Madame de Santos
greets the visitors.

A blue circle under her eyes tells of a vigil of either love or
hate. Speculation is vain. The "monde" has its imperial secrets.

Who can solve the equation of womanhood? Colonel Joseph is effusive
in his cheery greeting. "My dear madame, I am glad to be in Paris
once more." He would charm this sphinx into life and warmth. Foolish
Joseph.

"We all are charmed to see you safely returned," murmurs the madame.
The padre is studying the art treasures of the incomparable "Salon
de Santos."

"I have some messages from a friend of yours," continues Joseph,
strangely intent upon the narrow rim of his hat.

"Ah, yes! Pray who remembers me so many years?"

Joseph fires out the answer like a charge of canister from a
Napoleon gun: "Philip Hardin."

The lady's lips close. There is a steely look in her eyes. Her hand
seeks her heaving bosom. Is there a dagger there?

"Useless, my lady." There are two men here. The padre is intent
upon a war picture of D‚taille. His eyes catch a mirror showing
the startled woman.

"And--what--did--Mr.--Philip--Hardin say?" the lady gasps.

"He asked me if you remembered Hortense Duval, the Queen of the
El--" Natalie reels and staggers, as if shot.

"By God, Lee was right!" cries Woods. He catches her falling form.
The first and only time he will ever hold her in his arms.

"Padre, ring the bell!" cries the excited miner.

The clock ticks away noisily in the hall. The wondering servants
bear madame to her rooms. All is confusion. A fainting fit.

"Let's get out of here," whispers Woods, frightened by his own
bomb-shell.

"Stay till we get a message of formality," murmurs the diplomatic
padre. "It would look like violence or insult to leave abruptly.
No one here must suspect." Joe nods gloomily and wipes his brows.

The stately butler soon expresses the regrets of madame. "A most
unforeseen affair, an assault upon one of her discharged servants,
has tried her nerves. Will Colonel Woods kindly excuse madame, who
will send him word when she receives again?"

"Colonel Woods will decidedly excuse madame." He returns to his
hotel. He grieves over the dark shadows cast upon her suffering
loveliness. "By the gods! It's a shame SHE IS WHAT SHE IS," he
murmurs to his cigar. Ah, Joseph! entangled in the nets of Delilah.

In a few days the spacious apartments of Colonel Woods have another
tenant. Bag and baggage he has quietly departed for the Pacific
Slope. PŠre Fran‡ois runs on to Havre. He waves an adieu from the
"quai." It would not be possible to prove that Colonel Joe has not
gone to Switzerland. That is not the question, however. But the
padre and the colonel are now sworn allies. Joseph is the bearer
of a letter to the Archbishop of California. It carries the heart
and soul of PŠre Fran‡ois. The great Church acts now.

"My dear old friend," says Woods in parting, "I propose to keep
away from Paris for a couple of years and watch Philip Hardin's
handling of this great estate. Peyton will bring the girl on, when
her coming of age calls for a legal settlement of the estate. I
don't want to strike that woman down until she braves me.

"I'm going to lure Madame de Santos over to California. If she
wants to watch me, I will be on deck every time there. I'll bring
Peyton and Louise Moreau over to San Francisco. I will never lose
sight of that child. Judge Davis shall now run my whole game. I
don't ask you who killed that woman, padre, but I will bet the de
Santos knows the hand which struck the blow.

"By leaving you, Vimont, to watch her, you may be yet able to catch
our man. We'll let her bring forward the heiress of Lagunitas, whom
she stowed away in the convent. Don't spare the cash, padre. You
can use what you want from my bankers. They will cable me at once,
at your wish. Good-bye." Joe Woods is off. His mind is bent on a
great scheme.

PŠre Fran‡ois thinks of the unavenged murder of the poor maid-servant.
She is now sleeping the last sleep in PŠre la Chaise. Paris has its
newer mysteries already, to chase away her memory--only one more
unfortunate.

Joe gets news after his arrival at the Golden Gate. "I will tell
you, my dear friend, that a large sum of money was due to this
woman from Madame de Santos. She was to have it the next day. I
can not see who would kill her to prevent her getting money from a
prosperous mistress. She was making her a final present on leaving
her service. Madame de Santos openly admits she intended to give
her a considerable sum of money. She has acted with commendable
kindness as to her funeral. All is quiet. The police are baffled."
This is the priest's letter.

"I cannot, at present, reveal to you all I learned from the dying
penitent. I need a higher permission. I have given you an order
to receive the original Valois marriage papers, and the baptismal
and birth certificates of Isabel Valois. She is the only child of
Maxime and Dolores Valois. Louise Moreau is the real heiress, in
my opinion, but we must prove it. I shall come to San Francisco to
watch the sequel of the guardianship of the rightful heiress.

"One person ALONE can now positively swear to this child. I shall
watch that defiant woman, until she goes to California."

High life in Paris rolls on golden wheels as always. Ernesto Villa
Rocca is a daily visitor at the Santos residence. A change has been
inaugurated by the death of Marie B‚rard.

There is a lovely girl there now, whose beauty shines out even by
the side of Natalie the peerless. The heiress is at home. Not even
to Villa Rocca does Natalie confide herself. The disappearance of
Louise Moreau startles her yet. The sudden death of Marie brings
her certain advantages in her once dangerous position. She has no
fear to boldly withdraw the blooming Isabel Valois, so called,
from the "Sacre Coeur," now she has learned that the legal control
of the child can only be taken from her by Hardin himself. He will
never dare to use open force as regards her. No! fear will restrain
him. The dark bond of the past prevents.

But by fraud or artifice, yes! To defeat any possible scheme, she
surrounds the young girl with every elegance of instruction and
accomplishment. She watches her like a tigress guarding its young,
But by her side, in her own home, the young "claimant" will be
surely safe. Hardin fears any public denouncement of his schemes.
Open scandal is worse than secret crime, in the high circles he
adorns.

Count Ernesto Villa Rocca does not plead immediately for madame's
hand. Wise Italian. "Chi va piano va sano." Since the fateful
evening when he promised to do a certain deed of blood for Natalie,
his ardor has chilled a little. "Particeps criminis." He revolves
the whole situation. With cool Italian astuteness, he will wait a
few months, before linking himself to the rich lady whose confidential
maid was so mysteriously murdered. There has been no hesitation,
on his part, to accept a large sum of money from Natalie. Besides,
his eye rests with burning admiration on the young girlish beauty.
Her loveliness has the added charms of untold millions, in her
future fortune. A prize. Does he dare? Ernesto Villa Rocca cannot
fathom the mysterious connection between the guardian siren and her
charge. Would he be safe to depend upon Madame de Santos' fortune?
He knows not. Has not the young girl a greater value in his eyes?

Seated in the boudoir of Natalie, with bated breath, Villa Rocca
has told Natalie what he expects as a reward for freeing her from
Marie.

Natalie hails the expiration of the minority of the "daughter
of the Dons." The millions will now fall under her own control.
Power!--social power! concrete power!

The most urgent appeals to her from Hardin cannot make her leave
France. Hardin storms. He threatens. He implores. He cannot leave
California and go to France himself. The wily wretch knows that
Natalie THERE will have a local advantage over him. Month after month
glides away. Swordplay only. Villa Rocca, dallying with Natalie,
gloats over the beauties of the ward.

Armand Valois, by invitation of Colonel Peyton, has decided to spend
a year or so in Switzerland and Germany, painting and sketching.
Louise Moreau soons becomes a proficient amateur artist. She wanders
on the lovely shores of the lake, with the gifted young American.
Love weaves its golden web. Joined heart and soul, these children
of fortune whisper their love by the throbbing bosom of the lake.

It is with the rare genius of her sly nature, a happy thought, that
Madame de Santos requests the chivalric Raoul Dauvray to instruct
her own ward in modelling and sketching. It will keep her mind
busy, and content the spirited girl. She must save her from Villa
Rocca. Dauvray is also a painter of no mean talent. A studio is
soon arranged. The merry girl, happy at her release from convent
walls, spends pleasant hours with the ex-Zouave. Drifting, drifting
daily down happy hours to the knowledge of their own ardent feelings.

Natalie absolutely debars all other visitors from meeting her young
ward. Only her physician and PŠre Fran‡ois can watch these studio
labors. She fears Hardin's emissaries only.

Many visits to the studio are made by Villa Rocca. He is a lover
of the "beaux-arts."

The days fly by pleasantly. Natalie is playing a cool game now.
PŠre Fran‡ois and Raoul Dauvray are ever in her charmed circle.
She dare not refuse the friendship of the inscrutable priest. She
watches, cat-like, for some sign or token of the absent Louise Moreau.
Nothing. Colonel Joseph's sagacity has arranged all communication
from the Swiss lakes, through his trusted banker. It is a blind
trail.

Vimont, eying Natalie and Villa Rocca keenly, reports that he cannot
fathom their relations. Guilty lovers? No. There is no obstacle at
all to their marriage. Then why not a consummation? "Accomplices?"
"In what crime?" "Surely none!" The count is of station undoubted.
A member of the Jockey Club. Natalie de Santos speaks frankly to
PŠre Fran‡ois of her obligations to the dead woman. That mysterious
assailant still defies the famed police of Paris.

Yet around Madame de Santos a web of intrigue is woven, which even
her own keen eyes do not ferret out.

Strange woman-heart. Lonely and defiant, yet blind, she thinks she
guards her control of the budding heiress, "Isabel Valois." Waiting?

In the studio, handsome Raoul Dauvray bends glowing eyes on the
clay which models the classic beauty of Isabel Valois. The sabre
scar on his bronzed face burns red as he directs the changes
of his lovely model. Neither a Phryne nor an Aphrodite, but "the
Unawakened Venus."

A dreamy light flickers in her eyes, as she meets the burning gaze
of an artist lover.

Fighting hard against the current, the heiress of millions affects
not to understand.

It is "Monsieur Raoul," "Mademoiselle Isabel;" and all the while,
their hearts beat in unison.

Raoul, soldier-artist, Frenchman, and lover, dissembles when Villa
Rocca is present. There is a strange constraint in the girl's dark
eyes, as her idle hands cross themselves, in unconscious pose, when
they are alone.

"Lift your eyes a little, mademoiselle. Look steadily at me," is
his gentle request. He can hear the clock tick as if its beat was
the fail of a trip hammer.

When even his fastidious task can no longer delay, he says, as
the afternoon sun gilds the dome of the Invalides, throwing down
his graver, "Je n'en puis plus, mademoiselle. It is finished. I
will release you now."

As Raoul throws the cloth over the clay model, Isabel passes him
with a gasp, and gazes with set face from the window.

His bursting heart holds him back. There is no longer an excuse.

"And I shall see you no more, Monsieur Raoul?" the heiress of
millions softly says.

"Not till this is in marble, mademoiselle. A poor artist does not
mingle in your own gay world."

"But a soldier of France is welcome everywhere," the girl falters.

A mist rises to Raoul's eyes. He bears the cross of the Legion of
Honor on his breast. The perfume from her hair is blown across his
face. "Les violettes de Parme." The artist sinks in the soldier.

Springing to the window, the girl's assenting hand, cold as ice,
is clasped in his palm.

"Isabel!" he cries. She trembles like a leaf. "May the soldier
ask what the artist would not dare?" He is blind with passion.

The lovely dark-eyed girl turns a splendid face upon him, her eyes
filled with happy tears, and cries:

"Captain, you saved my life!"

The noisy clock ticks away; the only sound beside its clang is
the beating hearts which close in love's first embrace, when the
soldier knows he has won the heart of the Pearl of Paris.

"Your rank, your millions, your guardian! The Count Villa Rocca,
my enemy!" he hoarsely whispers.

The clinging beauty hands him the ribbon from her throat.

"Claim me with this!" she cries as his arms enfold her.

The dream of young love; first love; true love.

Every obstacle fades away: Lagunitas' millions; proud guardian;
scheming duenna; watchful Villa Rocca. The world is naught to the
two whose arms bind the universe in love's golden circle,

Raoul murmurs to the glowing maiden in his arms:

"And can you trust me?"

The splendid beauty clasps him closer, whispering softly:

"A Spanish girl loves once and to the death."

"But, darling," she falters, as her arms cling closer, "we must
wait and hope!"

A letter from Philip Hardin arrives, in the gayest midwinter of a
rejuvenated Paris. The time for decisive action has arrived. Natalie
revolves every clause of Hardin's proposition in her mind.

In less than a year the now blooming Isabel will be eighteen years
of age. The accounting--

Hardin is trying now to cut the legal Gordian knot. His letter
reads as follows:

I have determined to make you a proposition which should close all
our affairs. It should leave no cause for complaint. I need Isabel
Valois here, You will not trust yourself in America with our past
relations unsettled. I shall not force you, but I must do my duty
as guardian.

You are worthy of a settlement. No one knows you here now. Marry
Villa Rocca. Come here with Isabel. I will give you jointly a
fortune which will content you. I will settle upon your child the
sum of one hundred thousand dollars, to be paid over to her use when
of age. If you marry Villa Rocca now, I will give him the drafts
for the child's money. If you decide to marry him, you may ask
him to visit me here, as your agent. I will show him where your
own property is located, to the extent of half a million dollars.
This is to be turned over to you and him jointly, when you are man
and wife. This will satisfy his honor and his rank. Otherwise, I
shall soon cease my remittances. You may not be willing to do as
I wish, but the heiress must be returned to me, or you and your
child will remain without means.

Your marriage will be my safeguard and your own establishment.
Tell Villa Rocca any story of your life; I will confirm and prove
it. I shall name my bankers as trustee to join with any person
you name for your child. The principal to be paid over to her on
her marriage, to her own order. She can take any name you choose,
except mine. If this is satisfactory, cable to me, "Accepted; agent
coming." Send a letter by your agent, with a private duplicate to
me, with your wishes. HARDIN.

Natalie stands face to face with a life's decision. Can she trust
Villa Rocca? By the dark bond of crime between them she must. A
poor bond of crime. And the millions of Lagunitas. To yield them
up. A terrible temptation.

In her boudoir, Villa Rocca sums up with lightning flashes, the
merits of this proposition. It is partly unfolded to him by the
woman, who holds his pledge to marry her. "She must settle her
affairs." It is a good excuse. He smiles, as he says:

"Madonna mia, in whose name will this property be placed, if I make
you Countess Villa Rocca?"

"In our joint names, with benefit to the survivor," she replies.

"If arranged in even sums on each of us, with a reversion to me,
if you die childless, I will accept. I will go to California, and
bring the deposit for the missing child. I can make every arrangement
for your lawyer. We can go over together and marry there, when
you restore the heiress next year to her guardian." A bargain, a
compact, and a bond of safety. It suits both.

The lady despatches to Hardin her acceptance of his proposal.
In preparing a letter to the Judge she gives her "fianc‚" every
instruction. She permits him to mail the duplicate, carefully
compared.

In a week, Count Ernesto is tossing on the billows of the Atlantic.
He is a fashionable Columbus. He is sufficiently warned to be on his
guard in conversation with the wily Hardin. Natalie is far-seeing.

Villa Rocca laughed as he embraced his future bride. "Trust an
Italian, in finesse, cara mia."

It is arranged between the two that Hardin is to have no hint of the
character, appearance, or whereabouts of the child who receives the
bounty. The letter bears the name of "Irene Duval" as the beneficiary
of the fund. A system of correspondence is devised between them. Villa
Rocca, using his Italian consul at San Francisco as a depositary,
will be sure to obtain his letters. He will write to a discreet
friend in Paris. Perhaps a spy on herself, Natalie muses.

Still she must walk hand in hand with Villa Rocca, a new sharer of
her secret. But HE dare not talk.

When these two have said their last adieux, when Natalie sums
up her lonely thoughts, she feels, with a shudder for the future,
that not a shade of tenderness clings around this coming marriage.
Mutual passion has dissipated itself. There is a self-consciousness
of meeting eyes which tells of that dark work under the gloomy
buttresses of Notre Dame. Murder--a heavy burden!

Can they trust each other? They MUST. The weary secret of unpunished
crime grows heavier, day by day. In losing a tyrant, in the maid,
will she not gain a colder master in the man she marries? Who
knows?

Natalie Santos realizes that she has no legal proof whose hand
struck that fatal blow. But Villa Rocca can expose her to Hardin.
A fatal weakness. The anxious woman realizes what her false position
and idle luxury cost in heartache. It is life!

The roses turn to ashes on her cheeks as she paces her lonely
rooms. Restless and weary in the Bois, she is even more dull and
"distraite" in society. The repression of her secret, the daily
presence of the daughter she dares not own, all weary her heart
and soul. She feels that her power over Hardin will be gone forever
when the heiress enters upon her rights. Has the child learned to
love another? Her life is barren, a burning waste.

