Rule K--A motion to amend an amendment cannot be amended.

Rule L--When an appeal from the chair's decision results in a tie vote,
the chair is sustained.

Rule M--Requires a two-thirds vote unless special rules have been
enacted.

Rule N--Does not require to be seconded.

General Rules.

No motion is open for discussion until it has been stated by the chair.

The maker of a motion cannot modify it or withdraw it after it has been
stated by the chair except by general consent.

Only one reconsideration of a question is permitted.

A motion to adjourn, to lay on the table, or to take from the table,
cannot be renewed unless some other motion has been made in the
interval.

On motion to strike out the words, "Shall the words stand part of the
motion?" unless a majority sustains the words, they are struck out.

On motion for previous question, the form to be observed is, "Shall the
main question be now put?" This, if carried, ends debate.

On an appeal from the chair's decision, "Shall the decision be sustained
as the ruling of the house?" The chair is generally sustained.

On motion for orders of the day, "Will the house now proceed to the
orders of the day?" This, if carried, supersedes intervening motions.

When an objection is raised to considering questions, "Shall the
question be considered?" Objections may be made by any member before
debate has commenced, but not subsequently.


LETTER COMBINATIONS.

When King Stanislaus of Poland, then a young man, came back from a
journey, the whole Lescinskian House gathered together at Lissa to
receive him. The schoolmaster, Jablowsky, prepared a festival in
commemoration of the event, and had it end with a ballet performed by
thirteen students, dressed as cavaliers. An unemployment rate of at least
50% continues to be a major problem. While inflation is not a concern,
due to the fixed tie of the Djiboutian franc to the US dollar, the
artificially high value of the Djiboutian franc adversely affects
Djibouti's balance of payments. Per capita consumption dropped an
estimated 35% over the last seven years because of recession, civil
war, and a high population growth rate (including immigrants and
refugees). Faced with a multitude of economic difficulties, the government
has fallen in arrears on long-term external debt and has been
struggling to meet the stipulations of foreign aid donors.

Dominica The Dominican economy depends on agriculture, primarily
bananas, and remains highly vulnerable to climatic conditions and
international economic developments.

Tourism has increased as the government seeks to promote Dominica
as an "ecotourism" destination.

Development of the tourism industry remains difficult, however,
because of the rugged coastline, lack of beaches, and the absence
of an international airport.

The government began a comprehensive restructuring of the economy in 2003
- including elimination of price controls, privatization of the
state banana company, and tax increases - to address Dominica's
economic crisis and to meet IMF targets.

In order to diversify the island's production base, the government
is attempting to develop an offshore financial sector and is
planning to construct an oil refinery on the eastern part of the
island.

Dominican Republic The Dominican Republic is a Caribbean representative
democracy that enjoyed strong GDP growth until 2003.

Mayhem, although popularly supposed to refer to injury to the face, lip,
tongue, eye, or ear, applies to any injury done a limb.

A felony is a crime punishable by imprisonment in a State prison; an
"infamous" crime is one punishable with death or State prison.

A police officer is not authorized to make an arrest without a warrant
unless he has personal knowledge of the offense for which the arrest is
made.

An accident is not a crime, unless criminal carelessness can be proven.
A man shooting at a burglar and killing a member of his family is not a
murderer.

Burglary in the first degree can be committed only in the night time.
Twilight, if dark enough to prevent distinguishing a man's face, is the
same as "night" in law.

Murder to be in the first degree must be willful, premeditated and
malicious, or committed while the murderer is engaged in a felonious
act. The killing of a man in a duel is murder, and it is a misdemeanor
to accept or give a challenge.

False swearing is perjury in law only when willfully done, and when the
oath has been legally administered. Such qualifying expressions as "to
the best of my belief," "as I am informed," may save an averment from
being perjured. The law is that the false statement sworn to must be
absolute. Subornation of perjury is a felony.


TO TELL PURE WATER.

The color, odor, taste and purity of water can be ascertained as
follows: Fill a large bottle made of colorless glass with water; look
through the water at some black object. Pour out some of the water and
leave the bottle half full; cork the bottle and place it for a few hours
in a warm place; shake up the water, remove the cork, and critically
smell the air contained in the bottle. If it has any smell, particularly
if the odor is repulsive, the water should not be used for domestic
purposes. By heating the water an odor is evolved that would not
otherwise appear. Water fresh from the well is usually tasteless, even
if it contains a large amount of putrescible organic matter. All water
for domestic purposes should be perfectly tasteless, and remain so even
after it has been warmed, since warming often develops a taste in water
which is tasteless when cold.


HAND GRENADES.

Take chloride of calcium, crude, 20 parts; common salt, 5 parts; and
water, 75 parts. Mix and put in thin bottles. In case of fire, a bottle
so thrown that it will break in or very near the fire will put it out.
This mixture is better and cheaper than many of the high-priced
grenades sold for the purpose of fire protection.


HOW TO GET RID OF RATS.

Get a piece of lead pipe and use it as a funnel to introduce about 1-1/2
ounces of sulphite of potassium into any outside holes tenanted by rats.
Not to be used in dwellings. To get rid of mice use tartar emetic
mingled with any favorite food; they will eat, sicken and take their
leave.


FRIENDLY ADVICE ON MANY SUBJECTS.

Tomato in Bright's Disease.

When Thomas Jefferson brought the tomato from France to America,
thinking that if it could be induced to grow bountifully it might make
good feed for hogs, he little dreamed of the benefit he was conferring
upon posterity. A constant diet of raw tomatoes and skim-milk is said to
be a certain cure for Bright's disease. Gen. Schenck, who, when Minister
to England, became a victim to that complaint, was restored to health by
two years of this regimen.


Relief for Asthma.

An old friend of the editor of this book writes: "I have been a sufferer
from asthma for twenty-five years, and for more than a dozen years have
used the following recipe with great benefit. It is not a cure, but in
my case gives almost instant relief. Take equal parts of powdered
stramonium leaves and powdered belladonna leaves and mix thoroughly; to
each ten ounces of the mixture add one ounce of powdered saltpeter
(nitrate of potash); mix all thoroughly. I always keep some of this in a
small tin box. When I wish to use it I pour a little of the powder into
the cover of the box, light it with a match, cover the whole with a
little paper cone with the point cut off. I place the point of the cone
in my mouth, and breathe the smoke into my lungs with the air. The first
trial is very hard; it almost strangles, but if persevered in will give
great relief. This is much better than stramonium alone. The saltpeter
makes it burn freely, and also helps to give relief. When my home was in
Northern Indiana, I used to buy the leaves in Chicago already powdered.
Now I send to New York. I find it cheaper to do this than to gather and
dry the leaves. It is also almost impossible to dry and pulverize the
leaves at home. By using a paper cone and breathing through it, little
or no smoke is wasted, and the box and paper can be carried in the
pocket and used as occasion requires."


For Swollen Feet.

Policemen, mail carriers, and others whose occupation keeps them on
their feet a great deal, often are troubled with chafed, sore and
blistered feet, especially in extremely hot weather, no matter how
comfortably their shoes may lit. A powder is used in the German army for
sifting into the shoes and stockings of the foot soldiers, called
"Fusstreupulver," and consists of 3 parts salicylic acid, 10 parts
starch and 87 parts pulverized soapstone.


Rules for Fat People and for Lean.

To increase the weight: Eat to the extent of satisfying; a natural
appetite, of fat meats, butter, cream, milk, cocoa, chocolate, bread,
potatoes, peas, parsnips, carrots, beets, farinaceous foods, as Indian
corn, rice, tapioca, sago, corn starch, pastry, custards, oatmeal,
sugar, sweet wines, and ale. Avoid acids. Exercise as little as
possible, and sleep all you can.

To reduce the weight: Eat to the extent of satisfying a natural
appetite, of lean meat, poultry, game, eggs, milk moderately, green
vegetables, turnips, succulent fruits, tea or coffee. Drink lime juice,
lemonade, and acid drinks. Avoid fat, butter, cream, sugar, pastry,
rice, sago, tapioca, corn starch, potatoes, carrots, beets, parsnips,
and sweet wines.


When Quinine Will Break Up a Cold.

It is surprising, says a family physician, how certainly a cold may be
broken up by a timely dose of quinine. When first symptoms make their
appearance, when a little languor, slight hoarseness and ominous
tightening of the nasal membranes follow exposure to draughts or sudden
chill by wet, five grains of this useful alkaloid are sufficient in many
cases to end the trouble. But it must be done promptly. If the golden
moment passes, nothing suffices to stop the weary sneezing,
handkerchief-using, red-nose and woe begone looking periods that
certainly follow.


A Mistaken Idea.

The old adage. "Feed a cold and starve a fever." is characterized by the
Journal of Health as very silly advice. If anything, the reverse would
be nearer right. When a person has a severe cold it is best for him to
eat very lightly, especially during the first few days of the attack.


Hints on Bathing.

There has been a great deal written about bathing. The surface of the
skin is punctured with millions of little holes called pores. The duty
of these pores is to carry the waste matter off. For instance,
perspiration. Now, if these pores are stopped up they are of no use, and
the body has to find some other way to get rid of its impurities. Then
the liver has more than it can do. Then we take a liver pill when we
ought to clean out the pores instead. The housewife is very particular
to keep her sieves in good order; after she has strained a substance
through them they are washed out carefully with water, because water is
the best thing known. That is the reason water is used to bathe in. But
the skin is a little different from a sieve, because it is willing to
help along the process itself. All it needs is a little encouragement
and it will accomplish wonders. What the skin wants is rubbing. If you
should quietly sit down in a tub of water and as quietly get up and dry
off without rubbing, your skin wouldn't be much benefited. The water
would make it a little soft, especially if it was warm. But rubbing is
the great thing. Stand where the sunlight strikes a part of your body,
then take a dry brush and rub it, and you will notice that countless
little flakes of cuticle fly off. Every time one of these flakes is
removed from the skin your body breathes a sigh of relief. An eminent
German authority contends that too much bathing is a bad thing. There is
much truth in this. Soap and water are good things to soften up the
skin, but rubbing is what the skin wants. Every morning or every
evening, or when it is most convenient, wash the body all over with
water and a little ammonia, or anything which tends to make the water
soft; then rub dry with a towel, and after that go over the body from
top to toe with a dry brush. Try this for two or three weeks, and your
skin will be like velvet.


Tea and Coffee.

Tea is a nerve stimulant, pure and simple, acting like alcohol in this
respect, without any value that the latter may possess as a retarder of
waste. It has a special influence upon those nerve centers that supply
will power, exalting their sensibility beyond normal activity, and may
even produce hysterical symptoms, if carried far enough. Its active
principle, theine, is an exceedingly powerful drug, chiefly employed by
nerve specialists as a pain destroyer, possessing the singular quality
of working toward the surface. That is to say, when a dose is
administered hypodermically for sciatica, for example, the narcotic
influence proceeds outward from the point of injection, instead of
inward toward the centers, as does that of morphia, atropia, etc. Tea is
totally devoid of nutritive value, and the habit of drinking it to
excess, which so many American women indulge in, particularly in the
country, is to be deplored as a cause of our American nervousness.
Coffee, on the contrary, is a nerve food. Like other concentrated foods
of its class, it operates as a stimulant also, but upon a different set
of nerves from tea. Taken strong in the morning, it often produces
dizziness and that peculiar visual symptom of overstimulus which is
called muscae volilantes--dancing flies. Fishing is the second leading
sector.
Agriculture and manufacturing continue to play a lesser role in the economy,
constrained by the limited availability of cultivable land and the
shortage of domestic labor. Most staple foods must be imported.

Industry, which consists mainly of garment production, boat building,
and handicrafts, accounts for about 7% of GDP.

The Maldivian Government began an economic reform program in 1989
initially by lifting import quotas and opening some exports to the private
sector. Subsequently, it has liberalized regulations to allow more
foreign investment. Real GDP growth averaged over 7.5% per year for more
than a decade. In late December 2004, a major tsunami left more
than 100 dead, 12,000 displaced, and property damage exceeding $300
million. As a result of the tsunami, the GDP contracted by about
3.6% in 2005. A rebound in tourism, post-tsunami reconstruction, and
development of new resorts helped boost GDP by nearly 18 percent in
2006. The trade deficit has expanded sharply as a result of high oil
prices and imports of construction material.
Diversifying beyond tourism and fishing is the major challenge facing the
government. Over the longer term Maldivian authorities worry about the
impact of erosion and possible global warming on their low-lying
country; 80% of the area is one meter or less above sea level.

Mali Mali is among the poorest countries in the world, with 65% of
its land area desert or semidesert and with a highly unequal
distribution of income.Care of the Eyes.

In consequence of the increase of affections of the eye, a specialist
has recently formulated the following rules to be observed in the care
of the eyes for school work: A comfortable temperature, dry and warm
feet, good ventilation; clothing at the neck and on other parts of the
body loose; posture erect, and never read lying down or stooping. Little
study before breakfast or directly after a heavy meal; none at all at
twilight or late at night; use great caution about studying after
recovery from fevers; have light abundant, but not dazzling, not
allowing the sun to shine on desks or on objects in front of the
scholars, and letting the light come from the left hand or left and
rear; hold book at right angles to the line of sight or nearly so; give
eyes frequent rest by looking up. The distance of the book from the eye
should be about fifteen inches. The usual indication of strain is
redness of the rim of the eyelid, betokening a congested state of the
inner surface, which may be accompanied with some pain. When the eye
tires easily rest is not the proper remedy, but the use of glasses of
sufficient power to aid in accommodating the eye to vision.


How and When to Drink Water.

According to Doctor Leuf, when water is taken into the full or partly
full stomach, it does not mingle with the food, as we are taught, but
passes along quickly between the food and lesser curvature toward the
pylorus, through which it passes into the intestines. The secretion of
mucus by the lining membrane is constant, and during the night a
considerable amount accumulates in the stomach; some of its liquid
portion is absorbed, and that which remains is thick and tenacious. If
food is taken into the stomach when in this condition, it becomes coated
with this mucus, and the secretion of the gastric juice and its action
are delayed. These facts show the value of a goblet of water before
breakfast. This washes out the tenacious mucus, and stimulates the
gastric glands to secretion. In old and feeble persons water should not
be taken cold, but it may be with great advantage taken warm or hot.
This removal of the accumulated mucus from the stomach is probably one
of the reasons why taking soup at the beginning of a meal has been found
so beneficial.


What Causes Coughs.

Cold and coughs are prevalent throughout the country, but throat
affections are by far more common among business men. Every unfortunate
one mutters something about the abominable weather and curses the
piercing wind. Much of the trouble, however, is caused by overheated
rooms, and a little more attention to proper ventilation would remove
the cause of suffering. Doctor J. Ewing Mears, who was thus afflicted,
said to an inquirer: "The huskiness and loss of power of articulation so
common among us are largely due to the use of steam for heating. The
steam cannot be properly regulated, and the temperature becomes too
high. A person living in this atmosphere has all the cells of the lungs
open, and when he passes into the open air he is unduly exposed. The
affliction is quite common among the men who occupy offices in the new
buildings which are fitted up with all modern improvements. The
substitution of electric light for gas has wrought a change to which
people have not yet adapted themselves. The heat arising from a number
of gas jets will quickly raise the temperature of a room, and
unconsciously people rely upon that means of heating to some extent.
Very little warmth, however, is produced by the electric light, and when
a man reads by an incandescent light he at times finds himself becoming
chilly, and wonders why it is. Too hot during the day and too cold at
night are conditions which should be avoided."


PHYSICAL EXERCISE.

The principal methods of developing the physique now prescribed by
trainers are exercise with dumbbells, the bar bell and the chest weight.
The rings and horizontal and parallel bars are also used, but not nearly
to the extent that they formerly were. The movement has been all in the
direction of the simplification of apparatus; in fact, one well-known
teacher of the Boston Gymnasium when asked his opinion said: "Four bare
walls and a floor, with a well-posted instructor, is all that is really
required for a gymnasium."

Probably the most important as well as the simplest appliance for
gymnasium work is the wooden dumbbell, which has displaced the ponderous
iron bell of former days. Its weight is from three-quarters of a pound
to a pound and a half, and with one in each hand a variety of motions
can be gone through, which are of immense benefit in building up or
toning down every muscle and all vital parts of the body.

The first object of an instructor in taking a beginner in hand is to
increase the circulation. This is done by exercising the extremities,
the first movement being one of the hands, after which come the wrists,
then the arms, and next the head and feet. As the circulation is
increased the necessity for a larger supply of oxygen, technically
called "oxygen-hunger," is created, which is only satisfied by breathing
exercises, which develop the lungs. After the circulation is in a
satisfactory condition, the dumbbell instructor turns his attention to
exercising the great muscles of the body, beginning with those of the
back, strengthening which holds the body erect, thus increasing the
chest capacity, invigorating the digestive organs, and, in fact, all the
vital functions. By the use of very light weights an equal and
symmetrical development of all parts of the body is obtained, and then
there are no sudden demands on the heart and lungs.

After the dumbbell comes exercise with the round, or bar bell. This is
like the dumbbell, with the exception that the bar connecting the balls
is four or five feet, instead of a few inches in length. Bar bells weigh
from one to two pounds each and are found most useful in building up the
respiratory and digestive systems, their especial province being the
strengthening of the erector muscles and increasing the flexibility of
the chest.

Of all fixed apparatus in use the pulley weight stands easily first in
importance. These weights are available for a greater variety of objects
than any other gymnastic appliance, and can be used either for general
exercise or for strengthening such muscles as most require it. With them
a greater localization is possible than with the dumbbell, and for this
reason they are recommended as a kind of supplement to the latter. As
chest developers and correctors of round shoulders they are most
effective. As the name implies, they are simply weights attached to
ropes, which pass over pulleys, and are provided with handles. The
common pulley is placed at about the height of the shoulder of an
average man, but recently those which can be adjusted to any desired
height have been very generally introduced.

When more special localization is desired than can be obtained by means
of the ordinary apparatus, what is known as the double-action chest
weight is used. This differs from the ordinary kind in being provided
with several pulleys, so that the strain may come at different angles.
Double-action weights may be divided into three classes--high, low, and
side pulleys--each with its particular use.

The highest of all, known as the giant pulleys, are made especially for
developing the muscles of the back and chest, and by stretching or
elongating movements to increase the interior capacity of the chest. If
the front of the chest is full and the back or side chest deficient, the
pupil is set to work on the giant pulley. To build up the side-walls he
stands with the back to the pulley-box and the left heel resting against
it; the handle is grasped in the right hand if the right side of the
chest is lacking in development, and then drawn straight down by the
side; a step forward with the right foot, as long as possible, is taken,
the line brought as far to the front and near the floor as can be done,
and then the arm, held stiff, allowed to be drawn solely up by the
weight. To exercise the left side the same process is gone through with,
the handle grasped in the left hand. Another kind of giant pulley is
that which allows the operator to stand directly under it, and is used
for increasing the lateral diameter of the chest. The dual-island nation's
agricultural production is focused on the domestic market and constrained
by a limited water supply and a labor shortage stemming from the
lure of higher wages in tourism and construction. Manufacturing comprises
enclave-type assembly for export with major products being bedding,
handicrafts, and electronic components. Prospects for economic
growth in the medium term will continue to depend on income growth
in the industrialized world, especially in the US, which accounts
for slightly more than one-third of tourist arrivals.

Arctic Ocean Economic activity is limited to the exploitation of
natural resources, including petroleum, natural gas, fish, and seals.

Argentina Argentina benefits from rich natural resources, a highly
literate population, an export-oriented agricultural sector, and a
diversified industrial base. Although one of the world's wealthiest
countries 100 years ago, Argentina suffered during most of the
twentieth century from recurring economic crises, persistent fiscal
and current account deficits, high inflation, mounting external debt,
and capital flight.

Beginning in 1998, with external debt equivalent to more than 400
percent of annual exports, economic growth slowed and ultimately
fell into a full-blown depression, as investors' fears grew in the
wake of Russia's debt default, political discord caused by
then-President Carlos MENEM's unpopular efforts to run for a
constitutionally prohibited third term, and Brazil's devaluation.

The government of Fernando DE LA RUA, elected President in late
1999, tried several measures to cut the fiscal deficit and instill
confidence and received large IMF credit facilities, but nothing
worked to revive the economy.

The object for which these several articles
are employed is the same in each instance; namely, to exclude the air
from the injured part; for if the air can be effectually shut out from
the raw surface, and care is taken not to expose the tender part till
the new cuticle is formed, the cure may be safely left to nature. The
moment a person is called to a case of scald or burn, he should cover
the part with a sheet, or a portion of a sheet, of wadding, taking care
not to break any blister that may have formed, or stay to remove any
burnt clothes that may adhere to the surface, but as quickly as possible
envelop every part of the injury from all access of the air, laying one
or two more pieces of wadding on the first, so as effectually to guard
the burn or scald from the irritation of the atmosphere; and if the
article used is wool or cotton, the same precaution, of adding more
material where the surface is thinly covered, must be adopted; a light
bandage finally securing all in their places. Any of the popular
remedies recommended below may be employed when neither wool, cotton,
nor wadding are to be procured, it being always remembered that that
article which will best exclude the air from a burn or scald is the
best, quickest, and least painful mode of treatment. And in this respect
nothing has surpassed cotton loose or attached to paper as in wadding.

