I do not believe in erecting statues to those who still live in our
hearts, whose bones have not yet crumbled in the earth around us, but
I would rather see the statue of Captain Brown in the Massachusetts
State-House yard, than that of any other man whom I know. I rejoice that
I live in this age, that I am his contemporary.

What a contrast, when we turn to that political party which is so
anxiously shuffling him and his plot out of its way, and looking around
for some available slave holder, perhaps, to be its candidate, at least
for one who will execute the Fugitive Slave Law, and all those other
unjust laws which he took up arms to annul!

Insane! A father and six sons, and one son-in-law, and several more
men besides,--as many at least as twelve disciples,--all struck with
insanity at once; while the same tyrant holds with a firmer gripe than
ever his four millions of slaves, and a thousand sane editors, his
abettors, are saving their country and their bacon! Just as insane were
his efforts in Kansas. Ask the tyrant who is his most dangerous foe,
the sane man or the insane? Do the thousands who know him best, who
have rejoiced at his deeds in Kansas, and have afforded him material aid
there, think him insane? Such a use of this word is a mere trope with
most who persist in using it, and I have no doubt that many of the rest
have already in silence retracted their words.

Read his admirable answers to Mason and others. How they are dwarfed
and defeated by the contrast! On the one side, half-brutish, half-timid
questioning; on the other, truth, clear as lightning, crashing into
their obscene temples. They are made to stand with Pilate, and Gesler,
and the Inquisition. How ineffectual their speech and action! and what
a void their silence! They are but helpless tools in this great work. It
was no human power that gathered them about this preacher.

On the one hand some pride when he returned to believe that she had
instilled a passion killer, and then the horror it caused such
pride, otherwise the confused and vague remorse suspicion that she
instinctively abhorrent, without reflection, birth had caused and
done that before so lost in soul and blissfully quiet, and finally
everything was clear that their dream of vanity. Is not Ms Luz could have
forged a novel? What the Father had told him to believe in love? He had
died of love or stroke? The romantic, the sentimental was she who kissed
him madly when expired. "If I have been lighter, the watermelon and
extravagant? If I must have been love with the monk, who believed in
me but not with paternal affection, innocent and simple? ". Doña Luz
Al ruminate and filled with shame and trembling like a azogue and is
angry with herself, tried criminal, crazy and up infidel. While
this was happening in the spirit of Doña Luz, gift Acisclo divided
among their children or keep for themselves and the few poor
articles that Father had left, and that more had to be preserved
as sacred by the memory that they had little worth.

In this partition reserved D. Doña Luz Acisclo for the few books that
the friar had. There was unaware D.

Acisclo the father was writing a book until he thought it might give the
appearance, although it had been incomplete. To get the manuscript, he
found, and considering that the only two people capable of
understanding in place what he called a _monserga_ were D. Anselmo
and Doña Luz, and D. Anselmo did not appreciate being wicked as well as
the _monserga_ Doña Luz, who was a believer, do not hesitate to bring
the manuscript to doña Luz, even without opening its pages, because it
hampered the black, as accounts were not winning and he left reaching
in its favor. Doña Luz received the manuscript of the revered Father,
and not well D.

Acisclo left alone, he opened with eager curiosity and began to read. In
his impatience hojeaba and walked all the pages, devouring its
contents on the fly, trying to understand the whole, and then leaving
to read everything carefully. A bit of browsing, was doña Luz with
loose leaves. His look was fixed on them. The heart told him to shut
something very interesting. Then to read the break, with interruptions,
with frequent interruptions, because the tears in their eyes crowded
and cegaba and not consenting to read. In each of these inevitable
interruptions in a low voice as if afraid to be heard, interspersed
with words of grief, exclaimed Dona Luz: - It was true. It was true. I
loved my God! How much, how much they loved me! In the latter, and then
beyond what we know, the day before his death, Fr Henry had written
the following, Doña Luz also read: "These pages, unless the trait or
burn, Iran invariably, after I die, at her beautiful hands. Even then
I am not ashamed that she knows my love. Sorry, my God, my new fault. I
want her to know. In what the know and that may disturb the peace of his
noble life?
He is the farthest possible removed from the ordinary
ruffian, fanatic, or madman."

"All is quiet at Harper's Ferry," say the journals. What is the
character of that calm which follows when the law and the slaveholder
prevail? I regard this event as a touchstone designed to bring out, with
glaring distinctness, the character of this government. We needed to
be thus assisted to see it by the light of history. It needed to
see itself. When a government puts forth its strength on the side of
injustice, as ours to maintain slavery and kill the liberators of the
slave, it reveals itself a merely brute force, or worse, a demoniacal
force. It is the head of the Plug-Uglies. It is more manifest than ever
that tyranny rules. I see this government to be effectually allied with
France and Austria in oppressing mankind. There sits a tyrant holding
fettered four millions of slaves; here comes their heroic liberator.
This most hypocritical and diabolical government looks up from its
seat on the gasping four millions, and inquires with an assumption of
innocence: "What do you assault me for? Am I not an honest man? Cease
agitation on this subject, or I will make a slave of you, too, or else
hang you."

We talk about a representative government; but what a monster of a
government is that where the noblest faculties of the mind, and the
whole heart, are not represented. A semi-human tiger or ox, stalking
over the earth, with its heart taken out and the top of its brain shot
away. Heroes have fought well on their stumps when their legs were shot
off, but I never heard of any good done by such a government as that.

The only government that I recognize,--and it matters not how few are at
the head of it, or how small its army,--is that power that establishes
justice in the land, never that which establishes injustice. What shall
we think of a government to which all the truly brave and just men in
the land are enemies, standing between it and those whom it oppresses? A
government that pretends to be Christian and crucifies a million Christs
every day!

Treason! Where does such treason take its rise? I cannot help thinking
of you as you deserve, ye governments. Can you dry up the fountains of
thought? High treason, when it is resistance to tyranny here below,
has its origin in, and is first committed by, the power that makes and
forever recreates man. When you have caught and hung all these human
rebels, you have accomplished nothing but your own guilt, for you have
not struck at the fountain-head. You presume to contend with a foe
against whom West Point cadets and rifled cannon point not. Can all the
art of the cannon-founder tempt matter to turn against its maker? Is
the form in which the founder thinks he casts it more essential than the
constitution of it and of himself?

The United States have a coffle of four millions of slaves. They are
determined to keep them in this condition; and Massachusetts is one of
the confederated overseers to prevent their escape. Such are not all the
inhabitants of Massachusetts, but such are they who rule and are obeyed
here. It was Massachusetts, as well as Virginia, that put down this
insurrection at Harper's Ferry. She sent the marines there, and she will
have to pay the penalty of her sin.

Suppose that there is a society in this State that out of its own
purse and magnanimity saves all the fugitive slaves that run to us, and
protects our colored fellow-citizens, and leaves the other work to
the government, so-called. Is not that government fast losing its
occupation, and becoming contemptible to mankind? If private men are
obliged to perform the offices of government, to protect the weak and
dispense justice, then the government becomes only a hired man, or
clerk, to perform menial or indifferent services. Of course, that is
but the shadow of a government who existence necessitates a Vigilant
Committee. What should we think of the Oriental Cadi even, behind whom
worked in secret a vigilant committee? But such is the character of our
Northern States generally; each has its Vigilant Committee. And, to
a certain extent, these crazy governments recognize and accept this
relation. They say, virtually, "We'll be glad to work for you on these
terms, only don't make a noise about it." And thus the government,
its salary being insured, withdraws into the back shop, taking the
Constitution with it, and bestows most of its labor on repairing that.
When I hear it at work sometimes, as I go by, it reminds me, at best,
of those farmers who in winter contrive to turn a penny by following
the coopering business. And what kind of spirit is their barrel made to
hold? They speculate in stocks, and bore holes in mountains, but they
are not competent to lay out even a decent highway. The only free
road, the Underground Railroad, is owned and managed by the Vigilant
Committee. They have tunnelled under the whole breadth of the land. Such
a government is losing its power and respectability as surely as water
runs out of a leaky vessel, and is held by one that can contain it.

I hear many condemn these men because they were so few. When were the
good and the brave ever in a majority? Would you have had him wait till
that time came?--till you and I came over to him? The very fact that he
had no rabble or troop of hirelings about him would alone distinguish
him from ordinary heroes. His company was small indeed, because few
could be found worthy to pass muster. Each one who there laid down his
life for the poor and oppressed was a picked man, culled out of many
thousands, if not millions; apparently a man of principle, of rare
courage, and devoted humanity; ready to sacrifice his life at any moment
for the benefit of his fellow-man. It may be doubted if there were as
many more their equals in these respects in all the country--I speak of
his followers only--for their leader, no doubt, scoured the land far and
wide, seeking to swell his troop. These alone were ready to step between
the oppressor and the oppressed. Surely they were the very best men you
could select to be hung. That was the greatest compliment which this
country could pay them. They were ripe for her gallows. She has tried
a long time, she has hung a good many, but never found the right one
before.

When I think of him, and his six sons, and his son-in-law, not to
enumerate the others, enlisted for this fight, proceeding coolly,
reverently, humanely to work, for months if not years, sleeping and
waking upon it, summering and wintering the thought, without expecting
any reward but a good conscience, while almost all America stood
ranked on the other side--I say again that it affects me as a sublime
spectacle. If he had any journal advocating 'his cause,' any organ, as
the phrase is, monotonously and wearisomely playing the same old
tune, and then passing round the hat, it would have been fatal to his
efficiency. If he had acted in any way so as to be let alone by the
government, he might have been suspected. It was the fact that the
tyrant must give place to him, or he to the tyrant, that distinguished
him from all the reformers of the day that I know.

It was his peculiar doctrine that a man has a perfect right to interfere
by force with the slaveholder, in order to rescue the slave. I agree
with him. They who are continually shocked by slavery have some right to
be shocked by the violent death of the slaveholder, but no others.
Such will be more shocked by his life than by his death. I shall not
be forward to think him mistaken in his method who quickest succeeds to
liberate the slave. I speak for the slave when I say that I prefer the
philanthropy of Captain Brown to that philanthropy which neither shoots
me nor liberates me. At any rate, I do not think it is quite sane for
one to spend his whole life in talking or writing about this matter,
unless he is continuously inspired, and I have not done so. A man may
have other affairs to attend to. I do not wish to kill nor to be killed,
but I can foresee circumstances in which both these things would be
by me unavoidable. We preserve the so-called peace of our community by
deeds of petty violence every day. Look at the policeman's billy and
handcuffs! Look at the jail! Look at the gallows! Look at the chaplain
of the regiment! We are hoping only to live safely on the outskirts of
this provisional army. So we defend ourselves and our hen-roosts, and
maintain slavery. I know that the mass of my countrymen think that the
only righteous use that can be made of Sharp's rifles and revolvers is
to fight duels with them, when we are insulted by other nations, or to
hunt Indians, or shoot fugitive slaves with them, or the like. I think
that for once the Sharp's rifles and the revolvers were employed in a
righteous cause. The tools were in the hands of one who could use them.

The same indignation that is said to have cleared the temple once will
clear it again. This is not surprising, therefore, to be in love with my
wife of one of my outstanding merit Joaquina. Joaquina This is my wife,
to serve USIA. I love USIA and sends me a thousand respectful and
affectionate terms.What sort of violence is
that which is encouraged, not by soldiers, but by peaceable citizens,
for so much by laymen as by ministers of the Gospel, not so much by the
fighting sects as by the Quakers, and not so much by Quaker men as by
Quaker women?

