Everybody there present knew as well as does the reader, what was the
connexion between Tregear and Lady Mary Palliser. And each knew that
the other knew it. It was therefore impossible for them not to feel
themselves guilty among themselves. The two lovers had not seen each
other since they had been together in Italy. Now they were brought
face to face in this unexpected manner! And nobody except Tregear
was at first quite sure whether somebody had not done something to
arrange the meeting. Mary might naturally suspect that Lady Mabel had
done this in the interest of her friend Tregear, and Silverbridge
could not but suspect that it was so. Lady Mabel, who had never
before met the other girl, could hardly refrain from thinking that
there had been some underhand communication,--and Miss Cassewary was
clearly of opinion that there had been some understanding.

Silverbridge was the first to speak. "Halloo, Tregear, I didn't know
that we were to see you."

"Nor I, that I should see you," said he. Then of course there was a
shaking of hands all round, in the course of which ceremony he came
to Mary the last. She gave him her hand, but had not a word to say
to him. "If I had known that you were here," he said, "I should not
have come; but I need hardly say how glad I am to see you,--even in
this way." Then the two girls were convinced that the meeting was
accidental; but Miss Cass still had her doubts.

Conversation became at once very difficult. Tregear seated himself
near, but not very near, to Lady Mary, and made some attempt to talk
to both the girls at once. Lady Mabel plainly showed that she was not
at her ease;--whereas Mary seemed to be stricken dumb by the presence
of her lover. Silverbridge was so much annoyed by a feeling that this
interview was a treason to his father, that he sat cudgelling his
brain to think how he should bring it to an end. Miss Cassewary was
dumbfounded by the occasion. She was the one elder in the company
who ought to see that no wrong was committed. She was not directly
responsible to the Duke of Omnium, but she was thoroughly permeated
by a feeling that it was her duty to take care that there should
be no clandestine love meetings in Lord Grex's house. At last
Silverbridge jumped up from his chair. "Upon my word, Tregear, I
think you had better go," said he.

"So do I," said Miss Cassewary. "If it is an accident--"

"Of course it is an accident," said Tregear angrily,--looking round
at Mary, who blushed up to her eyes.

"I did not mean to doubt it," said the old lady. "But as it has
occurred, Mabel, don't you think that he had better go?"

"He won't bite anybody, Miss Cass."

"She would not have come if she had expected it," said Silverbridge.

"Certainly not," said Mary, speaking for the first time. "But now he
is here--" Then she stopped herself, rose from the sofa, sat down,
and then rising again, stepped up to her lover, who rose at the same
moment,--and threw herself into his arms and put up her lips to be
kissed.

"This won't do at all," said Silverbridge. Miss Cassewary clasped her
hands together and looked up to heaven. She probably had never seen
such a thing done before. Lady Mabel's eyes were filled with tears,
and though in all this there was much to cause her anguish, still in
her heart of hearts she admired the brave girl who could thus show
her truth to her lover.

"Now go," said Mary, through her sobs.

"My own one," ejaculated Tregear.

"Yes, yes, yes; always your own. Go,--go; go." She was weeping and
sobbing as she said this, and hiding her face with her handkerchief.
He stood for a moment irresolute, and then left the room without a
word of adieu to any one.

"You have behaved very badly," said the brother.

"She has behaved like an angel," said Mabel, throwing her arms round
Mary as she spoke, "like an angel. If there had been a girl whom you
loved and who loved you, would you not have wished it? Would you
not have worshipped her for showing that she was not ashamed of her
love?"

"I am not a bit ashamed," said Mary.

"And I say that you have no cause. No one knows him as I do. How good
he is, and how worthy!" Immediately after that Silverbridge took his
sister away, and Lady Mabel, escaping from Miss Cass, was alone. "She
loves him almost as I have loved him," she said to herself. "I wonder
whether he can love her as he did me?"


CHAPTER XXX

What Came of the Meeting


Not a word was said in the cab as Lord Silverbridge took his sister
to Carlton Terrace, and he was leaving her without any reference to
the scene which had taken place, when an idea struck him that this
would be cruel. "Mary," he said, "I was very sorry for all that."

"It was not my doing."

"I suppose it was nobody's doing. But I am very sorry that it
occurred. I think that you should have controlled yourself."

"No!" she almost shouted.

"I think so."

"No;--if you mean by controlling myself, holding my tongue. He is the
man I love,--whom I have promised to marry."

"But, Mary,--do ladies generally embrace their lovers in public?"

"No;--nor should I. I never did such a thing in my life before. But
as he was there I had to show that I was not ashamed of him! Do you
think I should have done it if you all had not been there?" Then
again she burst into tears.

He did not quite know what to make of it. Mabel Grex had declared
that she had behaved like an angel. But yet, as he thought of what
he had seen, he shuddered with vexation. "I was thinking of the
governor," he said.

"He shall be told everything."

"That you met Tregear?"

"Certainly; and that I--kissed him. I will do nothing that I am
ashamed to tell everybody."

"He will be very angry."

"I cannot help it. He should not treat me as he is doing. Mr. Tregear
is a gentleman. Why did he let him come? Why did you bring him? But
it is of no use. The thing is settled. Papa can break my heart, but
he cannot make me say that I am not engaged to Mr. Tregear."

On that night Mary told the whole of her story to Lady Cantrip. There
was nothing that she tried to conceal. "I got up," she said, "and
threw my arms round him. Is he not all the world to me?"

"Had it been planned?" asked Lady Cantrip.

"No;--no! Nothing had been planned. They are cousins and very
intimate, and he goes there constantly. Now I want you to tell papa
all about it."

Lady Cantrip began to think that it had been an evil day for her when
she had agreed to take charge of this very determined young lady; but
she consented at once to write to the Duke. As the girl was in her
hands she must take care not to lay herself open to reproaches. As
this objectionable lover had either contrived a meeting, or had met
her without contriving, it was necessary that the Duke should be
informed. "I would rather you wrote the letter," said Lady Mary. "But
pray tell him that all along I have meant him to know all about it."

Till Lady Cantrip seated herself at her writing-table she did not
know how great the difficulty would be. It cannot in any circumstance
be easy to write to a father as to his daughter's love for an
objectionable lover; but the Duke's character added much to the
severity of the task. And then that embrace! She knew that the Duke
would be struck with horror as he read of such a tale, and she found
herself almost struck with horror as she attempted to write it. When
she came to the point she found she could not write it. "I fear there
was a good deal of warmth shown on both sides," she said, feeling
that she was calumniating the man, as to whose warmth she had heard
nothing. "It is quite clear," she added, "that this is not a passing
fancy on her part."

It was impossible that the Duke should be made to understand
exactly what had occurred. That Silverbridge had taken Mary he did
understand, and that they had together gone to Lord Grex's house. He
understood also that the meeting had taken place in the presence of
Silverbridge and of Lady Mabel. "No doubt it was all an accident,"
Lady Cantrip wrote. How could it be an accident?

"You had Mary up in town on Friday," he said to his son on the
following Sunday morning.

"Yes, sir."

"And that friend of yours came in?"

"Yes, sir."

"Do you not know what my wishes are?"

"Certainly I do;--but I could not help his coming. You do not suppose
that anybody had planned it?"

"I hope not."

"It was simply an accident. Such an accident as must occur over and
over again,--unless Mary is to be locked up."

"Who talks of locking anybody up? What right have you to speak in
that way?"

"I only meant that of course they will stumble across each other in
London."

"I think I will go abroad," said the Duke. He was silent for awhile,
and then repeated his words. "I think I will go abroad."

"Not for long, I hope, sir."

"Yes;--to live there. Why should I stay here? What good can I do
here? Everything I see and everything I hear is a pain to me." The
young man of course could not but go back in his mind to the last
interview which he had had with his father, when the Duke had been so
gracious and apparently so well pleased.

"Is there anything else wrong,--except about Mary?" Silverbridge
asked.

"I am told that Gerald owes about fifteen hundred pounds at
Cambridge."

"So much as that! I knew he had a few horses there."

"It is not the money, but the absence of principle,--that a young
man should have no feeling that he ought to live within certain
prescribed means! Do you know what you have had from Mr. Morton?"

"Not exactly, sir."

"It is different with you. But a man, let him be who he may, should
live within certain means. As for your sister, I think she will
break my heart." Silverbridge found it to be quite impossible to say
anything in answer to this. "Are you going to church?" asked the
Duke.

"I was not thinking of doing so particularly."

"Do you not ever go?"

"Yes;--sometimes. I will go with you now, if you like it, sir."

"I had thought of going, but my mind is too much harassed. I do not
see why you should not go."

But Silverbridge, though he had been willing to sacrifice his morning
to his father,--for it was, I fear, in that way that he had looked at
it,--did not see any reason for performing a duty which his father
himself omitted. And there were various matters also which harassed
him. On the previous evening, after dinner, he had allowed himself
to back the Prime Minister for the Leger to a very serious amount.
In fact he had plunged, and now stood to lose some twenty thousand
pounds on the doings of the last night. And he had made these bets
under the influence of Major Tifto. It was the remembrance of this,
after the promise made to his father, that annoyed him the most.
He was imbued with a feeling that it behoved him as a man to "pull
himself together," as he would have said himself, and to live in
accordance with certain rules. He could make the rules easily enough,
but he had never yet succeeded in keeping any one of them. He had
determined to sever himself from Tifto, and, in doing that, had
intended to sever himself from affairs of the turf generally. This
resolution was not yet a week old. It was on that evening that he had
resolved that Tifto should no longer be his companion; and now he had
to confess to himself that because he had drunk three or four glasses
of champagne he had been induced by Tifto to make those wretched
bets.

And he had told his father that he intended to ask Mabel Grex to be
his wife. He had so committed himself that the offer must now be
made. He did not specially regret that, though he wished that he had
been more reticent. "What a fool a man is to blurt out everything!"
he said to himself. A wife would be a good thing for him; and where
could he possibly find a better wife than Mabel Grex? In beauty she
was no doubt inferior to Miss Boncassen. There was something about
Miss Boncassen which made it impossible to forget her. But Miss
Boncassen was an American, and on many accounts out of the question.
It did not occur to him that he would fall in love with Miss
Boncassen; but still it seemed hard to him that this intention of
marriage should stand in his way of having a good time with Miss
Boncassen for a few weeks. No doubt there were objections to
marriage. It clipped a fellow's wings. But then, if he were married,
he might be sure that Tifto would be laid aside. It was such a great
thing to have got his father's assured consent to a marriage. It
meant complete independence in money matters.

Then his mind ran away to a review of his father's affairs. It was a
genuine trouble to him that his father should be so unhappy. Of all
the griefs which weighed upon the Duke's mind, that in reference to
his sister was the heaviest. The money which Gerald owed at Cambridge
would be nothing if that other sorrow could be conquered. Nor had
Tifto and his own extravagance caused the Duke any incurable wounds.
If Tregear could be got out of the way, his father, he thought, might
be reconciled to other things. He felt very tender-hearted about his
father; but he had no remorse in regard to his sister as he made up
his mind that he would speak very seriously to Tregear.

He had wandered into St. James's Park, and had lighted by this time
half-a-dozen cigarettes one after another, as he sat on one of the
benches. He was a handsome youth, all but six feet high, with light
hair, with round blue eyes, and with all that aristocratic look,
which had belonged so peculiarly to the late Duke but which was less
conspicuous in the present head of the family. He was a young man
whom you would hardly pass in a crowd without observing,--but of whom
you would say, after due observation, that he had not as yet put off
all his childish ways. He now sat with his legs stretched out, with
his cane in his hands, looking down upon the water. He was trying to
think. He worked hard at thinking. But the bench was hard and, upon
the whole, he was not satisfied with his position. He had just made
up his mind that he would look up Tregear, when Tregear himself
appeared on the path before him.

"Tregear!" exclaimed Silverbridge.

"Silverbridge!" exclaimed Tregear.

"What on earth makes you walk about here on a Sunday morning?"

"What on earth makes you sit there? That I should walk here, which
I often do, does not seem to me odd. But that I should find you is
marvellous. Do you often come?"

"Never was here in my life before. I strolled in because I had things
to think of."

"Questions to be asked in Parliament? Notices of motions, Amendments
in Committee, and that kind of thing?"

"Go on, old fellow."

"Or perhaps Major Tifto has made important revelations."

"D---- Major Tifto."

"With all my heart," said Tregear.

"Sit down here," said Silverbridge. "As it happened, at the moment
when you came up I was thinking of you."

"That was kind."

"And I was determined to go to you. All this about my sister must be
given up."

"Must be given up?"

"It can never lead to any good. I mean that there never can be a
marriage." Then he paused, but Tregear was determined to hear him
out. "It is making my father so miserable that you would pity him if
you could see him."

"I dare say I should. When I see people unhappy I always pity them.
What I would ask you to think of is this. If I were to commission you
to tell your sister that everything between us should be given up,
would not she be so unhappy that you would have to pity her?"

"She would get over it."

"And so will your father."

"He has a right to have his own opinion on such a matter."

"And so have I. And so has she. His rights in this matter are very
clear and very potential. I am quite ready to admit that we cannot
marry for many years to come, unless he will provide the money. You
are quite at liberty to tell him that I say so. I have no right to
ask your father for a penny, and I will never do so. The power is all
in his hands. As far as I know my own purposes, I shall not make any
immediate attempt even to see her. We did meet, as you saw, the other
day, by the merest chance. After that, do you think that your sister
wishes me to give her up?"

"As for supposing that girls are to have what they wish, that is
nonsense."

"For young men I suppose equally so. Life ought to be a life of
self-denial, no doubt. Perhaps it might be my duty to retire from
this affair, if by doing so I should sacrifice only myself. The one
person of whom I am bound to think in this matter is the girl I
love."

"That is just what she would say about you."

"I hope so."

"In that way you support each other. If it were any other man
circumstanced just like you are, and any other girl placed like Mary,
you would be the first to say that the man was behaving badly. I
don't like to use hard language to you, but in such a case you would
be the first to say of another man--that he was looking after the
girl's money."

Silverbridge as he said this looked forward steadfastly on to the
water, regretting much that cause for quarrel should have arisen,
but thinking that Tregear would find himself obliged to quarrel.
But Tregear, after a few moments' silence, having thought it out,
determined that he would not quarrel. "I think I probably might," he
said, laying his hand on Silverbridge's arm. "I think I perhaps might
express such an opinion."

"Well then!"

"I have to examine myself, and find out whether I am guilty of the
meanness which I might perhaps be too ready to impute to another.
I have done so, and I am quite sure that I am not drawn to your
sister by any desire for her money. I did not seek her because
she was a rich man's daughter, nor,--because she is a rich man's
daughter,--will I give her up. She shall be mistress of the occasion.
Nothing but a word from her shall induce me to leave her;--but a word
from her, if it comes from her own lips,--shall do so." Then he took
his friend's hand in his, and, having grasped it, walked away without
saying another word.


CHAPTER XXXI

Miss Boncassen's River-Party. No. 1


Thrice within the next three weeks did Lord Silverbridge go forth
to ask Mabel to be his wife, but thrice in vain. On one occasion
she would talk on other things. On the second Miss Cassewary would
not leave her. On the third the conversation turned in a very
disagreeable way on Miss Boncassen, as to whom Lord Silverbridge
could not but think that Lady Mabel said some very ill-natured
things. It was no doubt true that he, during the last three weeks,
had often been in Miss Boncassen's company, that he had danced
with her, ridden with her, taken her to the House of Lords and to
the House of Commons, and was now engaged to attend upon her at a
river-party up above Maidenhead. But Mabel had certainly no right to
complain. Had he not thrice during the same period come there to lay
his coronet at her feet;--and now, at this very moment, was it not
her fault that he was not going through the ceremony?

"I suppose," she said, laughing, "that it is all settled."

"What is all settled?"

"About you and the American beauty."

"I am not aware that anything particular has been settled."

"Then it ought to be,--oughtn't it? For her sake, I mean."

"That is so like an English woman," said Lord Silverbridge. "Because
you cannot understand a manner of life a little different from your
own you will impute evil."

"I have imputed no evil, Lord Silverbridge, and you have no right to
say so."

