It has been seen how the Americans were affected by the Declaratory
Bill, which accompanied the repeal of the Stamp Act. Had government been
wise, their disaffection would have taught its members to have devised
some conciliatory measures in order to prevent the threatened outbreak.
The conduct of the government, however, was the very reverse from
this. Instead of allaying the discontents of our colonists, ministers
increased them by resolving to enforce what they called the Mutiny
Act. This was carried hurriedly through the house at the close of the
session; and though the consequences of such a course must have been as
clear as daylight, yet ministers resolved to put it into execution. For
the Mutiny Act was, more properly speaking, an act for quartering and
better providing for the troops at the expense of the colonies. It gave
power to the military to billet themselves on private houses, as was
done in the war, and therefore was naturally offensive to the whole
of the American population, whether friendly or adverse to the English
government. It was calculated to make foes of friends, and to confirm
those who were already foes, in their opposition to the mother country.
The design of this measure, doubtless, was to overawe the colonists;
but the spirit of freedom had taken too deep root in America thus to be
overawed. Matters, in truth, grew worse and worse daily in that country.
The minds of the Americans had been chafed to such a degree by their
original grievances, and the measures which had been adopted to enforce
their quiescence, that they became every day more and more disaffected
toward the English government. How full fraught the country was with
rebellion became manifest on the arrival of the newly-formed American
board of commissioners, at Boston, to enforce the payment of the duties
recently imposed upon them, and to put an end to smuggling. In the
preamble to Charles Townshend's Act, the colonists read, that these
duties were laid "for the better support of the government, and the
administration of the colonies;" and in the bill itself they found a
clause which seemed to empower the king, by sign manual, to establish
a general civil list in every province in North America, with salaries,
pensions, and everything that could be obnoxious to a free-thinking
people. This was instantly declared to be unnecessary, unjust, and
dangerous to the rights of Americans; while the establishment of a civil
list in America, independent of the assemblies, was pronounced illegal.
Measures were taken by the people of Boston for putting into effect the
non-importation agreements, which had been before suggested; the press
was employed to demonstrate the iniquity of the taxing acts; and the
assembly of Massachusets addressed a circular letter to all the other
colonies to invite them to combine in taking measures to defeat the
obnoxious act. Every assembly, except that of New Hampshire, adopted
the sentiments and the plan contained in the circular of the assembly
of Massachusets, and passed votes of thanks to the authors of it. How
effective it was in exciting opposition is manifest from the following
circumstance. Bernard, the governor of Massachusets, was instructed to
require the house of representatives to rescind the resolution which
gave birth to the letter, and to declare the king's disapprobation of
it. But instead of rescinding the resolution, it received the emphatic
confirmation of the assembly. This reply was sent to the governor:--"If
the votes of this house are to be controlled by the direction of a
minister, we have left us but a vain semblance of liberty. We have now
only to inform you that this house have voted not to rescind, and that,
on a division on the question, there were ninety-two nays, and seventeen
yeas."

The next day, Governor Bernard received positive instructions to
dissolve the assembly of Massachusets. But it was in vain that the arm
of power sought to quell the general disaffection: when employed it
had only the effect of making the colonists more resolute in their
opposition. Associations and committees were formed in most of the
provinces, and smuggling was carried on in the broad face of day. Some
months before, one Malcolm had fought with the custom-house officers,
and had landed sixty pipes of Madeira at Boston without paying duty.
In the month of June another cargo arrived at Boston, and when the
excise-officer stepped on board he was seized and confined below, while
the wine was sent on shore. The officer was afterwards liberated, and
on the following morning the skipper of the sloop entered four or five
pipes at the custom-house, declaring that this was the whole of his
cargo. Aware of the falsehood of this statement, the commissioners
ordered a comptroller to seize the sloop, and to fix the king's broad
arrow upon her. This was the signal for a riot. A mob, headed by
Malcolm, beat and nearly killed several of the revenue officers, and the
commissioners themselves were compelled to seek safety in flight. The
sloop was, however, seized; the excise being assisted by the captain of
the Romney man-of-war, then lying at anchor off Boston. This was on
a Friday, and the two following days were comparatively quiet, but on
Monday an immense mob gathered in the streets at Boston, and placards
were stuck up, calling upon the "sons of liberty" to meet on the
following morning. At this meeting a committee was appointed to wait
upon the governor, to inquire why the sloop had been seized? This
committee pretended that it was an affront offered to the town of Boston
to act thus arbitrarily, since the sloop might have been left in safety
at the wharf. The committee affected likewise to disapprove of the riot,
and some few of the ringleaders were sought for and found, under the
pretence of bringing them to condign punishment. But the whole was a
farce. Malcolm, the smuggler, and others of a similar stamp, sate upon
the grand jury, and quashed all prosecution.

The decorations are gold and white, in the florid style of the time of
Louis the Fourteenth, superb and showy; four pieces of tapestry are
let into the walls, which, observes the _Athenæum_, really look like
some of Rubens's stupendous works now in the Grosvenor collection.
We have not seen these apartments since last summer, when the decorations
were in a forward state. We were surprised at the coarseness of the
gilding, when examined closely; we saw, too, that where one of the
entrances to the Ball-room had been heightened, the original, door
had been _pieced_, which was a work of economy we did not look for
in the repairs of a palace.

[1] See _Mirror_, vol. xi. p. 2.
[2] _Athenæum_, No. 180--an opinion to which we beg to subscribe.It was not, however, till the
month of September that the people of Boston became fully aware of the
intention of government to send troops thither, and in the meantime they
had been busy in organizing resistance to the Mutiny Act. In the
month of August, the merchants and traders of Boston agreed upon a new
subscription paper, to this effect:--"We will not send for or import
from Great Britain, either upon our own account, or upon commission,
this fall, any other goods than what are already ordered for the fall
supply. We will not send for or import any kind of goods or merchandise
from Great Britain, &c, from the lat of January, 1769, to the 1st of
January, 1770; except salt, coals, fish-hooks and lines, hemp and duck,
bar-lead and shot, wool-cards and card wire. We will not purchase of
any factor or others any kind of goods imported from Great Britain, from
January, 1769, to January, 1770. We will not import on our own account,
or on commission, or purchase of any who shall import from any other
colony in America, from January, 1769, to January, 1770, any tea, paper,
glass, or any other goods commonly imported from Great Britain. We will
not, from and after the 1st of January, 1769, import into this province
any tea, paper, glass, or painters' colours, until the act imposing
duties on those articles shall be absolutely repealed." This paper was
generally subscribed by the merchants of Boston, and, soon after, the
merchants of Connecticut, New York, and Salem entered into similar
agreements.

In the month of September a committee waited upon Governor Bernard,
praying him to convene a general assembly. Then it was that they were
informed that a military force was coming; and that, consequently,
another assembly could not be convened till the governor had received
the commands of his majesty. The inhabitants of Boston now resolved,
at the peril of their lives and fortunes, to take all legal and
constitutional measures to defend the rights, liberties, privileges,
and immunities granted in their royal charter. They also agreed, that
a certain number of persons should be chosen to act for them as a
committee in convention, and to consult and advise with such as might be
sent from other towns in the province. Finally, they fixed a convention,
to be held in Faneuil-hall, on the 22nd of September, and voted that
all the inhabitants not provided with arms should be requested to obtain
some forthwith, as there was an apprehension in the minds of many of an
approaching war with France.

The convention met on the day appointed. It consisted of deputies from
eight districts and ninety-six towns, and its chief business was to
petition the governor, make sundry loyal professions, and express an
aversion to tumults and standing armies. Its deliberations were cut
short by the arrival of the troops, under Colonel Dalrymple, who
anchored in Nantasket Roads, near Boston. The governor requested the
town-council to provide quarters for these troops in Boston, but they
refused; stating, that by act of parliament all troops were to be
quartered in the barracks, and that it was illegal to bring them into
the town. Colonel Dalrymple led his soldiers to the common on the
outside of Boston, and the town-council was again requested to quarter
them in the town, which they again refused. He had two regiments under
his command, and one of these took possession of Faneuil-hall--the other
lay out on the cold common all night. On the evening of the next day,
however, the governor ordered the town or state-house to be opened to
the other regiment; and the soldiers took possession of every part of
it, except the great council-chamber. These proceedings excited deep
resentment, and when the governor and Colonel Dalrymple required the
council to provide barrack provisions, as regulated by the Mutiny
Act, the request was flatly refused. Still the inhabitants of Boston
repressed their vindictive feelings. Care was taken by them, however, to
make known their injuries, and the insults to which they were subjected
in every part of British America. The picture they drew was, doubtless,
exaggerated; but that they had grievances there can be no question. At
all events they found the sympathy they desired in the various states of
America. The Philadelphians, the Georgians, the Rhode-Islanders, and,
in short, all the other colonies and towns, with the single exception
of Portsmouth, the sole sea-port of New Hampshire, now followed their
example, as regards the non-importation of goods from Great Britain. The
very females of America partook of the general spirit of resistance; for
they entered into associations among themselves, proscribing the use
of tea. Some there were among the merchants who showed a reluctance to
comply with the terms of the agreement; but their houses were surrounded
by organised mobs, and they were compelled to give up trade rather
than risk the forfeiture of their property and lives by selling British
goods.

Thus encouraged, the Bostonians became more bold in their opposition to
government. The assembly being called together in May, 1769, a committee
from the house of representatives remonstrated with the governor,
complaining of an armament investing their city--of the military
guard--of cannon pointed at the door of their state-house--and
requesting him, as his majesty's representative, to order the removal of
the ships and the troops. The answer they received was, that he had no
authority over his majesty's ships, or over his troops, within the
town of Boston. A few days after the house declared that the use of a
military force in the execution of the laws was inconsistent with
the spirit of the constitution, and that they would not transact any
business while thus menaced by soldiers. In order to obviate this
objection to business, the governor adjourned the assembly to Cambridge,
a town separated from Boston by a narrow arm of the sea, but they were
not more disposed for business at Cambridge than at Boston. The only
vote passed by them was to this effect:--"That the establishment of a
standing army in this colony in time of peace is an invasion of natural
rights; that a standing army is not known as a part of the British
constitution; that sending an armed force into the colony, under a
pretence of assisting the civil authority, is highly dangerous to the
people, unprecedented, and unconstitutional." When requested by
the governor to make provision for the troops, after an indignant
denunciation of the Mutiny Act, and observing, that of all the
new regulations, not excepting the Stamp Act, this was the most
unreasonable, they thus declared their resolution:--"Your excellency
must excuse us in this express declaration--that as we cannot
consistently with our honour and our interest, and much less with the
duty we owe to our constituents, so we never will make provision for the
purposes in your several messages mentioned." Finding the assembly
thus refractory, the governor prorogued them, taking his leave in the
following terms:--"To his majesty, therefore, and if he pleases, to his
parliament, must be referred your invasion of the rights of the imperial
sovereignty: you need not be apprehensive of any misrepresentations, as
it is not in the power of your enemies, if you have any, to add to your
publications--they are plain and explicit and need no comment. It is my
duty, and I shall do it with regret, to transmit to the king true copies
of your proceedings: and that his majesty may have an opportunity to
signify his pleasure thereon before you meet again, I think it necessary
to prorogue this general court immediately, to the usual time of the
winter session."

Before governor Bernard prorogued the assembly, his majesty had
requested his presence in England for the purpose of ascertaining the
real state of the province; at the same time testifying his approbation
of his conduct, and as a mark of his favour, creating him baronet. Sir
Francis left the colony on the 1st of August, and at his departure,
the powers of government devolved on lieutenant-governor Hutchinson, a
native of the province; a man of great abilities, but influenced in his
conduct by a grasping ambition, and an inordinate love of office and
aggrandisement. On his return, Sir Francis had no very favourable report
to make of his province. Notwithstanding every precaution had been
adopted, smuggling was still carried on to a very great extent. The
Bostonians had even adopted the practice of tarring and feathering
all informers, or all who attempted to assist the government: a brutal
operation, which was often attended with a violence that destroyed
life. Nor was smuggling carried on in the province of Boston alone.
Associations against British commerce were organized to such an extent,
that the exports to America were found to fall short of those in the
preceding year by £740,000, and the revenue derived from that country
was reduced from £701,000 to £30,000. In this the Americans were aided
by other countries, who sent them their manufactures in great abundance,
so that the narrow views of ministers not only destroyed the resources
of Great Britain, but tended to enrich its commercial and political
rivals. This greatly alarmed the English merchants, and Lord
Hillsborough thought proper to issue a circular letter to the colonies,
stating that his majesty's ministers intended, during the next session,
to take off the duties upon glass, paper, and painters' colours, they
having been enacted contrary to the true principles of commerce. No
mention, however, was made of the duty upon tea, and the Americans
looked upon this omission as having been purposely and invidiously
made, as a mark of the legislative supremacy of Great Britain. Nothing,
moreover, was said about repealing the odious clauses in the Mutiny
Act, and the colonists likewise complained that the circular spoke
of commercial expediency, and not of the right which they claimed of
imposing taxes upon the colonies by their own act alone In truth, if
this circular was intended to conciliate the inhabitants of British
America, it was a total failure. The universal mind was too much
irritated to be soothed by such an impotent palliative.


MEETING OF PARLIAMENT.

{A.D. 1770}

Although America was almost in a state of open rebellion, and England
itself, with Ireland, were rent with faction, yet the parliament did not
assemble till the 9th of January. This delay naturally excited surprise,
and this was still further heightened by the tenor of the king's speech.
Taking no notice of the public discontents, though it feelingly lamented
the general distress, it chiefly adverted to a general distemper which
had broken out among the horned cattle, which the king gravely assured
the lords and commons, he had, by the advice of his privy-council,
endeavoured to check. And this was solemnly uttered when wits and
scoffers abounded on every hand--when Junius had his pen in his hand
full fraught with gall, and Wilkes was bandying about his bon-mots and
sarcasms. "While the whole kingdom," says Junius, in a letter to the
Duke of Grafton, "was agitated with anxious expectation upon one great
point, you meanly evaded the question, and instead of the explicit
firmness of a king, gave us nothing but the misery of a ruined grazier."
Never was a speech from the throne more unfortunate, indeed, than this,
for though it slightly adverted to the disturbances in America, yet the
subject of the disease existing among horned cattle was its prominent
feature. It was no wonder, therefore, that it became the jest of the
whole nation. Newspapers, pamphlets, and periodicals teemed with biting
sarcasm on this most extraordinary circumstance. The king's love of
farming was bitterly descanted upon, and he was represented as attending
to cows, stalls, dairies, and farms, while his people were misgoverned
and discontented, and his empire, like a ship in a furious storm, in
danger every minute of being dashed to pieces. In fine, to show the most
profound contempt of such a speech from the mouth of the monarch, at
such a season, the session was nicknamed "the horned cattle session."

