Then Costello went out himself, and after listening to many excuses
and in many places, brought in a big half-witted fellow, who followed
him like a dog, a farm-labourer who worshipped him for his strength,
a fat farmer whose forefathers had served his family, and a couple of
lads who looked after his goats and cows; and marshalled them before
the fire in the empty hall. They had brought with them their stout
cudgels, and Costello gave them an old pistol apiece, and kept them
all night drinking Spanish ale and shooting at a white turnip which
he pinned against the wall with a skewer. Duallach of the pipes sat
on the bench in the chimney playing 'The Green Bunch of Rushes', 'The
Unchion Stream,' and 'The Princes of Breffeny' on his old pipes, and
railing now at the appearance of the shooters, now at their clumsy
shooting, and now at Costello because he had no better servants. The
labourer, the half-witted fellow, the farmer and the lads were all
well accustomed to Duallach's railing, for it was as inseparable from
wake or wedding as the squealing of his pipes, but they wondered at
the forbearance of Costello, who seldom came either to wake or
wedding, and if he had would scarce have been patient with a scolding
piper.

On the next evening they set out for Cool-a-vin, Costello riding a
tolerable horse and carrying a sword, the others upon rough-haired
garrons, and with their stout cudgels under their arms. As they rode
over the bogs and in the boreens among the hills they could see fire
answering fire from hill to hill, from horizon to horizon, and
everywhere groups who danced in the red light on the turf,
celebrating the bridal of life and fire. When they came to Dermott's
house they saw before the door an unusually large group of the very
poor, dancing about a fire, in the midst of which was a blazing
cartwheel, that circular dance which is so ancient that the gods,
long dwindled to be but fairies, dance no other in their secret
places. From the door and through the long loop-holes on either side
came the pale light of candles and the sound of many feet dancing a
dance of Elizabeth and James.

They tied their horses to bushes, for the number so tied already
showed that the stables were full, and shoved their way through a
crowd of peasants who stood about the door, and went into the great
hall where the dance was. The labourer, the half-witted fellow, the
farmer and the two lads mixed with a group of servants who were
looking on from an alcove, and Duallach sat with the pipers on their
bench, but Costello made his way through the dancers to where Dermott
of the Sheep stood with Namara of the Lake pouring Poteen out of a
porcelain jug into horn noggins with silver rims.

'Tumaus Costello,' said the old man, 'you have done a good deed to
forget what has been, and to fling away enmity and come to the
betrothal of my daughter to Namara of the Lake.'

'I come,' answered Costello, 'because when in the time of Costello De
Angalo my forbears overcame your forbears and afterwards made peace,
a compact was made that a Costello might go with his body-servants
and his piper to every feast given by a Dermott for ever, and a
Dermott with his body-servants and his piper to every feast given by
a Costello for ever.'

'If you come with evil thoughts and armed men,' said the son of
Dermott flushing,' no matter how strong your hands to wrestle and to
swing the sword, it shall go badly with you, for some of my wife's
clan have come out of Mayo, and my three brothers and their servants
have come down from the Ox Mountains'; and while he spoke he kept his
hand inside his coat as though upon the handle of a weapon.

'No,' answered Costello, 'I but come to dance a farewell dance with
your daughter.'

Dermott drew his hand out of his coat and went over to a tall pale
girl who was now standing but a little way off with her mild eyes
fixed upon the ground.

'Costello has come to dance a farewell dance, for he knows that you
will never see one another again.'

The girl lifted her eyes and gazed at Costello, and in her gaze was
that trust of the humble in the proud, the gentle in the violent,
which has been the tragedy of woman from the beginning. Costello led
her among the dancers, and they were soon drawn into the rhythm of
the Pavane, that stately dance which, with the Saraband, the Gallead,
and the Morrice dances, had driven out, among all but the most Irish
of the gentry, the quicker rhythms of the verse-interwoven,
pantomimic dances of earlier days; and while they danced there came
over them the unutterable melancholy, the weariness with the world,
the poignant and bitter pity for one another, the vague anger against
common hopes and fears, which is the exultation of love. And when a
dance ended and the pipers laid down their pipes and lifted their
horn noggins, they stood a little from the others waiting pensively
and silently for the dance to begin again and the fire in their
hearts to leap up and to wrap them anew; and so they danced and
danced Pavane and Saraband and Gallead and Morrice through the night
long, and many stood still to watch them, and the peasants came about
the door and peered in, as though they understood that they would
gather their children's children about them long hence, and tell how
they had seen Costello dance with Dermott's daughter Oona, and become
by the telling themselves a portion of ancient romance; but through
all the dancing and piping Namara of the Lake went hither and thither
talking loudly and making foolish jokes that all might seem well with
him, and old Dermott of the Sheep grew redder and redder, and looked
oftener and oftener at the doorway to see if the candles there grew
yellow in the dawn.

At last he saw that the moment to end had come, and, in a pause after
a dance, cried out from where the horn noggins stood that his
daughter would now drink the cup of betrothal; then Oona came over to
where he was, and the guests stood round in a half-circle, Costello
close to the wall to the right, and the piper, the labourer, the
farmer, the half-witted man and the two farm lads close behind him.
The old man took out of a niche in the wall the silver cup from which
her mother and her mother's mother had drunk the toasts of their
betrothals, and poured Poteen out of a porcelain jug and handed the
cup to his daughter with the customary words, 'Drink to him whom you
love the best.'

She held the cup to her lips for a moment, and then said in a clear
soft voice: 'I drink to my true love, Tumaus Costello.'

And then the cup rolled over and over on the ground, ringing like a
bell, for the old man had struck her in the face and the cup had
fallen, and there was a deep silence.

There were many of Namara's people among the servants now come out of
the alcove, and one of them, a story-teller and poet, a last remnant
of the bardic order, who had a chair and a platter in Namara's
kitchen, drew a French knife out of his girdle and made as though he
would strike at Costello, but in a moment a blow had hurled him to
the ground, his shoulder sending the cup rolling and ringing again.
The click of steel had followed quickly, had not there come a
muttering and shouting from the peasants about the door and from
those crowding up behind them; and all knew that these were no
children of Queen's Irish or friendly Namaras and Dermotts, but of
the wild Irish about Lough Gara and Lough Cara, who rowed their skin
coracles, and had masses of hair over their eyes, and left the right
arms of their children unchristened that they might give the stouter
blows, and swore only by St. Atty and sun and moon, and worshipped
beauty and strength more than St. Atty or sun and moon.

