Transcribed from the 1913 Thomas J. Wise pamphlet by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org.  Many thanks to Norfolk and Norwich Millennium Library,
UK, for kindly supplying the images from which this transcription was
made.


                                   John
                            Prescott retained
                            possession of his early home,--the site of the "trucking house,"
which he had purchased of John Cowdall,--as long as he lived, but
did not reside there many years.

                                    No
                              sooner had the plantation attained the dignity of a township under
the classic name of Lancaster, than its founder bent all his energies
towards those enterprises best calculated to promote the comfort
and prosperity of its then inhabitants, and to attract by material
advantages, a desirable and permanent immigration.

                                 His
                     practical eye had doubtless long
                                   before marked the best site for a mill in all the region round
about, and on the slope, scarce a gun shot away, he set up a new
home, afterwards well known to friend and savage foe as Prescott's
Garrison.

   Then died the lovely lily flower--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

The Swayne he has crossed the salt sea way,
   _And were I only young again_!
And he has wedded another may--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

And he that may to his home has brought;
   _And were I only young again_!
But peevish was she, and with malice fraught--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

And when she came to the castle gate,
   _And were I only young again_!
The seven children beside it wait--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

The children stood in sorrowful mood,
   _And were I only young again_!
She spurned them away with her foot so rude--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

Nor bread nor meat will she bestow;
   _And were I only young again_!
Said "Hate ye shall have and the hunger throe"--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

Of the co-partners Symonds, King,
   and John Hill were dead; Norcross
and Child had gone to England; Cowdall had
   sold his rights to Prescott; Chandler, Davis, Walker, and others
had formally abandoned their claims; Garrett, Shawe, Day, Adams,
and perhaps two or three others, retained their claims to allotments,
making no improvements, and contributing nothing by their presence
or tithes to the growth of the settlement, thus becoming effectual
stumbling blocks in the way of progress.

Prescott, very reasonably, held this
   a grievance, and having no other
means of redress asked equitable judgment in
   the matter from the magistrates, in a petition which cannot be
found.

His answer was the following official
   snub:

   "Whereas John Prescot & others, the inhabitants of Nashaway p'ferd
a petition to this Courte desiringe power to recover all common
charges of all such as had land there, not residinge w'th them, for
answer whereunto this Court, understandinge that the place before
mentioned is not fit to make a plantation, (so a ministry to be
erected and mayntayned there,) which if the petitioners, before the
end of the next session of this Courte, shall not sufficiently make
the sey'd place appeare to be capable to answer the ends above
mentioned doth order that the p'ties inhabitinge there shalbe called
there hence, & suffered to live without the meanes, as they have
done no longer."

This dire threat of the closing sentence
   may have been simply "sound and
fury, signifying nothing," or
   Prescott may have been able to prove to the authorities that
Nashaway was fit and waiting for its St.

John, but found none willing for the service.
   In fact, its St.
But thou art pale as the sheeted dead"--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"O how should I be fine and sleek?
   _And were I only young again_!
How else than pale should be my cheek?--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"And how should I be white and red?
   _And were I only young again_!
Beneath the mould I've long been dead"--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

And when she entered the high, high hall,
   _And were I only young again_!
Drowned with tears stood the babies all--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

The one she combed, the other she brushed,
   _And were I only young again_!
The third she dandled, the fourth she hushed--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

The fifth upon her breast she plac'd,
   _And were I only young again_!
And allowed the babe of the breast to taste--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

To her eldest daughter she turned her eye;
   _And were I only young again_!
"Go call Swayne Dyring instantly"--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

And when Swayne Dyring before her stood,
   _And were I only young again_!
She spake to him thus in wrathful mood--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"I left behind both ale and bread;
   _And were I only young again_!
My children with hunger are nearly dead--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"I left behind me bolsters blue;
   _And were I only young again_!
Upon bare straw my babes I view--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"I left behind the big wax light;
   _And were I only young again_!
My children lie in the murk at night--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"If again I'm forced to seek thee here,
   _And were I only young again_!
Befall thee shall a fate so drear--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"But hark! the ruddy cock has crow'd,
   _And were I only young again_!
The dead must return to their abode--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

"I hear, I hear the black cock crow;
   _And were I only young again_!
The gates of heaven are opening now--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

The white cock claps his wings so wide,
   _And were I only young again_!
No longer here I dare to bide"--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

Each time the dogs began to yell,
   _And were I only young again_!
They gave the children bread and ale--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

As soon as they heard of the hounds the cry,
   _And were I only young again_!
They feared the ghost was drawing nigh--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.

Whene'er the dogs were heard to rave,
   _And were I only young again_!
They feared the woman had left her grave--
   _To honied words we list so fain_.


THE TRANSFORMED DAMSEL


I take my axe upon my back,
   To fell the tree I mean;
Then came the man the wood who owned,
   And thrust his heft between.

"If thou hew down my father's grove,
   And me this damage do,
If I but see thee fell the tree
   Thou dearly that shalt rue."

"O let me hew this single tree,
   Nor to resist me seek;
Unless I yonder bird obtain
   With grief my heart will break."

"Now list thou fair and gallant swain,
   To me incline thine ear!
Thou ne'er wilt yonder bird obtain
   Unless some bait thou bear."

From off my breast the bait I cut,
   And hung it on the bough:
The breast it bled, the bait it reeked,
   Mine is the birdie now.

Down flew the lovely little bird,
   Fluttering its wings o'erjoyed;
It seemed to smile as if the guile
   It knew that I employed.

It clawed and picked so hastily,
   So well did smack the bait;
And still the more it seemed to please
   The more the birdie ate.

Down flew the lovely little bird,
   Alighting on the sand;
The loveliest damsel she became,
   And gave the youth her hand.


THE FORCED CONSENT


Within her own fair castelaye
   There goes a damsel bright;
A whole year's tide for her has sighed
   A young and handsome knight.

"Now do thou hear, thou beauteous maid,
   Could I thy troth obtain,
Then thou shouldst tread on silk outspread,
   And ne'er on the earth again.

And do thou hear, my lovely maid,
   My wedded lady be,
And the slightest care thou shalt not bear
   If I can save it thee."

Prescott his heyres and assignes
   vntil the 23d of May, in
the yeare of our Lord sixteen
   hundred sixty and two."

The corn mill was located a little
   lower upon the brook
than the extensive factory
   buildings now utilizing its water power.

The half used force of the rapid stream,
   and the giant pines of the
virgin forest then shadowed all the
   region about, were full of reproach to the restless miller.

His busy brain was soon planning
   a new benefaction to his
fellow citizens, and when his means grew
   sufficiently to warrant the enterprise, his busy hands wrought its
consummation.

As before, a formal agreement preceded
   the work:

   "Know all men by these presents that for as much as the Inhabitants
of Lanchaster, or the most part of them being gathered together on
a trayneing day, the 15th of the 9th mo, 1658, a motion was made
by Jno.

Prescott blackesmith of the same towne,
   about the setting vp of a
saw mill for the good of the Towne, and
   y't he the said Jno Prescott, would by the help of God set vp the
saw mill, and to supply the said Inhabitants with boords and other
sawne worke, as is afforded at other saw mills in the countrey.

In case the Towne would giue, grant, and
   confirms vnto the said John
Prescott, a certeine tract of Land, lying
   Eastward of his water mill, be it more or less, bounded by the
riuer east, the mill west the stake of the mill land and the east
end of a ledge of Iron Stone Rocks southards, and forty acres of
his owne land north, the said land to be to him his heyres and
assignes for euer, and all the said land and eurie part thereof to
be rate free vntill it be improued, or any p't of it, and that his
saws, & saw mill should be free from any rates by the Towne, therefore
know ye that the ptyes abouesaid did mutually agree and consent
each with other concerning the aforementioned propositions as
followeth:
The towne on their part did giue, grant & confirme, vnto the said
John Prescott his heyres and assignes for euer, all the aforementioned
tract of land butted & bounded as aforesaid, to be to him his heyres
and asssignes for euer with all the priuiledges and appurtenances
thereon, and therevnto belonging to be to his and their owne propper
vse and behoofe as aforesaid, and the land and eurie part of it to
be free from all rates vntil it or any pt of it be improued, and
also his saw, sawes, and saw-mill to be free from all town rates,
or ministers rates, prouided the aforementioned worke be finished
& compleated as abouesaid for the good of the towne, in some
convenient time after this present contract covenant and agrem't.

   She filled for three years of a horse-boy the place,
And the steeds of the monarch she drove out to graze.

She led for three years the King's steeds to the brook,
For else than a youth no one Ingeborg took.

Proud Ingeborg knows how to make the dames gay,
She also can sing in such ravishing way.

This trading post was the extreme outpost of
civilization; beyond was interminable forest, traversed only by
the Indian trails, which were but narrow paths, hard to find and
easy to lose, unless the traveller had been bred to the arts of
wood-craft.

The boy his own spurs to his heel cannot brace.

The horse-boy is brought to so wondrous a plight,
To draw his own weapon he has not the might.

Here passed the united trails from Washacum,
Wachusett, Quaboag, and other Indian villages of the west, leading
to the wading place of the Nashaway River near the present Atherton
Bridge, and so down the "Bay Path" over Wataquadock to Concord.

Then in came the prince, smiled the babies to view:
"'Tis not every horse-boy can bear such a two."

He patted her soft on her cheek sleek and fair:
"Forget my heart's dearest all sorrow and care."

He placed the gold crown on her temples I ween:
"With me shalt thou live as my wife and my Queen."


SONG


I've pleasure not a little
   A dancing youth to see,
Nor less--one single tittle--
   An old man full of glee.

To dance I ever glory
   With those of youthful mien;
It shows, although I'm hoary
   In hair, my mind is greenRichard Linton, Lawrence Waters the carpenter, and John Ball the
tailor, were his only neighbors; these three men having been sent
up to build, plant, and prepare for the coming of other proprietors.

                                But two houses had been built.

                                 
               