Produced by Clare Boothby and PG Distributed Proofreaders


                              THE
                       STORY AND SONG OF
                         BLACK RODERICK


                               By
                          Dora Sigerson


                              1906


This is the story of Black Earl Roderick, the story and the song of his
pride and of his humbling; of the bitterness of his heart, and of the love
that came to it at last; of his threatened destruction, and the strange
and wonderful way of his salvation.

So shall I begin and tell.

He left his gray castle at the dawn of the morning, and with many a knight
to bear him company rode, not eager and swift, like a prince who went to
find a treasure, but steady and slow, as we should go to meet sorrow. Not
one of the hundred men who followed dared to lilt a lay or fling a
laughing jest from his mouth. All rode silent among their gay trappings,
for so saith a song:

   _It was the Black Earl Roderick
      Who rode towards the south;
    The frown was heavy on his brow,
       The sneer upon his mouth._

   _Behind him rode a hundred men
      All gay with plume and spear;
    But not a one did lilt a song
      His weary way to cheer._

   _So stern was Black Earl Roderick
      Upon his wedding-day,
    To none he spake a single word
      Who met him on his way._

And of those that passed him as he went there were none who dared to bid
him God-speed, and only one whispered at all; she was Mora of the
Knowledge, who was picking herbs in a lonely place and saw him ride.

"There goeth the hunter," said she; "'tis a white doe that thou wouldst
kill. High hanging to thee, my lord, upon a windy day!"

And of all the flying things he met in his going, one only dared to put
pain upon him, and she was a honeybee who stabbed his cheek with her
sword.

"Would I could slay thee," she cried, "ere thou rob the hive of its
honey!"

And of all the creeping things that passed him on his way, only one tried
to stay him; she was the bramble who cast her thorn across his path so his
steed wellnigh stumbled.

"Would I could make thee fall, Black Earl, who now art so high, ere thou
rob fruit from the branch!"

Only one living thing upon the mountains saw him go without mourning, and
he was the red weasel who took the world as he found it.

"Tears will not heal a wound," saith he, "but they will quench a fire. Thy
hive is in danger, bee," quoth he. "Bramble, thy flowers are scattered and
thy fruit lost."

But the Black Earl did not heed or hear anything outside his own thoughts.
They were sharper than the bee's sword and less easy to cast aside than
the entrapping bramble.

When he reached the castle wherein his bride did dwell, he blew three
blasts upon the horn that hung beside the gate, and in answer to his call
a voice cried out to him. But what it said I shall sing thee, lest thou
grow weary of my prose:

  _"Come in, come in, Earl Roderick,
      Come in or you be late;
    The priest is ready in his stole.
      The wedding guests await."_

   _And then the stern Earl Roderick
      From his fierce steed came down;
    The sneer still curled upon his lip,
      His eyes still held the frown._

   _He strode right haughtily and quick
      Into the banquet-hall,
    And stood among the wedding guests,
      The greatest of them all._

   _He gave scant greeting to the throng,
      He waved the guests aside:
   "Now haste! for I, Earl Roderick,
      Will wait long for no bride!_

  _"And I must in the saddle be
      Before the night is gray;
    So quickly with the marriage lines,
      And let us ride away."_

And now shall I tell thee how, as he spoke thus proud and heartlessly, his
little bride came into the hall? So white was she, and so trembled she,
that many wondered she did not sink upon the marble floor and die.

Her mother held her snow-white hand, weeping bitterly the while.

"If I had my will," thought she, "this thing should never be. Oh, sharp
sorrow," sobbed she, "this for a woman: my trouble thou art, and my
thousand treasures."

Her father, seeing the frowning Earl, muttered in his beard:

"Would there were some other way. Stern is he and hard, to wear a young
maid's heart." And then aloud he spoke, laying his hands upon the yellow
curls of his child: "This is the golden link that binds the clans. God's
sweet love be upon her head, for she hath healed a cruel and evil quarrel
between the two houses. Lift up your voices, my comrades, and make ye
merry; it is a good deed you have helped in to-day."

Now, when the guests turned with their laughter and gentle jesting to the
newly married pair, the Black Earl relented not his frown. The early
education of their children takes its colour from the squabbles of the
parents; they are nursed in a systematic school of ill-humour,
violence, and falsehood.

Had they been suffered to part at the moment when indifference
rendered their union irksome, they would have been spared many years
of misery:
they would have connected themselves more suitably, and would have
found that happiness in the society of more congenial partners which
is for ever denied them by the despotism of marriage.

They would have been separately useful and happy members of society,
who, whilst united, were miserable and rendered misanthropical by
misery.

The conviction that wedlock is indissoluble holds out the strongest
of all temptations to the perverse: they indulge without restraint
in acrimony, and all the little tyrannies of domestic life, when
they know that their victim is without appeal.

If this connection were put on a rational basis, each would be
assured that habitual ill-temper would terminate in separation, and
would check this vicious and dangerous propensity.

Prostitution is the legitimate offspring of marriage and its
accompanying errors.

Women, for no other crime than having followed the dictates of a
natural appetite, are driven with fury from the comforts and
sympathies of society.

It is less venial than murder; and the punishment which is inflicted on her
who destroys her child to escape reproach is lighter than the life
of agony and disease to which the prostitute is irrecoverably doomed.

Has a woman obeyed the impulse of unerring nature;--society declares war
against her, pitiless and eternal war: she must be the tame slave,
she must make no reprisals; theirs is the right of persecution,
hers the duty of endurance.

She lives a life of infamy: the loud and bitter laugh of scorn
scares her from all return.

She dies of long and lingering disease: yet SHE is in fault, SHE is the
criminal, SHE the froward and untamable child,--and society, forsooth, the
pure and virtuous matron, who casts her as an abortion from her undefiled
bosom!

Society avenges herself on the criminals of her own creation; she is
employed in anathematizing the vice to-day, which yesterday she
was the most zealous to teach.

Thus is formed one-tenth of the population of London: meanwhile the
evil is twofold.
Young men, excluded by the fanatical idea of chastity from the
society of modest and accomplished women, associate with these
vicious and miserable beings, destroying thereby all those exquisite
and delicate sensibilities whose existence cold-hearted worldlings
have denied; annihilating all genuine passion, and debasing that
to a selfish feeling which is the excess of generosity and devotedness.

Their body and mind alike crumble into a hideous wreck of humanity; idiocy
and disease become perpetuated in their miserable offspring, and distant
generations suffer for the bigoted morality of their forefathers. Chastity
is a monkish and evangelical superstition, a greater foe to natural
temperance even than unintellectual sensuality; it strikes at the
root of all domestic happiness, and consigns more than half of the
human race to misery, that some few may monopolize according to law.

A system could not well have been devised more studiously hostile to
human happiness than marriage.

I conceive that from the abolition of marriage, the fit and natural
arrangement of sexual connection would result.
Down the great halls she went, looking through the narrow
windows on the outside world, as a brown moth flutters at the pane, weary
of an imprisonment that had in its hold the breath of death.

Weary and pale grew she, and more morose and stern the Black Earl, and of
their tragedy there seemed no end. But when a year had nigh passed, one
rosy morning a servant-lass met Black Roderick as he came from his
chamber, her eyes heavy with tears.

And of what she said I shall sing, lest thou grow weary of my prose:

  _"Alas!" she said, "Earl Roderick,
     'Tis well that you should know
    That each gray eve, lone wandering,
      My mistress dear doth go._

  _"She comes with sorrow in her eyes
      Home in the dawning light;
    My lord, she is so weak and young
      To travel in the night."_

   _Now stern grew Black Earl Roderick,
      But answered not at all;
    He took his hunting harness down
      That hung upon the wall._


   _Then quickly went he to the chase,
      And slowly came he back,
    And there he met his old sweetheart,
      Who stood across his track._

So shall I tell how she, sighing and white of face, laid her soft hand
upon his bridle-rein so he could not go from her. Her breath came out of
her like the hissing of a trodden snake, poisoning the ear of the
horseman.

"Bend to me thy proud head, Black Earl," quoth she, "for it shall be low
enough soon. This is a tale I bring to thee of sorrow and shame. Bend me
thy proud neck, Black Roderick, for the burden I must lay upon it shall
bow thee as the snow does the mountain pine. Bend to me thine ear."

To him then she said:

"Where goeth your mistress?"

"What care I?" said the Black Earl, "since she be not thou."

"If she were I," said his lost love, "she would seek no other save thee
alone."

"What sayest thou?" said the Black Earl, pale as death.

"Each night she goeth through the woods of Glenasmole to the hill of brown
Kippure, and there lingereth until the dawn be chill."

"Who hath her love?" saith the Black Earl.

"A shepherd, or mayhap a swineherd--who knoweth?" quoth the serpent voice.
"By no brave prince art thou supplanted."

At this the Black Earl struck his hand upon his breast.

"Lord pity me," quoth he, "that in my time should come the stain upon our
honored house! My name, that was so white, shall now blush red. My proud
ancestors will curse me from their tomb. Let thou go my rein, that I may
seek this wanton and give her ready punishment."

So quick he drew the rein from her hand that she wellnigh stumbled. And
like one bereft of mind he rode through the woods and up the hill seeking
his false bride. High and low he searched, but no sign of his lost
mistress did he discover. Out in the distance he saw the shining city of
Baile-ata-Cliat, on the near wood side of which his gray towers stood. He
could see the flag on its topmost turret waving in the breeze like a
beckoning finger calling him back from his futile search. He turned him
about, and on every side of him were the shadowy mountains watching him
and appalling him with their mystery. Impatient he turned his eyes upon
the ground; a bramble moving in the wind cast itself about his feet. He
crushed it under his heel. A bee darting from one of the trodden flowers
made a battle-cry, and bared her sting for his neck. He struck it down
among the leaves; following its fall, his eyes, drawn by some other eyes,
rested on a hollow by a stone. There he saw gazing at him the whiskered
face of a red weasel, looking without pity, without fear.

"Evil beast!" said the Black Earl, glad to speak, for the silence of all
the listening things who watched him made his heart beat with unwonted
quickness, and he knew they were so many silent judges reading the evil of
his soul. "Get thee gone," quoth the Black Earl. "Darest thou gaze upon me
without fear?"

But the red weasel, resting at the doorway of his hole, did not blink a
lid of his sharp eyes.

"Who art thou that evil should droop ashamed before thee?" said a voice,
and the Black Earl turned as though a stone had struck him.

Now, when he looked east and west, no one could he see, but when he turned
him south, there among the trees he saw an old, bent woman gathering
herbs. He turned his horse and, full of rage, drove it towards her.

"Was it not thy voice that hurt my ears as I stood upon the hill?" quoth
the Black Earl, his tongue silken in his rage.

"Nay," said the ancient crone; "I heard but the linnet's song upon the
tree, and the sound of running water that is murmuring in the grove.
Listen, and thou, too, shalt hear."

"Nay," quoth she again, for the Black Earl scowled so at her that she
feared to be silent. "If I said this thing, why should it vex the ear of
so proud a knight? Yonder black rook did look into my face with an
inquisitive eye as I plucked my herbs and harmed no man, so I, angry at
the wicked one, cursed him begone. As he flew affrighted at my hand, I
turned my eyes into my own heart. The birds and I, do we not both root in
the cold earth, seeking to draw from it our desires? Black and ill-looking,
we dig all day. 'Who art thou,' quoth I to myself, 'that evil should fly
before thee?' Wicked that I am," cried the witch, "and sorrow upon me that
my words have vexed thine ears!"

Now the Black Earl did look upon her in anger, and but half believed her
tale. His trouble being heavy upon him, he bade her leave her lamenting
and answer his question.

"There is one," quoth he, "who doth wander upon the hill-side, far from
her home, a lady of high degree; sawest thou any such," saith he, "for I
have sought her long?"

Now will I sing thee what was said and what happened, lest thou grow weary
of my prose:

  _"I have not seen your lady here,"
      The withered dame replied;
   "But I have met a little lass
      Who wrung her hands and cried._

  _"She was not clad in silken robe,
      Nor rode a palfrey white,
    She had no maidens in her train,
      Behind her rode no knight._

  _"But she crept weary up yon hill
      And crouched upon the sward;
    I dare not think that she could be
      Spouse to so great a lord."_

   _Now darkly frowned Earl Roderick,
      He turned his face away;
    And shame and anger in his heart
      Disturbed him with their sway._

   _For he had never cared to know
      What his young bride would wear;
    He gave her neither horse nor hound,
      Nor jewels for her hair._

Now shall I tell how the Black Earl clapped his hand upon his dagger, and
said in a great rage: "Where went this little lass, and whom hath she by
her side? for whoever he be, I shall show to him no pity. Neither shall
her tears save her. Nor shall thy age serve thee, witch, if thou hast
spoken not the truth. Whither went they, so I may follow, as the hound
goes on the trail of the deer?"

"Oh, sharp sorrow thy anger is!" cried the old crone; "what can I say,
save what my eye hath seen and my ear hath heard? The little lass passed
me as I gathered my herbs under the dew. She hath by her side no lord nor
lover. She went sad and alone. Here climbed she the height of the hill,
and there sat she making her lament."

"And what lament made she?" said the Black Earl, putting his dagger into
its sheath.

"Once called she on her father, as one who drowns in deep waters would
call upon a passing ship. Twice called she upon her mother, as one would
call upon a house of rest or of hospitality. Thrice called she upon Earl
Roderick, as one would call at the gates of paradise, there to find rescue
and love."

"And said she naught else?" said the Black Earl, his head upon his breast.

"Yea," quoth the crone, "when she called upon her father, she smiled
through her tears. 'Didst thou know I perish,' quoth she, 'thy arms would
reach to save me!'

"And when she called twice upon her mother, her mouth smiled even the
same, 'for didst thou learn my hunger, thy heart would warm me to life
again'; but when she called three times upon Earl Roderick, she paused as
though for an answer, and smiled no more. 'Thee,' quoth she, 'I perish
for, I hunger for. Thou lovest me not at all.'

"So did she sit and make her moan upon the hill, and here watched she the
lights in the far windows of her lost home quench themselves one by one.
'Now,' quoth she, 'my mother sleepeth, and now my father. And now by all
am I forgotten.' Then did she steal, in the dim light, down from the hill,
and I saw her no more."

"What didst thou tell to her, old witch?" quoth the Black Earl, "as she
passed weeping? Didst thou speak to her no word?"

"I stopped her as she passed me, proud Earl," quoth the crone, "for she
was gentle, and held her head not too high to look upon one old and near
unto death.

"'Weep not,' said I, 'but spread to me thy fingers, so I may read what
fate thou holdest in thy palm.' And like a child she smiled between her
tears.

"'Look only on luck,' quoth she, 'oh, ancient one, lest my heart break
even now.' I spread her pink fingertips out as one would unruffle a rose,
and read therein her fate."

"And what read you there?" said the Black Earl, impatient with her delay.

"I read," quoth the crone, "and if I say, thou must keep thy anger from
me, for what I read I had not written:

  _"I traced upon her slender palm
      That luck was changing soon;
    I swore that peace would come to her
      Before another moon._

  _"I said that he who loved her well
      Would robe her all in silk,
    And bear her in a coach of gold,
      With palfreys white as milk._

  _"I told, before three suns had set
      He'd kneel down by her side;
    That he she loved would love her well,
      And she would be his bride._

"'This before three suns have set,' so read I," quoth the crone.

Now, when the Black Earl heard so much, he would hear no more. Pallid grew
his angry cheek, and his eyes were full of fire; he flung himself upon his
horse, and, sparing not the beast, galloped home.

"In the highest tower shall I lock the jade," quoth he, "lest she bring me
shame; for what her palm had writ upon it one must believe, and who dare
love her, save I who will not? And should I die, wherefore should she not
be another's? And should I not die--but this no man dare, for I shall tear
his tongue from his mouth, his ear from his cheek, his heart from his
body, ere he speak or listen to a word to my dishonor."

Now, when he reached his castle, no man ventured to speak to him, or look
upon him with too inquisitive an eye, for his anger was such that one
trembled to approach him.

And at the gate of his castle sat his old love upon her palfrey, with a
stern face and grim; behind her, resting upon their way, came her
followers, knight and lady, gay with banner and spear, whispering in their
telling of the story.

"A curse upon the wandering feet that have brought disgrace upon thy
house," quoth his old love, her hand so tight upon the rein that the two
pages could hardly keep the horse from rearing.

But the proud Earl to her made no answer, neither to bid her welcome, nor
to bid her go, nor to speak of his fears. Into his breast he locked his
grief so that none might know the strain wellnigh broke the stony casket
of his heart.

When he leaped from his horse there came to him his little brother.

"My grief!" said the boy, "what has happened in the night, for I heard the
banshee sobbing so bitterly through the dark?"

No answer made the Black Earl to the boy, neither did he lift him in his
arms nor chide him for his weeping, but passed silent into his own
chamber, and crouched within his chair. When after a time he raised his
eyes, he seemed to see his young bride gazing upon him from the open door.
And in his anger he sprang to seize her, but only the empty air came to
his hands.

He mounted the marble stairs to her chamber to seek her there, but only
found a sewing-maid, pale and deadly faint.

"Oh, sharp sorrow," quoth she, "from what I have seen this night, Mary
protect me! A white ghost have I seen--evil it may bring to me--a white
ghost with dim eyes of the dead!"

"Whither went she?" said the Black Earl, angry in his need.

"Into thy chamber, great Earl!" cried the maid; "I saw her at thy bed-head
weeping piteously."

"It was thy lady," quoth the Earl; "lead me her way, and stop thy
lamentation."

"My grief!" the girl said, "her way I know not; when I, deeming her my
mistress, reached her side, she was no more. It is an evil day that cometh
upon us."

Now, when the proud Roderick saw the girl so full of fear, he chid her
cruelly and bade her go. Yet when she had left him he felt a strange and
unwonted coldness settle upon his heart.

The anger against his young bride was quenched, and a dewlike fear grew
upon him. I have heard, indeed, an ignorant collegian adduce, in favour of
Christianity, its hostility to every worldly feeling!

   (The first Christian emperor made
      a law by which seduction
    was punished with death; if the female
      pleaded her own consent, she also was punished with death; if the
parents endeavoured to screen the criminals, they were banished and
their estates were confiscated; the slaves who might be accessory
were burned alive, or forced to swallow melted lead.

   The very offspring of an illegal love
      were involved in the consequences
    of the sentence.--Gibbon's "Decline
      and Fall", etc., volume 2, page 210.

   See also, for the hatred of the primitive
      Christians to love and
    even marriage, page 269.)
      But if happiness be the object of morality, of all human unions and
disunions; if the worthiness of every action is to be estimated by
the quantity of pleasurable sensation it is calculated to produce,
then the connection of the sexes is so long sacred as it contributes
to the comfort of the parties, and is naturally dissolved when its
evils are greater than its benefits.

  There is nothing immoral in this
      separation.
    Constancy has nothing
      virtuous in itself, independently of the pleasure it confers, and
partakes of the temporizing spirit of vice in proportion as it
endures tamely moral defects of magnitude in the object of its
indiscreet choice.

  Love is free: to promise for ever
      to love the same woman is
    not less absurd than to promise to
      believe the same creed: such a vow, in both cases, excludes us
from all inquiry.

  The language of the votarist is this:
      The woman I now love
    may be infinitely inferior to many
      others; the creed I now profess may be a mass of errors and
absurdities; but I exclude myself from all future information as
to the amiability of the one and the truth of the other, resolving
blindly, and in spite of conviction, to adhere to them.

  Is this the language of delicacy and
      reason? Is the love of such a
    frigid heart of more worth than its
      belief?

  
      The present system of
    constraint does no more, in the
      majority of instances, than make hypocrites or open enemies.

  Persons of delicacy and virtue,
      unhappily united to one
    whom they find it impossible to
      love, spend the loveliest season of their life in unproductive
efforts to appear otherwise than they are, for the sake of the
feelings of their partner or the welfare of their mutual offspring:
those of less generosity and refinement openly avow their disappointment,
and linger out the remnant of that union, which only death can
dissolve, in a state of incurable bickering and hostility.

  
      For the witch woman hath told me a wearisome tale, which I shall
not lend my ear to."

Now, when he spoke, his young bride neither answered nor came, but gazed
from the threshold upon him in silence. So he got up in anger and went her
way. Through the chamber strode he, and she was yet before him, and
without sound went she down the hall and stair. So out through the open
door, and the men-at-arms let her pass, though the Black Earl bid them
stay her feet, and gazed bewildered, seeing only their stern master
running alone, with fierce eyes, such as a hound doth cast upon a young
hare. Quick as the Black Earl ran, the little bride was before.

Through sleepy woods and honey-perfumed plains, all through the night did
he chase her, but never once did he reach her, nor ever once did she pause
to rest.

When the morning sun was high, she led him up to the lights of Brown
Kippure, and there vanished from his sight.

Now, when the Black Earl perceived this wondrous thing, he felt his heart
sink with utter weariness, and without more seeking fell upon the moss.
Had his eyes been not so hot with anger, slow tears of sorrow would have
forced their way upon his cheeks, for now that he had her not his desire
was strong upon him to behold his bride.

As he lay upon the heather, he heard the shrill voice of his little
brother clamoring by his side.

"Be still," quoth he, "for thou hast frightened away a fair dream that I
fain would follow."

"But I would tell thee," said the little brother, "of a strange thing, and
one to set thee full of laughter."

"Nay," quoth the Black Earl, "of that I have no desire, lest thou place
upon my head a cap and bells, and call me fool Roderick."

"And wherefore," said the little brother, "shouldst thou laugh at fool
Roderick?"

A pork-pie ("porch-peen" I fancy the Yorkshiremen call it) would probably
be there.

Eggs, of course. A ham, surely. Bacon, no doubt. Yellow butter, crusty new
bread, and beer. Indeed, let the rest go, so long as there was beer.

But beer, of course, was beyond any question; an inn without beer
was unthinkable.

Thus the miles wore away until, footsore, sticky and faint, we came upon
the hostelry itself--only to find, instead of any grateful sign
and the promise of delight, the frigid words, "Friends' Meeting
House," painted on the board....

That was one experience, over which a veil may well be drawn.

  The other was not so long ago, in Sussex, a little before
    the War.
    Once her cheek was brushed by a robin's wing,
    And a finch flew down on her hand to sing,
    And was not afraid to stay._

  _"Oh, brother, brother, will she soon awaken be?
    I would that she laugh with me.
    She sleeps, and the world so full of sound;
    She's deaf, like the deaths that are under the ground,
    That I laugh and laugh to see."_

Now shall I tell how the Black Earl heeded not the story of the little
brother, nor the tragedy that lay therein, for his ear was busy with
another sound.

"Hush," said the Black Earl, "for hearest thou not a voice in trouble?"

"Nay," cried the little brother; "I hear naught save the laughing stream
that comes from the lake where my water-nymph lieth."

"Hush!" said the Black Earl again, "for hearest thou not the voice of my
mistress making a lamentation?"

"Nay," saith the little brother; "I hear naught save the moving of the
reeds in the pushing waters, and thou wilt not listen to my story."

Now went the little brother away in his anger, and found himself a play
among the heather.

But the Black Earl bent above the stream and gazed long into its shallow
turbulence with wonder and fear, for the words the stream said to him in
its whisperings were as though spoken in the voice of his young bride.

He laid his hand in the flowing waters.

"Why art thou troubled, little stream?" quoth he.

But the little stream stayed not its whispering.

"Sainted Mother, oh, pray for me!" it murmured, in piteous prayer, "and
leave sweet mercy upon my soul."

Now, when the Black Earl heard the voice of his lady coming from the
waters in such sorrow, he rose with a cry, and, his heart being full of
fear, he knew at last the greatness of his love.

"Where art thou, then?" he cried, in his woe. "Whither shall I seek thee?"

But the little stream passing his feet murmured its prayer in going; no
other sound did he hear save the far-away laughter of his little brother.

"Oh, Mary, Mother, pray my soul to rest! Take mercy, Lord, on a soul
afraid."

"Where are the lips from which thou hast stolen that cry?" said the Black
Earl; and, like an old man bent with trouble, he sought the banks, seeking
for the white form of his bride. "Now," quoth he, "well do I know this
stream hath carried her last cry to my feet, and her drowning lips have
been forced to sinful death to-night by my long cruelty."

He went up the hill as a man goeth to despair, slow and afraid; and when
he reached the little wood in whose bosom the lake was enshrined, he
paused and looked around.

Of this shall I sing, for so sad and piteous it is that my harp would fain
soothe me from tears:

   _He looked into the deep wood green,
      But nothing there did see;
    He looked into the still water
      Beneath, all white, lay she._

   _He drew her from her cold, cold bed,
      And kissed her cheek and chin;
    Loosed from his neck his silken cloak,
      To wrap her body in._

   _He took her up in his two arms--
      His grief was deep and wild;
    He knelt beside her on the sod,
      And sorrowed like a child._

   _He blew three blasts upon his horn;
      His men did make reply,
    And came all quickly to his call,
      Through brake and brier so high._

   _And every man who saw her there
      Went down upon his knee;
    Behind her came Earl Roderick,
      All pitiful to see._

   _And in his trembling hand the helm
      From his uncovered brow;
    And "Oh," he said, "to love her well,
      And know it only now!"_

   _So he did walk while she did ride
      Through all the town away,
    For greater than Earl Roderick
      She did become that day._

Now have I said how the heart of the Black Earl woke to love, and then was
humbled, as the ancient crone had foretold; but of his sorrowful years,
his desperate danger of eternal loss and his after-salvation, must I
likewise tell, if the story would be pitiful in the ending.

Therefore shall I lay my harp aside, and so go back in my telling.

And I bid thee remember how the little pale bride was wont to sit upon the
mountain and watch the far lights in her father's home quench themselves
one by one.

So now of how she died shall I tell thee, and of what came to her in her
passing, lest thou thinkest so innocent a child had laid violent hands
upon her life, who only had met death through the breaking of her heart.

Here sat she on the mountain, and the wild things spoke of her in her
silence. The red weasel, the bee, and the bramble, and many others, moved
to watch her. Well have they known her in her young joyfulness; here had
she made the place she loved best--the high brow of the hill where she sat
as a child and watched--on the one side the far-off city and the white
towers that held the wonder-knight of her dreams. Here had she sat and
seen the gleam of his spear as he went with his hunters through the
valley; and here, too, had her mother come to tell her of her betrothal,
so she had nigh fainted in her happiness, in looking upon the white tower
that was to be her home.

Its countenance gives the Angels strength Though no one can fathom
it.
The incredible high works Are excellent as at the first day.

GABRIEL:
And swift, and inconceivably swift The adornment of earth winds
itself round, And exchanges Paradise-clearness With deep dreadful
night.

The sea foams in broad waves From its deep bottom, up to the rocks, And
rocks and sea are torn on together In the eternal swift course of
the spheres.

MICHAEL:
And storms roar in emulation From sea to land, from land to sea,
And make, raging, a chain Of deepest operation round about.

There flames a flashing destruction Before the path of the thunderbolt.
But Thy servants, Lord, revere The gentle alternations of Thy day.

CHORUS:
Thy countenance gives the Angels strength, Though none can comprehend
Thee:
And all Thy lofty works Are excellent as at the first day.

Such is a literal translation of this astonishing chorus; it is impossible
to represent in another language the melody of the versification;
even the volatile strength and delicacy of the ideas escape in the
crucible of translation, and the reader is surprised to find a caput
mortuum.

--[SHELLEY'S NOTE.])
[ENTER MEPHISTOPHELES.]

MEPHISTOPHELES:
As thou, O Lord, once more art kind enough To interest Thyself in our
affairs, _30 And ask, 'How goes it with you there below?'

And as indulgently at other times Thou tookest not my visits in ill part,
Thou seest me here once more among Thy household.
Though I should scandalize this company, _35 You will excuse me if
I do not talk In the high style which they think fashionable; My
pathos certainly would make You laugh too, Had You not long since
given over laughing.

"She came, yet she came not," said the red weasel. "What did she answer
when thou saidst that I had slain thy mate?"

"She sighed, 'Thou singest a gay song, O bird!'" hummed a golden beetle.
"My grief! that she cannot understand."

"She is lost to us indeed!" said a honeysuckle swaying in the wind, "for
she trod me beneath her feet when I held my sweet blossoms for her lips."

"And she tore me aside," cried the wild bramble, "when I did but reach
towards her for embrace."

"She will know thee no more," said the red weasel; "she hath been to the
great city."

"She laid her lips upon me ere she went," spake the wild bramble, "and
said she would return to us soon."

"She bid me ring a merry chime," whispered the heather, "and I move my
many bells now for her welcome, but she will not hear."

"She will speak with thee no more," said the red weasel; "she hath walked
in the city, like one goeth upon the fairy sleeping grass, and her soul
hath forgotten us."

"She is still and cold," said a shining fly glancing through the air. "I
have danced a measure under her eyes, and she did not see."

"She is dead," said the honey-bee, "for when she would not look upon me as
before, I drew my sword and stung her sharply, but she did not stir. She
sat and gazed into the distance where the smoke like a great gray web
lieth heavy. She is surely dead."

"She is not dead," said the red weasel; "she hath been to the great city."

"Maybe there she hath found Death," said the shining fly, "for his web
reacheth far, and he loveth the dark places and hidden ways. He hideth,
too, in the cool arbors of the wood, stretching a gray chain for our
undoing. Maybe she found Death. He spreadeth ropes of pearls across our
path, and looketh upon us from the shade; when the dance is gayest he
creepeth to spring. Maybe she hath reached for the pearls or hath danced
into his net."

And so the fly sang of the watcher in the wood, and his song I shall sing
thee, lest thou grow weary of my prose:

   _Deep in the wood's recesses cool
      I see the fairy dancers glide,
    In cloth of gold, in gown of green,
      My lord and lady side by side._

   _But who has hung from leaf to leaf,
      From flower to flower, a silken twine,
    A cloud of gray that holds the dew
      In globes of clear enchanted wine,_

   _Or stretches far from branch to branch,
      From thorn to thorn, in diamond rain?
    Who caught the cup of crystal wine
      And hung so fair the shining chain?I've been doing my best to give your plan of food rations a fair
run, and every week I've found myself on the wrong side of the fence.

  I have never considered myself a large
      or reckless eater, though I own to
    having had a liking for a good
      breakfast (fish, kidneys and eggs, with muffin or buttered toast
and marmalade) as a start for the day.

Then came luncheon--steak or chop or Irish stew, with a roly-poly pudding
to follow, and a top-up of bread-and-butter and cheese.
Tea, of course, at five o'clock, with more buttered toast, and then home to
a good solid dinner of soup, fish and _entrée_ and joint and some sort of
sweet. This just left room for an occasional supper--say three times
a week.

It doesn't sound out of the way, now does it?

Now, when the young bride raised her white face from her hands and looked
about her, she could neither hear the speaking of the birds nor see the
beauty of the wild flowers, yet in her heart she had a memory of both.
Turning to the little flying things that came about her with soft, beating
wings, she said:

"Once ye spake to me, and could give comfort with your counsel and love.
Now ye are lost in the voices of the city that ring forever in my ears."

Gazing upon the flowers, she said:

"Ye, too, your beauty hath faded. The gaudy flowers of the city have
flashed their color in my eyes, so ye I cannot see or understand."

Then she rose to her feet, though she scarce could stand, and, stretching
her arms towards the great purple hills that surrounded her father's far
home, she said towards it:

"Why didst thou call me back since thou hast let me go from the sight of
the heights that would have been always a prayer to uplift my soul? Ahone!
that thy voice was loud enough to follow and give me unrest, that
whispered always of my father's house and the valley of my home. So must I
come each eve upon this hill to look upon it from my loneliness.

"Unloved am I, and unwished for, by him whom I have wedded. So my heart
dieth within my breast, and my soul trembleth on the brink of my grave.

"Here upon the mountains, unprayed for and uncoffined, shall my body lie,
for thy voice hath called me forth.

"Here my black sins shall see and pursue me even to destruction; but in
the city I could have escaped with the crowding souls that confuse Death
to count."

Then, as a remembrance of her sins came heavy upon her, she gave a loud
cry and covered her face with her hands.

So she stood without help upon the mountains, and because she was blind
with the city dust and deafened with its cries, she stood alone. The
pitying wild flowers blew their fragrance to her eyes, but they would not
open; the gentle birds spoke comforting whispers to her ears, but she
could not hear; the great hills held their arms about her and breathed
their peace upon her brow. But this she did not know, and so stood alone
to face Death.

First turned she her face to where her father's castle stood on a far
hill, and again turned she to see the white towers where she had lived and
loved so vainly. And when her eyes met the glisten of the walls, her heart
broke with a little sigh, and she fell upon the ground. It is not even
until lately that mankind have admitted that happiness is the sole end of
the science of ethics, as of all other sciences; and that the fanatical
idea of mortifying the flesh for the love of God has been discarded.And the
little stream that ran from the lake down the hill-side carried the prayer
upon its breast as thou hast been told.

