     Avoid excessive joy as well as complaining grief
     Cast off all care; be mindful only of pleasure
     Creed which views life as a short pilgrimage to the grave
     Does happiness consist then in possession
     Happiness has nothing to do with our outward circumstances
     In our country it needs more courage to be a coward
     Observe a due proportion in all things
     One must enjoy the time while it is here
     Pilgrimage to the grave, and death as the only true life
     Robes cut as to leave the right breast uncovered
     The priests are my opponents, my masters
     Time is clever in the healing art
     We live for life, not for death


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 3.


CHAPTER VII.

Psamtik went at once from his father's apartments to the temple of the
goddess Neith. At the entrance he asked for the high-priest and was
begged by one of the inferior priests to wait, as the great Neithotep was
at that moment praying in the holiest sanctuary of the exalted Queen of
Heaven.

   [The temples of Egypt were so constructed as to intensify the
   devotion of the worshipper by conducting him onward through a series
   of halls or chambers gradually diminishing in size. "The way
   through these temples is clearly indicated, no digression is
   allowed, no error possible. We wander on through the huge and
   massive gates of entrance, between the ranks of sacred animals. The
   worshipper is received into an ample court, but by degrees the walls
   on either side approach one another, the halls become less lofty,
   all is gradually tending towards one point. And thus we wander on,
   the sights and sounds of God's world without attract us no longer,
   we see nothing but the sacred representations which encompass us so
   closely, feel only the solemnity of the temple in which we stand.
   And the consecrated walls embrace us ever more and more closely,
   until at last we reach the lonely, resonant chamber occupied by the
   divinity himself, and entered by no human being save his priest."
   Schnaase, Kunstaeschirhtc I. 394.]

After a short time a young priest appeared with the intelligence that his
superior awaited the Prince's visit. Psamtik had seated himself under the
shadow of the sacred grove of silver poplars bordering the shores of the
consecrated lake, holy to the great Neith. He rose immediately, crossed
the temple-court, paved with stone and asphalte, on which the sun's rays
were darting like fiery arrows, and turned into one of the long avenues
of Sphinxes which led to the isolated Pylons before the gigantic temple
of the goddess. He then passed through the principal gate, ornamented, as
were all Egyptian temple-entrances, with the winged sun's disc. Above its
widely-opened folding doors arose on either side, tower-like buildings,
slender obelisks and waving flags. The front of the temple, rising from
the earth in the form of an obtuse angle, had somewhat the appearance of
a fortress, and was covered with colored pictures and inscriptions.
Through the porch Psamtik passed on into a lofty entrance-chamber, and
from thence into the great hall itself, the ceiling of which was strewn
with thousands of golden stars, and supported by four rows of lofty
pillars. Their capitals were carved in imitation of the lotus-flower, and
these, the shafts of the columns, the walls of this huge hall, and indeed
every niche and corner that met the eye were covered with brilliant
colors and hieroglyphics. The columns rose to a gigantic height, the eye
seemed to wander through immeasurable space, and the air breathed by the
worshippers was heavy with the fragrance of Kyphi and incense, and the
odors which arose from the laboratory attached to the temple. Strains of
soft music, proceeding from invisible hands, flowed on unceasingly, only
occasionally interrupted by the deep lowing of the sacred cows of Isis,
or the shrill call of the sparrow-hawk of Horus, whose habitations were
in one of the adjoining halls. Then would the triangle method of calculation
of the ancient Egyptians only as an approximation which is also
referred to by both scholars of the guilty, in this case in the That
major mistake not been determined. We do not disagree with Revillout.
With regard to the We clearly recognized the nature of the original
papyrus as a very inaccurate Collegienheftes whose bills occurring as
well as in drawings by the mediocrity of his eloquent interplay's certificate
store, we doubt not a moment that the figure in question is a right
triangle was present. The poor students through the drawing is Copisten
* * Aahmes only become worse. That a right triangle meant to be, you can
see also from the circumstance that in the figure, the numbers of Maass
multiplicirten pages at the legs of, from the right angle is little
differentiating angle are set, although if it is to have an isosceles
Triangle Maass act, the number of legs in the figure is certainly in
both legs would be found. The same reasons determine us to believe
that the papyrus found in the area calculation of a trapezoid is
a perfectly correct, it is also just a trapeze act, the two parallel
sides at a non-parallel sides are perpendicular.

And why should because the ancient Egyptians are not the right kind
of area calculation also arbitrary triangles knew? Could you even
the exact area of a rectangle, then had to by a simple visual one,
dissected by a diagonal rectangle, of course, the rule for determining
the surface right triangle shown, and is now an arbitrary triangle
schiefwinkliges by a Höhenperpendikel decomposed into two orthogonal,
so there was nothing easier than the general rule for determining the
area of triangle base and height (Tepro and merit) to be developed. The
fact that the extraction of the Höhenperpendikels both Constructioner as
well as on the field the old Egypt is not impossible, it follows, first
of the great importance of the angle Maassen (haptens), for all practical
operations of the surveyors Egypt. Not only that we are in many Egyptian
documents mention the angle Maass find one sees kings also shown, the angle
Maass in his hand, which of them perhaps in the same way by symbolic
use was honored as the Emperor of China once every year to keep the
plow maintains.

Such an angle Maass also seen on a mural depicted, a carpenter workshop
represents (37) and there is no doubt that the same land for as much
as a right angle to the vertical line of cases has been used. But even
in the open field, the Egyptians had the right angle Construction be
familiar with, both the Pyramids and the Egyptian temples are
completely orientirt, and was, as us old inscriptions (38) teach
that Orientirung in a festive manner by the Kings in aid of the
Library Goddess * * SAFECHEM completed, with the words: "I have
taken the Holzpflock and the stem of the hammer, I think the knitting
community with the Goddess * SAFECHEM *.

My gaze follows the progress of the stars. If my eye in the constellation
of the great bear has arrived, and met me some time in the number of the
clock, so I am on the corners of your church.

"To what Maass from these operations by Demokritos * * as superscript
Harpedonapten * * or were Seilspanner betheiligt has Cantor * *
(39) in the most sharp-witted way, trying to illuminate, and it also seems
likely to us that the ancient Egyptians Construire at right angles and
in the cases of perpendicular to the field, the Thatsache served that of
an angle in one, the side lengths three, four and five wealthy
triangles, a right angle must be. Yes but had this sentence since immemorial
times, even the Chinese know, because we see it in them so famous
in Scripture _Tschiu-pi_ find out what several centuries BC G. arose
at the emperor Tschiu-Kung * * So the year 1100 BC, about G. is fed
back. (40) others were able to direct experimental measurement of
diagonal lines in the Proportionalmaassstäben both to the aforementioned
as well as other yet to be rational right triangles with side lengths
have led us and it seems the possibility is not excluded that the
famous and infamous sentence of Pythagoras * * over the squares of
the catheter and the hypotenuse of a detailed investigation of such
Proportionalmaassstäbe has arisen.

And it came to pass that he dreamed,
and in his dream his teeth fell out of his mouth. And he sent for the
soothsayers and told them the dream. The first interpreter answered: 'Woe
unto thee, O king, all thy kinsmen shall die before thee!' Then was
Snefru wroth, caused this messenger of evil to be scourged, and sent for
a second interpreter. He answered: 'O king, live for ever, thy life shall
be longer than the life of thy kinsmen and the men of thy house!' Then
the king smiled and gave presents unto this interpreter, for though the
interpretations were one, yet he had understood to clothe his message in
a web of fair and pleasant words. Apprehendest thou? then hearken to my
voice, and refrain from harsh words, remembering that to the ear of a
ruler the manner of a man's speech is weightier than its matter."

"Oh my father, how often hast thou thus admonished me! how often have I
been convinced of the evil consequences of my rough words and angry
gestures! but I cannot change my nature, I cannot . . ."

"Say rather: I will not; for he that is indeed a man, dare never again
commit those sins of which he has once repented. But I have admonished
sufficiently. Tell me now how thou didst calm the wrath of Amasis."

"Thou knowest my father. When he saw that he had wounded me in the depths
of my soul by his awful words, he repented him of his anger. He felt he
had been too hard, and desired to make amends at any price."

"He hath a kindly heart, but his mind is blinded, and his senses taken
captive," cried the priest. "What might not Amasis do for Egypt, would he
but hearken to our counsel, and to the commandments of the gods!"

"But hear me, my father! in his emotion he granted me the life of
Phanes!"

"Thine eyes flash, Psamtik! that pleaseth me not. The Athenian must die,
for he has offended the gods; but though he that condemns must let
justice have her way, he should have no pleasure in the death of the
condemned; rather should he mourn. Now speak; didst thou obtain aught
further?"

"The king declared unto me to what house Nitetis belongs."

"And further naught?"

"No, my father; but art thou not eager to learn? . . . "

"Curiosity is a woman's vice; moreover, I have long known all that thou
canst tell me."

"But didst thou not charge me but yesterday to ask my father this
question?"

"I did do so to prove thee, and know whether thou wert resigned to the
Divine will, and wert walking in those ways wherein alone thou canst
become worthy of initiation into the highest grade of knowledge. Thou
hast told us faithfully all that thou hast heard, and thereby proved that
thou canst obey--the first virtue of a priest."

"Thou knewest then the father of Nitetis?"

"I myself pronounced the prayer over king Hophra's tomb."

"But who imparted the secret to thee?"

"The eternal stars, my son, and my skill in reading them."

"And do these stars never deceive?"

"Never him that truly understands them."

Psamtik turned pale. His father's dream and his own fearful horoscope
passed like awful visions through his mind. The priest detected at once
the change in his features and said gently: "Thou deem'st thyself a lost
man because the heavens prognosticated evil at thy birth; but take
comfort, Psamtik; I observed another sign in the heavens at that moment,
which escaped the notice of the astrologers. Thy horoscope was a
threatening, a very threatening one, but its omens may be averted, they
may . . ."

"O tell me, father, tell me how!"

"They must turn to good, if thou, forgetful of all else, canst live alone
to the gods, paying a ready obedience to the Divine voice audible to us
their priests alone in the innermost and holiest sanctuary."

"Father, I am ready to obey thy slightest word."

"The great goddess Neith, who rules in Sais, grant this, my son!"
answered the priest solemnly. "But now leave me alone," he continued
kindly, "lengthened devotions and the weight of years bring weariness. If
possible, delay the death of Phanes, I wish to speak with him before he
dies. Yet one more word. A troop of Ethiopians arrived yesterday. These
men cannot speak a word of Greek, and under a faithful leader, acquainted
with the Athenians and the locality, they would be the best agents for
getting rid of the doomed man, as their ignorance of the language and the
circumstances render treachery or gossip impossible. Before starting for
Naukratis, they must know nothing of the design of their journey; the
deed once accomplished, we can send them back to Kush.--[The Egyptian
name for Ethiopia.] Remember, a secret can never be too carefully kept!
Farewell." Psamtik had only left the room a few moments, when a young
priest entered, one of the king's attendants.

"Have I listened well, father?" he enquired of the old man.

"Perfectly, my son. Nothing of that which passed between Amasis and
Psamtik has escaped thine ears. May Isis preserve them long to thee!"

"Ah, father, a deaf man could have heard every word in the ante-chamber
to-day, for Amasis bellowed like an ox."

"The great Neith has smitten him with the lack of prudence, yet I command
thee to speak of the Pharaoh with more reverence. But now return, keep
thine eyes open and inform me at once if Amasis, as is possible, should
attempt to thwart the conspiracy against Phanes. Thou wilt certainly find
me here. Charge the attendants to admit no one, and to say I am at my
devotions in the Holy of holies. May the ineffable One protect thy
footsteps!"

   [Isis, the wife or sister of Osiris, is the phenomena of nature, by
   means of which the god is able to reveal himself to human
   contemplation.]

        ..................................

While Psamtik was making every preparation for the capture of Phanes,
Croesus, accompanied by his followers, had embarked on board a royal
bark, and was on his way down the Nile to spend the evening with
Rhodopis.

His son Gyges and the three young Persians remained in Sais, passing the
time in a manner most agreeable to them.

Amasis loaded them with civilities, allowed them, according to Egyptian
custom, the society of his queen and of the twin-sisters, as they were
called, taught Gyges the game of draughts, and looking on while the
strong, dexterous, young heroes joined his daughters in the game of
throwing balls and hoops, so popular among Egyptian maidens, enlivened
their amusements with an inexhaustible flow of wit and humor.

   [The Pharaohs themselves, as well as their subjects, were in the
   habit of playing at draughts and other similar games. Rosellini
   gives its Rameses playing with his daughter; see also two Egyptians
   playing together, Wilkinson II. 419. An especially beautiful
   draught-board exists in the Egyptian collection at the Louvre
   Museum. The Egyptians hoped to be permitted to enjoy these
   pleasures even in the other world.]

   [Balls that have been found in the tombs are still to be seen; some,
   for instance, in the Museum at Leyden.]

"Really," said Bartja, as he watched Nitetis catching the slight hoop,
ornamented with gay ribbons, for the hundredth time on her slender ivory
rod, "really we must introduce this game at home. We Persians are so
different from you Egyptians. Everything new has a special charm for us,
while to you it is just as hateful. I shall describe the game to Our
mother Kassandane, and she will be delighted to allow my brother's wives
this new amusement."

"Yes, do, do!" exclaimed the fair Tachot blushing deeply. "Then Nitetis
can play too, and fancy herself back again at home and among those she
loves; and Bartja," she added in a low voice, "whenever you watch the
hoops flying, you too must remember this hour."

"I shall never forget it," answered he with a smile, and then, turning to
his future sister-in-law, he called out cheerfully, "Be of good courage,
Nitetis, you will be happier than you fancy with us. We Asiatics know how
to honor beauty; and prove it by taking many wives."

Nitetis sighed, and the queen Ladice exclaimed, "On the contrary, that
very fact proves that you understand but poorly how to appreciate woman's
nature! You can have no idea, Bartja, what a woman feels on finding that
her husband--the man who to her is more than life itself, and to whom she
would gladly and without reserve give up all that she treasures as most
sacred--looks down on her with the same kind of admiration that he
bestows on a pretty toy, a noble steed, or a well-wrought wine-bowl. But
it is yet a thousand-fold more painful to feel that the love which every
woman has a right to possess for herself alone, must be shared with a
hundred others!"

"There speaks the jealous wife!" exclaimed Amasis. "Would you not fancy
that I had often given her occasion to doubt my faithfulness?"

"No, no, my husband," answered Ladice, "in this point the Egyptian men
surpass other nations, that they remain content with that which they have
once loved; indeed I venture to assert that an Egyptian wife is the
happiest of women.

   [According to Diodorus (I. 27) the queen of Egypt held a higher
   position than the king himself. The monuments and lists of names
   certainly prove that women could rule with sovereign power. The
   husband of the heiress to the throne became king. They had their
   own revenues (Diodorus I. 52) and when a princess, after death, was
   admitted among the goddesses, she received her own priestesses.
   (Edict of Canopus.) During the reigns of the Ptolemies many coins
   were stamped with the queen's image and cities were named for them.
   We notice also that sons, in speaking of their descent, more
   frequently reckon it from the mother's than the father's side, that
   a married woman is constantly alluded to as the "mistress" or "lady"
   of the house, that according to many a Greek Papyrus they had entire
   disposal of all their property, no matter in what it consisted, in
   short that the weaker sex seems to have enjoyed equal influence with
   the stronger.]

Even the Greeks, who in so many things may serve as patterns to us, do
not know how to appreciate woman rightly. Most of the young Greek girls
pass their sad childhood in close rooms, kept to the wheel and the loom
by their mothers and those who have charge of them, and when
marriageable, are transferred to the quiet house of a husband they do not
know, and whose work in life and in the state allows him but seldom to
visit his wife's apartments. Only when the most intimate friends and
nearest relations are with her husband, does she venture to appear in
their midst, and then shyly and timidly, hoping to hear a little of what
is going on in the great world outside. Ah, indeed! we women thirst for
knowledge too, and there are certain branches of learning at least, which
it cannot be right to withhold from those who are to be the mothers and
educators of the next generation. What can an Attic mother, without
knowledge, without experience, give to her daughters? Naught but her own
ignorance. And so it is, that a Hellene, seldom satisfied with the
society of his lawful, but, mentally, inferior wife, turns for
satisfaction to those courtesans, who, from their constant intercourse
with men, have acquired knowledge, and well understand how to adorn it
with the flowers of feminine grace, and to season it with the salt of a
woman's more refined and delicate wit. In Egypt it is different. A young
girl is allowed to associate freely with the most enlightened men. Youths
and maidens meet constantly on festive occasions, learn to know and love
one another. The wife is not the slave, but the friend of her husband;
the one supplies the deficiencies of the other. In weighty questions the
stronger decides, but the lesser cares of life are left to her who is the
greater in small things. The daughters grow up under careful guidance,
for the mother is neither ignorant nor inexperienced. To be virtuous and
diligent in her affairs becomes easy to a woman, for she sees that it
increases his happiness whose dearest possession she boasts of being, and
who belongs to her alone. The women only do that which pleases us! but
the Egyptian men understand the art of making us pleased with that which
is really good, and with that alone. On the shores of the Nile,
Phocylides of Miletus and Hipponax of Ephesus would never have dared to
sing their libels on women, nor could the fable of Pandora have been
possibly invented here!"

   [Simonides of Amorgos, an Iambic poet, who delighted in writing
   satirical verses on women. He divides them into different classes,
   which he compares to unclean animals, and considers that the only
   woman worthy of a husband and able to make him happy must be like
   the bee. The well-known fable of Pandora owes its origin to
   Simonides. He lived about 650 B. C. The Egyptians too, speak very
   severely of bad women, comparing them quite in the Simonides style
   to beasts of prey (hyenas, lions and panthers). We find this
   sentence on a vicious woman: She is a collection of every kind of
   meanness, and a bag full of wiles. Chabas, Papyr. magrque Harris.
   p. 135. Phocylides of Miletus, a rough and sarcastic, but
   observant man, imitated Simonides in his style of writing. But the
   deformed Hipponax of Ephesus, a poet crushed down by poverty, wrote
   far bitterer verses than Phocylides. He lived about 550 B. C. "His
   own ugliness (according to Bernhardy) is reflected in every one of
   his Choliambics." ]

"How beautifully you speak!" exclaimed Bartja. "Greek was not easy to
learn, but I am very glad now that I did not give it up in despair, and
really paid attention to Croesus' lessons."

"Who could those men have been," asked Darius, "who dared to speak evil of
women?"

"A couple of Greek poets," answered Amasis, "the boldest of men, for I
confess I would rather provoke a lioness than a woman. But these Greeks
do not know what fear is. I will give you a specimen of Hipponax's
Poetry:

       "There are but two days when a wife,
        Brings pleasure to her husband's life,
        The wedding-day, when hopes are bright,
        And the day he buries her out of his sight."

"Cease, cease," cried Ladice stopping her ears, that is too had. Now,
Persians, you can see what manner of man Amasis is. For the sake of a
joke, he will laugh at those who hold precisely the same opinion as
himself. There could not be a better husband.

"Nor a worse wife," laughed Amasis. "Thou wilt make men think that I am a
too obedient husband. But now farewell, my children; our young heroes
must look at this our city of Sais; before parting, however, I will
repeat to them what the malicious Siuionides has sung of a good wife:

     "Dear to her spouse from youth to age she grows;
     Fills with fair girls and sturdy boys his house;
     Among all women womanliest seems,
     And heavenly grace about her mild brow gleams.
     A gentle wife, a noble spouse she walks,
     Nor ever with the gossip mongers talks.
     Such women sometimes Zeus to mortals gives,
     The glory and the solace of their lives."

"Such is my Ladice! now farewell!"

"Not yet!" cried Bartja. "Let me first speak in defence of our poor
Persia and instil fresh courage into my future sister-in-law; but no!
But there because you were and gebückt, where our cooks Done and
reflected, and the color changed inside.

Intrinsic as where one was, a door was thee wagon, and now were you
when the piston in the fire certificate. There, where you never
had a windfall, mistrust, and there you are sitting in different
transitions. And then, because the demonstration was in your blood and
not making the shots or where you took the huge decision, this tiny,
you yourself initially only through glasses have been observed alone
equal to enlarge so that it was in front of thousands, huge, especially.
Your theater arose. You might not wait that this almost raumlose from
centuries of living drops compressed by the other arts, and found to be
gradually versichtbart individual who gradually come together to inspect
and finally ask to share the illustrious rumors are confirmed to be seen
in the parable the scene before them open. This could not you wait,
you were there, you have hardly Measured: a feeling that by half a degree
increase, the angle of a rash of almost nothing will complain that you
ablasest very close, the slight turbidity in a drop of longing and
Nothing of this color change in an atom of trust: that you need to identify
and reserved, because in such operations was now living, our lives,
that in us hineingeglitten was the inwards had so deeply that it
is hardly conjecture it existed.

   Just as you were on the show created a timeless, tragic poets,
   to have you for sharing this capillary with a blow to
   implement in the most convincing sign that the vorhandensten things.
   Since you went to the unprecedented violence of your work, always
   impatient, always desperate in the visible after the equivalents
looking for the inside.

There was a rabbit, a ground room, a room where one goes up and
down: there was a Glasklirren in the next room, a fire in front of
the windows, there was the sun.

There was a church and a Felsental, which resembled a church. But that was
not enough and finally had to enter the towers and all the mountains,
and the avalanche, which buried the countryside, buried with Grief
Barem flamboyant stage for the sake incomprehensible.

It was not you anymore. The two ends of the arc you had together, shot
from one another; your mad force emanated from the elastic rod, and how
your work was not.

Begriffe Who else that you can not conclude from the window
fortwolltest, stubborn as you always were.

The passers wanted to see you, because it was the idea come to you if you
are not one day could make something out of them when you begin entschlösse.
At the time I first fell for that one by a woman could not say
anything, I noticed when they told her, as she aussparten as the
other named and described, the environments, the locations and
objects up to a certain point out where it all stopped, gently and
carefully as it stopped with the light, never towed contour, which
they included.

How was it? I asked then. "Blond, about how you", and said they were
all on hand, what else they knew, but it was completely inaccurate, and
I could not imagine. I could actually seeing them only if Maman told me
the story that I always demanded - .-- Then they used each time
to the scene with the dogs came, eyes closed and completely sealed,
but everywhere somehow implore translucent face between her two
hands to hold it cold to the touch temples.

"I've seen it, Malte", conjured them: "I've seen." That was already in
its last years, since I've heard of her.

In the time where they no longer wanted to see and where they are
always, even to travel, the small, dense, silver mesh on him, which
they all drink seihte. Of solid food, she never again to be, unless
something biscuit or bread, which, when they were alone, and
crumbled crumbs for crumb ate as children eat crumbs.

Their fear of needles, she was already completely. Among the other said it
only to apologize: "I agree with nothing left inside, but it must not
disturb you, I find myself very good here."

   To me, however, she could suddenly turn (because I was already grown
   up a bit) and with a smile, the very effort, saying: "What it is
   for many needles giebt, Malte, and where they are lying around
   everywhere, and if one considers how easily they fall out ... "
She held that it is quite Jesting to say, but it shook the horror
at the thought of all the bad needles attached, which at any moment
could fall into it somewhere.

If they are told by Ingeborg, then it could not happen, then they are not
spared, and then she spoke louder, then she laughed at the memory of Inge
Borg laugh, then you should see how beautiful Ingeborg had been. "It made
us all happy," she said, "your father also, Malte, literally happy. But
then, as it meant that she would die, although they only seemed a little
ill, and we all went around and hid it as she sat down once in bed, and
said so to himself, as one who wants to hear, sounds something like:
'You must do not take it together and we all know that, and I can reassure
you that there is a good thing as it comes, I do not like anymore. "
Imagine, she said: 'I may no longer' and they who made us all happy.
Whether you'll understand even if you grow up, Malte?

Remember later, perhaps it is you. It would be quite good if there is
someone there who understands such things. " 'Things' Maman employed when
they were alone, and she was always alone these past few years." I will
never come to, Malte, "she said, sometimes with their peculiar bold
smile that nobody wanted to be seen and completely fulfilled its
purpose, it was smiling.

   "But that is not irritating to find out if I were a man, even if I
   were a straight man, I would think about the correct number
   and order to and from the very beginning.

For a start it must be, and if it to act to acquire, it would be always
something. Ah, Malte, so we go out, and I propose that all the scattered
and busy and not care if we go there. As if a star fell, and she sees
no and nobody has anything you want. never forget to bring you something
to be desired, Malte. desires that we should not give up.

I think it giebt not meet, but it giebt desires that have long reserved
the whole life, so that the performance but could not wait. "Maman
had Inge Borg small secretary up to her room to make, before I found
them often, because I could easily happen to her.

My step passed completely into the carpet, but she felt and gave me one
of her hands over the other shoulder out. This hand was without weight,
and they kissed, almost like the ivory crucifix, which I am the evening
before going to sleep enough.

At this writing the lower cabinet, with a plate before her aufschlug, as
she sat in one instrument. "It's so much sun in it," she said, and
truly, the heart was strangely pale, old, yellow varnish, painted
on the flowers were always a red and one blue.

And where three stood side by side, there was a purple between them,
the other two separated.

These colors and the greenery of the narrow, horizontal tendril plant were
also darkened in itself, as the ground was brilliant, without really
clear.

   It was a strange relationship of subdued tones, the internal relations
   were not about to pronounce them.

Maman pulled out the little shop, all were empty. "Oh, roses," she said
and gave a little before in the murky smell inside was not all. She was
always the idea that it could suddenly find something in a secret
compartment in which no one had thought and that's just the pressure
of some hidden spring nachgab.

"Suddenly it jumps before, thou shalt see," she said seriously, and
anxiously and hurriedly pulled in all shop. What is really at papers
in the subjects was retarded, which she had carefully combined and
included, without reading it. "I understood it not, Malte, it would
certainly be too heavy for me." She had the conviction that
everything is too complicated for them was. "It giebt no classes in
life for beginners, it is always the hardest part, what one requires."
They assured me that it is only since the horrific death of her sister so
had become the Countess Öllegaard Skeel, which burned as they are in
front of a mirror balls on Leuchter flowers in her hair would otherwise
infect.

But lately it seemed Ingeborg but the things hardest to understand was. And
now I will write down the story, as Maman told them if I asked. It was
the middle of summer, on Thursday after Inge Borg's funeral.

From the seats on the terrace, where the tea was made, it was possible
the gable of Erbbegräbnisses see between the giant elms out. It had been
so covered, as if never been a person more at this table would have
sat, and we were all fairly spread around. And everyone had something,
a book or a work basket, so that even we were a little cramped. Abelone
(Maman youngest sister) distributed the tea, and all were employed,
pass around a bit, just saw your grandfather from his chair from
the house out.

It was the hour, since the post-awaited, and it is usually added so that
Ingeborg she said, with orders for more food in it was held back.

In the weeks of her illness, we had plenty of time now, we come to wean
her, because we knew so that she could not comment. But this afternoon,
Malte, because they really could not come -: because she came. Perhaps it
was our fault, maybe we called it. Because I remember that I once was
sitting, and strained me to reflect what actually was different now. I
was suddenly not possible to say what I had completely forgotten it. I
looked up and saw all the other home zugewendet, not on a special,
distinctive way, but quite calm and commonplace in their expectation.

And since I was out - (I will be very cold, Malte, if I think it is) but,
God forbid me, I was out to say: "Where will only -" As already Cavalier
shot, as he always did, under the table, and ran against her. I've seen
it, Malte, I've seen it. He ran against her, although she did not,
she came for him. We understood that he entgegenlief her. Twice
he looked after us as if he asked. Then he raced towards her, as always,
Malte, just like always, and it reached, for he began to jump
around, Malte, something which was not there, and then up to her
to lick it, just up.

We heard him whimper with joy, and how he jumped into the air, several
times in quick succession, would you really think you can, he
covers us with his jumps.

But as it howled at once, and he turned from his own swing in the air and
crashed back to, oddly clumsy and was very peculiarly flat and there is
not touched. From the other side came the servant of the house with
the letters. He hesitated for a while, apparently it was not easy on our
faces to go. And your father waved to him even to stay. Your father, Malte,
loved animals, but now he went out slowly as it seemed to me, and
bent down over the dog. He said something to the servant, something short,
monosyllable. I saw the servant hinzusprang to lift Cavalier. But
because your father took the animal and even went so, as he knew
exactly where to, enter into the house. Once, as it has this story had
become almost dark, I was close to it, Maman by the 'hand' to tell: in
this moment I would have. I have breathed on to start, but there
occurred to me how well I had grasped the servant that he had not
come on their faces.

And I am afraid, despite the darkness before Maman face, if it would
see what I have seen. I quickly fetched breath again, so it seems,
when I would have wanted nothing else.

A few years afterwards, after the odd night in the gallery on
Urnekloster, I went around for days in order for me to entrust the young
Erik. But he had after our nightly conversation again be joined in
front of me, he avoided me, and I believe that he despised me. And
precisely why I wanted it by the 'hand' to tell. I was me, I would win
in his opinion (and I strongly wish for some reason), if I could
make him understand that I really had experienced. But Erik was so deft
at dodging that it is not happened.

And then we traveled so well. So it is, strange enough, the first time
that I (and eventually even myself) a story telling, which is now far
behind in my childhood. How small I still had to be, I see that I am on
the chair knelt to comfort hinaufzureichen on the table, on which
I signed.

It was at night, in winter when I'm not mistaken, in the city apartment.
The table stood in my room, between the windows, and there was no lamp
in the room, than the ones on my leaves and seemed to Mademoiselle
book because Mademoiselle was sitting next to me, something zurückgerückt,
and read.

She was far away when they read, I do not know whether it was in the book
they could read for hours, they rarely browses around, and I had the
impression as if the pages are always full at her, as she looked
at words added certain words that they needed and had not been since.

It came to me as before, while I drew. I drew slowly, without a very strong
intention, and saw everything, when I no longer knew, with a little
bent to the right head on, so I always fell most rapidly, which is
still missing. There were officers on horseback who rode into battle,
or they were the middle of it, and it was much easier, because then
almost exclusively to make the smoke was einhüllte everything. Maman
admittedly now always claimed that it had been islands, which I
painted, islands with large trees and a castle and a staircase and
flowers at the edge, which should reflect in the water.

But I think that they invented, or it must have been later. It is
identified that I am that evening drew a knight, a single, very
strong knight on a horse dressed oddly. He was so colorful, that I often
had to change the pins, but most of all but the red came in, after I
repeatedly attacked. Now I had him once more necessary, since he rolled
(I see him yet) beschienene across the sheet to the edge and fell
before ichs could prevent, down past me and was gone.

I needed it really badly, and it was quite annoying him now nachzuklettern.
Clumsy, as I was, it cost me all sorts of events, hinunterzukommen;
my legs seemed to me far too long, I could not under me hervorziehen; to
be held long a kneeling position, my limbs made dull, I did not know what
to me and what belonged to the chair. but I finally came, a little confused,
at the bottom and found myself on a coat, which is under the table
against the wall until you buy a new.

But there arose a new difficulty.

Added to the brightness up there and still very excited for the
colors on the white paper, my eyes could not be the lowest under
the table to tell me where the black seemed to be closed, that I
was anxious to take on the encounter.

I left me on my feeling and combed, and kneeling on the left supported,
with the other hand in the cool, long carpet around, which feels
quite confidential, except that no notice was a pencil.

I trained myself, a lot of time to lose, and Mademoiselle has just
wanted to call and ask me to hold the lamp, when I noticed that my
eyes involuntarily initiated the darkness gradually was transparent.

I was already behind the wall are different, with a light bar exam, I
oriented myself on the legs of the table, I realized above all my
own, ausgespreizte hand, which is quite alone, a bit like an aquatic
animal, because the bottom and moving the Basic investigated.

I saw her, I still, almost curious, it came to me before, as they
could things I had not taught them how they handed it down there
with herumtastete movements that I never had seen her.

I pursued them, as they vordrang, it interested me, I was on all
kinds of preparation.

But how would I be taken to be that one time with her from the wall
entgegenkam other hand, a larger, unusually lean hand, as I have
never seen before.

She sought in a similar way from the other side, and the two spread
hands moved towards each other blindly.

My curiosity was not yet exhausted, but suddenly she was coming to an end,
and it was just as horror. I felt that one of those hands belonged to me
and that they are getting themselves into something einließ, which was
not lost.

With all right, I had it, I held it and moved it slowly back and flattened
by the other, I do not come from the left eye, which is further
examined.

Tell the
servants to get ready."

"But Gyges--"

"Yes, you will stay here and excuse me to Amasis. Say I could not come to
the evening revel on account of headache, toothache, sickness, anything
you like."

"I shall ride Bartja's Nicaean horse; and you, Bubares, will follow me on
Darius's. You will lend him, my brother?"

"If I had ten thousand, you should have them all."

"Do you know the way to Naukratis, Bubares?"

"Blindfold."

"Then go, Darius, and tell them to get your horse and Bartja's ready! To
linger would be sin. Farewell Darius, perhaps forever! Protect Bartja!
Once more, farewell!"


CHAPTER VIII.

It wanted two hours of midnight. Bright light was streaming through the
open windows of Rhodopis' house, and sounds of mirth and gaiety fell on
the ear. Her table had been adorned with special care in Croesus' honor.

On the cushions around it lay the guests with whom we are already
acquainted: Theodorus, Ibykus, Phanes, Aristomachus, the merchant
Theopompus of Miletus, Croesus and others, crowned with chaplets of
poplar and roses.

Theodorus the sculptor was speaking: "Egypt seems to me," he said, "like
a girl who persists in wearing a tight and painful shoe only because it
is of gold, while within her reach he beautiful and well-fitting slippers
in which she could move at ease, if she only would."

"You refer to the Egyptians' pertinacity in retaining traditional forms
and customs?" asked Croesus.

"Certainly I do," answered the sculptor. "Two centuries ago Egypt was
unquestionably the first of the nations. In Art and Science she far
excelled us; but we learnt their methods of working, improved on them,
held firm to no prescribed proportions, but to the natural types alone,
gave freedom and beauty to their unbending outlines, and now have left
our masters far behind us. But how was this possible? simply because the
Egyptians, bound by unalterable laws, could make no progress; we, on the
contrary, were free to pursue our course in the wide arena of art as far
as will and power would allow."

"But how can an artist be compelled to fashion statues alike, which are
meant to differ from each other in what they represent?"

"In this case that can be easily explained. The entire human body is
divided by the Egyptians into 21 1/4 parts, in accordance with which
division the proportion of each separate limb is regulated. I, myself,
have laid a wager with Amasis, in presence of the first Egyptian
sculptor, (a priest of Thebes), that, if I send my brother Telekles, in
Ephesus, dimensions, proportion and attitude, according to the Egyptian
method, he and I together can produce a statue which shall look as if
sculptured from one block and by one hand, though Telekles is to carve
the lower half at Ephesus, and I the upper here in Sais, and under the
eye of Amasis."

   [These numbers, and the story which immediately follows, are taken
   from Diodorus I. 98. Plato tells us that, in his time, a law
   existed binding the Egyptian artists to execute their works with
   exactly the same amount of beauty or its reverse, as those which had
   been made more than a thousand years before. This statement is
   confirmed by the monuments; but any one well acquainted with
   Egyptian art can discern a marked difference in the style of each
   epoch. At the time of the ancient kingdom the forms were compressed
   and stunted; under Seti I. beauty of proportion reached its highest
   point. During and after the 20th dynasty the style declined in
   beauty; in the 26th, under the descendants of Psammetichus, we meet
   with a last revival of art, but the ancient purity of form was never
   again attained.]

"And shall you win your wager?"

"Undoubtedly. I am just going to begin this trick of art; it will as
little deserve the name of a work of art, as any Egyptian statue."

"And yet there are single sculptures here which are of exquisite
workmanship; such, for instance, as the one Amasis sent to Samos as a
present to Polykrates. In Memphis I saw a statue said to be about three
thousand years old, and to represent a king who built the great Pyramid,
which excited my admiration in every respect. With what certainty and
precision that unusually hard stone has been wrought! the muscles, how
carefully carved! especially in the breast, legs and feet; the harmony of
the features too, and, above all, the polish of the whole, leave nothing
to be desired."

"Unquestionably. In all the mechanism of art, such as precision and
certainty in working even the hardest materials, the Egyptians, though
they have so long stood still in other points, are still far before us;
but to model form with freedom, to breathe, like Prometheus, a soul into
the stone, they will never learn until their old notions on this subject
have been entirely abandoned. Even the pleasing varieties of corporeal
life cannot be represented by a system of mere proportions, much less
those which are inner and spiritual. Look at the countless statues which
have been erected during the last three thousand years, in all the
temples and palaces from Naukratis up to the Cataracts. They are all of
one type, and represent men of middle age, with grave but benevolent
countenances. Yet they are intended, some as statues of aged monarchs,
others to perpetuate the memory of young princes. The warrior and the
lawgiver, the blood-thirsty tyrant and the philanthropist are only
distinguished from each other by a difference in size, by which the
Egyptian sculptor expresses the idea of power and strength. Amasis orders
a statue just as I should a sword. Breadth and length being specified, we
both of us know quite well, before the master has begun his work, what we
shall receive when it is finished. How could I possibly fashion an infirm
old man like an eager youth? a pugilist like a runner in the foot-race? a
poet like a warrior? Put Ibykus and our Spartan friend side by side, and
tell me what you would say, were I to give to the stern warrior the
gentle features and gestures of our heart-ensnaring poet."

"Well, and how does Amasis answer your remarks on this stagnation in
art?"

"He deplores it; but does not feel himself strong enough to abolish the
restrictive laws of the priests."

"And yet," said the Delphian, "he has given a large sum towards the
embellishment of our new temple, expressly, (I use his own words) for the
promotion of Hellenic art!"

"That is admirable in him," exclaimed Croesus. "Will the Alkmaeonidae
soon have collected the three hundred talents necessary for the
completion of the temple? Were I as rich as formerly I would gladly
undertake the entire cost; notwithstanding that your malicious god so
cruelly deceived me, after all my offerings at his shrine. For when I
sent to ask whether I should begin the war with Cyrus, he returned this
answer: I should destroy a mighty kingdom by crossing the river Halys. I
trusted the god, secured the friendship of Sparta according to his
commands, crossed the boundary stream, and, in so doing, did indeed
destroy a mighty kingdom; not however that of the Medes and Persians, but
my own poor Lydia, which, as a satrapy of Cambyses, finds its loss of
independence a hard and uncongenial yoke."

"You blame the god unjustly," answered Phryxus. "It cannot be his fault
that you, in your human conceit, should have misinterpreted his oracle.
The answer did not say 'the kingdom of Persia,' but 'a kingdom' should be
destroyed through your desire for war. Why did you not enquire what
kingdom was meant? Was not your son's fate truly prophesied by the
oracle? and also that on the day of misfortune he would regain his
speech? And when, after the fall of Sardis, Cyrus granted your wish to
enquire at Delphi whether the Greek gods made a rule of requiting their
benefactors by ingratitude, Loxias answered that he had willed the best
for you, but was controlled by a mightier power than himself, by that
inexorable fate which had foretold to thy great ancestor, that his fifth
successor was doomed to destruction."

"In the first days of my adversity I needed those words far more than
now," interrupted Croesus. "There was a time when I cursed your god and
his oracles; but later, when with my riches my flatterers had left me,
and I became accustomed to pronounce judgment on my own actions, I saw
clearly that not Apollo, but my own vanity had been the cause of my ruin.
How could 'the kingdom to be destroyed' possibly mean mine, the mighty
realm of the powerful Croesus, the friend of the gods, the hitherto
unconquered leader? Had a friend hinted at this interpretation of the
ambiguous oracle, I should have derided, nay, probably caused him to be
punished. For a despotic ruler is like a fiery steed; the latter
endeavors to kick him who touches his wounds with intent to heal; the
former punishes him who lays a hand on the weak or failing points of his
diseased mind. Thus I missed what, if my eyes had not been dazzled, I
might easily have seen; and now that my vision is clearer, though I have
nothing to lose, I am far more often anxious than in the days when none
could possibly lose more than I. In comparison with those days, Phryxus,
I may be called a poor man now, but Cambyses does not leave me to famish,
and I can still raise a talent for your temple."

Phryxus expressed his thanks, and Phanes remarked "The Alkmaeonida; will
be sure to erect a beautiful edifice, for they are rich and ambitious,
and desirous of gaining favor with the Amphiktyons, in order, by their
aid, to overthrow the tyrants, secure to themselves a higher position
than that of the family to which I belong, and with this, the guidance of
state-affairs."

"Is it true, as people say," asked Ibykus, "that next to Agarista with
whom Megakles received so rich a dowry, you, Croesus, have been the
largest contributor to the wealth of the Alkmaeonidae?"

"True enough," answered Croesus laughing.

"Tell us the story, I beg," said Rhodopis.

"Well," answered Croesus, "Alkmaeon of Athens once appeared at my court;
his cheerfulness and cultivation pleased me well, and I retained him near
me for some time. One day I showed him my treasure-chambers, at the sight
of which he fell into despair, called himself a common beggar and
declared that one good handful of these precious things would make him a
happy man. I at once allowed him to take as much gold away as he could
carry. What think you did Alkaemmon on this? sent for high Lydian
riding-boots, an apron and a basket, had the one secured behind him, put
the others on, and filled them all with gold, till they could hold no
more. Not content with this, he strewed gold-dust in his hair and beard
and filled his mouth to that extent that he appeared in the act of
choking. In each hand he grasped a golden dish, and thus laden dragged
himself out of the treasure-house, falling exhausted as he crossed the
threshold. Never have I laughed so heartily as at this sight."

"But did you grant him all these treasures?" said Rhodopis.

"Yes, yes, my friend; and did not think even then, that I had paid too
dearly for the experience that gold can make fools even of clever men."

"You were the most generous of monarchs," cried Phanes.

"And make a tolerably contented beggar," answered Croesus. "But tell me,
Phryxus, how much has Amasis contributed to your collection?"

"He gave fifty tons of alum."

"A royal gift!"

"And the prince Psamtik?"

"On my appealing to him by his father's munificence, he turned his back
on me, and answered with a bitter laugh: 'Collect money for the
destruction of your temple, and I am ready to double my father's
donation!'"

"The wretch!"

"Say rather: the true Egyptian! to Psamtik everything foreign is an
abomination."

"How much have the Greeks in Naukratis contributed?"

"Beside munificent private donations, each community has given twenty
minae."

"That is much."

"Philoinus, the Sybarite, alone sent me a thousand drachmm, and
accompanied his gift with a most singular epistle. May I read it aloud,
Rhodopis?"

"Certainly," answered she, "it will show you that the drunkard has
repented of his late behaviour."

The Delphian began: "Philoinus to Phryxus: It grieves me that at
Rhodopis' house the other night I did not drink more; for had I done so I
should have lost consciousness entirely, and so have been unable to
offend even the smallest insect. My confounded abstemiousness is
therefore to blame, that I can no longer enjoy a place at the best table
in all Egypt. I am thankful, however, to Rhodopis for past enjoyment, and
in memory of her glorious roast-beef (which has bred in me the wish to buy
her cook at any price) I send twelve large spits for roasting
oxen,--[Rhodopis is said to have sent such a gift to Delphi. Herod.]--and
beg they may be placed in some treasure-house at Delphi as an offering
from Rhodopis. As for myself, being a rich man, I sign my name for a
thousand drachmae, and beg that my gift may be publicly announced at the
next Pythian games. To that rude fellow, Aristomachus of Sparta, express
my thanks for the effectual manner in which he fulfilled my intention in
coming to Egypt. I came hither for the purpose of having a tooth
extracted by an Egyptian dentist said to take out teeth without causing
much pain.

   [The Egyptian dentists must have been very skilful. Artificial
   teeth have been discovered in the jaws of mummies. See Blumenbach
   on the teeth of the ancient Egyptians, and on mummies.]

Aristomachus, however, knocked out the defective tooth and so saved me
from an operation, the thought of which had often made me tremble. On
recovering consciousness, I found that three teeth had been knocked into
my mouth, the diseased one and two others, which though healthy, would
probably at some future time have caused me pain. Salute Rhodopis and the
handsome Phanes from me. You I invite to an entertainment at my house in
Sybaris, this day year. We are accustomed to issue invitations somewhat
early, on account of my necessary preparations. I have caused this
epistle to be written by my slave Sophotatus in an adjoining chamber, as
merely to behold the labor of writing causes cramp in my fingers."

A burst of laughter arose at these words, but Rhodopis said: "This letter
gives me pleasure; it proves that Philoinus is not bad at heart. Brought
up a Sybarite." . . . She was suddenly interrupted by the voice of a
stranger, who had entered unperceived, and, after apologizing to the
venerable hostess and her guests for appearing without invitation among
them, continued thus: "I am Gyges the son of Croesus; and it has not been
merely for pastime, that I have ridden over from Sais in two hours lest I
should arrive too late!"

"Menon, a cushion for our guest!" cried Rhodopis. "Be welcome to my house
and take some repose after your wild, thoroughly Lydian, ride."

"By the dog, Gyges!" exclaimed Croesus.

   [An oath of Rhadamanthus used in order to avoid mentioning the names
   of the gods. Schol. Aristoph. Aves. 520.]

"What brings thee here at this hour? I begged thee not to quit Bartja's
side. . . .  But how thou look'st! what is the matter? has aught happened?
speak, speak!"

In the first moment Gyges could not answer a word. To see his beloved
father, for whose very life he had been in such anxiety, a safe and happy
guest at this rich banquet, seemed to rob him of his speech a second
time. At last, however, he was able to say: "The gods be praised, my
father, that I see thee safe once more! Think not I forsook my post
thoughtlessly. Alas! I am forced to appear as a bird of evil omen in this
cheerful assembly. Know at once, ye guests, for I dare not lose time in
preparing my words, that a treacherous assault awaits ye!"

They all sprang up as if struck by lightning. Aristomachus silently
loosened his sword in its scabbard; Phanes extended his arms as if to
discern whether the old athletic elasticity still dwelt there.

"What can it be?--what is their design?" echoed from all sides.

"This house is surrounded by Ethiopian soldiers!" answered Gyges. "A
faithful fellow confided to me that the crown-prince had designs on one
of your number; he was to be taken alive if possible, but killed if he
resisted. Dreading lest thou shouldst be this victim, my father, I sped
hither. The fellow had not lied. This house is surrounded. My horse shied
on reaching your garden-gate, Rhodopis, jaded as he was. I dismounted,
and could discern behind every bush the glitter of weapons and the eager
eyes of men lying in ambush. They allowed us, however, to enter
unmolested."

At this moment Knakias rushed in crying, "Important news! On my way to
the Nile to fetch water with which to prepare the wine-cup, I have just
met a man who, in his haste, nearly ran over me.

   [The water of the Nile has a very agreeable flavor. It is called by
   one traveller the champagne among the waters. The ladies of the
   Sultan's harem send for this water even from Constantinople, and the
   Arabs say, that if Mahomet had drunk thereof he would have desired
   to live for ever.]

It was an Ethiop, one of Phanes' boatmen, and he tells that just as he
sprang out of the boat to bathe, a royal bark came alongside and a
soldier asked the rest of the crew in whose service they were. On the
helmsman answering, 'in Phanes' service,' the royal boat passed on
slowly. He, however, (the rower who was bathing), seated himself in fun
on the rudder of the royal boat, and heard one Ethiopian soldier on board
say to another, 'Keep that craft well in sight; now we know where the
bird sits, and it will be easy to catch him. Remember, Psamtik has
promised us fifty gold rings if we bring the Athenian to Sais dead or
alive.' This is the report of Sebek, who has been in your service seven
years, O Phanes."

To both these accounts Phanes listened calmly. Rhodopis trembled.
Aristomachus exclaimed, "Not a hair of your head shall be touched, if
Egypt perish for it!" Croesus advised prudence. A tremendous excitement
had mastered the whole party.

At last Phanes broke silence, saying: "Reflection is never more necessary
than in a time of danger. I have thought the matter over, and see clearly
that escape will be difficult. The Egyptians will try to get rid of me
quietly. They know that I intend going on board a Phoecean trireme, which
sets sail for Sigeum at a very early hour to-morrow morning, and have
therefore no time to lose, if they will seize me. Your garden, Rhodopis,
is entirely surrounded, and were I to remain here, your house would no
longer be respected as a sanctuary; it would be searched and I taken in
it. There can be no doubt that a watch has been set over the Phoecean
ship also. Blood shall not be shed in vain on my account."

"But you dare not surrender!" cried Aristomachus.

"No, no, I have a plan," shouted Theopompus the Milesian merchant. "At
sunrise to-morrow a ship sails for Miletus laden with Egyptian corn, but
not from Naukratis, from Canopus. Take the noble Persian's horse and ride
thither. We will cut a way for you through the garden."

"But," said Gyges, "our little band is not strong enough to carry out
such an attempt. We number in all ten men, and of these only three have
swords; our enemies, on the other hand, number at least a hundred, and
are armed to the teeth."

"Lydian!" cried Aristomachus, "wert thou ten times more fainthearted than
thou art, and were our enemies double their number, I at least, will
fight them!"

Phanes grasped his friend's hand. Gyges turned pale. This brave warrior
had called him fainthearted; and again he could find no words to answer;
for at every stirring emotion his tongue failed him. Suddenly the blood
mounted to his face; his words came quickly and with decision: "Athenian,
follow me! and thou, Spartan, who art not wont to use words heedlessly,
call no man fainthearted again before thou knowest him. Friends, Phanes
is safe, Farewell, father!"

The remaining guests surveyed these two departing men in silent wonder.
As they stood there, silently listening, the sound of two horses
galloping swiftly away fell on their ear, and after a longer interval a
prolonged whistle from the Nile and a cry of distress.

"Where is Knakias?" said Rhodopis to one of her slaves.

"He went into the garden with Phanes and the Persian," was the answer,
and as it was being spoken, the old slave re-entered, pale and trembling.

"Have you seen my son?" cried Croesus. "Where is Phanes?"

"I was to bid you farewell from them both."

"Then they are gone.--Whither? How was it possible?" . . .

"The Athenian and the Persian," began the slave, "had a slight dispute in
the anteroom. This over, I was told to divest both of their robes. Phanes
then put on the stranger's trousers, coat and girdle; on his own curls he
placed the pointed Persian cap. The stranger wrapped himself in the
Athenian's chiton and mantle, placed the golden circlet above his brow,
caused the hair to be shaved from his upper lip, and ordered me to follow
him into the garden. Phanes, whom in his present dress, none could
imagine to be other than a Persian, mounted one of the horses still
waiting before the gate; the stranger called after him, 'Farewell Gyges,
farewell beloved Persian, a pleasant journey to thee, Gyges!' The
servant, who had been waiting, followed on the other horse. I could hear
the clatter of arms among the bushes, but the Athenian was allowed to
depart unmolested, the soldiers, without doubt, believing him to be a
Persian.

"On returning to the house the stranger's orders were: 'Accompany me to
Phanes' bark, and cease not to call me by the Athenian's name.' 'But the
boatmen will betray you,' I said. 'Then go alone to them,' he answered,
'and command them to receive me as their master, Phanes.' Then I prayed
him to allow me to take the dress of the fugitive and become a prey to
the pursuers; but he would by no means allow this, and said my gait and
carriage would betray me. There alas! he spoke truly, for only the free
man can walk erect; the neck of the slave is bent; the schools in which
the noble and the freeborn learn grace and beauty of movement are not for
him. And so it must remain, the children must be even as the fathers; can
the unclean onion-root produce a rose, or the unsightly radish a
hyacinth? Constant bondage bows the neck of the slave, but the
consciousness of freedom gives dignity to the stature."

"But what has become of my son?" interrupted Croesus.

"He would not accept my poor offer, and took his seat in the bark,
sending a thousand greetings unto thee, O king! I cried after him,
'Farewell Phanes! I wish thee a prosperous journey, Phanes!' At that
moment a cloud crossed the moon; and from out the thick darkness I heard
screams, and cries for help; they did not, however, last long, a shrill
whistle followed, then all was silent; and the measured strokes of oars
were the only sounds that fell on my ear. I was on the point of returning
to relate what I had seen, when the boatman Sebek swam up once more and
told as follows: The Egyptians had caused a leak to be made in Phanes'
boat, and at a short distance from land it had filled and began to sink.
On the boatmen crying for help, the royal bark, which was following, had
come up and taken the supposed Phanes on board, but had prevented the
rowers from leaving their benches. They all went down with the leaking
boat, the daring Sebek alone excepted. Gyges is on board the royal boat;
Phanes has escaped, for that whistle must have been intended for the
soldiers in ambush at the garden-gate. I searched the bushes, the
soldiers were gone, and I could hear the sound of their voices and
weapons on their way back to Sais."

The guests listened with eager attention to this tale. At its close a
mingled feeling of relief and anxiety was felt by all; relief that their
favorite companion had escaped so fearful a danger, anxiety for the brave
young Lydian who had risked his life to save him. They praised his
generosity, congratulated Croesus on possessing such a son, and finally
agreed in the conclusion, that, when the crown-prince discovered the
error into which his emissaries had fallen, he must certainly release
Gyges, and even make him compensation for what he had suffered at their
hands.

The friendship already shown by Amasis, and the fear in which he
evidently stood of the Persian power, were the thoughts which had power
to calm Croesus, who soon left, in order to pass the night at the house
of Theopompus, the Milesian merchant. At parting, Aristomachus said:
"Salute Gyges in my name; tell him I ask his forgiveness, and hope one
day either to enjoy his friendship, or, if that cannot be, to meet him as
a fair foe on the field of battle."

"Who knows what the future may bring?" answered Croesus giving his hand
to the Spartan.


CHAPTER IX.

The sun of a new day had risen over Egypt, but was still low in the east;
the copious dew, which, on the Nile, supplies the place of rain, lay
sparkling like jewels on the leaves and blossoms, and the morning air,
freshened by a north-west wind, invited those to enjoy it who could not
bear the heat of mid-day.

Through the door of the country-house, now so well known to us, two
female figures have just passed; Melitta, the old slave, and Sappho, the
grandchild of Rhodopis.

The latter is not less lovely now, than when we saw her last, asleep. She
moves through the garden with a light quick step, her white morning robe
with its wide sleeves falling in graceful drapery over her lithe limbs,
the thick brown hair straying from beneath the purple kerchief over her
head, and a merry, roguish smile lurking round her rosy mouth and in the
dimples of her cheeks and chin.

She stooped to pick a rose, dashed the dew from it into the face of her
old nurse, laughing at her naughty trick till the clear bell-like tones
rang through the garden; fixed the flower in her dress and began to sing
in a wonderfully rich and sweet voice--

          Cupid once upon a bed
          Of roses laid his weary head;
          Luckless urchin! not to see
          Within the leaves a slumbering bee.
          The bee awak'd--with anger wild
          The bee awak'd, and stung the child.
          Loud and piteous are his cries;
          To Venus quick he runs, he flies;
          "Oh mother! I am wounded through--
          "I die with pain--in sooth I do!
          "Stung by some little angry thing.
          "Some serpent on a tiny wing,
          "A bee it was--for once, I know,
          "I heard a rustic call it so."

"Isn't that a very pretty song?" asked the laughing girl. "How stupid of
little Eros to mistake a bee for a winged snake! Grandmother says that
the great poet Anacreon wrote another verse to this song, but she will
not teach it me. Tell me, Melitta, what can there be in that verse?
There, you are smiling; dear, darling Melitta, do sing me that one verse.
Perhaps though, you don't know it yourself? No? then certainly you can't
teach it me."

"That is a new song," answered the old woman, evading her darling's
question, "I only know the songs of the good old times. But hark! did not
you hear a knock at the gate?"

   [The last lines which contain the point of this song are:

          Thus he spoke, and she, the while,
          Heard him with a soothing smile;
          Then said, "My infant, if so much
          "Thou feel the little wild bee's touch,
          "How must the heart, ah! Cupid be,
          "The hapless heart that's stung by thee?"

   --Translation from one of Anacreon's songs]

"Yes, of course I did, and I think the sound of horses' hoofs too. Go and
see who seeks admission so early. Perhaps, after all, our kind Phanes did
not go away yesterday, and has come to bid us farewell once more."

"Phanes is gone," said Melitta, becoming serious, "and Rhodopis has
ordered me to send you in when visitors arrive. Go child, that I may open
the gate. There, they have knocked again."

Sappho pretended to run in, but instead of obeying her nurse's orders,
stopped and hid herself behind a rose-bush, hoping to catch sight of
these early guests. In the fear of needlessly distressing her, she had
not been told of the events of the previous evening, and at this early
hour could only expect to see some very intimate friend of her
grandmother's.

Melitta opened the gate and admitted a youth splendidly apparelled, and
with fair curling hair.

It was Bartja, and Sappho was so lost in wonder at his beauty, and the
Persian dress, to her so strange, that she remained motionless in her
hiding-place, her eyes fixed on his face. Just so she had pictured to
herself Apollo with the beautiful locks, guiding the sun-chariot.

As Melitta and the stranger came nearer she thrust her little head
through the roses to hear what the handsome youth was saying so kindly in
his broken Greek.

She heard him ask hurriedly after Croesus and his son; and then, from
Melitta's answer, she gathered all that had passed the evening before,
trembled for Phanes, felt so thankful to the generous Gyges, and again
wondered who this youth in royal apparel could possibly be. Rhodopis had
told her about Cyrus's heroic deeds, the fall of Croesus and the power
and wealth of the Persians, but still she had always fancied them a wild,
uncultivated people. Now, however, her interest in Persia increased with
every look at the handsome Bartja. At last Melitta went in to wake her
grandmother and announce the guest, and Sappho tried to follow her, but
Eros, the foolish boy whose ignorance she had been mocking a moment
before, had other intentions. Her dress caught in the thorns, and before
she could disengage it, the beautiful Bartja was standing before her,
helping her to get free from the treacherous bush.

Sappho could not speak a word even of thanks; she blushed deeply, and
stood smiling and ashamed, with downcast eyes.

Bartja, too, generally so full of fun and spirit, looked down at her
without speaking, the color mounting to his cheeks.

The silence, however, did not last long, for Sappho, recovering from her
fright, burst into a laugh of childish delight at the silent stranger and
the odd scene, and fled towards the house like a timid fawn.

In a moment Bartja was himself again; in two strides he reached the young
girl, quick as thought seized her hand and held it fast, notwithstanding
all her struggles.

"Let me go!" she cried half in earnest and half laughing, raising her
dark eyes appealingly to him.

"Why should I?" And they show themselves after a week the two knives,
and it yields is that they can only be removed similarly see - so
different, they have developed in different hands.

(Yes, says one mother about this: if you also have to wear everything
.--) Ah, so: Is it possible to believe that a God did not use it?

Yes, it is possible.

But if this is possible, even a semblance of possibility - then
yes, everything in the world, something happened.

The next best, the one who had this disturbing thought has to start something
from the failed to do so; if only some one is not the best: it is
precisely because no one else.

This young, unimportant foreigner, Briggs, is five stairs must sit down
and write, day and night.

Yes he will have to write, which will be the end. Twelve years or a maximum
of thirteen, I had been.

My father had taken me to Urnekloster. I do not know what prompted him,
his father kept.

The two men had for years, since the death of my mother, not seen,
and my father himself was never in the old palace was, in which the
Count Brahe until late had.

I have the strange house never seen again later that when my
grandfather died, was in foreign hands.

So as I worked in my childish memories think back, it is not a building,
it is totally broken in me, as a space, then a space and a piece
of gear that these two spaces are not connected, but for himself,
as a fragment, kept.

In this way everything is scattered in me, - the rooms, the stairs,
with so much fussiness is settled, and others close, rundgebaute
steps, in which it went dark as the blood in the veins, and the tower
room, the high suspended balconies, the unexpected legacy, which
have a small door was hinausgedrängt: - everything is still in me
and will never cease to be in me.

It is as if the image of the House of infinite height in me and on
my hineingestürzt basically shattered.

Quite preserved in my heart, it seems to me, only that room where we gather
for lunch at nursed, every evening at seven clock. I have this space never
seen during the day, I do not even remember whether he had windows
and where they looked, each time, so often the family arrived, the
candles were burning in the heavy candelabrum, and you forgot a
couple of minutes the time of day and everything we had seen outside.

This high, as I suspect, domed room was more than anything, he
sucked with his dunkelnden height, with its never quite enlightened
corners all images from one out without a replacement for a certain
factors.

It sat there like dissolved; completely without desire, without reflection,
without lust, without defense. It was like an empty space. I remember that
this devastating condition first I almost caused nausea, a sort
of seasickness, the only way I overcame that I ausstreckte my leg
until I walk with the knee of my father touched me gegenübersaß.

   Only later was it me that he had this strange behavior to understand
   or even seemed to condone, even though between us almost a cool
   relationship existed from which such a practice was not explainable.

There was, however, that quiet touch, which gave me the strength, long meals
bearable. And after a few weeks spasmodic income I had, with the almost
unlimited Anpasssung of the child, so I am very interested in the uncanny
habit of those meetings that I am no effort cost more, two hours to
sit at table, now they even passed relatively quickly, because I was
so busy, those present to observe. My grandfather called it the family,
and I also heard others use that name, which was entirely arbitrary.
Because, although these four people together in distant relatives were,
so they were not in any way. The uncle, who was sitting next to me, was
an old man whose hard and burnt face showed some black spots,
as I learned the consequences a powder charge exploded, and
malkontent grumpy as he was, he had a Major made his farewell, and
now he unknown to me in a room of the castle Alchymist trials, was
also, as I heard the servants say, with a stick home, in conjunction,
of where he was once or twice a year corpses zusandte with whom he
days and nights included and which he cut and a mysterious kind of
preparations, so that they resist decay.

He was the opposite site of the Miss Mathilde Brahe. There was a person of
undetermined age, a distant cousin of my mother, of which nothing was
known, as they have a very active correspondence with an Austrian
spiritists affiliates of Baron Nolde called it perfectly and the
result was, so they do not undertook the least, without his consent,
or rather something like his blessing catch.

It was at that time very much, from a soft, lazy wealth, like the
careless in their loose, light clothes hineingegossen was their movements
were tired and tentative, and her eyes were constantly on.

And yet it was something that I'm at my tender and lean mother recalled.
I thought the longer I looked at all the fine lines and quiet in
their history, to which I have been my mother's death had never
quite remember ; until now, since I saw Mathilde Brahe day, I knew
again, as that which the deceased had, yes, I knew it, perhaps for
the first time.

Now only continued from hundreds and hundreds of details, a picture of
the dead in me, that picture that accompanies me everywhere.

Later, it became clear to me that in the face of Miss Brahe really
all the details were available, the specific traits of my mother,
- they were just as if a strange face is pushed in between would
auseinandergedrängt, bent and no longer in conjunction with each
other.

Besides this lady was the little son of a cousin, a boy, about the same
age with me, however small and feeble.

A Color Krause grew his thin, pale neck and disappeared under a long chin.
His lips were firmly closed and narrow, his nose wings trembled
quietly, and his beautiful dark brown eyes was just one move. It looked
sometimes quiet and sad to me over here, while the other always
in the same corner was addressed as if it had sold and would no
longer be considered.

At the upper end of the table stood the huge armchair my grandfather,
a servant, nothing else had to do, and in assigning him the old man
only a small area source.

There were people doing this difficult and accompanying imperious old
gentleman named Hofmarschall excellence and others gave him the
title of General.

And he certainly had all of these would, but it was so long ago
since he had held offices that these appointments would no longer
were understandable.

It seemed to me at all, as if in some of its moments as crisp, but again
no specific personality dissolved Name could be liable.

I could never decide to grandfather to him, though sometimes he was kind
to me, yes I even cried to himself, with my name an he jokingly tried
to give emphasis.

Showed the way the entire family of mixed awe and aversion behavior to
the Count, but the little Erik lived in a certain degree of confidentiality
with the venerable master, his eye was moving at times rapid glances
of agreement with him, the ebensorasch by the grandfather was
reciprocated; they could also sometimes during the long afternoons
at the deep end of the gallery appear to see and observe how they
go hand in hand, the dark old portraits went along without speaking,
apparently in a different way themselves.

I was almost the whole day outside in parks and forests in the book
or on the heath, and fortunately there were dogs on Urnekloster who
accompanied me, it was there and there is a tenant farmer or a farm
house, where I milk and bread and fruit could get, and I believe
that my freedom rather carelessly enjoyed without me, at least in
the following weeks, with the intention of evening meetings to be
frightened.

I spoke with almost anyone, because it was my pleasure to be lonely,
and only with the dogs, I had brief conversations now and then: they
understood me well.

Silence was also a kind of family property, I knew her from my
father, and it surprised me that during the night table next to
nothing was spoken.

In the first days after our arrival, however, behaved very talkative
Mathilde Brahe. She asked the father to former acquaintances in
foreign cities, they remembered remote impressions, she touched herself
to tears by deceased friends and a certain young man thought, which
they suggested that he loved you, but they implore his inclination
would have been hopeless and may reciprocate.

My father listened to politely, then bent and when his head
approvingly, and answered only the bare minimum.

The Count, at the top of the table, smiled constantly herabgezogenen with
lips, his face seemed greater than usual, it was as he would a mask. He
took the way, sometimes even the floor, with his voice to anyone
involved, but, although it was very quiet, but in the whole room
could be heard, they had some of the bystanders uniform motion of
a clock, the silence around it seemed a blank to have resonance for
each syllable the same.

   Count Brahe considered it a special type to my father, from his
   deceased wife, my mother, to speak. He called her Countess Sibylle,
   and all its records closed, as he asked for her. Yes it
   was me, I do not know why, before, as if it were a very young
   girl in white, that every moment we could occur. In the same tone
   I heard it from 'our little Anna Sophie' talk. And when one
   day I asked for this lady to the grandfather particularly
   loved seemed to be, I learned that he is the Grand Chancellor Conrad
   Reventlow daughter said Frederick Weiland of the fourth wife to
   the left hand, which has nearly one hundred years to Roskilde
   rested. The time effects played no role perfectly for him,
   death was a small incident, which he totally ignored, people he
   once recorded in his memory had existed, and that her death
   was not the slightest change. Several years later, after the death
   of the old gentleman, told you how he and the Future of the same
   stubbornness as presently perceived. He is even a certain young
   woman of her sons have spoken to the sons of one of these trips,
   in particular, while the young lady who is in the third month of her
   first pregnancy, almost unconscious before the horror and fear
   in addition to the incessant speaking Altenkirchen sat. But it all
   started so that I laughed. Yes, I laughed out loud and I could not
   calm down. One night was missing namely Mathilde Brahe. The old,
   almost totally blind Serves felt when he came to her place, yet
   offering the bowl out. For a while he remained so, then he met and
   worthy, and as if everything is fine on. I had watched this scene,
   and they came to me at the moment because I saw her, not strange.
   But a while later, when I create a morsel in the mouth stuck, I
   climbed the laughter with such rapidity in the head, that I
   swallowed and caused great noise. And yet this situation was
   annoying myself, but I rely on all kinds of effort, to be serious,
   the laughter was always fits perfectly and kept the dominion over
   me.

My father, like to hide my behavior, inquired, with its broad subdued voice:
"Is Mathilde sick?" The grandfather smiled in his kind, and then replied
with a sentence that I, with myself busy and not achtgab about was:
No, she wishes only to meet Christine. I saw it so as not to impact
those words that my neighbor, Major Brown, stood up and, with an
indistinct muttered an apology and bowing out against the earl, left the
hall. It occurred to me only that he is behind the back of the house
of the Lord in the door again and turned the little Erik and to my great
surprise, suddenly waving and nodding my character did when he called
us to follow him. I was so surprised that my laughter stopped pestering
me. In addition, the Major gave me no further attention, it was
unpleasant to me, and I also noticed that the little Erik ignored
him.

The meal dragged himself further as always, and we had just arrived at
dessert, when my eyes move from one were seized and taken away in
the background of the hall, in the half, was going on. It was after one
thing, as I said, always locked the door from which you had told me that
they are in the mezzanine floor leads, risen, and now, while I
myself with a whole new sense of curiosity and consternation common
sense came into the dark doorway of a lean, hellgekleidete Dame and
came slowly to us.

I do not know if I made a movement or a sound from me was the noise
a falling chair forced me, my eyes from the strange shape of blocks,
and I saw my father, and the wagon was now deathly pale face, with
hanging concentrated attention on the lady received.

They moved, however, of this scene entirely untouched, on us, step
by step, and it was already not far from the place of the count,
as it is raised with a jerk, my father took arms at him at the table
retreated and maintained, while the foreign lady, and teilnahmlos
slowly through the now vacant room passed, step by step, through
indescribable silence, in which only a glass somewhere klirrte
trembling, and a door in the opposite wall of the room disappeared.

In this moment, I noticed that there was little Erik, with a deep
bow this door closed behind the stranger.

I was the only one who remained seated at the table was, I had made
me so hard in my chair, it seemed to me that I could only never
again.

For a while I saw without looking.

Then my father, and I saw that the old him is still on the poor
maintained.

The face of my father was now angry, full of blood, but the
grandfather, his fingers like a white claw gripped my father's arm,
smiled his mask-like smile.

I heard then, as he said, syllable for syllable, without any sense
that I could understand his words.

However, they fell deep into my ear, because about two years ago,
I found it one day down in my memory, and since I know them.

He said: "You're fierce, chamberlain, and impolite.

What makes you people do not go to their jobs?" "Who is that?" cried
my father in between. "Someone who probably has the right to be
here. No stranger. Christine Brahe." - as was again the odd thin silence,
and then the glass started to shake.

But then tore my father with a movement going on and rushed out of the
Saale. I heard him all night in his room, go up and down because I
could not sleep. But suddenly on the morning but I woke up from something
and saw Schlafähnlichem with a horror that I am up to the heart inside
paralyzed, something white, which was sitting on my bed.

My desperation finally gave me the strength to the head under the
blanket stuck there and I started out of fear and Hülflosigkeit to
cry. Suddenly it was cool and bright through my crying eyes, I
squeezed it to see nothing to say about the tears too.

But the voice, which is now very close to me monolingual, was warm
and sweet to my face and I knew it: it was Miss Matilde voice.

I immediately calmed me and let me anyway, even when I was very calm, still
more comforting, although I felt that this kindness is softness, but I
still enjoyed them and thought they somehow deserve to have.

"Aunt," I said finally, and tried in her face zerflossenen trains summarize
my mother: "Aunt, who was the lady?" "Oh," replied the lady with a sigh
Brahe, which seemed strange to me, "an unhappy, my child, an
unhappy.

"On the morning of this day, I noticed in a few rooms served with were
busy packing. I thought that we would travel, I found it quite natural
that we traveled. Perhaps this was also my father's intention. I never
know what prompted him, after that evening on Urnekloster to stay. But
we traveled not. We thought we still have eight weeks or nine in this
House, we endured the pressure of his Oddities, and we saw another three
Christine Brahe. Then I knew nothing of its history. I did not know
that before long, long time in bed her second child had died, a boy
gebährend, to a cruel fate and fear growing up - I did not know
that they had died.

But my father knew it. Had he, who was passionate and on consistency
and clarity is created, forcing itself to in text, and without
asking, this adventure bearable?

I saw, without understanding how he fought with them, I saw it
without having to understand how he is finally defeated.

That was when we Christine Brahe saw for the last time. This time was
also Miss Mathilde appeared on tables, but it was different than usual
As in the first few days after our arrival, she spoke incessantly without
any particular context, and is continually confusing, and was a
physical restlessness in her, she urged, something constantly on
the hair or dress, to, - until she unexpectedly with a high plaintive
cry jumped up and disappeared.

In the same moment my eyes turned involuntarily after some doors, and
really: Christine Brahe entered. My neighbor, the Major, made a fierce,
brief movements that are in my body moves, but he apparently had no more
strength, to rise. His brown, old, stained face turned from one to
another, his mouth was open and the tongue wall behind the teeth
corrupt, then at once was the face of this continued, and his gray
head lay on the tables, and his arms were as in pieces above and
below, and somewhere there was a welke, stained and hand quivered.

And now Christine Brahe went over, step by step, slowly like a sick,
through indescribable silence in which only one wimmernder According
to it sounded like an old dog.

But since pushed to the left of the large silver swan, which was
filled with daffodils, the great mask of the old show with her gray
smile.

He raised his wine glass to my father.

And now, I saw my father, just as Christine Brahe vorüberkam behind
his chair, his glass and took it as something very heavy a hand's breadth
across the table lifted. And yet on this night we traveled.

Bibliothèque Nationale. I sit and read a poet. There are many people in the
room but one senses they are not. You are in the books. Sometimes
they move in the leaves, as people who sleep and turn between two
dreams.

Ah, how good it is, among people to read. Why are not they always?
You can go to a quiet and touch him: he feels nothing. And you have
a neighbor encountered when getting up a little and to excuse you, as
he nods to the page on which he hears your voice, his face turns to you
and sees you not, and his hair is like a hair sleeping. How well
it does. And I sit and have a poet. What a fate.

There are now perhaps three hundred people in the hall, the reading, but
it is impossible that they each have a poet. (God knows what they have.)
Three hundred poets giebt not. But just look what a fate, I, perhaps
the armsäligste of these readers, a foreigner: I have a poet. Although I
am poor.

Although my suit that I wear every day, starts to get some points,
although my shoes are against this and that could argue.

While my collar is pure, even my underwear, and I could as I am, in any
confectionery go, maybe on the major boulevards, and could be safely
in my hand a cake plate and draw a little take. You would not find it
notable, and not scold me, and also, because it is still a handful of
the good community, a handful, four or five times a day washed. Yes, there
is nothing behind the nails, the finger is writing without ink,
and particularly the joints are flawless.

Until there wash poor people do not, this is a known fact.

So you can from their cleanliness certain conclusions.

You put it well. In the shops they attract.
On one occasion Psamtik met him thus with his master, and asked the
latter what could have induced him to initiate a Persian in the Egyptian
mysteries.

"I am only teaching him," answered the high-priest, "what is as well
known to every learned Chaldee in Babylon as to ourselves, and am thereby
gaining the friendship of a man, whose stars as far outshine those of
Cambyses as the sun outshines the moon. This Darius, I tell thee, will be
a mighty ruler. I have even seen the beams of his planet shining over
Egypt. The truly wise man extends his gaze into the future, regards the
objects lying on either side of his road, as well as the road itself.
Thou canst not know in which of the many houses by which thou passest
daily, a future benefactor may not have been reared for thee. Leave
nought unnoticed that lies in thy path, but above all direct thy gaze
upward to the stars. As the faithful dog lies in wait night after night
for thieves, so have I watched these pilgrims of the heavens fifty years
long--these foretellers of the fates of men, burning in ethereal space,
and announcing, not only the return of summer and winter, but the arrival
of good and bad fortune, honor and disgrace. These are the unerring
guides, who have pointed out to me in Darius a plant, that will one day
wax into a mighty tree."

To Bartja, Darius' nightly studies were especially welcome; they
necessitated more sleep in the morning, and so rendered Bartja's stolen
early rides to Naukratis, (on which Zopyrus, to whom he had confided his
secret, accompanied him), easier of accomplishment. During the interviews
with Sappho, Zopyrus and the attendants used all their endeavors to kill
a few snipes, jackals or jerboas. They could then, on their return,
maintain to their Mentor Croesus, that they had been pursuing
fieldsports, the favorite occupation of the Persian nobility.

The change which the power of a first love had wrought in the innermost
character of Bartja, passed unnoticed by all but Tachot, the daughter of
Amasis. From the first day on which they had spoken together she had
loved him, and her quick feelings told her at once that something had
happened to estrange him from herself. Formerly his behavior had been
that of a brother, and he had sought her companionship; but now he
carefully avoided every approach to intimacy, for he had guessed her
secret and felt as if even a kind look would have been an offence against
his loyalty to Sappho.

In her distress at this change Tachot confided her sorrows to Nitetis.
The latter bade her take courage, and the two girls built many a castle
in the air, picturing to themselves the happiness of being always
together at one court, and married to two royal brothers. But as the days
went by, the visits of the handsome prince became more and more rare, and
when he did come, his behavior to Tachot was cold and distant. Yet the
poor girl could not but confess that Bartja had grown handsomer and more
manly during his stay in Egypt. An expression of proud and yet gentle
consciousness lay beaming in his large eyes, and a strange dreamy air of
rest often took the place of his former gay spirits. His cheeks had lost
their brilliant color, but that added to his beauty, while it lessened
hers, who, like him, became paler from day to day.

Melitta, the old slave, had taken the lovers under her protection. She
had surprised them one morning, but the prince had given her such rich
presents, and her darling had begged, flattered and coaxed so sweetly,
that at last Melitta promised to keep their secret, and later, yielding
to that natural impulse which moves all old women to favor lovers, had
even given them every assistance in her power. She already saw her "sweet
child" mistress of a hemisphere, often addressed her as "my Princess" and
"my Queen" when none were by to hear, and in many a weak moment imagined
a brilliant future for herself in some high office at the Persian court.


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     A kind word hath far more power than an angry one
     Abuse not those who have outwitted thee
     Cannot understand how trifles can make me so happy
     Confess I would rather provoke a lioness than a woman
     Curiosity is a woman's vice
     I cannot. . . .  Say rather: I will not
     In this immense temple man seemed a dwarf in his own eyes
     Know how to honor beauty; and prove it by taking many wives
     Mosquito-tower with which nearly every house was provided
     Natural impulse which moves all old women to favor lovers
     Sent for a second interpreter
     Sing their libels on women (Greek Philosophers)
     Those are not my real friends who tell me I am beautiful
     Young Greek girls pass their sad childhood in close rooms


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 4.


CHAPTER XI.

Three days before the time fixed for the departure of Nitetis, Rhodopis
had invited a large number of guests to her house at Naukratis, amongst
whom Croesus and Gyges were included.

The two lovers had agreed to meet in the garden, protected by the
darkness and the old slave, while the guests were occupied at the
banquet. Melitta, therefore, having convinced herself that the guests
were thoroughly absorbed in conversation, opened the garden-gate,
admitted the prince, brought Sappho to him, and then retired, promising
to warn them of any intruder by clapping her hands.

"I shall only have you near me three days longer," whispered Sappho. "Do
you know, sometimes it seems to me as if I had only seen you yesterday
for the first time; but generally I feel as if you had belonged to me for
a whole eternity, and I had loved you all my life."

"To me too it seems as if you had always been mine, for I cannot imagine
how I could ever have existed without you. If only the parting were over
and we were together again!"

"Oh, believe me, that will pass more quickly than you fancy. Of course it
will seem long to wait--very long; but when it is over, and we are
together again, I think it will seem as if we had never been parted. So
it has been with me every day. How I have longed for the morning to come
and bring you with it! but when it came and you were sitting by my side,
I felt as if I had had you all the time and your hand had never left my
head."

"And yet a strange feeling of fear comes over me, when I think of our
parting hour."

"I do not fear it so very much. I know my heart will bleed when you say
farewell, but I am sure you will come back and will not have forgotten
me. Melitta wanted to enquire of the Oracle whether you would remain
faithful; and to question an old woman who has just come from Phrygia and
can conjure by night from drawn cords, with incense, styrax, moon-shaped
cakes, and wild-briar leaves; but I would have none of this, for my heart
knows better than the Pythia, the cords, or the smoke of sacrifice, that
you will be true to me, and love me always."

"And your heart speaks the truth."

"But I have sometimes been afraid; and have blown into a poppy-leaf, and
struck it, as the young girls here do. If it broke with a loud crack I
was very happy, and cried, 'Ah! he will not forget!' but if the leaf tore
without a sound I felt sad. I dare say I did this a hundred times, but
generally the leaf gave the wished-for sound, and I had much oftener
reason to be joyful than sad."

"May it be ever thus!"

"It must be! but dearest, do not speak so loudly; I see Knakias going
down to the Nile for water and he will hear us."

"Well, I will speak low. There, I will stroke back your silky hair and
whisper in your ear 'I love you.' Could you understand?"

"My grandmother says that it is easy to understand what we like to hear;
but if you had just whispered, 'I hate you,' your eyes would have told me
with a thousand glad voices that you loved me. Silent eyes are much more
eloquent than all the tongues in the world."

"If I could only speak the beautiful Greek language as you do, I would.."

"Oh, I am so glad you cannot, for if you could tell me all you feel, I
think you would not look into my eyes so lovingly. Words are nothing.
Listen to the nightingale yonder! She never had the gift of speech and
yet I think I can understand her."

"Will you confide her secret to me? I should like to know what Gulgul, as
we Persians call the nightingale, has to talk about to her mate in the
rose-bush. May you betray her secret?"

"I will whisper it softly. Philomel sings to her mate 'I love thee,' and
he answers, (don't you hear him?), 'Itys, ito, itys.'"

"And what does that mean, 'Ito, ito?'"

"I accept it."

"And Itys?"

"Oh, that must be explained, to be rightly understood. Itys is a circle;
and a circle, I was always taught, is the symbol of eternity, having
neither beginning nor end; so the nightingale sings, 'I accept it for
eternity.'"

"And if I say to you, 'I love thee?'"

"Then I shall answer gladly, like the sweet nightingale, 'I accept it for
to-day, to-morrow, for all eternity!'"

"What a wonderful night it is! everything so still and silent; I do not
even hear the nightingale now; she is sitting in the acacia-tree among
the bunches of sweet blossoms. I can see the tops of the palm-trees in
the Nile, and the moon's reflection between them, glistening like a white
swan."

"Yes, her rays are over every living thing like silver fetters, and the
whole world lies motionless beneath them like a captive woman. Happy as I
feel now, yet I could not even laugh, and still less speak in a loud
voice."

"Then whisper, or sing!"

"Yes, that is the best. Give me a lyre. Thank you. Now I will lean my
head on your breast, and sing you a little, quiet, peaceful song. It was
written by Alkman, the Lydian, who lived in Sparta, in praise of night
and her stillness. You must listen though, for this low, sweet
slumber-song must only leave the lips like a gentle wind. Do not kiss me
any more, please, till I have finished; then I will ask you to thank me
with a kiss:

     "Now o'er the drowsy earth still night prevails,
     Calm sleep the mountain tops and shady vales,
     The rugged cliffs and hollow glens;

     The wild beasts slumber in their dens;
     The cattle on the bill. Deep in the sea
     The countless finny race and monster brood
     Tranquil repose. Even the busy bee
     Forgets her daily toil. The silent wood
     No more with noisy hum of insect rings;
     And all the feathered tribe, by gentle sleep subdued,
     Roost in the glade and hang their drooping wings."
               --Translation by Colonel Mure.

"Now, dearest, where is my kiss?"

"I had forgotten it in listening, just as before I forgot to listen in
kissing."

"You are too bad. But tell me, is not my song lovely?"

"Yes, beautiful, like everything else you sing."

"And the Greek poets write?"

"Yes, there you are right too, I admit."

"Are there no poets in Persia?"

"How can you ask such a question? How could a nation, who despised song,
pretend to any nobility of feeling?"

"But you have some very bad customs."

"Well?"

"You take so many wives."

"My Sappho . . ."

"Do not misunderstand me. I love you so much, that I have no other wish
than to see you happy and be allowed to be always with you. If, by taking
me for your only wife, you would outrage the laws of your country, if you
would thereby expose yourself to contempt, or even blame, (for who could
dare to despise my Bartja!) then take other wives; but let me have you,
for myself alone, at least two, or perhaps even three years. Will you
promise this, Bartja?"

"I will."

"And then, when my time has passed, and you must yield to the customs of
your country (for it will not be love that leads you to bring home a
second wife), then let me be the first among your slaves. Oh! I have
pictured that so delightfully to myself. When you go to war I shall set
the tiara on your head, gird on the sword, and place the lance in your
hand; and when you return a conqueror, I shall be the first to crown you
with the wreath of victory. When you ride out to the chase, mine will be
the duty of buckling on your spurs, and when you go to the banquet, of
adorning and anointing you, winding the garlands of poplar and roses and
twining them around your forehead and shoulders. If wounded, I will be
your nurse; will never stir from your side if you are ill, and when I see
you happy will retire, and feast my eyes from afar on your glory and
happiness. Then perchance you will call me to your side, and your kiss
will say, 'I am content with my Sappho, I love her still.'"

"O Sappho, wert thou only my wife now!--to-day! The man who possesses
such a treasure as I have in thee, will guard it carefully, but never
care to seek for others which, by its side, can only show their miserable
poverty. He who has once loved thee, can never love another: I know it is
the custom in my country to have many wives, but this is only allowed;
there is no law to enjoin it. My father had, it is true, a hundred female
slaves, but only one real, true wife, our mother Kassandane."

"And I will be your Kassandane."

"No, my Sappho, for what you will be to me, no woman ever yet was to her
husband."

"When shall you come to fetch me?"

"As soon as I can, and am permitted to do so."

"Then I ought to be able to wait patiently."

"And shall I ever hear from you?"

"Oh, I shall write long, long letters, and charge every wind with loving
messages for you."

"Yes, do so, my darling; and as to the letters, give them to the
messenger who will bring Nitetis tidings from Egypt from time to time."

"Where shall I find him?"

"I will see that a man is stationed at Naukratis, to take charge of
everything you send to him. All this I will settle with Melitta."

"Yes, we can trust her, she is prudent and faithful; but I have another
friend, who is dearer to me than any one else excepting you, and who
loves me too better than any one else does, but you--"

"You mean your grandmother Rhodopis."

"Yes, my faithful guardian and teacher."

"Ah, she is a noble woman. Croesus considers her the most excellent among
women, and he has studied mankind as the physicians do plants and herbs.
He knows that rank poison lies hidden in some, in others healing
cordials, and often says that Rhodopis is like a rose which, while fading
away herself, and dropping leaf after leaf, continues to shed perfume and
quickening balsam for the sick and weak, and awaits in patience the wind
which at last shall waft her from us."

"The gods grant that she may be with us for a long time yet! Dearest,
will you grant me one great favor?"

"It is granted before I hear it."

"When you take me home, do not leave Rhodopis here. She must come with
us. She is so kind and loves me so fervently, that what makes me happy
will make her so too, and whatever is dear to me, will seem to her worthy
of being loved."

"She shall be the first among our guests."

"Now I am quite happy and satisfied, for I am necessary to my
grandmother; she could not live without her child. I laugh her cares and
sorrows away, and when she is singing to me, or teaching me how to guide
the style, or strike the lute, a clearer light beams from her brow, the
furrows ploughed by grief disappear, her gentle eyes laugh, and she seems
to forget the evil past in the happy present."

"Before we part, I will ask her whether she will follow us home."

"Oh, how glad that makes me! and do you know, the first days of our
absence from each other do not seem so very dreadful to me. Now you are
to be my husband, I may surely tell you everything that pains or pleases
me, even when I dare not tell any one else, and so you must know, that,
when you leave, we expect two little visitors; they are the children of
the kind Phanes, whom your friend Gyges saved so nobly. I mean to be like
a mother to the little creatures, and when they have been good I shall
sing them a story of a prince, a brave hero, who took a simple maiden to
be his wife; and when I describe the prince I shall have you in my mind,
and though my little listeners will not guess it, I shall be describing
you from head to foot. My prince shall be tall like you, shall have your
golden curls and blue eyes, and your rich, royal dress shall adorn his
noble figure. Your generous heart, your love of truth, and your beautiful
reverence for the gods, your courage and heroism, in short, every thing
that I love and honor in you, I shall give to the hero of my tale. How
the children will listen! and when they cry, 'Oh, how we love the prince,
how good and beautiful he must be! if we could only see him? then I shall
press them close to my heart and kiss them as I kiss you now, and so they
will have gained their wish, for as you are enthroned in my heart, you
must be living within me and therefore near to them, and when they
embrace me they will embrace you too."

"And I shall go to my little sister Atossa and tell her all I have seen
on my journey, and when I speak of the Greeks, their grace, their
glorious works of art, and their beautiful women, I shall describe the
golden Aphrodite in your lovely likeness. I shall tell her of your
virtue, your beauty and modesty, of your singing, which is so sweet that
even the nightingale is silent in order to listen to it, of your love and
tenderness. But all this I shall tell her belongs to the divine Cypris,
and when she cries, 'O Aphrodite, could I but see thee!' I too shall kiss
my sister."

"Hark, what was that? Melitta surely clapped her hands. Farewell, we must
not stay! but we shall soon see each other again."

"One more kiss!"

"Farewell!"

Melitta had fallen asleep at her post, overcome by age and weariness. Her
dreams were suddenly disturbed by a loud noise, and she clapped her hands
directly to warn the lovers and call Sappho, as she perceived by the
stars that the dawn was not far off.

As the two approached the house, they discovered that the noise which had
awakened the old slave, proceeded from the guests, who were preparing for
departure.

Urging her to make the greatest haste, Melitta pushed the frightened girl
into the house, took her at once to her sleeping-room, and was beginning
to undress her when Rhodopis entered.

"You are still up, Sappho?" she asked.

"What is this, my child?"

Melitta trembled and had a falsehood ready on her lips, but Sappho,
throwing herself into her grandmother's arms, embraced her tenderly and
told the whole story of her love.

Rhodopis turned pale, ordered Melitta to leave the chamber, and, placing
herself in front of her grandchild, laid both hands on her shoulders and
said earnestly, "Look into my eyes, Sappho. Canst thou look at me as
happily and as innocently, as thou couldst before this Persian came to
us?"

The girl raised her eyes at once with a joyful smile; then Rhodopis
clasped her to her bosom, kissed her and continued: "Since thou wert a
little child my constant effort has been to train thee to a noble
maidenhood and guard thee from the approach of love. I had intended, in
accordance with the customs of our country, to choose a fitting husband
for thee shortly myself, to whose care I should have committed thee; but
the gods willed differently.

   [The Spartans married for love, but the Athenians were accustomed to
   negotiate their marriages with the parents of the bride alone.]

Eros mocks all human efforts to resist or confine him; warm AEolian blood
runs in thy veins and demands love; the passionate heart of thy Lesbian
forefathers beats in thy breast.

   [Charaxus, the grandfather of our heroine, and brother of the
   poetess Sappho, was, as a Lesbian, an AEolian Greek.]

What has happened cannot now be undone. Treasure these happy hours of a
first, pure love; hold them fast in the chambers of memory, for to every
human being there must come, sooner or later, a present so sad and
desolate, that the beautiful past is all he has to live upon. Remember
this handsome prince in silence, bid him farewell when he departs to his
native country, but beware of hoping to see him again. The Persians are
fickle and inconstant, lovers of everything new and foreign. The prince
has been fascinated by thy sweetness and grace. He loves thee ardently
now, but remember, he is young and handsome, courted by every one, and a
Persian. Give him up that he may not abandon thee!"

"But how can I, grandmother? I have sworn to be faithful to him for
ever."

"Oh, children! Ye play with eternity as if it were but a passing moment!
I could blame thee for thus plighting thy troth, but I rejoice that thou
regardest the oath as binding. I detest the blasphemous proverb: 'Zeus
pays no heed to lovers' oaths.' Why should an oath touching the best and
holiest feelings of humanity be regarded by the Deity, as inferior in
importance to asseverations respecting the trifling questions of mine and
thine? Keep thy promise then,--hold fast thy love, but prepare to
renounce thy lover."

"Never, grandmother! could I ever have loved Bartja, if I had not trusted
him? Just because he is a Persian and holds truth to be the highest
virtue, I may venture to hope that he will remember his oath, and,
notwithstanding those evil customs of the Asiatics, will take and keep me
as his only wife."

"But if he should forget, thy youth will be passed in mourning, and with
an embittered heart . . ."

"O, dear kind grandmother, pray do not speak of such dreadful things. If
you knew him as well as I do, you would rejoice with me, and would tell
me I was right to believe that the Nile may dry up and the Pyramids
crumble into ruins, before my Bartja can ever deceive me!"

The girl spoke these words with such a joyful, perfect confidence, and
her eyes, though filled with tears, were so brilliant with happiness and
warmth of feeling, that Rhodopis' face grew cheerful too.

Sappho threw her arms again round her grandmother, told her every word
that Bartja had said to her, and ended the long account by exclaiming:
"Oh, grandmother, I am so happy, so very happy, and if you will come with
us to Persia, I shall have nothing more to wish from the Immortals."

"That will not last long," said Rhodopis. "The gods cast envious glances
at the happiness of mortals; they measure our portion of evil with lavish
hands, and give us but a scanty allowance of good. But now go to bed, my
child, and let us pray together that all may end happily. I met thee this
morning as a child, I part from thee to-night a woman; and, when thou art
a wife, may thy kiss be as joyful as the one thou givest me now.
To-morrow I will talk the matter over with Croesus. He must decide
whether I dare allow thee to await the return of the Persian prince, or
whether I must entreat thee to forget him and become the domestic wife of
a Greek husband. Sleep well, my darling, thy grandmother will wake and
watch for thee."

Sappho's happy fancies soon cradled her to sleep; but Rhodopis remained
awake watching the day dawn, and the sun rise, her mind occupied with
thoughts which brought smiles and frowns across her countenance in rapid
succession.

The next morning she sent to Croesus, begging him to grant her an hour's
interview, acquainted him with every particular she had heard from
Sappho, and concluded her tale with these words: "I know not what demands
may be made on the consort of a Persian king, but I can truly say that I
believe Sappho to be worthy of the first monarch of the world. Her father
was free and of noble birth, and I have heard that, by Persian law, the
descent of a child is determined by the rank of the father only. In
Egypt, too, the descendants of a female slave enjoy the same rights as
those of a princess, if they owe their existence to the same father."

"I have listened to you in silence," answered Croesus, "and must confess,
that, like yourself, I do not know in this moment whether to be glad or
sorry for this attachment. Cambyses and Kassandane (the king's and
Bartja's mother) wished to see the prince married before we left Persia,
for the king has no children, and should he remain childless, the only
hope for the family of Cyrus rests on Bartja, as the great founder of the
Persian empire left but two sons,--Cambyses, and him who is now the
suitor of your granddaughter. The latter is the hope and pride of the
entire Persian nation, high and low; the darling of the people; generous,
and noble, handsome, virtuous, and worthy of their love. It is indeed
expected that the princes shall marry in their own family, the
Achaemenidae; but the Persians have an unbounded predilection for
everything foreign. Enchanted with the beauty of your granddaughter, and
rendered indulgent by their partiality for Bartja, they would easily
forgive this breach of an ancient custom. Indeed, if the king gives his
approval, no objection on the part of his subjects can be entertained.
The history of Iran too offers a sufficient number of examples, in which
even slaves became the mothers of kings. The queen mother, whose
position, in the eyes of the people, is nearly as high as that of the
monarch himself, will do nothing to thwart the happiness of her youngest
and favorite son. When she sees that he will not give up Sappho,--that
his smiling face, in which she adores the image of her great husband
Cyrus, becomes clouded, I verily believe she would be ready to sanction
his taking even a Scythian woman to wife, if it could restore him to
cheerfulness. Neither will Cambyses himself refuse his consent if his
mother press the point at a right moment."

"In that case every difficulty is set aside," cried Rhodopis joyfully.

"It is not the marriage itself, but the time that must follow, which
causes me uneasiness," answered Croesus.

"Do you think then that Bartja . . .?"

"From him I fear nothing. He has a pure heart, and has been so long proof
against love, that now he has once yielded, he will love long and
ardently."

"What then do you fear?"

"You must remember that, though the charming wife of their favorite will
be warmly received by all his friends of his own sex, there are thousands
of idle women in the harems of the Persian nobles, who will endeavor, by
every artifice and intrigue in their power, to injure the newly-risen
star; and whose greatest joy it will be to ruin such an inexperienced
child and make her unhappy."

"You have a very bad opinion of the Persian women."

"They are but women, and will naturally envy her, who has gained the
husband they all desired either for themselves or for their daughters. In
their monotonous life, devoid of occupation, envy easily becomes hatred,
and the gratification of these evil passions is the only compensation
which the poor creatures can obtain for the total absence of love and
loss of freedom. I repeat, the more beautiful Sappho is, the more
malicious they will feel towards her, and, even if Bartja should love her
so fervently as not to take a second wife for two or three years, she
will still have such heavy hours to encounter, that I really do not know
whether I dare congratulate you on her apparently brilliant future."

"That is quite my own feeling. A simple Greek would be more welcome to me
than this son of a mighty monarch."

In this moment Knakias brought Bartja into the room. He went to Rhodopis
at once, besought her not to refuse him the hand of her granddaughter,
spoke of his ardent love, and assured her that his happiness would be
doubled, if she would consent to accompany them to Persia. Then turning
to Croesus, he seized his hand and entreated forgiveness for having so
long concealed his great happiness from one who had been like a father to
him, at the same time begging him to second his suit with Rhodopis.

The old man listened to the youth's passionate language with a smile, and
said: "Ah, Bartja, how often have I warned thee against love! It is a
scorching fire."

"But its flame is bright and beautiful."

"It causes pain."

"But such pain is sweet."

"It leads the mind astray."

"But it strengthens the heart."

"Oh, this love!" cried Rhodopis. "Inspired by Eros, the boy speaks as if
he had been all his life studying under an Attic orator!"

"And yet," answered Croesus, "these lovers are the most unteachable of
pupils. Convince them as clearly as you will, that their passion is only
another word for poison, fire, folly, death, they still cry, 'Tis sweet,'
and will not be hindered in their course."

As he was speaking Sappho came in. A white festal robe, with wide
sleeves, and borders of purple embroidery, fell in graceful folds round
her delicate figure, and was confined at the waist by a golden girdle.
Her hair was adorned with fresh roses, and on her bosom lay her lover's
first gift, the flashing diamond star.

She came up modestly and gracefully, and made a low obeisance to the aged
Croesus. His eyes rested long on the maidenly and lovely countenance, and
the longer he gazed the kindlier became his gaze. For a moment he seemed
to grow young again in the visions conjured up by memory, and
involuntarily he went up to the young girl, kissed her affectionately on
the forehead, and, taking her by the hand, led her to Bartja with the
words: "Take her, thy wife she must be, if the entire race of the
Achaemenidae were to conspire against us!"

"Have I no voice in the matter?" said Rhodopis, smiling through her
tears.

On hearing these words, Bartja and Sappho each took one of her hands, and
gazed entreatingly into her face. She rose to her full stature, and like
a prophetess exclaimed: "Eros, who brought you to each other, Zeus and
Apollo defend and protect you. I see you now like two fair roses on one
stem, loving and happy in the spring of life. What summer, autumn and
winter may have in store for you, lies hidden with the gods. May the
shades of thy departed parents, Sappho, smile approvingly when these
tidings of their child shall reach them in the nether world."

        .................................

Three days later a densely packed crowd was once more surging round the
Sais landing-place. This time they had assembled to bid a last farewell
to their king's daughter, and in this hour the people gave clear tokens
that, in spite of all the efforts of the priestly caste, their hearts
remained loyal to their monarch and his house. For when Amasis and Ladice
embraced Nitetis for the last time with tears--when Tachot, in presence
of all the inhabitants of Sais, following her sister down the broad
flight of steps that led to the river, threw her arms round her neck once
more and burst into sobs--when at last the wind filled the sails of the
royal boat and bore the princess, destined to be the great king's bride,
from their sight, few eyes among that vast crowd remained dry.

The priests alone looked on at this sad scene with unmoved gravity and
coldness; but when the south wind at last bore away the strangers who had
robbed them of their princess, many a curse and execration followed from
the Egyptians on the shore; Tachot alone stood weeping there and waving
her veil to them. For whom were these tears? for the play-fellow of her
youth, or for the handsome, beloved prince?

Amasis embraced his wife and daughter in the eyes of all his people; and
held up his little grandson, Prince Necho, to their gaze, the sight
eliciting cries of joy on all sides. But Psamtik, the child's own father,
stood by the while, tearless and motionless. The king appeared not to
observe him, until Neithotep approached, and leading him to his father,
joined their hands and called down the blessing of the gods upon the
royal house.

At this the Egyptians fell on their knees with uplifted hands. Amasis
clasped his son to his heart, and when the high-priest had concluded his
prayer, the following colloquy between the latter and Amasis took place
in low tones:

"Let peace be between us for our own and Egypt's sake!"

"Hast thou received Nebenchari's letter?"

"A Samian pirate-vessel is in pursuit of Phanes' trireme."

"Behold the child of thy predecessor Hophra, the rightful heiress of the
Egyptian throne, departing unhindered to a distant land!"

"The works of the Greek temple now building in Memphis shall be
discontinued."

"May Isis grant us peace, and may prosperity and happiness increase in
our land!"

          ............................

The Greek colonists in Naukratis had prepared a feast to celebrate the
departure of their protector's daughter.

Numerous animals had been slaughtered in sacrifice on the altars of the
Greek divinities, and the Nile-boats were greeted with a loud cry of
"Ailinos" on their arrival in the harbor.

A bridal wreath, composed of a hoop of gold wound round with scented
violets, was presented to Nitetis by a troop of young girls in holiday
dresses, the act of presentation being performed by Sappho, as the most
beautiful among the maidens of Naukratis.

On accepting the gift Nitetis kissed her forehead in token of gratitude.
The triremes were already waiting; she went on board, the rowers took
their oars and began the Keleusma.

   [The measure of the Keleusma was generally given by a flute-player,
   the Trieraules. AEschylus, Persians 403. Laert. Diog. IV. 22. In
   the Frogs of Aristophanes the inhabitants of the marshes are made to
   sing the Keleusma, v. 205. The melody, to the measure of which the
   Greek boatmen usually timed their strokes.]

Ailinos rang across the water from a thousand voices. Bartja stood on the
deck, and waved a last loving farewell to his betrothed; while Sappho
prayed in silence to Aphrodite Euploia, the protectress of those who go
down to the sea in ships. A tear rolled down her cheek, but around her
lips played a smile of love and hope, though her old slave Melitta, who
accompanied her to carry her parasol, was weeping as if her heart would
break. On seeing, however, a few leaves fall from her darling's wreath,
she forgot her tears for a moment and whispered softly: "Yes, dear heart,
it is easy to see that you are in love; when the leaves fall from a
maiden's wreath, 'tis a sure sign that her heart has been touched by
Eros.


CHAPTER XII.

Seven weeks after Nitetis had quitted her native country, a long train of
equipages and horsemen was to be seen on the king's highway from the west
to Babylon, moving steadily towards that gigantic city, whose towers
might already be descried in the far distance.

   [The great road called the "king's road," of which we shall have
   more to say, was made by Cyrus and carefully kept up by Darius.]

The principal object in this caravan was a richly-gilded, four-wheeled
carriage, closed in at the sides by curtains, and above by a roof
supported on wooden pillars. In this vehicle, called the Harmamaxa,
resting on rich cushions of gold brocade, sat our Egyptian Princess.

   [Harmamaxa--An Asiatic travelling carriage. The first mention of
   these is in Xenophon's Anabasis, where we find a queen travelling in
   such a vehicle. They were later adopted by the Romans and used for
   the same object.]

On either side rode her escort, viz.: the Persian princes and nobles whom
we have already learnt to know during their visit to Egypt, Croesus and
his son.

Behind these, a long train, consisting of fifty vehicles of different
kinds and six hundred beasts of burden, stretched away into the distance,
and the royal carriage was preceded by a troop of splendidly-mounted
Persian cavalry.

The high-road followed the course of the Euphrates, passing through
luxuriant fields of wheat, barley and sesame yielding fruit two, and
sometimes even three, hundred-fold. Slender date-palms covered with
golden fruit were scattered in every direction over the fields, which
were thoroughly irrigated by means of canals and ditches.

It was winter, but the sun shone warm and bright from a cloudless sky.
The mighty river swarmed with craft of all sizes, either transporting the
products of Upper Armenia to the plains of Mesopotamia, or the wares of
Greece and Asia Minor from Thapsakus to Babylon.

   [Thapsakus--An important commercial town on the Euphrates, and the
   point of observation from which Eratosthenes took his measurements
   of the earth.]

Pumps and water-wheels poured refreshing streams over the thirsty land,
and pretty villages ornamented the shores of the river. Indeed every
object gave evidence that our caravan was approaching the metropolis of a
carefully governed and civilized state.

Nitetis and her retinue now halted at a long brick house, roofed with
asphalte, and surrounded by a grove of plane-trees.

   [Asphalte--Nearly all authorities, ancient as well as modern, report
   that bitumen, which is still plentifully found in the neighborhood
   of Babylon, was used by the Babylonians as mortar. See, besides the
   accounts of ancient writers, W. Vaux, 'Nineveh and Persepolis'.
   Burnt bitumen was used by Assyrians for cement in building.]

Here Croesus was lifted from his horse, and approaching the carriage,
exclaimed: "Here we are at length at the last station! That high tower
which you see on the horizon is the celebrated temple of Bel, next to the
Pyramids, one of the most gigantic works ever constructed by human hands.
Before sunset we shall have reached the brazen gates of Babylon. And now
I would ask you to alight, and let me send your maidens into the house;
for here you must put on Persian apparel, to appear well-pleasing in the
eyes of Cambyses. In a few hours you will stand before your future
husband. But you are pale! Permit your maidens to adorn your cheeks with
a color that shall look like the excitement of joy. A first impression is
often a final one, and this is especially true with regard to Cambyses.
If, which I doubt not, you are pleasing in his eyes at first, then you
have won his love for ever; but if you should displease him to-day he
will never look kindly on you again, for he is rough and harsh. But take
courage, my daughter, and above all, do not forget the advice I have
given you." Nitetis dried her tears as she answered: "How can I ever
thank you, O Croesus, my second father, my protector and adviser, for all
your goodness? Oh, forsake me not in the days to come! and if the path of
my life should lead through grief and care, be near to help and guide me
as you did on the mountain-passes of this long and dangerous journey. A
thousand times I thank thee, O my father!"

And, as she said these words, the young girl threw her arms around the
old man's neck and kissed him tenderly.

On entering the court-yard, a tall stout man, followed by a train of
Asiatic serving-maidens, came forward to meet them. This was Boges, the
chief of the eunuchs, an important official at the Persian court. His
beardless face wore a smile of fulsome sweetness; in his ears hung costly
jewelled pendents; his neck, arms, legs and his effeminately long
garments glittered all over with gold chains and rings, and his crisp,
stiff curls, bound round by a purple fillet, streamed with powerful and
penetrating perfumes.

Making a low and reverential obeisance before Nitetis, and holding, the
while, his fat hands overloaded with rings before his mouth, he thus
addressed her: "Cambyses, lord of the world, hath sent me to thee, O
Queen, that I may refresh thy heart with the dew of his salutations. He
sendeth thee likewise by me, even by me the lowest of his servants,
Persian raiment, that thou, as befitteth the consort of the mightiest of
all rulers, mayest approach the gates of the Achaemenidae in Median
garments. These women whom thou seest are thy handmaidens, and only await
thy bidding to transform thee from an Egyptian jewel into a Persian
pearl."

The master of the caravansary then appeared, bearing, in token of
welcome, a basket of fruits arranged with great taste.

Nitetis returned her thanks to both these men in kind and friendly words;
then entering the house laid aside the dress and ornaments of her native
land, weeping as she did so, allowed the strangers to unloose the plait
of hair which hung down at the left side of her head, and was the
distinctive mark of an Egyptian princess, and to array her in Median
garments.

   [In almost all the Egyptian pictures, the daughters and sons of the
   Pharaohs are represented with these locks of hair, plaited and
   reaching from the forehead to the neck. Rosellini, Mon. stor. II.
   123. Lepsius, Denkmaler. The daughter of Rameses II. is drawn
   thus, and we have examples of the same in many other pictures.]

In the meantime, a repast had been commanded by the princes who
accompanied her. Eager and agile attendants rushed to the
baggage-waggons, fetching thence, in a few moments, seats, tables, and
golden utensils of all kinds. The cooks vied with them and with each
other, and as if by magic, in a short space of time a richly-adorned
banquet for the hungry guests appeared, at which even the flowers were
not wanting.

During the entire journey our travellers had lived in a similar luxury,
as their beasts of burden carried every imaginable convenience, from
tents of water-proof materials inwrought with gold, down to silver
foot-stools; and in the vehicles which composed their train were not only
bakers, cooks, cup-bearers and carvers, but perfumers, hair-dressers and
weavers of garlands. Beside these conveniences, a well-fitted up
caravansary, or inn, was to be found about every eighteen miles along the
whole route, where disabled horses could be replaced, the plantations
around which afforded a refreshing shelter from the noonday heat, or
their hearths a refuge from the snow and cold on the mountain-passes.

The kingdom of Persia was indebted for these inns (similar to the
post-stations of modern days) to Cyrus, who had endeavored to connect the
widely-distant provinces of his immense dominions by a system of
well-kept roads, and a regular postal service. At each of these stations
the horseman carrying the letter-bag was relieved by a fresh man on a
fresh steed, to whom the letters were transferred, and who, in his turn,
darted off like the wind, to be again replaced at a similar distance by
another rider. These couriers, called Angari, were considered the
swiftest horsemen in the world.

   [Herodotus V. 14. 49-52. Persian milestones are still to be found
   among the ruins of the old king's road, which led from Nineveh to
   Ecbatana. The Kurds call them keli-Shin (blue pillars).]

Just as the banqueters, amongst whom Boges had taken his seat, were
rising from table, the door opened, and a vision appeared, which drew
prolonged exclamation of surprise from all the Persians present. Nitetis,
clad in the glorious apparel of a Median princess, proud in the
consciousness of her triumphant beauty, and yet blushing like a young
girl at the wondering admiration of her friends, stood before them.

The attendants involuntarily fell on their faces before her, according to
the custom of the Asiatics, and the noble Achaemenidae bowed low and
reverentially; for it seemed as if Nitetis has laid aside all her former
bashfulness and timidity with her simple Egyptian dress, and with the
splendid silken garments of a Persian princess, flashing as they were
with gold and jewels, had clothed herself in the majesty of a queen.

The deep reverence paid by all present seemed agreeable to her, and
thanking her admiring friends by a gracious wave of the hand, she turned
to the chief of the eunuchs and said in a kind tone but mingled with a
touch of pride; "Thou hast performed thy mission well; I am content with
the raiment and the slaves that thou hast provided and shall commend thy
circumspection to the king, my husband. Receive this gold chain in the
meanwhile, as a token of my gratitude."

The eunuch kissed the hem of her garment, and accepted the gift in
silence. This man, hitherto omnipotent in his office, had never before
encountered such pride in any of the women committed to his charge. Up to
the present time all Cambyses' wives had been Asiatics, and, well aware
of the unlimited power of the chief of the eunuchs, had used every means
within their reach to secure his favor by flattery and submission.

Boges now made a second obeisance before Nitetis, of which, however, she
took no notice, and turning to Croesus said: "Neither words nor gifts
could ever suffice to express my gratitude to you, kindest of friends,
for, if my future life at the court of Persia prove, I will not venture
to say a happy, but even a peaceful one, it is to you alone that I shall
owe it. Still, take this ring. It has never left my finger since I
quitted Egypt, and it has a significance far beyond its outward worth.
Pythagoras, the noblest of the Greeks, gave it to my mother, when he was
tarrying in Egypt to learn the wisdom of our priests, and it was her
parting gift to me. The number seven is engraved upon the simple stone.
This indivisible number represents perfect health, both to soul and body
for health is likewise one and indivisible.

   [Seven, the "motherless" number, which has no factor below ten.]

The sickness of one member is the sickness of all; one evil thought,
allowed to take up its abode within our heart, destroys the entire
harmony of the soul. When you see this seven therefore, let it recall my
heart's wish that you may ever enjoy undisturbed bodily health, and long
retain that loving gentleness which has made you the most virtuous, and
therefore the healthiest of men. No thanks, my father, for even if I
could restore to Croesus all the treasures that he once possessed, I
should still retrain his debtor. Gyges, to you I give this Lydian lyre;
let its tones recall the giver to your memory. For you, Zopyrus, I have a
golden chain; I have witnessed that you are the most faithful of friends;
and we Egyptians are accustomed to place cords and bands in the hands of
our lovely Hathor, the goddess of love and friendship, as symbols of her
captivating and enchaining attributes. As Darius has studied the wisdom
of Egypt and the signs of the starry heavens, I beg him to take this
circlet of gold, on which a skilful hand has traced the signs of the
Zodiac.

   [Diodorus (I. 49.) tells, that in the tomb of Osymandyas (palace of
   Rameses II. at Thebes) there lay a circle of gold, one ell thick and
   365 ells in circumference, containing a complete astronomical
   calendar. The circle of the zodiac from Dendera, which is now in
   Paris,--an astronomical ceiling painting, which was believed at the
   time of its discovery to be of great age, is not nearly so ancient
   as was supposed, dating only from the end of the Ptolemaic dynasty.
   Letronne was the first to estimate it correctly. See Lepsius,
   Chron. p.63. and Lauth, 'les zodiaques de Dendera'. Munich 1865.]

And lastly, to my dear brother-in-law Bartja I commit the most precious
jewel in my possession--this amulet of blue stone. My sister Tachot hung
it round my neck as I kissed her on the last night before we parted; she
told me it could bring to its wearer the sweet bliss of love. And then,
Bartja, she wept! I do not know of whom she was thinking in that moment,
but I hope I am acting according to her wishes in giving you her precious
jewel. Take it as a gift from Tachot, and sometimes call to mind our
games in the Sais gardens."

( "Yes, shall -," he said.) But it was not him unlieb if the people he
told of his daughters, he listened carefully, as they lived in another
city. It was therefore quite extraordinary that he once after breakfast
Abelone to be waved: "We have the same habits, it seems, I write very
early. You can help me." Abelone knew it even as yesterday. Even the next
morning she was in her father's cabinet resulted in the inaccessibility
of the call stood.

She had not time to look at it, because you put them immediately
against the Count over to the desk, who seemed like a level with books
and writing as clashes villages.

The Count dictated. Those who claimed that Count Brahe write his memoirs,
was not entirely wrong. Only that it is not political or military memories
was how eagerly awaited. "The forget me," said the old man briefly
when someone responds to him such facts out anredete. What he wanted but
not forgotten, that was his childhood. When he held. And it was all in
order, he believes that those very distant time now he has won the upper
hand, that, when he went looking inwards, like lying in a Nordic bright
summer night, and increased insomnia. Sometimes he and talked in the
candle inside, that it flickering. Or complete sentences had again
crossed out, and then he went back and forth violently and blew his
nilgrünen, silk dressing gown. While all this was another person present,
Sten, the old earl, Jutland Chamber servant whose job it was when the
grandfather jumped up, her hands quickly over the loose sheets, which,
covered with notes on the tables herumlagen. His Grace had the idea
that the present paper does not fit that it was far too easily and fly
them at the slightest opportunity. And Sten, which is only the upper
half saw a long, shared this suspicion and almost sat on his hands, light
and serious blindly like a night bird. This Sten spent Sunday afternoons
in order, to read Swedenborg, and none of the servants would have ever
may enter his room because it meant that he quote. The family had been
Stens ever had dealings with spirits, and Sten for this movement was very
predetermined. His mother was something appeared in the night,
because she gave birth.

He had big, round eyes, and the other end of his gaze came to lie behind
each, so that was it. Abelonens father asked him often to the spirits, how
to somebody else after his relatives asked: "Come, Sten?" he said
benevolently. "It's good when they come." A few days went dictating
its course. But he could Abelone 'Eckernförde' unable to write.
It was a proper name, and she had never heard of him. The count, which
is basically a pretext for a long time looking up the letter, which was
too slow for his recollections was unwilling. "She can not write," he
said sharply, "and others will not read them. And will they see it at
all, because what I say? " he was angry and continued Abelone not
out of sight.

   "Will they see it, this Saint-Germain?" he screamed at her. "Do
   we have said Saint-Germain? stroked it through. Write: the Marquis
   of Belmare." Abelone stressed and wrote. But Graf said so quickly
   that you can not mitkonnte.

"He loved children do not suffer from this excellent Belmare, but he took
me on his knee, I was so small, and the idea came to me in his diamond
buttons to bite. The pleased him. He laughed and lifted my head, until
we see each other in the eye were: 'You have excellent teeth,' he
said, 'teeth, the ...'-- anything but I noticed his eyes to me. I
am later here and there herumgekommen. I've seen all sorts of eyes, you
can believe me: those are not back. For these eyes would not be
there, which had in it. You've heard of Venice? Good. I tell you, had the
Venice hereingesehen here in this room that there would have been, as the
table. I sat in the corner again, and heard my father as he told of
Persia, sometimes I have my, my hands smell like this. My father appreciated
it, and His Highness the Landgrave, was such a thing as his student.

But there was obviously enough to him übelnahmen that he believed the past
only if it was in him. That they could not understand that stuff only
has meaning, so that if one is born. "" The books are empty, "cried the
Count with a furious gesture after the walls out," the blood, that is what
counts, because it must be able to read. He had wonderful stories in it
and weird illustrations, this Belmare; he could hit where he wanted,
there was always something described, neither side in his blood was
thick and had been. And if it is included from time to time and it scrolls
alone, then he came to the authorities about the making of gold
and the stones and the colors.

Why should not it have been? It is safe somewhere. "" He had a way with
truth can live this man if he would have been alone. But it was no small
thing, being alone with this. And he was not so distasteful, invite the
people that she visited with his truth, which should not come to talk:
about this, he was far too much Orientale. 'Adieu, Madame,' he said it
truthfully, 'on another time Maybe one in a thousand years, something
meaningful and undisturbed.

Their beauty is yes but only in Be, Madame,' he said, and this was no mere
courtesy. Thus, he continued, and laid out for the people in his zoo, a
sort of Jardin d'Acclimatation for the larger types of lies, with us you
have never seen before, and an exaggeration of the Palm House and a
small, well-kept secrets Figuerie wrong. Since they came from all
sides, and he went around with diamond buckles on their shoes and was
very famous for its guests. "" A superficial existence: how?

Basically wars but chivalry against his queen, and he is quite conserved.
"Since a while already talked the old man no longer on Abelone that he
had forgotten. He went berserk as up and down and threw glances at
challenging Sten as if in a Sten certain moments in turn, to whom he
thought. But Sten turned yet. "You should see him," went crazy
Count Brahe continued.

"There was a time when he was quite visible, although in some cities
the letters he received, were directed to anyone: it was only the
place that, nothing else.

But I've seen him. "" He was not nice. "The Count smiled peculiarly
hurry." Not what people call or significantly refined: there were always
noble next to him.

He was rich but that was with him just like an invasion, it could
not hold.

He was well grown, although others were better. Then of course I could
not judge whether he was witty and this and this is what is valued -:
but he was.

"The Count, trembling, stood and made a motion, as he put something into
the room, which remained . At that moment he saw Abelone. "You see
him?" he was at her. And suddenly he took a silver candelabrum, and it
shone brilliantly in the face. Abelone remembered that she had seen
him. In the next few days was Abelone regularly called, and the dictation
after this incident was much more quiet. The Count has all kinds
of papers under his earliest memories of the circle together Bernstorffschen
in which his father played a role.

   Abelone was now so good on the specifics of their work set that
   the two who saw their share slightly useful for a real familiarity
   could take.

Once when Abelone already wanted to retire, the old gentleman came up to
them, and it was when he thought the hands with a surprise behind him:
"Tomorrow, we write by Julie Reventlow," he said, and cost his
words: "That was a saint." Abelone probably looked at him incredulously.
"Yes, yes, it giebt everything yet," he was in command tone,
"it giebt everything Komtesse Abel. "He took Abelonens hands and
beat them like a book." She had the stigmata, "he said," here and here.
"And he typed with his cold fingers hard and short in her two palms.

The expression Stigmata knew Abelone not. It will show that she thought
it was quite impatient, of Saints to hear that her father had seen
yet.

But it was not called in, not the next morning and not later .- "From the
Countess Reventlow is yes then you have often been spoken," concluded
Abelone short, when I asked, more to tell.

She looked tired, but she claimed, the most to have forgotten. "But
the places I still feel sometimes, "she smiled, and could not leave
and almost looked curiously at her empty hands.

Even before my father's death, everything was different. Ulsgaard was no
longer in our possession. My father died in the city, in an apartment
that I feindsälig and seemed strange. I was already abroad, and came too
late. He was laying out in a Hofzimmer between two rows of candles high.
The smell of flowers was unclear how many simultaneous voices. His
beautiful face is the eyes were closed, had a polite expression of
remembrance. He was the Jägermeister eingekleidet in uniform, but for
some reason had the white band set up, instead of the blue.

The hands were not folded, they were diagonally over each other and
looked after, and from useless. I was quickly told that he had suffered a
lot: it was nothing to see. Its trains were tidy as the furniture in a
rented rooms, from which someone had left. I had felt as if I had him
dead more often seen as good, I knew it all. New was only the environment,
to an unpleasant New Art was this oppressive room, opposite the window
was probably the windows of other people. New was the fact that Sieversen
from time to time came and nothing did. Sieversen was old. Then I have
breakfast.

Several times my breakfast was reported. I was absolutely nothing, to have
breakfast on this day. I noticed does not mean that you have wanted
me to continue and finally, because I was not brought Sieversen somehow
found that the doctors there. I could not understand why. It would be
something to do, said Sieversen and looked at me with red eyes strained
to. Then came, somewhat hastily, two men inside: these were the doctors.
The front lowered his head with a jerk, as if he had horns and wanted
to come to us through his glasses continue to be: first Sieversen,
then me.

He bowed to student formality. "The Lord Jägermeister had a wish,"
he said, just as it had occurred, we again had the feeling that he was
hasty. I somehow coerced him, his gaze through his glasses to judge. His
colleague was a resounding, dünnschaliger, blonde man, it occurred to
me that he easily could bring to the blushing.

There was a pause. It was strange that the Jägermeister now wishes had.
I involuntarily looked again to the beautiful, smooth face.

And since I knew that he wanted security. The reason he had always wanted.
Now he should get it. "They are due to heart Stichs since: please." I
bowed and took me back. The two doctors at the same time, bowed
and began immediately to discuss their work with ease. Someone even brought
the candles aside. But the Elder was again a few steps towards me. From
a certain closeness he stretched himself to the last way to save,
and looked angry at me.

"It is not necessary," he said, "so I think it is perhaps better if you
... "He was neglected and worn out to me before in his prudent and hasty
attitude. I bowed myself again and it did so, that I bowed again.

          "Thanks," I said almost.

"I will not disturb." I knew that I would tolerate this and that there was
no reason to withdraw this case. The need had come. That was perhaps the
sense of the whole.

Also, I had never seen how it is when someone stung through the chest
is. It seemed to me in order to reach such a strange experience
not to reject, where they casually and necessarily materialize. In
frustration I felt at that time already no longer, so there was nothing
to fear. No, no, you can imagine, nothing in the world, not the slightest.
There is everything from details as much single compound, which can not
foresee. In imagine you go through it away and not notice that they are
missing, how fast you are. The realities, however, are slow and
indescribably detailed. Who would have thought, for example,
resistance to this thought.

   Hardly had the broad, high chest exposed, he had hurried to the
   little man has the authority issued to it was. But that quickly
   recognized instrument not penetrated. I had the feeling, as
   if suddenly all the time away from the room. We were like in a
   picture. But then rushed the post with a small rolling noise, and
there was more there than it consumed.

All at once knocked it somewhere. I had never been so knocking hear a
warm, sealed, double knock. I heard there were more, and I also saw
that the doctor was pushed on. But it took a while before the two impressions
came together in me. So, so, I thought, now it is through. The beating
was what the pace is concerned, almost gleeful. I saw the man in me,
which I now knew for so long. No, he was totally dominated a fast and
factual working gentleman who had more equal.

There was no trace of pleasure or satisfaction there. Only on his left
temple had set up a few hairs from some ancient instinct. He moved
cautiously back the instrument, and it was something like a mouth since,
from the blood twice austrat, as he said two-something. The young, blonde
doctor took it quickly with a smart move on his cotton. And now the wound
has remained quiet, like a closed eye. It is likely that I bowed again,
this time without the right to be the case. At least I was surprised to
find myself alone. Someone had the uniforms back in order, and the white
band was about as before. But now the hunter was dead and he is not
alone. Now the heart was pierced our hearts, the heart of our gender.
Now it was gone. So that was the Helmzerbrechen: "Today, Briggs and never",
said something in me. In my heart I thought not. And as I later einfiel,
for the first time I knew certainly that it is not in question
came from. It was a single heart. It was already in the process from
start to start. I know that I einbildete not immediately leave them. First
everything must be sorted, I repeated myself. What sort of wanted to,
I was not clear. There was virtually nothing to do. I went around the
city and stated that they had changed. It was pleasant to me, from
the hotel hinauszutreten where I dismounted, and to see that it
is a city for adults was to opt for a zusammennahm, almost like a
stranger.

A little bit of everything was, and I promenierte the long line out to
the lighthouse and back. If I were in the area of Amaliengade came, so
it could certainly happen that somewhere something out of what you had
for years recognized and what its power once again attempted. There was
some Eckfenster or archway or lanterns, which knew a lot of one and
thus threatened.

   I saw them in the face and let them feel that I am at the Hotel
   'Phoenix' lived every moment and was able to travel again. But my
   conscience was not quiet there. The suspicion grew in me that
   none of these influences and relationships really been tackled.
   We had one day they secretly left unfinished as they
   were. Also, the childhood would somehow have to be when they are
   not lost for ever wanted. And while I understood how I lost it, I
   also felt that I never otherwise would have to rely on me. A few
   hours a day, I brought in Dronningens Tvaergade too, in the narrow
   rooms, which looked like all offended Mietswohnungen, in which
someone died.

I walked between the desks and the big white stove back and forth and
burned the papers of Jägermeister. I had started the Stationery, just as
they were tied together, thrown into the fire, but the small packages
were too tight verschnürt and only charred at the edges. It cost me
overcome them loose. Most had a strong, convincing scent, which invaded
on me, as he wanted in me memories upset. I had none. Then it could
happen that herausglitten photographs, which were heavier than the other,
these photographs burned incredibly slow.

I do not know how it came, I suddenly formed, it could Inge Borgs
including his picture. But whenever I common sense, it was ripe,
magnificent, beautiful women much, which I thought led to another. It
proved in fact that I have not been completely without reminders.

Precisely such eyes were there, which I sometimes thought if I, at
the time as I growing up, my father went on the road. Then they could
from a car interior from me with a glance around the little
hinauszukommen was. Now I knew that she was with me compared to him and
that the comparison is not in my favor modest. Certainly not to make
comparisons, the Jägermeister not fear. It may be something that I now
know what he has feared. I want to say how I come to this assumption.
Quite inside his wallet was a paper long since folded, crumbly, broken
in the Büge. I've read it before I burned it.

It was from his best hand, safely and smoothly written, but I noticed
immediately that there was only one copy. "Three hours before his death,"
as it began and negotiated by the Christian Fourth. I can understand
the content of course not literally repeat.

   Three hours before his death, he sought to get up. The doctor and the
   valet Wormius helped him on his feet. He was a little unsure,
   but he stood, and she pulled him quilted dress at night. Then he
   suddenly at the front end of the bed and said something. It was
   impossible to understand. The doctor always kept his left hand so
   that the king is not on the bed zurücksinke. So she sat, and the
   king said from time to time, the tedious and dull Incomprehensible.

Finally, the doctor began attributed to him, he hoped gradually to
guess what the King said. After a while, interrupted him and said the
king at once quite clear: "O, Doctor, Doctor, how is he?" The doctor
had trouble to reflect. "Sperling, Allergnädigster King." But it really
did not. The king, when he heard that he understood, tore the right
eye, which he had remained, far up and said with her whole face is a
word that his tongue for hours formed, the only one that is still there:
" Doedens, "he said," Doedens. " (Death, death) was not more on the
sheet. I read it several times before I burned it. And it occurred
to me that my father had suffered a lot last. So you had told me.
Since I learned a lot about the fear of death to reflect, not without
some personal experience to be considered. I think I can probably tell, I
have felt it. They attacked me in the full city, among the people,
often without reason.

Often, however, accumulated the causes, for example, if someone went to
a bank and all stood around and watched him, and he was already
on the fear beyond then, I had his fear.

Or in Naples at that time: because this young person sat opposite me in
the electric train and died. First it looked like a faint, we even drove
for a while. But then there was no doubt that we had to stand still.
And we stood behind the wagons and dams, when it is in this direction
ever further. The pale, thick girls would be, based on its neighbor, could
die quietly. But her mother was not. They prepared it with all possible
difficulties.

They brought their clothes in disarray and poured something into her
mouth, which no longer maintained.

You verrieb on her forehead a liquid that someone had brought, and
if the eyes then a little verrollten, so she began to shake her so
that the view would return to the front.

They screamed into the eye into it, not heard, they tugged and pulled the
whole thing like a doll back and forth, and finally brought them
out and struck with all her strength into the thick face, so it
will not die.

At that time I was afraid. But I am also feared earlier. For example,
when my dog died. The same, of me and for all accused. He was very sick.
I knelt with him have the whole day, as he barked suddenly, snatch
and just as he used to do when a stranger came into the room.

Such was barking for this case, as agreed between us, and I
involuntarily looked under the door.

But it was already in him. Alarmed, I looked at his eyes, and he looked at
mine, but not about to leave. He looked at me hard and baffled at.

He accused me that I had hereingelassen. He was convinced that I had to
stop it. Well, it became apparent that I had always overestimated. And
it was no more time, enlighten him. He looked at me baffled and lonely,
until it was too late. Or I am afraid when in the autumn after the first
Nachtfrösten flies came into the room and once in the heat recovery. They
were strangely withered and frightened for their own sums, you
could see that they are no longer quite knew what they were doing.

They sat for hours there and could go until they einfiel that they were
still alive, then threw it blindly somewhere and just not what they should,
and we heard them and continued to fall over there and elsewhere. And
finally crept over them, and the best Arben slow the whole room.
But even if I was alone, I had feared.

Why should I do when the nights would not have been because I aufsaß
against fear of death and clinging to me that the seats at least still a
living thing is: that there were no deaths. That was always in one
of these random rooms, which I immediately left in the lurch when it
came to me badly, as they feared, interrogated, and in my wicked things
to be implicated. As I sat, and I probably looked so horrible, that
nothing had the courage to get me to confess.
Roxana, daughter of the noble
Hydarnes, is marriageable, and is said to be beautiful. Her birth makes
her a fitting bride for you."

"Oh! brother, do not speak of marriage; I . . ." "You must marry, for I
have no children."

"But you are still young; you will not remain childless. Besides, I do
not say that I will never marry. Do not be angry, but just now, when I am
to prove my courage, I would rather hear nothing about women."

"Well, then, you must marry Roxana when you return from the North. But I
should advise you to take her with you to the field. A Persian generally
fights better if he knows that, beside his most precious treasures, he
has a beautiful woman in his tent to defend."

"Spare me this one command, my brother. I conjure thee, by the soul of
our father, not to inflict on me a wife of whom I know nothing, and never
wish to know. Give Roxana to Zopyrus, who is so fond of women, or to
Darius or Bessus, who are related to her father Hydarnes. I cannot love
her, and should be miserable . . ."

Cambyses interrupted him with a laugh, exclaiming: "Did you learn these
notions in Egypt, where it is the custom to be contented with one wife?
In truth, I have long repented having sent a boy like you abroad. I am
not accustomed to bear contradiction, and shall listen to no excuses
after the war. This once I will allow you to go to the field without a
wife. I will not force you to do what, in your opinion, might endanger
your valor. But it seems to me that you have other and more secret
reasons for refusing my brotherly proposal. If that is the case, I am
sorry for you. However, for the present, you can depart, but after the
war I will hear no remonstrances. You know me."

"Perhaps after the war I may ask for the very thing, which I am refusing
now--but never for Roxana! It is just as unwise to try to make a man
happy by force as it is wicked to compel him to be unhappy, and I thank
you for granting my request."

"Don't try my powers of yielding too often!--How happy you look! I really
believe you are in love with some one woman by whose side all the others
have lost their charms."

Bartja blushed to his temples, and seizing his brother's hand, exclaimed:
"Ask no further now, accept my thanks once more, and farewell. May I bid
Nitetis farewell too, when I have taken leave of our mother and Atossa?"

Cambyses bit his lip, looked searchingly into Bartja's face, and finding
that the boy grew uneasy under his glance, exclaimed abruptly and
angrily: "Your first business is to hasten to the Tapuri. My wife needs
your care no longer; she has other protectors now." So saying he turned
his back on his brother and passed on into the great hall, blazing with
gold, purple and jewels, where the chiefs of the army, satraps, judges,
treasurers, secretaries, counsellors, eunuchs, door-keepers, introducers
of strangers, chamberlains, keepers of the wardrobe, dressers,
cup-bearers, equerries, masters of the chase, physicians, eyes and ears
of the king, ambassadors and plenipotentiaries of all descriptions--were
in waiting for him.

   [The "eyes and ears" of the king may be compared to our police-
   ministers. Darius may have borrowed the name from Egypt, where such
   titles as "the 2 eyes of the king for Upper Egypt, the 2 ears of the
   king for Lower Egypt" are to be found on the earlier monuments, for
   instance in the tomb of Amen en, heb at Abd el Qurnah. And in
   Herodotus II. 114. the boy Cyrus calls one of his playfellows "the
   eye of the king," Herod. (I, 100.)]

The king was preceded by heralds bearing staves, and followed by a host
of fan, sedan and footstool-bearers, men carrying carpets, and
secretaries who the moment he uttered a command, or even indicated a
concession, a punishment or a reward, hastened to note it down and at
once hand it over to the officials empowered to execute his decrees.

In the middle of the brilliantly-lighted hall stood a gilded table, which
looked as if it must give way beneath the mass of gold and silver
vessels, plates, cups and bowls which were arranged with great order upon
it. The king's private table, the service on which was of immense worth
and beauty, was placed in an apartment opening out of the large hall, and
separated from it by purple hangings. These concealed him from the gaze
of the revellers, but did not prevent their every movement from being
watched by his eye. It was an object of the highest ambition to be one of
those who ate at the king's table, and even he to whom a portion was sent
might deem himself a highly-favored man.

As Cambyses entered the hall, nearly every one present prostrated
themselves before him; his relations alone, distinguished by the blue and
white fillet on the tiara, contented themselves with a deferential
obeisance.

After the king had seated himself in his private apartment, the rest of
the company took their places, and then a tremendous revel began.
Animals, roasted whole, were placed on the table, and, when hunger was
appeased, several courses of the rarest delicacies followed, celebrated
in later times even among the Greeks under the name of "Persian dessert."

   [Herodotus (I. 133.) writes that the Persians fancied the Greeks'
   hunger was never satisfied, because nothing special was brought to
   the table at the end of the meal.]

Slaves then entered to remove the remains of the food. Others brought in
immense jugs of wine, the king left his own apartment, took his seat at
the head of the table, numerous cup-bearers filled the golden
drinking-cups in the most graceful manner, first tasting the wine to
prove that it was free from poison, and soon one of those drinking-bouts
had begun under the best auspices, at which, a century or two later,
Alexander the Great, forgot not only moderation but even friendship
itself.

Cambyses was unwontedly silent. The suspicion had entered his mind, that
Bartja loved Nitetis. Why had he, contrary to all custom, so decidedly
refused to marry a noble and beautiful girl, when his brother's
childlessness rendered marriage an evident and urgent duty for him? Why
had he wished to see the Egyptian princess again before leaving Babylon?
and blushed as he expressed that wish? and why had she, almost without
being asked, praised him so warmly?

It is well that he is going, thought the king; at least he shall not rob
me of her love. If he were not my brother I would send him to a place
from whence none can return.

After midnight he broke up the banquet. Boges appeared to conduct him to
the Harem, which he was accustomed to visit at this hour, when
sufficiently sober.

"Phaedime awaits you with impatience," said the eunuch.

"Let her wait!" was the king's answer. "Have you given orders that the
palace on the hanging-gardens shall be set in order?"

"It will be ready for occupation to-morrow."

"What apartments have been assigned to the Egyptian Princess?"

"Those formerly occupied by the second wife of your father Cyrus, the
deceased Amytis."

"That is well. Nitetis is to be treated with the greatest respect, and to
receive no commands even from yourself, but such as I give you for her."

Boges bowed low.

"See that no one, not even Croesus, has admission to her before my. . . .
before I give further orders."

"Croesus was with her this evening."

"What may have been his business with my wife?"

"I do not know, for I do not understand the Greek language, but I heard
the name of Bartja several times, and it seemed to me that the Egyptian
had received sorrowful intelligence. She was looking very sad when I
came, after Croesus had left, to inquire if she had any commands for me."

"May Ahriman blast thy tongue," muttered the king, and then turning his
back on the eunuch he followed the torch-bearers and attendants, who were
in waiting to disrobe him, to his own private apartments.

At noon on the following clay, Bartja, accompanied by his friends and a
troop of attendants, started on horseback for the frontier. Croesus went
with the young warriors as far as the city gates, and as their last
farewells and embraces were being exchanged, Bartja whispered to his old
friend: "If the messenger from Egypt should have a letter for me in his
bag, will you send it on?"

"Shall you be able to decipher the Greek writing?"

"Gyges and love will help me!"

"When I told Nitetis of your departure she begged me to wish you
farewell, and tell you not to forget Egypt."

"I am not likely to do that."

"The gods take thee into their care, my son. Be prudent, do not risk your
life heedlessly, but remember that it is no longer only your own.
Exercise the gentleness of a father towards the rebels; they did not rise
in mere self-will, but to gain their freedom, the most precious
possession of mankind. Remember, too, that to shew mercy is better than
to shed blood; the sword killeth, but the favor of the ruler bringeth joy
and happiness. Conclude the war as speedily as possible, for war is a
perversion of nature; in peace the sons outlive the fathers, but in war
the fathers live to mourn for their slain sons. Farewell, my young
heroes, go forward and conquer!"


CHAPTER XIII.

Cambyses passed a sleepless night. The feeling of jealousy, so totally
new to him, increased his desire to possess Nitetis, but he dared not
take her as his wife yet, as the Persian law forbade the king to marry a
foreign wife, until she had become familiar with the customs of Iran and
confessed herself a disciple of Zoroaster.

   [Zoroaster, really Zarathustra or Zerethoschtro, was one of the
   `greatest among founders of new religions and lawgivers. His name
   signified "golden star" according to Anquetil du Perron. But this
   interpretation is as doubtful, as the many others which have been
   attempted. An appropriate one is given in the essay by Kern quoted
   below, from zara golden, and thwistra glittering; thus "the gold
   glittering one." It is uncertain whether he was born in Bactria,
   Media or Persia, Anquetil thinks in Urmi, a town in Aderbaijan. His
   father's name was Porosehasp, his mother's Dogdo, and his family
   boasted of royal descent. The time of his birth is very,--Spiegel
   says "hopelessly"--dark. Anquetil, and many other scholars would
   place it in the reign of Darius, a view which has been proved to be
   incorrect by Spiegel, Duncker and v. Schack in his introduction.]

According to this law a whole year must pass before Nitetis could become
the wife of a Persian monarch? but what was the law to Cambyses? In his
eyes the law was embodied in his own person, and in his opinion three
months would be amply sufficient to initiate Nitetis in the Magian
mysteries, after which process she could become his bride.

To-day his other wives seemed hateful, even loathsome, to him. From
Cambyses' earliest youth his house had been carefully provided with
women. Beautiful girls from all parts of Asia, black-eyed Armenians,
dazzlingly fair maidens from the Caucasus, delicate girls from the shores
of the Ganges, luxurious Babylonian women, golden-haired Persians and the
effeminate daughters of the Median plains; indeed many of the noblest
Achaemenidae had given him their daughters in marriage.

Phaedime, the daughter of Otanes, and niece of his own mother Kassandane,
had been Cambyses' favorite wife hitherto, or at least the only one of
whom it could be said that she was more to him than a purchased slave
would have been. But even she, in his present sated and disgusted state
of feeling, seemed vulgar and contemptible, especially when he thought of
Nitetis.

The Egyptian seemed formed of nobler, better stuff than they all. They
were flattering, coaxing girls; Nitetis was a queen. They humbled
themselves in the dust at his feet; but when he thought of Nitetis, he
beheld her erect, standing before him, on the same proud level as
himself. He determined that from henceforth she should not only occupy
Phaedime's place, but should be to him what Kassandane had been to his
father Cyrus.

She was the only one of his wives who could assist him by her knowledge
and advice; the others were all like children, ignorant, and caring for
nothing but dress and finery: living only for petty intrigues and useless
trifles. This Egyptian girl would be obliged to love him, for he would be
her protector, her lord, her father and brother in this foreign land.

"She must," he said to himself, and to this despot to wish for a thing
and to possess it seemed one and the same. "Bartja had better take care,"
he murmured, "or he shall know what fate awaits the man who dares to
cross my path."

Nitetis too had passed a restless night.

The common apartment of the women was next to her own, and the noise and
singing there had not ceased until nearly midnight. She could often
distinguish the shrill voice of Boges joking and laughing with these
women, who were under his charge. At last all was quiet in the wide
palace halls and then her thoughts turned to her distant home and her
poor sister Tachot, longing for her and for the beautiful Bartja, who,
Croesus had told her, was going to-morrow to the war and possibly to
death. At last she fell asleep, overcome by the fatigue of the journey
and dreaming of her future husband. She saw him on his black charger. The
foaming animal shied at Bartja who was lying in the road, threw his rider
and dragged him into the Nile, whose waves became blood-red. In her
terror she screamed for help; her cries were echoed back from the
Pyramids in such loud and fearful tones that she awoke.

But hark! what could that be? That wailing, shrill cry which she had
heard in her dream,--she could hear it still.

Hastily drawing aside the shutters from one of the openings which served
as windows, she looked out. A large and beautiful garden, laid out with
fountains and shady avenues, lay before her, glittering with the early
dew.

   [The Persian gardens were celebrated throughout the old world, and
   seem to have been laid out much less stiffly than the Egyptian.
   Even the kings of Persia did not consider horticulture beneath their
   notice, and the highest among the Achaemenidae took an especial
   pleasure in laying out parks, called in Persian Paradises. Their
   admiration for well-grown trees went so far, that Xerxes, finding on
   his way to Greece a singularly beautiful tree, hung ornaments of
   gold upon its branches. Firdusi, the great Persian epic poet,
   compares human beauty to the growth of the cypress, as the highest
   praise he can give. Indeed some trees were worshipped by the
   Persians; and as the tree of life in the Hebrew and Egyptian, so we
   find sacred trees in their Paradise.]

No sound was to be heard except the one which had alarmed her, and this
too died away at last on the morning breeze. After a few minutes she
heard cries and noise in the distance, then the great city awaking to its
daily work, which soon settled down into a deep, dull murmur like the
roaring of the sea.

Nitetis was by this time so thoroughly awakened from the effect of the
fresh morning air, that she did not care to lie down again. She went once
more to the window and perceived two figures coming out of the house. One
she recognized as the eunuch Boges; he was talking to a beautiful Persian
woman carelessly dressed. They approached her window. Nitetis hid herself
behind the half-opened shutter and listened, for she fancied she heard
her own name.

"The Egyptian is still asleep." said Boges. "She must be much fatigued by
the journey. I see too that one of her windows is still firmly closed."

"Then tell me quickly," said the Persian. "Do you really think that this
stranger's coming can injure me in any way?"

"Certainly, I do, my pretty one."

"But what leads you to suppose this?"

"She is only to obey the king's commands, not mine."

"Is that all?"

"No, my treasure. I know the king. I can read his features as the Magi
read the sacred books."

"Then we must ruin her."

"More easily said than done, my little bird."

"Leave me alone! you are insolent."

"Well, but nobody can see us, and you know you can do nothing without my
help."

"Very well then, I don't care. But tell me quickly what we can do."

"Thanks, my sweet Phaedime. Well, for the present we must be patient and
wait our time. That detestable hypocrite Croesus seems to have
established himself as protector of the Egyptian; when he is away, we
must set our snares."

The speakers were by this time at such a distance, that Nitetis could not
understand what they said. In silent indignation she closed the shutter,
and called her maidens to dress her. She knew her enemies now--she knew
that a thousand dangers surrounded her, and yet she felt proud and happy,
for was she not chosen to be the real wife of Cambyses? Her own worth
seemed clearer to her than ever before, from a comparison with these
miserable creatures, and a wonderful certainty of ultimate victory stole
into her heart, for Nitetis was a firm believer in the magic power of
virtue.

"What was that dreadful sound I heard so early?" she asked of her
principal waiting-woman, who was arranging her hair.

"Do you mean the sounding brass, lady?"

"Scarcely two hours ago I was awakened by a strange and frightful sound."

"That was the sounding brass, lady. It is used to awaken the young sons
of the Persian nobles, who are brought up at the gate of the king. You
will soon become accustomed to it. We have long ceased even to hear it,
and indeed on great festivals, when it is not sounded, we awake from the
unaccustomed stillness. From the hanging-gardens you will be able to see
how the boys are taken to bathe every morning, whatever the weather may
be. The poor little ones are taken from their mothers when they are six
years old, to be brought up with the other boys of their own rank under
the king's eye."

"Are they to begin learning the luxurious manners of the court so early?"

"Oh no! the poor boys lead a terrible life. They are obliged to sleep on
the hard ground, to rise before the sun. Their food is bread and water,
with very little meat, and they are never allowed to taste wine or
vegetables. Indeed at times they are deprived of food and drink for some
days, simply to accustom them to privations. When the court is at
Ecbatana or Pasargadae, and the weather is bitterly cold, they are sure
to be taken out to bathe, and here in Susa, the hotter the sun, the
longer and more difficult the marches they are compelled to take."

   [The summer residences of the kings cf Persia, where it is sometimes
   very cold. Nothing? No reminder? No. You do not distinguish among
   those who knew her? It makes no difference, I know. But there
   is another writer that I read, someone not living in Paris, quite
different.

One who has a quiet house in the mountains. The sounds like a bell in the
pure air.

A lucky poet who tells of his window and glass doors of the cabinet of his
books, which a lovely, lonely expanse reflective mirror. Even the poet
is the one I would want to be, because he knows the girls so much, and
I had a lot of them knew. He knows of girls who lived a hundred years
ago have there is doing nothing more that they are dead, because he
knows everything. And that's the main thing. He speaks her name, this
quiet, slender with the name written in old-fashioned long loops in the
letter and the names of their older adult friends, which have a little
destiny mitklingt a little disappointment and death. Perhaps lie in a tray
of his mahogany desk their faded letters and diaries of their leaves
removed, in which birthdays are, summer games, birthdays.

Or it may be that it is the bulbous chest of drawers in the bedroom of
his background giebt a drawer in their spring clothes are lifted,
white dresses, around Easter for the first time dressed in clothes
made of spotted tulle, which actually belong in the summer, the we
do not expect.

O what a happy fate, in the quiet office inherited a house to sit in a
loud quiet, sedentary, and things outside in the mild, light green
garden the first to hear tits who try, and in the distance the
Dorfuhr.

To sit on a warm afternoon sun strip to see and much of the last
girl to know and to be a poet.

And to think that I have such a poet would have become if I had somewhere
to live may be, somewhere in the world, in one of the many country houses
closed, for which no one grieved. I would have needed a single room (the
room light in the gable). Since I had lived there with my old things,
the family pictures, books. And a chair and I would have had flowers
and dogs and a strong base in the rocky paths. And nothing else is only
a book in yellow, ivory-colored leather bound with a floral pattern
as the old prefix: dahinein I would have written. I would have written
a lot, because I would have had many thoughts and memories of many. But
it is otherwise come, God will know why. My lazy old furniture in a barn
in which I can make it, and myself, yes, my God, I do not have a roof over
me, and it's raining in my eyes.

Sometimes I go to small shops in the rue de Seine around. Altsachen
dealers with little or Buchantiquare or seller Kupferstich with overcrowded
windows.

Never occurs to them someone that they do not seem shops. If you look
into it but, as they sit, sit and read safely, ensuring not to tomorrow,
fear was not a success, have a dog that sits in front of them, a
good mood, or a cat, the silence makes even larger, by the rows of books
along strike, as she wiped the name from the back.

Oh, if enough: sometimes I wish me so good showcase to buy me a dog
dahinterzusetzen for twenty years. It is good according to say: "There
is nothing happening." Once again: "There is nothing happening." Does
it work? The fact that my oven once smoked, and I had expected, but
that's not really a disaster. That I feel dull and cold, has nothing to
mean. That I the whole day in the streets umhergelaufen am, is my own
fault. I'd just as well you can sit in the Louvre. Or no, I would not.
There are some people who want to warm up. They sit on the Samtbänken,
and their feet are like big empty boots side by side on the grates of
the heaters. There are very humble men who are grateful when the servants
in the dark uniforms with the many orders they tolerate. But if I advocate,
as they grin. Smile and nod a little. And if I do the pictures go
back and forth, they keep me in the eye, always in the eye, always in this
stirred, together received eye.

So it was good that I did not go into the Louvre am. I have always
been on. White of the sky in as many cities, neighborhoods, cemeteries,
bridges and passageways. Somewhere I have seen a man with a vegetable
wagon in front of herschob. He screamed: Choufleur, Chou-fleur,
fleur with the peculiarly dull eu.

Beside him was preceded by a square, ugly woman, who from time to time
anstieß. And if they anstieß him, so he cried. Sometimes he also cried,
of course, but then it was in vain, and he had to scream like that
again because it was in front of a home, which is bought.

I have already said that he was blind? No? So he was blind. He was blind
and screaming. I fake, when I say this, I suggest the car, he pushed, I
do, as if I had not noticed that he exclaimed cauliflower.

But is it essential? And even though it would be much, it does not
matter what the whole thing for me is? I have seen an old man who was blind
and screaming. I've seen. Seen. If you believe that there are such
houses giebt?

No, you will say, I counterfeiters. This is truth, nothing omitted, of
course, nothing added. How should I take? You know that I am poor. You
know it. Houses? But, to be exact, there were houses that were no longer
there. Houses that had aborted you from top to bottom. What was there
were other houses that had danebengestanden, high neighboring buildings.
Apparently they were in danger, umzufallen, since one next door had taken
away everything, because an entire skeleton of the long, paved Mastbäumen
was diagonally between the bottom of the space debris and the exposed
wall rammed. I do not know if I have already said that this wall, I mean.
But it was not, so to speak, the first wall of the existing houses
(what you would have to adopt it), but the last of the former.

You saw her inside. You saw in the various floors of the room walls,
where the wallpaper still stuck, here and there the approach of
the floor or the ceiling. In addition to the room walls remained along
the entire wall schmutzigweißer another room, and crept in through
this unspeakable disgusting, wormlike soft movements like digesting
the open, the abortion rostfleckige gutter tube. Among the ways that the
lighting had gone, were gray, dusty tracks at the edge of the ceiling
remained, and they bend here and there, quite unexpectedly, and came
around into the wall color and hineingelaufen into a hole, the
black and ruthlessly was torn.

On the unforgettable but the walls themselves were the tough life of
these rooms had not crush leave. It was still there, it stayed on the
nails, which had stayed, it was on the floor the rest of the band, it was
among the approaches of the corners, where it has a little cabin
there, zusammengekrochen.

You could see that it was in color, which is slowly, year by year,
was transformed: schimmliches blue in green, gray green and yellow
in an old, stale white, the fault.

But it was also in the fresher bodies, behind mirrors, pictures, and
cabinets had received, because it had drawn its outline in and after,
and was pulled with spiders and dust at these places have been
hidden, which now bloßlagen. It was in every strip, the abgeschunden
was, it was humid in the bubbles at the bottom edge of the wallpaper,
it fluctuated in the torn shreds, and the nasty stains that a long
time ago were sweating it out.

And from these blue, green and yellow unprecedented walls, which were
framed by the rupture of the destroyed trains intermediate walls, the air
was out of this life, the tough, slow, stockige air, no wind had
yet dispersed.

As was the noonday and the diseases and the exhaled years old and the
smoke and the sweat that breaks out under the shoulders and the clothes
difficult to make, and the fade from the mouth and the fermenting
Fuselgeruch feet.

There was sharp from the urine and the burning of soot and potato gray
haze and the heavy, smooth aging stench of lard.

The sweet smell of long-neglected infants was there and smell the fear
of children in the school, and the sultriness of the beds mannbarer boys.
And many had dazugesellt, which had come from below, from the abyss
of the alley, which evaporated, and another was from the top
herabgesickert with the rain, through the cities is not pure.

And many had weak, tame winds have come home, always in the same road,
have been given, and it was much as what you did not know the origin.
I have told that it had canceled all the walls down to the last -?
Now from this wall I am talking continuously.

We will say that I have long davorgestanden, but I will give an oath that
I began to run as soon as I realized the wall. Because this is terrible,
they recognized that I had. I acknowledge all this, and that is so
readily in me: it is at home in me. I was a little tired after all this,
one can say attacked, and that it was too much for me, that he is still
on I had to wait. He waited in the small CREMERIE, where I have
wanted to eat fried eggs, I was hungry, I was all day not to come
to eat.

But I could also have nothing to myself, even before the eggs were
finished, it drove me back out into the streets, the very thick
of people entgegenrannen me.

Because it was carnival and evening, and people had all the time and
drove around and rubbing on one another. And their faces were full of the
light coming from the show booths came quoll and the laughter from
her mouth like pus from a vacancy.

They laughed more and more crowded ever closer together, ever impatient, I
tried to come forward. The cloth of a women's room is somehow hooked up
to me firmly, I pulled it behind me, and people stopped me and
laughed, and I felt that I should laugh, but I could not.

Someone threw a hand Confetti me in the eye and it burned like a whip. At
the corners, people were festgekeilt, one in the other mode, and there
was no further movement in them, just a quiet, soft and downs as
if they are standing united. But although she and I stood at the edge of
the roadway, where there were cracks in the crowd, like a frenzied
hinlief, it was in truth so that they are moving and I am not
touched. Because it changed nothing, and when I aufsah, I still saw the
same houses on one side and on the other, show booths. Maybe everything
was fixed, and it was just a fake to me and them, everything seemed to
turn. I had no time to think about it, I was heavy with sweat, and it
revolved a narcotic pain in me, as if in my blood a bit too big mittriebe
the expanded veins, where it came from. And I felt that the air was
far too late and that I just moved in exhaled, my lungs are settled. But
now, it's over, I've survived. I sit in my room with the lamp, it is a
little cold, because I dare not to try the oven, what if he smoked
and I would have to again? I sit and think: if I am not poor, I would me
a different room to rent, a room with furniture that are not so
exhausted, are not so full of former tenants such as this.

First it was really difficult to find the head in these armchair to
define, it is because of some slimy gray-green hollow in his relation to
which all the heads seem to fit.

Longer time I used the caution, a handkerchief under my hair, but now
I'm too tired to, I've found that it is also so small and that the
deepening exactly made for my mind is how to measure.

But I would if I were not poor, especially to buy a good oven, and I
would be the pure, strong wood heat, which comes from the mountains,
and not this dreary Têtes-de-moineau whose breathing vapor so bang and
makes your head so confused.

And then someone would have to be there, which clears up without
serious noise and the fire of concern, as I do, because often when
I use a quarter of an hour before the furnace must kneel and shake,
the forehead skin excited by the nearby fire and heat in the open
eyes, I give everything from what I see as the day on character,
and if I then have the people come, they are of course easy.

I would sometimes, when a scrum is great, take a car, drive past, I would
in a daily eating Duval ... and no longer in the CREMERIE creep ...

Whether he is probably in a Duval would have been? No. There, he
would not be allowed to wait on me. Dying, do not enter. Dying? Yes
now I'm sitting in my office, I can try to calmly reflect on what I
met. It is good, nothing in the dark for you. So I entered first and
saw only that the table at which I often used to sit, someone else was
taken. I am greeted by the small buffet out, ordered and sat next to me.
But as I felt him, although he was not touched. Especially his motionless
I felt and understood it in a day. The connection between us was made, and
I knew that he was frozen horror.

I knew that the horror had paralyzed him, horrified about something
that happened in it.

Perhaps broke a vessel in it, perhaps, a poison which he had long feared,
now into his heart chamber, perhaps there was a large ulcer on his brain
like a sun, which he transformed the world.

With extraordinary effort, I forced myself to look after him, because I
still hoped that everything is imagination. But it happened that I
jumped up and hinausstürzte; because I had not mistaken me. He sat there
in a thick, black winter coat, and his gray, tense face hung low in
a woolen scarf.

His mouth was closed, as if he was admitted with great force, but it was
not possible to tell whether his eyes still looked: procure battered,
smoke-gray glasses beaten before and trembled a little. His nose was
broken wings, and the long hair on his temples, from which everything
was taken away, welkte as in too much heat. His ears were long, yellow,
with large shadow behind her. Yes, he knew that he was now away
from everything, not just from the people. A moment still, and everything
will have lost its meaning, and this table and the cup and the chair, to
which it clings, all Daily and Next will have become incomprehensible,
strange and difficult. So he sat there and waited until it would happen.
And fought no more.

And I still reject me. I fight myself, although I know that my heart
already heraushängt and that I am no longer able to live, even if
my torment me now abließen.

I tell myself: there is nothing happened, but I understand that only man
can be, because something in me is going to start me of everything to
remove and off. As always dawned me when I say from a dying man heard
he could no longer even recognize. Then I have a lonely face, is
lifted from the pillow and looked, looked for something familiar,
something already seen looking, but there was nothing there.

If my fear would be not so great, so I would be so comforting that it is
not impossible, to see everything differently, and yet to live. But I
fear me, I fear me nameless before this change. I'm not even in this
world eingewöhnt, who seem good to me. What should I have another?

I would like to remain among the meanings which have become dear to me,
and if something needs to change, I would like but at least the dogs
can live to a related world have the same things. Want a while everything
I can write and say.

But there will be a day, because my hand far from me will be, and if I
write it will be hot, it will write words that I do not mean.
The time of the other interpretation is dawn, and there is no word
on the others remain, and every sense is like clouds and dissolve
as the water's going down.

With all the fear, I finally like one in front of something big, and I
remember that in the past it often was similar in me, eh, I began to
write.
The speech made by the soul is called the
   negative justification, in which she assures the 42 judges of the
   dead, that she has not committed the 42 deadly sins which she
   enumerates. This justification is doubly interesting because it
   contains nearly the entire moral law of Moses, which last, apart
   from all national peculiarities and habits of mind, seems to contain
   the quintessence of human morality--and this we find ready
   paragraphed in our negative justification. Todtenbuch ed. Lepsius.
   125. We cannot discuss this question philosophically here, but the
   law of Pythagoras, who borrowed so much from Egypt, and the contents
   of which are the same, speaks for our view. It is similar in form
   to the Egyptian.]

"There you remind me," said Croesus "that I have undertaken to arrange
for your instruction in the Persian customs, religion and language. I had
intended to withdraw to Barene, the town which I received as a gift from
Cyrus, and there, in that most lovely mountain valley, to take my rest;
but for your sake and for the king's, I will remain here and continue to
give you instruction in the Persian tongue. Kassandane herself will
initiate you in the customs peculiar to women at the Persian court, and
Oropastes, the high-priest, has been ordered by the king to make you
acquainted with the religion of Iran. He will be your spiritual, and I
your secular guardian."

At these words Nitetis, who had been smiling happily, cast down her eyes
and asked in a low voice: "Am I to become unfaithful to the gods of my
fathers, who have never failed to hear my prayers? Can I, ought I to
forget them?"

"Yes," said Kassandane decidedly, "thou canst, and it is thy bounden
duty, for a wife ought to have no friends but those her husband calls
such. The gods are a man's earliest, mightiest and most faithful friends,
and it therefore becomes thy duty, as a wife, to honor them, and to close
thine heart against strange gods and superstitions, as thou wouldst close
it against strange lovers."

"And," added Croesus, "we will not rob you of your deities; we will only
give them to you under other names. As Truth remains eternally the same,
whether called 'maa', as by the Egyptians, or 'Aletheia' as by the
Greeks, so the essence of the Deity continues unchanged in all places and
times. Listen, my daughter: I myself, while still king of Lydia, often
sacrificed in sincere devotion to the Apollo of the Greeks, without a
fear that in so doing I should offend the Lydian sun-god Sandon; the
Ionians pay their worship to the Asiatic Cybele, and, now that I have
become a Persian, I raise my hands adoringly to Mithras, Ormuzd and the
lovely Anahita. Pythagoras too, whose teaching is not new to you,
worships one god only, whom he calls Apollo; because, like the Greek
sun-god, he is the source of light and of those harmonies which
Pythagoras holds to be higher than all else. And lastly, Xenophanes of
Colophon laughs at the many and divers gods of Homer and sets one single
deity on high--the ceaselessly creative might of nature, whose essence
consists of thought, reason and eternity.

   [A celebrated freethinker, who indulged in bold and independent
   speculations, and suffered much persecution for his ridicule of the
   Homeric deities. He flourished at the time of our history and lived
   to a great age, far on into the fifth century. We have quoted some
   fragments of his writings above. He committed his speculations also
   to verse.]

"In this power everything has its rise, and it alone remains unchanged,
while all created matter must be continually renewed and perfected. The
ardent longing for some being above us, on whom we can lean when our own
powers fail,--the wonderful instinct which desires a faithful friend to
whom we can tell every joy and sorrow without fear of disclosure, the
thankfulness with which we behold this beautiful world and all the rich
blessings we have received--these are the feelings which we call
piety--devotion.

"These you must hold fast; remembering, however, at the same time, that
the world is ruled neither by the Egyptian, the Persian, nor the Greek
divinities apart from each other, but that all these are one; and that
one indivisible Deity, how different soever may be the names and
characters under which He is represented, guides the fate of men and
nations."

The two Persian women listened to the old man in amazement. Their
unpractised powers were unable to follow the course of his thoughts.
Nitetis, however, had understood him thoroughly, and answered: "My mother
Ladice was the pupil of Pythagoras, and has told me something like this
already; but the Egyptian priests consider such views to be sacrilegious,
and call their originators despisers of the gods. So I tried to repress
such thoughts; but now I will resist them no longer. What the good and
wise Croesus believes cannot possibly be evil or impious! Let Oropastes
come! I am ready to listen to his teaching. The god of Thebes, our Ammon,
shall be transformed into Ormuzd,--Isis or Hathor, into Anahita, and
those among our gods for whom I can find no likeness in the Persian
religion, I shall designate by the name of 'the Deity.'"

Croesus smiled. He had fancied, knowing how obstinately the Egyptians
clung to all they had received from tradition and education, that it
would have been more difficult for Nitetis to give up the gods of her
native land. He had forgotten that her mother was a Greek, and that the
daughters of Amasis had studied the doctrines of Pythagoras. Neither was
he aware how ardently Nitetis longed to please her proud lord and master.
Even Amasis, who so revered the Samian philosopher, who had so often
yielded to Hellenic influence, and who with good reason might be called a
free-thinking Egyptian, would sooner have exchanged life for death, than
his multiform gods for the one idea "Deity."

"You are a teachable pupil," said Croesus, laying his hand on her head,
"and as a reward, you shall be allowed either to visit Kassandane, or to
receive Atossa in the hanging-gardens, every morning, and every afternoon
until sunset."

This joyful news was received with loud rejoicings by Atossa, and with a
grateful smile by the Egyptian girl.

"And lastly," said Croesus, "I have brought some balls and hoops with me
from Sais, that you may be able to amuse yourselves in Egyptian fashion."

"Balls?" asked Atossa in amazement; "what can we do with the heavy wooden
things?"

"That need not trouble you," answered Croesus, laughing. "The balls I
speak of are pretty little things made of the skins of fish filled with
air, or of leather. A child of two years old can throw these, but you
would find it no easy matter even to lift one of those wooden balls with
which the Persian boys play. Are you content with me, Nitetis?"

   [In Persia games with balls are still reckoned among the amusements
   of the men. One player drives a wooden hall to the other, as in the
   English game of cricket. Chardin (Voyage en Perse. III. p. 226.)
   saw the game played by 300 players.]

"How can I thank you enough, my father?"

"And now listen to my plan for the division of your time. In the morning
you will visit Kassandane, chat with Atossa, and listen to the teaching
of your noble mother."

Here the blind woman bent her head in approval. "Towards noon I shall
come to teach you, and we can talk sometimes about Egypt and your loved
ones there, but always in Persian. You would like this, would you not?"

Nitetis smiled.

"Every second day, Oropastes will be in attendance to initiate you in the
Persian religion."

"I will take the greatest pains to comprehend him quickly."

"In the afternoon you can be with Atossa as long as you like. Does that
please you too?"

"O Croesus!" cried the young girl and kissed the old man's hand.


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     A first impression is often a final one
     Assigned sixty years as the limit of a happy life
     At my age every year must be accepted as an undeserved gift
     Cambyses had been spoiled from his earliest infancy
     Devoid of occupation, envy easily becomes hatred
     Easy to understand what we like to hear
     Eros mocks all human efforts to resist or confine him
     Eyes are much more eloquent than all the tongues in the world
     For the errors of the wise the remedy is reparation, not regret
     Greeks have not the same reverence for truth
     He who is to govern well must begin by learning to obey
     In war the fathers live to mourn for their slain sons
     Inn, was to be found about every eighteen miles
     Lovers are the most unteachable of pupils
     The beautiful past is all he has to live upon
     The gods cast envious glances at the happiness of mortals
     Unwise to try to make a man happy by force
     War is a perversion of nature
     Ye play with eternity as if it were but a passing moment
     Zeus pays no heed to lovers' oaths


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 5.


CHAPTER XIV.

The next day Nitetis removed to the country-house in the hanging-gardens,
and began a monotonous, but happy and industrious life there, according
to the rules laid down by Croesus. Every day she was carried to
Kassandane and Atossa in a closely shut-up litter. Nitetis soon began to
look upon the blind queen as a beloved and loving mother, and the merry,
spirited Atossa nearly made up to her for the loss of her sister Tachot,
so far away on the distant Nile. She could not have desired a better
companion than this gay, cheerful girl, whose wit and merriment
effectually prevented homesickness or discontent from settling in her
friend's heart. The gravity and earnestness of Nitetis' character were
brightened by Atossa's gaiety, and Atossa's exuberant spirits calmed and
regulated by the thoughtful nature of Nitetis.

Both Croesus and Kassandane were pleased and satisfied with their new
daughter and pupil, and Oropastes extolled her talents and industry daily
to Cambyses. She learnt the Persian language unusually well and quickly;
Cambyses only visited his mother when he hoped to find Nitetis there, and
presented her continually with rich dresses and costly jewels. But the
highest proof of his favor consisted in his abstaining from visiting her
at her house in the hanging-gardens, a line of conduct which proved that
he meant to include Nitetis in the small number of his real and lawful
wives, a privilege of which many a princess in his harem could not boast.

The grave, beautiful girl threw a strange spell over this strong,
turbulent man. Her presence alone seemed enough to soften his stubborn
will, and he would watch their games for hours, his eyes fixed on her
graceful movements. Once, when the ball had fallen into the water, the
king sprang in after it, regardless of his costly apparel. Nitetis
screamed on seeing his intention, but Cambyses handed her the dripping
toy with the words: "Take care or I shall be obliged to frighten you
again." At the same time he drew from his neck a gold chain set with
jewels and gave it to the blushing girl, who thanked him with a look
which fully revealed her feelings for her future husband.

Croesus, Kassandane and Atossa soon noticed that Nitetis loved the king.
Her former fear of this proud and powerful being had indeed changed into
a passionate admiration. She felt as if she must die if deprived of his
presence. He seemed to her like a glorious and omnipotent divinity, and
her wish to possess him presumptuous and sacrilegious; but its fulfilment
shone before her as an idea more beautiful even than return to her native
land and reunion with those who, till now, had been her only loved ones.

Nitetis herself was hardly conscious of the strength of her feelings, and
believed that when she trembled before the king's arrival it was from
fear, and not from her longing to behold him once more. Croesus, however,
had soon discovered the truth, and brought a deep blush to his favorite's
cheek by singing to her, old as he was, Anacreon's newest song, which he
had learnt at Sais from Ibykus

       "We read the flying courser's name
        Upon his side in marks of flame;
        And by their turban'd brows alone
        The warriors of the East are known.
        But in the lover's glowing eyes,
        The inlet to his bosom lies;
        Through them we see the tiny mark,
        Where Love has dropp'd his burning spark"
                  --Paegnion 15

And thus, in work and amusement, jest, earnest, and mutual love, the
weeks and months passed with Nitetis. Cambyses' command that she was to
be happy in his land had fulfilled itself, and by the time the
Mesopotamian spring-tide (January, February and March), which succeeds
the rainy month of December, was over, and the principal festival of the
Asiatics, the New Year, had been solemnized at the equinox, and the May
sun had begun to glow in the heavens, Nitetis felt quite at home in
Babylon, and all the Persians knew that the young Egyptian princess had
quite displaced Phaedime, the daughter of Otanes, in the king's favor,
and would certainly become his first and favorite wife.

Boges sank considerably in public estimation, for it was known that
Cambyses had ceased to visit the harem, and the chief of the eunuchs had
owed all his importance to the women, who were compelled to coax from
Cambyses whatever Boges desired for himself or others. Not a day passed
on which the mortified official did not consult with the supplanted
favorite Phaedime, as to the best means of ruining Nitetis, but their
most finely spun intrigues and artifices were baffled by the strength of
king's love and the blameless life of his royal bride.

Phaedime, impatient, mortified, and thirsting for vengeance, was
perpetually urging Boges to some decided act; he, on the contrary,
advised patience.

At last, however, after many weeks, he came to her full of joy,
exclaiming: "I have devised a little plan which must ruin the Egyptian
woman as surely as my name is Boges. When Bartja comes back, my treasure,
our hour will have arrived."

While saying this the creature rubbed his fat, soft hands, and, with his
perpetual fulsome smile, looked as if he were feasting on some good deed
performed. He did not, however, give Phaedime the faintest idea of the
nature of his "little plan," and only answered her pressing questions
with the words: "Better lay your head in a lion's jaws, than your secret
in the ears of a woman. I fully acknowledge your courage, but at the same
time advise you to remember that, though a man proves his courage in
action, a woman's is shown in obedience. Obey my words and await the
issue in patience." Nebenchari, the oculist, continued to attend the
queen, but so carefully abstained from all intercourse with the Persians,
that he became a proverb among them for his gloomy, silent ways. During
the day he was to be found in the queen's apartments, silently examining
large rolls of papyri, which he called the book of Athotes and the sacred
Ambres; at night, by permission of the king and the satraps of Babylon,
he often ascended one of the high towers on the walls, called
Tritantaechmes, in order to observe the stars.

The Chaldaean priests, the earliest astronomers, would have allowed him
to take his observations from the summit of the great temple of Bel,
their own observatory, but he refused this offer decidedly, and persisted
in his haughty reserve. When Oropastes attempted to explain to him the
celebrated Babylonian sun-dial, introduced by Anaximander of Miletus into
Greece, he turned from the Magian with a scornful laugh, saying: "We knew
all this, before you knew the meaning of an hour."

Nitetis had shown Nebenchari much kindness, yet he took no interest in
her, seemed indeed to avoid her purposely, and on her asking whether she
had displeased or offended him, answered: "For me you are a stranger. How
can I reckon those my friends, who can so gladly and so quickly forget
those they loved best, their gods, and the customs of their native land?"

Boges quickly discovered this state of feeling on the part of Nebenchari,
and took much pains to secure him as an ally, but the physician rejected
the eunuch's flatteries, gifts, and attentions with dignity.

No sooner did an Angare appear in the court of the palace with despatches
for the king, than Boges hastened to enquire whether news from the Tapuri
had arrived.

At length the desired messenger appeared, bringing word that the rebels
were subdued, and Bartja on the point of returning.

Three weeks passed--fresh messengers arrived from day to day announcing
the approach of the victorious prince; the streets glittered once more in
festal array, the army entered the gates of Babylon, Bartja thanked the
rejoicing multitude, and a short time after was in the arms of his blind
mother.

Cambyses received his brother with undisguised warmth, and took him to
the queen's apartments, when he knew that Nitetis would be there.

For he was sure the Egyptian girl loved him; his previous jealousy seemed
a silly fancy now, and he wished to give Bartja an opportunity of seeing
how entirely he trusted his bride.

Cambyses' love had made him mild and gentle, unwearied in giving and in
doing good. His wrath slumbered for a season, and around the spot where
the heads of those who had suffered capital punishment were exhibited as
a warning to their fellow-men, the hungry, screeching crows now wheeled,
in vain.

The influence of the insinuating eunuchs (a race who had never been seen
within the gates of Cyrus until the incorporation of Media, Lydia and
Babylon, in which countries they had filled many of the highest offices
at court and in the state), was now waning, and the importance of the
noble Achaemenidae increasing in proportion; for Cambyses applied oftener
to the latter than to the former for advice in matters relating to the
welfare of the country.

The aged Hystaspes, father of Darius, governor of Persia proper and
cousin to the king; Pharnaspes, Cambyses' grandfather on the mother's
side; Otanes, his uncle and father-in-law. Intaphernes, Aspathines,
Gobryas, Hydarnes, the general Megabyzus, father of Zopyrus, the envoy
Prexaspes, the noble Croesus, and the old warrior Araspes; in short, the
flower of the ancient Persian aristocracy, were now at the court of
Cambyses.

To this must be added that the entire nobility of the realm, the satraps
or governors of the provinces, and the chief priests from every town were
also assembled at Babylon to celebrate the king's birthday.

   [The king's birthday was the principal feast among the Persians, and
   called "the perfect feast." Herod. I. 133. Birthdays were held in
   much honor by the ancients, and more especially those of their
   kings. Both the great bilingual Egyptian tablets, which we possess
   (the Rosetta stone, line 10 of hieroglyphic text; Gr. text, line 46.
   and the edict of Canopus ed. Lepsius, hieroglyphic text 1. 3. Gr.
   text 1. 5.) mention the celebration of the birthday of one of the
   Ptolemies; and even of Rameses II., so early as the 14th century B.
   C. we read: "There was joy in heaven on his birthday."]

The entire body of officials and deputies streamed from the provinces up
to the royal city, bringing presents to their ruler and good wishes; they
came also to take part in the great sacrifices at which horses, stags,
bulls and asses were slaughtered in thousands as offerings to the gods.

At this festival all the Persians received gifts, every man was allowed
to ask a petition of the king, which seldom remained unfulfilled, and in
every city the people were feasted at the royal expense. Cambyses had
commanded that his marriage with Nitetis should be celebrated eight days
after the birthday, and all the magnates of the realms should be invited
to the ceremony.

The streets of Babylon swarmed with strangers, the colossal palaces on
both shores of the Euphrates were overfilled, and all the houses stood
adorned in festal brightness.

The zeal thus displayed by his people, this vast throng of human beings,
--representing and bringing around him, as it were, his entire kingdom,
contributed not a little to raise the king's spirits.

His pride was gratified; and the only longing left in his heart had been
stilled by Nitetis' love. For the first time in his life he believed
himself completely happy, and bestowed his gifts, not only from a sense
of his duty as king of Persia, but because the act of giving was in
itself a pleasure.

Megabyzus could not extol the deeds of Bartja and his friends too highly.
Cambyses embraced the young warriors, gave them horses and gold chains,
called them "brothers" and reminded Bartja, that he had promised to grant
him a petition if he returned victorious.

At this Bartja cast down his eyes, not knowing at first in what form to
begin his request, and the king answered laughing: "Look, my friends; our
young hero is blushing like a girl! It seems I shall have to grant
something important; so he had better wait until my birthday, and then,
at supper, when the wine has given him courage, he shall whisper in my
ear what he is now afraid to utter. Ask much, Bartja, I am happy myself,
and wish all my friends to be happy too." Bartja only smiled in answer
and went to his mother; for he had not yet opened his heart to her on the
matter which lay so near it.

He was afraid of meeting with decided opposition; but Croesus had cleared
the way far him by telling Kassandane so much in praise of Sappho, her
virtues and her graces, her talents and skill, that Nitetis and Atossa
maintained she must have given the old man a magic potion, and
Kassandane, after a short resistance, yielded to her darling's
entreaties.

"A Greek woman the lawful wife of a Persian prince of the blood!" cried
the blind woman. "Unheard of! What will Cambyses say? How can we gain his
consent?"

"On that matter you may be at ease, my mother," answered Bartja, "I am as
certain that my brother will give his consent, as I am that Sappho will
prove an ornament and honor to our house."

"Croesus has already told me much in favor of this maiden," answered
Kassandane, "and it pleases me that thou hast at last resolved to marry;
but never-the-less this alliance does not seem suitable for a son of
Cyrus. And have you forgotten that the Achaemenidae; will probably refuse
to recognize the child of a Greek mother as their future king, if
Cambyses should remain childless?"

"Mother, I fear nothing; for my heart is not set upon the crown. And
indeed many a king of Persia has had a mother of far lower parentage than
my Sappho. I feel persuaded that when my relations see the precious
jewel I have won on the Nile, not one of them will chide me."

"The gods grant that Sappho may be equal to our Nitetis!" answered
Kassandane, "I love her as if she were my own child, and bless the day
which brought her to Persia. The warm light of her eyes has melted your
brother's hard heart; her kindness and gentleness bring beauty into the
night of my blind old age, and her sweet earnestness and gravity have
changed your sister Atossa from an unruly child into a gentle maiden. But
now call them, (they are playing in the garden), and we will tell them of
the new friend they are to gain through you."

"Pardon me, my mother," answered Bartja, "but I must beg you not to tell
my sister until we are sure of the king's consent."

"You are right, my son. We must conceal your wish, to save Nitetis and
Atossa from a possible disappointment. A bright hope unfulfilled is
harder to bear than an unexpected sorrow. So let us wait for your
brother's consent, and may the gods give their blessing!" Early in the
morning of the king's birthday the Persians offered their sacrifices on
the shores of the Euphrates. A huge altar of silver had been raised on an
artificial hill. On this a mighty fire had been kindled, from which
flames and sweet odors rose towards heaven. White-robed magi fed the fire
with pieces of daintily-cut sandal-wood, and stirred it with bundles of
rods.

A cloth, the Paiti-dhana, was bound round the heads of the priests, the
ends of which covered the mouth, and thus preserved the pure fire from
pollution by human breath.

   [The Persians were ordered to hold this little square piece of cloth
   before their mouths when they prayed. It was from 2 to 7 fingers
   broad. Anquetil gives a drawing of it in his Zend-Avesia. Strabo
   speaks of the Paiti-dhana p. 733. He says the ends of the cloth
   used as a covering for the head hung down over the mouth.]

The victims had been slaughtered in a meadow near the river, the flesh
cut into pieces, sprinkled with salt, and laid out on tender grasses,
sprouts of clover, myrtle-blossoms, and laurel-leaves, that the beautiful
daughter of Ormuzd, the patient, sacred Earth, might not be touched by
aught that was dead or bleeding.

Oropastes, the chief Destur,--[Priest]--now drew near the fire and cast
fresh butter into it. The flames leapt up into the air and all the
Persians fell on their knees and hid their faces, in the belief that the
fire was now ascending to their great god and father. The Magian then
took a mortar, laid some leaves and stalks of the sacred herb Haomas
within it, crushed them and poured the ruddy juice, the food of the gods,
into the flames.

After this he raised his hands to heaven, and, while the other priests
continually fed the flames into a wilder blaze by casting in fresh
butter, sang a long prayer out of the sacred books. In this prayer the
blessing of the gods was called down on everything pure and good, but
principally on the king and his entire realm. The good spirits of light,
life and truth; of all noble deeds; of the Earth, the universal giver; of
the refreshing waters, the shining metals, the pastures, trees and
innocent creatures, were praised: the evil spirits of darkness; of lying,
the deceiver of mankind; of disease, death and sin; of the rigid cold;
the desolating heat; of all odious dirt and vermin, were cursed, together
with their father the malignant Ahriman. At the end all present joined in
singing the festival prayer: "Purity and glory are sown for them that are
pure and upright in heart."

The sacrificial ceremony was concluded with the king's prayer, and then
Cambyses, arrayed in his richest robes, ascended a splendid chariot drawn
by four snow-white Nicoean horses, and studded with topazes, cornelian
and amber, and was conveyed to the great reception-hall, where the
deputies and officers from the provinces awaited him.

As soon as the king and his retinue had departed, the priests selected,
for themselves, the best pieces of the flesh which had been offered in
sacrifice, and allowed the thronging crowd to take the rest.

The Persian divinities disdained sacrifices in the light of food,
requiring only the souls of the slaughtered animals, and many a poor man,
especially among the priests, subsisted on the flesh of the abundant
royal sacrifices.

The prayer offered up by the Magian was a model for those of the Persian
people. No man was allowed to ask anything of the gods for himself alone.
Every pious soul was rather to implore blessings for his nation; for was
not each only a part of the whole? and did not each man share in the
blessings granted to the whole kingdom? But especially they were
commanded to pray for the king, in whom the realm was embodied and
shadowed forth. It was this beautiful surrender of self for the public
weal, that had made the Persians great. The doctrines of the Egyptian
priesthood represented the Pharaohs as actual divinities, while the
Persian monarchs were only called "sons of the gods;" yet the power of
the latter was far more absolute and unfettered than that of the former;
the reason for this being that the Persians had been wise enough to free
themselves from priestly domination, while the Pharaohs, as we have seen,
if not entirely under the dominion of the priestly caste, were yet under
its influence in the most important matters.

The Egyptian intolerance of all strange religions was unknown in Asia.
The conquered Babylonians were allowed by Cyrus to retain their own gods,
after their incorporation in the great Asiatic kingdom. The Jews, Ionians
and inhabitants of Asia Minor, in short, the entire mass of nations
subject to Cambyses remained unmolested in possession of their hereditary
religions and customs.

Beside the great altar, therefore, might be seen many a smaller
sacrificial flame, kindled in honor of their own divinities, by the
envoys from the conquered provinces to this great birthday feast.

Viewed from a distance, the immense city looked like a gigantic furnace.
Thick clouds of smoke hovered over its towers, obscuring the light of the
burning May sun.

By the time the king had reached the palace, the multitude who had come
to take part in the festival had formed themselves into a procession of
interminable length, which wandered on through the straight streets of
Babylon towards the royal palace.

Their road was strewn with myrtle and palm-branches, roses, poppy and
oleander-blossoms, and with leaves of the silver poplar, palm and laurel;
the air perfumed with incense, myrrh, and a thousand other sweet odors.
Carpets and flags waved and fluttered from the houses.

Music too was there; the shrill peal of the Median trumpet, and soft tone
of the Phrygian flute; the Jewish cymbal and harp, Paphlagonian
tambourines and the stringed instruments of Ionia; Syrian kettle-drums
and cymbals, the shells and drums of the Arians from the mouth of the
Indus, and the loud notes of the Bactrian battle-trumpets. But above all
these resounded the rejoicing shouts of the Babylonian multitude,
subjugated by the Persians only a few short years before, and yet, like
all Asiatics, wearing their fetters with an air of gladness so long as
the fear of their tyrant was before their eyes.

The fragrant odors, the blaze of color and sparkling of gold and jewels,
the neighing of the horses, and shouts and songs of human beings, all
united to produce a whole, at once bewildering and intoxicating to the
senses and the feelings.

The messengers had not been sent up to Babylon empty-handed. Beautiful
horses, huge elephants and comical monkeys; rhinoceroses and buffaloes
adorned with housings and tassels; double-humped Bactrian camels with
gold collars on their shaggy necks; waggon-loads of rare woods and ivory,
woven goods of exquisite texture, casks of ingots and gold-dust, gold and
silver vessels, rare plants for the royal gardens, and foreign animals
for the preserves, the most remarkable of which were antelopes, zebras,
and rare monkeys and birds, these last being tethered to a tree in full
leaf and fluttering among the branches. Such were the offerings sent to
the great king of Persia.

They were the tribute of the conquered nations and, after having been
shown to the king, were weighed and tested by treasurers and secretaries,
either declared satisfactory, or found wanting and returned, in which
case the niggardly givers were condemned to bring a double tribute later.

   [At the time of which we are writing, the kings of Persia taxed
   their kingdom at whatever time and to whatever extent seemed good in
   their own eyes. Cambyses' successor, Darius, was the first to
   introduce a regular system of taxation, in consequence of which he
   was nicknamed "the shopkeeper." Up to a much later period it still
   remained the duty of certain districts to send natural products to
   the court Herod. I. 192. Xenoph. Anab. IV. 5.]

The palace-gates were reached without hindrance, the way being kept clear
by lines of soldiers and whipbearers stationed on either side of the
street.

If the royal progress to the place of sacrifice, when five hundred
richly-caprisoned horses had been led behind the king's chariot, could be
called magnificent, and the march of the envoys a brilliant spectacle,
the great throne-room presented a vision of dazzling and magic beauty.

In the background, raised on six steps, each of which was guarded, as it
were, by two golden clogs, stood the throne of gold; above it, supported
by four golden pillars studded with precious stones, was a purple canopy,
on which appeared two winged discs, the king's Feruer.

   [The Feruer or Ferwer is the spiritual part of every man-his soul
   and reason. It was in existence before the man was horn, joins him
   at his birth and departs at his death. The Ferwer keeps up a war
   with the Diws or evil spirits, and is the element of man's
   preservation in life. The moment he departs, the body returns to
   its original elements. After death he becomes immortal if he has
   done well, but if his deeds have been evil he is cast into hell. It
   is right to call upon the Ferwer and entreat his help. He will
   bring the prayer before God and on this account is represented as a
   winged disc.]

Fan-bearers, high in office at the court, stood behind the throne, and,
on either side, those who sat at the king's table, his relations and
friends, and the most important among the officers of state, the priestly
caste and the eunuchs.

The walls and ceiling of the entire hall were covered with plates of
burnished gold, and the floor with purple carpets.

Before the silver gates lay winged bulls, and the king's body-guard-their
dress consisting of a gold cuirass under a purple overcoat, and the high
Persian cap, their swords in golden scabbards glittering with jewels, and
their lances ornamented with gold and silver apples, were stationed in
the court of the palace. Among them the band of the "Immortals" was
easily to be distinguished by their stately forms and dauntless bearing.

Officers, whose duty consisted in announcing and presenting strangers,
and who carried short ivory staves, led the deputies into the hall, and
up to the throne, where they cast themselves on the ground as though they
would kiss the earth, concealing their hands in the sleeves of their
robes. A cloth was bound over the mouth of every man before he was
allowed to answer the king's questions, lest the pure person of the king
should be polluted by the breath of common men.

Cambyses' severity or mildness towards the deputations with whose chiefs
he spoke, was proportioned to the obedience of their province and the
munificence of their tribute-offerings. Near the end of the train
appeared an embassy from the Jews, led by two grave men with sharply-cut
features and long beards. Cambyses called on them in a friendly tone to
stop.

The first of these men was dressed in the fashion of the Babylonian
aristocracy. The other wore a purple robe woven without seam, trimmed
with bells and tassels, and held in at the waist by a girdle of blue, red
and white. A blue garment was thrown over his shoulders and a little bag
suspended around his neck containing the sacred lots, the Urim and
Thummin, adorned with twelve precious stones set in gold, and bearing the
names of the tribes of Israel. The high-priest's brow was grave and
thoughtful. A white cloth was wound round his head, the ends of which
hung down to the shoulders.

"I rejoice to behold you once more, Belteshazzar," exclaimed the king to
the former of the two men. "Since the death of my father you have not
been seen at my gate."

The man thus addressed bowed humbly and answered: "The favor of the king
rejoices his servant! If it seem good unto thee, to cause the sun of thy
favor to shine on me, thine unworthy servant, so hearken unto my petition
for my nation, which thy great father caused to return unto the land of
their fathers' sepulchres. This old man at my side, Joshua, the
high-priest of our God, hath not feared the long journey to Babylon, that
he might bring his request before thy face. Let his speech be pleasing in
thine ears and his words bring forth fruit in thine heart."

"I foresee what ye desire of me," cried the king. "Am I wrong, priest, in
supposing that your petition refers to the building of the temple in your
native land?"

"Nothing can be hidden from the eyes of my lord," answered the priest,
bowing low. "Thy servants in Jerusalem desire to behold the face of their
ruler, and beseech thee by my mouth to visit the land of their fathers,
and to grant them permission to set forward the work of the temple,
concerning which thine illustrious father (the favor of our God rest upon
him), made a decree."

The king answered with a smile: "You have the craft of your nation, and
understand how to choose the right time and words for your petition. On
my birthday it is difficult for me to refuse my faithful people even one
request. I promise you, therefore, so soon as possible to visit Jerusalem
and the land of your fathers."

"By so doing thou wilt make glad the hearts of thy servants," answered
the priest; "our vines and olives will bear more fruit at thine approach,
our gates will lift up their heads to receive thee, and Israel rejoice
with shouts to meet his lord doubly blessed if as lord of the building--"

"Enough, priest, enough!" cried Cambyses. "Your first petition, I have
said it, shall not remain unfulfilled; for I have long desired to visit
the wealthy city of Tyre, the golden Sidon, and Jerusalem with its
strange superstitions; but were I to give permission for the building
now, what would remain for me to grant you in the coming year?"

"Thy servants will no more molest thee by their petitions, if thou grant
unto them this one, to finish the temple of the Lord their God," answered
the priest.

"Strange beings, these men of Palestine!" exclaimed Cambyses. "I have
heard it said that ye believe in one God alone, who can be represented by
no likeness, and is a spirit. Think ye then that this omnipresent Being
requires a house? Verily, your great spirit can be but a weak and
miserable creature, if he need a covering from the wind and rain, and a
shelter from the heat which he himself has created. If your God be like
ours, omnipresent, fall down before him and worship as we do, in every
place, and feel certain that everywhere ye will be heard of him!"

"The God of Israel hears his people in every place," exclaimed the
high-priest. "He heard us when we pined in captivity under the Pharaohs
far from our land; he heard us weeping by the rivers of Babylon. He chose
thy father to be the instrument of our deliverance, and will hear my
prayer this day and soften thine heart like wise. O mighty king, grant
unto thy servants a common place of sacrifice, whither our twelve tribes
may repair, an altar on the steps of which they can pray together, a
house in which to keep their holy feasts! For this permission we will
call down the blessing of God upon thine head and his curse upon thine
enemies."

"Grant unto my brethren the permission to build their temple!" added
Belteshazzar, who was the richest and most honorable and respected of the
Jews yet remaining in Babylon; a man whom Cyrus had treated with much
consideration, and of whom he had even taken counsel from time to time.

"Will ye then be peaceable, if I grant your petition?" asked the king.
"My father allowed you to begin the work and granted the means for its
completion. Of one mind, happy and content, ye returned to your native
land, but while pursuing your work strife and contention entered among
you. Cyrus was assailed by repeated letters, signed by the chief men of
Syria, entreating him to forbid the work, and I also have been lately
besought to do the same. Worship your God when and where ye will, but
just because I desire your welfare, I cannot consent to the prosecution
of a work which kindles discord among you."

"And is it then thy pleasure on this day to take back a favor, which thy
father made sure unto us by a written decree?" asked Belteshazzar.

"A written decree?"

"Which will surely be found even to this day laid up in the archives of
thy kingdom."

"Find this decree and show it me, and I will not only allow the building
to be continued, but will promote the same," answered the king; "for my
father's will is as sacred to me as the commands of the gods."

"Wilt thou allow search to be made in the house of the rolls at
Ecbatana?" asked Belteshazzar. "The decree will surely be found there."

"I consent, but I fear ye will find none. Tell thy nation, priest, that I
am content with the equipment of the men of war they have sent to take
the field against the Massagetae. My general Megabyzus commends their
looks and bearing. May thy people prove as valiant now as in the wars of
my father! You, Belteshazzar, I bid to my marriage feast, and charge you
to tell your fellows, Meshach and Abednego, next unto you the highest in
the city of Babylon, that I expect them this evening at my table."

"The God of my people Israel grant thee blessing and happiness," answered
Belteshazzar bowing low before the king.

"A wish which I accept!" answered the king, "for I do not despise the
power of your wonder-working great Spirit. But one word more,
Belteshazzar. Many Jews have lately been punished for reviling the gods
of the Babylonians. Warn your people! They bring down hatred on
themselves by their stiff-necked superstition, and the pride with which
they declare their own great spirit to be the only true God. Take example
by us; we are content with our own faith and leave others to enjoy theirs
in peace. Cease to look upon yourselves as better than the rest of the
world. I wish you well, for a pride founded on self-respect is pleasing
in mine eyes; but take heed lest pride degenerate into vainglory.
Farewell! rest assured of my favor."

The Jews then departed. They were disappointed, but not hopeless; for
Belteshazzar knew well that the decree, relative to the building of the
temple, must be in the archives at Ecbatana.

They were followed by a deputation from Syria, and by the Greeks of
Ionia; and then, winding up the long train, appeared a band of
wild-looking men, dressed in the skins of animals, whose features bespoke
them foreigners in Babylon. They wore girdles and shoulderbands of solid,
unwrought gold; and of the same precious metal were their bow-cases,
axes, lance-points, and the ornaments on their high fur caps. They were
preceded by a man in Persian dress, whose features proved him, however,
to be of the same race as his followers.

The king gazed at first on these envoys with wonder; then his brow
darkened, and beckoning the officer whose duty it was to present
strangers, he exclaimed "What can these men have to crave of me? If I
mistake not they belong to the Massagetae, to that people who are so soon
to tremble before my vengeance. Tell them, Gobryas, that an armed host is
standing on the Median plains ready to answer their demands with the
sword."

Gobryas answered, bowing low: "These men arrived this morning during the
sacrifice bringing huge burdens of the purest gold to purchase your
forbearance. When they heard that a great festival was being celebrated
in your honor, they urgently besought to be admitted into your presence,
that they might declare the message entrusted to them by their country."

The king's brow cleared and, after sharply scrutinizing the tall, bearded
Massageta, he said: "Let them come nearer. I am curious to know what
proposals my father's murderers are about to make me."

Gobryas made a sign, and the tallest and eldest of the Massagetae came up
close to the throne and began to speak loudly in his native tongue. He
was accompanied by the man in a Persian dress, who, as one of Cyrus'
prisoners of war, had learnt the Persian language, and now interpreted
one by one the sentences uttered by the spokesman of this wandering
tribe.

"We know," began the latter, "that thou, great king, art wroth with the
Massagetae because thy father fell in war with our tribe--a war which he
alone had provoked with a people who had done naught to offend him."

"My father was justified in punishing your nation," interrupted the king.
"Your Queen Tomyris had dared to refuse him her hand in marriage."

"Be not wroth, O King," answered the Massagetan, "when I tell thee that
our entire nation approved of that act. Even a child could see that the
great Cyrus only desired to add our queen to the number of his wives,
hoping, in his insatiable thirst for more territories, to gain our land
with her."

Cambyses was silent and the envoy went on. "Cyrus caused a bridge to be
made over our boundary river, the Araxes. We were not dismayed at this,
and Tomyris sent word that he might save himself this trouble, for that
the Massagetae were willing either to await him quietly in their own
land, leaving the passage of the river free, or to meet him in his. Cyrus
decided, by the advice of the dethroned king of Lydia, (as we learnt
afterwards, through some prisoners of war) on meeting us in our own land
and defeating us by a stratagem. With this intention he sent at first
only a small body of troops, which could be easily dispersed and
destroyed by our arrows and lances, and allowed us to seize his camp
without striking a blow. Believing we had defeated this insatiable
conqueror, we feasted on his abundant stores, and, poisoned by the sweet
unknown drink which you call wine, fell into a stupefied slumber, during
which his soldiers fell upon us, murdered the greater number of our
warriors and took many captives. Among the latter was the brave, young
Spargapises, our queen's son.

"Hearing in his captivity, that his mother was willing to conclude peace
with your nation as the price of his liberty, he asked to have his chains
taken off. The request was granted, and on obtaining the use of his hands
he seized a sword and stabbed himself, exclaiming: 'I sacrifice my life
for the freedom of my nation.'"

"No sooner did we hear the news that the young prince we loved so well
had died thus, than we assembled all the forces yet left to us from your
swords and fetters. Even old men and boys flew to arms to revenge our
noble Spargapises, and sacrifice themselves, after his example, for
Massagetaen freedom. Our armies met; ye were worsted and Cyrus fell. When
Tomyris found his body lying in a pool of human blood, she cried:
'Methinks, insatiable conqueror, thou art at last sated with blood!' The
troop, composed of the flower of your nobility, which you call the
Immortals, drove us back and carried your father's dead body forth from
our closest ranks. You led them on, fighting like a lion. I know you
well, and that wound across your manly face, which adorns it like a
purple badge of honor, was made by the sword now hanging at my side."

A movement passed through the listening crowd; they trembled for the bold
speaker's life. Cambyses, however, looked pleased, nodded approvingly to
the man and answered: "Yes, I recognize you too now; you rode a red horse
with golden trappings. You shall see that the Persians know how to honor
courage. Bow down before this man, my friends, for never did I see a
sharper sword nor a more unwearied arm than his; and such heroic courage
deserves honor from the brave, whether shown by friend or foe. As for
you, Massagetae, I would advise you to go home quickly and prepare for
war; the mere recollection of your strength and courage increases my
longing to test it once more. A brave foe, by Mithras, is far better than
a feeble friend. You shall be allowed to return home in peace; but beware
of remaining too long within my reach, lest the thought of the vengeance
I owe my father's soul should rouse my anger, and your end draw suddenly
nigh."

A bitter smile played round the bearded mouth of the warrior as he made
answer to this speech. "The Massagetae deem your father's soul too well
avenged already. The only son of our queen, his people's pride, and in no
way inferior to Cyrus, has bled for him. Produced by Adrian Mastronardi,
Chuck Grief and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(Produced from images of the Bibliothèque nationale de France (BnF /
Gallica) at http://gallica.bnf.fr) [ transcriber's note: We retain the
spelling of the work antiqua.] DRAFT Translating BUENOS AIRES THE BORDERS
OF THE BLACK AND RIO COLORADO, BY AND SEBASTIAN Undiano Gastelú.

WHICH IS ADDED TO THE ROUTE OF A JOURNEY FROM BUENOS AIRES-UP TALCA BY JOSE
SANTIAGO HILL AND ZAMUDIO. First Edition. BUENOS-AIRES. STATE
PRINTING. 1836.

_ADVERTENCIA OF EDITOR._ The project published on the extension is likely
that our border is due to the enlightened zeal of a Spanish, who spent
much of his life in this country.

He lived in Mendoza, where it connects with a respectable family and
had intimate relations with the commander Amigorena, whose side
started to walk the vast territory that unfolds to the east of the
Andes. The idea of occupying the island of which is Choelechel
dominates in this project and all the benefits that can be drawn from
this occupation are clearly marked so that to leave now, believe
that this report was apologetic comment from the last campaign of
the Lord General ROSAS.

Undiano remained in this country until 1827, by which time a distaste
for domestic returned to Europe and died soon after in Pamplona, his
homeland. _De Draft translation of the borders of Buenos Aires,
REPRESENTATION TO THE KING & c._. Sir, - D. Undiano Gastelú and Sebastian,
Captain of the cavalry regiment of volunteers disciplined militia in the
city of Mendoza, vireynato of Buenos Aires, wishing the best interest
of the state, I dare to propose to the peaceful conquest of the VM
_diez-seven thousand miles away cuadradas_ of land situated in the best
soil in the universe, and one of the sides of his empire estendidísimo
- conquest for which we must not collide with any foreign power,
because all made in a country that belongs to the Crown de Castilla.

Nor has spilled blood, because some small roving tribes of Indians, which
runs through the no fixed seat, so that the gypsies went by before the
peninsula, nor want, nor to oppose the project in any way that harms them.
Them, since 1784, have little or nothing to do, and if we do not commit
hostilities, which have to be a safe withdrawal, it continued to
believe in the good harmony to be near the facilities that I will
propose .

Nor have caused expenditures of the public finances because the
resulting class war that is administered in this capital, and
went to security and population of these areas, I understand that there
is enough money for expenses that occur are impender, nor has less
need to remove troops from the Old World to the garrisons of the forts
that are to be found because they moved to the one at which we currently
have in these boundaries seems to be well defended the new line, if this
serves to make it the natural defense provided by the two rivers, and
Black Diamond, and which must go to our borders, since this capital to
Mendoza, which is what that reduces all project.

The land in question are those between the south of the Black River and the
borders of Buenos Aires, Santa-Fe, Córdoba, San Luis and Mendoza. They
form an uneven figure of four sides, which are not strictly
rectilinear for the inflections of the coasts and rivers that are
by their limbs, may well, if you look at everything, and speaking
geometric , called a trapeze. In its two acute angles comes down the mouth
of the Rio de la Plata and Mendoza, and the obtuse to the confluence
of the river corresponds to the Black Diamond, and the mouth of
the Atlantic Ocean in the austral.

Its largest is the north side, and these boundaries are taken in all its
extension east-west from Buenos Aires to Mendoza, which I have raced
many times. It follows by the width of the west side, extending from
32 degrees 56 minutes south latitude, which is in Mendoza, limited to 39
degrees in the pilot D. Basilio Villarino placed the confluence with
the Black Diamond. This side is made this river, which runs from the
jurisdiction of Mendoza, and the path that goes from one town to the
junction with the current Diamond, which he also recognized two expeditions
made by one side against the Indians South, having placed in the 84 years
up to the awning of the Springs, not far from the board with the
Black Diamond. The third side, which should be followed by its extension
to the two preceding, is the east, which consists of Patagones
coast from Rio de la Plata to the mouth of the Black, and many who have
traveled by sea, and even crossed by land. 4. fifth and final minor side,
is the south, forming the Black Box of the river from its confluence
with the Diamond to the Ocean. This went so Villarino: results from
here, which are seen the four corners and four sides of this vast
trapezium which includes no less than seventeen thousand miles of
surface. There can be no doubt the optimal quality for all those sites
which contain dilated extremities, which have almost all been crossed
and crossed, and from Buenos Aires and Santa-Fe, since Cordova, San Luis
and Mendoza, in the various expeditions made, from their respective
borders, against the Indians when they invaded grasslands: and was
made up of some very pasty and enormous plains, called _pampas_,
broken hills and glens, and medium and leafy hills, with lots of
good timber forest places, especially towards the west between the
meridians of Cordoba and Mendoza.

They are located between 4. And 6. º weather in the best of the southern
temperate zone, and by its geographical location, must be the parag have
not been accessed in the same advantageous qualities that the best or
maybe already seen mostly not having cordilleras altering benign temperament.
You can say how big country has few rivers: it is true that no more
than the Black, Colorado, Diamante, Tunuyan or drinkers, and other
smaller, then dropping to the coast, or to that of silver, and all
the distant center, but what matters is that the banks are filled
and the Black Diamond, watch them and not another frontier, that
does not take many years to go populating everything else, with
nothing left barren.

Have we not populated by many large towns and the dry plains of La
Mancha?

So why are not much cooler than those? Are you where water is so close,
no one doubted that anyone found to have set down and, without more water
than the bucket of its wells in these borders in Buenos Aires and
Santa Fe and Cordoba? Sierra de la Ventana, the Volcano, the ravines
below, full of springs, from where the river is lost to the
headwaters of the fifth Colorado River - the parag of Vívoras,
Mamilmapu, and many others, where the Indians found the water that
more work to dig a few wells with knives or machetes - and the many
large gaps that are spread over all these pampas, lead to believe
that very cautiously across the country, the boundaries between
content expressed there is no one place that no man may dwell.

What should not be expected, therefore, a land like this, whether by
taking advantage of its vast plains of the waters of the rivers Atuel and
diamonds, and the elevation of its origin is from the first hydrometry
and crosses the whole of irrigation canals and navigation? And what, if
reduced to boxes and solid closer rivers Tunuyan, Rio Cuarto, and Quinto,
headed south for the same purpose? Not to say that these last two are low
flow, because much poorer the Manzanares, and it is how can man know when
to use this element out. Populate therefore this country, beginning
with the translation of the strengths of this frontier of Buenos
Aires to the northern or left bank of the Black River: they are six, and
six stronghold, and which are already in the mouth of the Colorado
River that, in suitable sites would be sufficient to cover the
distance from it to the board of the Diamond: Taking good care
combed the canyons, leaving the fewest steps possible, and these
just being dominated our canyon.

Thus, taking advantage of the natural defense provided by this mighty river
and waterway, would be entirely covered by our line of the south,
establishing the main strengths in the steps, and placing in the
intermediate towers, forts and telegraph, for which half runs in few
minutes she notices all over. At the junction of the Diamond, Black
would be good to put more force, and as this is the point most remote
from our present boundaries, and also opposed by the largest
resistance to floods Ranqueles of Indians and Guilliches, that in case
of attack will be at that point rather than another: there was and
is the passage of the mountain Indians who go to the pampas of South
(who do it for today Choelechel), around the west, looking over
Black versus Payen, and then falling to the Diamond for their entry
into the country off-limits.

So I say, that the defense of this point requires further attention.
The banks of the Diamond, which I run sometimes, and that from the angle
formed where the receiving Atuel, comprising the west side of the trapeze,
you must also ensure very carefully because of no, little or fortify
the side line the South by the Black River, and let this helpless in the
long distance from one to the other board. The Diamond Rio is
not as big as that, and it is easier to find the same step, but still
swimming in its many parts are marshy shores, and this is the best
defense.

The water is good, and run from the jurisdiction of Mendoza, always land
flat. Escarpment would be wise to defend all its gullies and mire all
the opposite bank in as many parts as possible, so that there shall
be no more steps than those dominated by our strengths. These might be
established after a mature examination and recognition in the most parag
own, moving this to the left of the river, those in the borders
of Cordova, San Luis and Mendoza.

By Diamond Rio, and a little above of its board with Atuel, which is
65 miles from Mendoza to the south, strong and could move the town of
San Carlos, which he founded at the border of our Sobremonte Marques,
being mayor of Cordova Governor. Hardly find proporcioncs best site for
a big city. Two rivers, good water, beautiful temperament, many pastures,
plenty of firewood, plain and widespread of the highest quality, with
clear horizons Atuel by the NSE and Diamond, in the best disposition
to indent and water as they want. Good examples of rich minerals in the
mountains immediately west, and some excellent salt inexhaustible
salt in their surroundings, is what gives this beautiful parag in
view of an observer.

More from this board on the Diamante is navigable streams of water that
bears its small current, and not have any jump, for which the establishment
was founded here that could lead to water all their fruits and produce
to the sea, with saving a lot of freight and insurance, and also helps
address and orders for our entire line, and relief in case of siege
from some of the strong, non-waiting. With the troops at the border
today said, I think serious enough to firmly establish in the
main points of the new line is to say, it looks to the Black
River, and Island in Choelechel immediately above this point, and it
touches the diamond, which is below the springs. Here on the corner
of San Jose in the Algarrobos, and at the confluence of the Diamond
and Atuel, and some others that would be a lengthy appreciation, if any
should be ensured by. This recognition should be based two expeditions:
one from our Black River, in the manner of the Villarino, which could
go with two chalupas to this union with the Diamond Rio, and second, that
going from Mendoza, was on the right side of this river Finally meet
up with the Black, returning to the withdrawal of one another and to
rectify the comments made at the entrance. Well that Mendoza would be very
convenient to make your trip back to the left, to recognize the union of
Tunuyan with Diamond, which I could not see the year 1784, went through
there, because of the large growing That year, they did leave the
mother river flooding far more immediate fields, clogging and the
proper approach to recognize this geographical point: it would be
also very good that the issue of Mendoza has two boats or canoes
by the river and over and entrusted the command of sugetos to give
a full description of the two rivers, raising accurate drawings of
them, and identifying sites for establishing new strengths.

All populations need further aid those who may be projected on the gravity
field of war, and then compensated with the increase in leather. Because,
who doubt that towns and villages of strong two rivers would be to open
a shop of some large items as accurate as leather, tallow and salt
meat to Europe, mules and Chile to Peru, and that proportion had build-in
rights? Two classes of men who inhabit the current borders, that is, they
call Blandengues soldiers and countrymen who live under the cannon of the
forts, no apeando one thousand eight hundred of which are of the latter
in each of the strengths of the borderline of this capital. Some other
serious and well spread throughout the land and property debalde, which
are Veria build, cultivate and improve the assets, this being a chain
that binds to the men for ever and ever. Each Blandengues would be good
to anticipate eighty pesos, to make your house, because after all
they are the ones who defend and ensure the new line, as people born and
insurance, and real agronomists.

Military, and with money from their salaries, to encourage and vivificarian
countryman who wanted to be resident. These would be desirable to
anticipate the same quality without refund, and also a real family
daily in the first year, ensuring that both are married, and with time
to do so which were singles. I can not go into greater details on this
because, to speak with foundation, it is necessary to await the result of
these two records, and I just simply say that I look very feasible
and easy, as I have intimated, in the aforementioned line: although
it would be Barbarians at some intermediate countries, there would be no
reason to fear, nor is it well that this is used to read between Spaniards
conquer nations much more numerous and bolder. Besides that, not dare to
insult, to be cut, but rather be reduced to life sentence to be
exterminated or driven across the Black Diamond, or, if the commission
or the lower face hostility. Well, suppose that were not populated and
filled with strong people and the banks of two rivers. How would the
prodigious multiplication of livestock in some fields as pasty and
themselves for this purpose!

And in about as safe as it stays on your left, with steps cut into these
rivers, so that no stray head south, not west!

So would the numerous troops of mules, cows and horses, walk strong to
strong, and Chile to the markets about the path of Planchon's range,
which falls little further south of latitude of the board of the rivers
Diamond and Atuel, and exits to Curicó, and by the stone cross, which
enters the Parrots, and out of the river Maipo to Santiago.
bastimentos Then they would reach out to our now deserted Patagonian
coast, in search of hides, tallow and wool to produce the new trapeze
with amazement, and filled the whole of Europe these items as
important, and then, finally, since the establishment of the board
of the rivers and Black Diamond, could recognize the wealth the
next and most famous hill Payen, and made very useful excursions
into history and the natural geography of the ancient land Magellan,
inside of which we know nothing.

And now coming from the extremities to the center, who has doubt,
which had been slowly populating the beautiful country that hold
so widespread and safe confines?

Will delay our first visits, leaving the narrow hall and shameful that
set Garay in 1580, and that so far remain: then would leave the
old ways from opening up new frontiers, making them go through the
best gouaches, and occupies the Salinas and establishments with
fixed and then gradually everything else so vast land where, as it
were, there is no waste.

In ancient times it was thought to ensure the mouth of Black River; entry
from Mendoza by Diamond is flat and utilities that have followed it are
incalculable. Everything, therefore, encouraged to continue: the conquest
but had to be peaceful, at least so I've come to believe, having
taken me many questions and meditations only. * * * * * ITINERARY
_De discovered a new path for retired Capt.

D. Cerro Santiago Zamudio and Jose, from the city of Buenos Aires to
San Agustin de Talca, capital of the province of Maule, in Chile_. _Leguas_.
_Enero_ 12. The city of Buenos Aires, we ate at the Monte de Castro. 2-1/2
"Del Monte said, we went to sleep at Bridge Marquez. 3-1/2 13.

From the Bridge, we went to eat at La Cañada de Escobar. 6" This is Canada
to stay Rodrigo, in where we sleep. 2 14. This stay, to eat at strong
Lujan. 5 15. From this fort, at a ranch that has no name. 3 "This
ranch, the residence of Pedro Flores: D. [1] 3 16. This stay at a ranch
near Fortin de Areco: C. 3-1/2" This Fortin, the D. stay Pedro Fernandez:
D. 5 17. This stay, the strength of Salta, (we stopped two days). 4 20.
From this fort, at the Laguna Salada to: C. 6 "This Paraga, the strong
Roxas: D. 4 21. From this fort, at Toscas: 3 C." The Toscas, at Laguna
de la Cabeza del Tigre: D. 6 22.

The gap in the Cabeza del Tigre, the castle of Mercedes C. 4 "of the Fort
of the Mercedes Chañaritos: D. 64-1/2 23 ------ 4. Of the Chañaritos,
the castle of Melincué: CD [2] 4 24. Melincué of the Fort of, the
Laguna Long: 4 C. From that lagoon, but another girl who has no name
and a short distance from it: D. 2 25.

This gap girl (with the same direction), which also had another name:
C. 2-1/2 "This Paraga, a clearing not know the name, but always following
the path of real Tunas, in which there was a loophole, some viscacheras
and five chañaris and to which I gave by name, the Laguna del Comandante
Hernandez. 4-1/2 26. The gap of Commander Hernandez Llorente from
the mountain, and one of the league, there is a Lagunita, and spent it
to rest. 4 "In this Paraga, to guard the Tunas, (which ended the
trip hazard). 5 27.

This watch, the gap in Totora. 4-1/2 "From the lagoon Totora, the castle
of Loboy. 5-1/2 28. Loboy of the Fort of, to the ranch of José Lagos.
4" In the ranch, we stopped near another, on the same road, after having
walked 1-1/2 29. Of that Paraga, the city of Charlotte. 3 31. In this
village, we walked upstream of Rio Cuarto, whose name has not parag. 3
"That Paraga, the same direction and walk 1-1/2 _Febrero_. 1. That Paraga,
the castle of San Carlos, who by another name called calves, which
is located on the shores of Rio Cuarto. 5-1/2 "of the Fort of San
Carlos, some large and long gaps. 2 ------ 121 2.

These gaps, the fort of Santa Catalina, noting that the first is at a
league Montecito, which is called the Bravo Cacique, and then is another,
which they call Mount Crin. 6 4.

The fort of Santa Catalina, Ensenada at the Montecito, which is approximately
pozitos. They spent the night. 4 5.
He said yesterday: 'She would have sunk long ago if not kept up by her
determined will, and a longing which gives her no rest. If she ceased to
care for life, she could allow death to take her, just as we dream
ourselves asleep. If, on the other hand, her wish could be gratified, she
might, (though this is hardly probable) live some years yet, but if it
remain but a short time longer unfulfilled, it will certainly wear her to
death.

"Have you any idea for whom she longs so eagerly? Our Tachot has allowed
herself to be fascinated by the beautiful Bartja, the brother of your
future husband. I do not mean to say by this that he has employed magic,
as the priest Ameneman believes, to gain her love; for a youth might be
far less handsome and agreeable than Bartja, and yet take the heart of an
innocent girl, still half a child. But her passionate feeling is so
strong, and the change in her whole being so great, that sometimes I too
am tempted to believe in the use of supernatural influence. A short time
before you left I noticed that Tachot was fond of Bartja. Her distress at
first we thought could only be for you, but when she sank into that
dreamy state, Ibykus, who was still at our court, said she must have been
seized by some strong passion.

"Once when she was sitting dreaming at her wheel, I heard him singing
softly Sappho's little love-song to her:

          "I cannot, my sweet mother,
          Throw shuttle any more;
          My heart is full of longing,
          My spirit troubled sore,
          All for a love of yesterday
          A boy not seen before."

        [Sappho ed. Neue XXXII. Translation from Edwin Arnold's
        Poets of Greece.]

"She turned pale and asked him: 'Is that your own song?'

"'No,' said he, 'Sappho wrote it fifty years ago.'

"'Fifty years ago,' echoed Tachot musingly.

"'Love is always the same,' interrupted the poet; 'women loved centuries
ago, and will love thousands of years to come, just as Sappho loved fifty
years back.'

"The sick girl smiled in assent, and from that time I often heard her
humming the little song as she sat at her wheel. But we carefully avoided
every question, that could remind her of him she loved. In the delirium
of fever, however, Bartja's name was always on her burning lips. When she
recovered consciousness we told her what she had said in her delirium;
then she opened her heart to me, and raising her eyes to heaven like a
prophetess, exclaimed solemnly: 'I know, that I shall not die till I have
seen him again.'

"A short time ago we had her carried into the temple, as she longed to
worship there again. When the service was over and we were crossing the
temple-court, we passed some children at play, and Tachot noticed a
little girl telling something very eagerly to her companions. She told
the bearers to put down the litter and call the child to her.

"'What were you saying?' she asked the little one.

"I was telling the others something about my eldest sister.'

"'May I hear it too?'" said Tachot so kindly, that the little girl began
at once without fear: "Batau, who is betrothed to my sister, came back
from Thebes quite unexpectedly yesterday evening. Just as the Isis-star
was rising, he came suddenly on to our roof where Kerimama was playing at
draughts with my father; and he brought her such a beautiful golden
bridal wreath."

   [Among the Egyptians the planet Venus bore the name of the goddess
   Isis. Pliny II. 6. Arist De mundo II. 7. Early monuments prove
   that they were acquainted with the identity of the morning and
   evening star. Lepsius, Chronologie p. 94.]

"Tachot kissed the child and gave her her own costly fan. When we were at
home again she smiled archly at me and said: 'You know, mother dear, that
the words children say in the temple-courts are believed to be oracles.'
So, if the little one spoke the truth, he must come; and did not you hear
that he is to bring the bridal-wreath? O mother, I am sure, quite sure,
that I shall see him again.'

"I asked her yesterday if she had any message for you, and she begged me
to say that she sent you thousands of kisses, and messages of love, and
that when she was stronger she meant to write, as she had a great deal to
tell you. She has just brought me the little note which I enclose; it is
for you alone, and has cost her much fatigue to write.

"But now I must finish my letter, as the messenger has been waiting for
it some time.

"I wish I could give you some joyful news, but sadness and sorrow meet me
whichever way I turn. Your brother yields more and more to the priests'
tyranny, and manages the affairs of state for your poor blind father
under Neithotep's guidance.

"Amasis does not interfere, and says it matters little whether his place
be filled a few days sooner or later by his successor.

"He did not attempt to prevent Psamtik from seizing the children of
Phanes in Rhodopis' house, and actually allowed his son to enter into a
negotiation with the descendants of those two hundred thousand soldiers,
who emigrated to Ethiopia in the reign of Psamtik I. on account of the
preference shown to the Greek mercenaries. In case they declared
themselves willing to return to their native land, the Greek mercenaries
were to have been dismissed. The negotiation failed entirely, but
Psamtik's treatment of the children of Phanes has given bitter offence to
the Greeks. Aristomachus threatened to leave Egypt, taking with him ten
thousand of his best troops, and on hearing that Phanes' son had been
murdered at Psamtik's command applied for his discharge. From that time
the Spartan disappeared, no one knows whither; but the Greek troops
allowed themselves to be bribed by immense sums and are still in Egypt.

"Amasis said nothing to all this, and looked on silently from the midst
of his prayers and sacrifices, while your brother was either offending
every class of his subjects or attempting to pacify them by means beneath
the dignity of a ruler. The commanders of the Egyptian and Greek troops,
and the governors of different provinces have all alike assured me that
the present state of things is intolerable. No one knows what to expect
from this new ruler; he commands today the very thing, which he angrily
forbade the day before. Such a government must soon snap the beautiful
bond, which has hitherto united the Egyptian people to their king.

"Farewell, my child, think of your poor friend, your mother; and forgive
your parents when you hear what they have so long kept secret from you.
Pray for Tachot, and remember us to Croesus and the young Persians whom
we know. Give a special message too from Tachot to Bartja; I beg him to
think of it as the last legacy of one very near death. If you could only
send her some proof, that he has not forgotten her! Farewell, once more
farewell and be happy in your new and blooming home."


CHAPTER XVI.

Sad realities follow bright anticipations nearly as surely as a rainy day
succeeds a golden sunrise. Nitetis had been so happy in the thought of
reading the very letter, which poured such bitter drops of wormwood into
her cup of happiness.

One beautiful element in her life, the remembrance of her dear home and
the companions of her happy childhood, had been destroyed in one moment,
as if by the touch of a magician's wand.

She sat there in her royal purple, weeping, forgetful of everything but
her mother's grief, her father's misfortunes and her sister's illness.
The joyful future, full of love, joy, and happiness, which had been
beckoning her forward only a few minutes before, had vanished. Cambyses'
chosen bride forgot her waiting, longing lover, and the future queen of
Persia could think of nothing but the sorrows of Egypt's royal house.

It was long past mid-day, when the attendant Mandane came to put a last
touch to Nitetis' dress and ornaments.

"She is asleep," thought the girl. "I can let her rest another quarter of
an hour; the sacrifice this morning has tired her, and we must have her
fresh and beautiful for the evening banquet; then she will outshine the
others as the moon does the stars."

Unnoticed by her mistress she slipped out of the room, the windows of
which commanded a splendid view over the hanging-gardens, the immense
city beneath, the river, and the rich and fruitful Babylonian plain, and
went into the garden.

Without looking round she ran to a flower-bed, to pluck some roses. Her
eyes were fixed on her new bracelet, the stones of which sparkled in the
sun, and she did not notice a richly-dressed man peering in at one of the
windows of the room where Nitetis lay weeping. On being disturbed in his
watching and listening, he turned at once to the girl and greeted her in
a high treble voice.

She started, and on recognizing the eunuch Boges, answered: "It is not
polite, sir, to frighten a poor girl in this way. By Mithras, if I had
seen you before I heard you, I think I should have fainted. A woman's
voice does not take me by surprise, but to see a man here is as rare as
to find a swan in the desert."

Boges laughed good-humoredly, though he well understood her saucy
allusion to his high voice, and answered, rubbing his fat hands: "Yes, it
is very hard for a young and pretty bird like you, to have to live in
such a lonely corner, but be patient, sweetheart. Your mistress will soon
be queen, and then she will look out a handsome young husband for you.
Ah, ha! you will find it pleasanter to live here alone with him, than
with your beautiful Egyptian."

"My mistress is too beautiful for some people's fancy, and I have never
asked any one to look out a husband for me," she answered pertly. "I can
find one without your help either."

"Who could doubt it? Such a pretty face is as good a bait for a man, as a
worm for a fish."

The street was empty, its emptiness bored and moved me to step under
his feet and went away with him around over there and there, like
a wooden shoe.

The woman was shocked and stood out from emerging, too fast, too
violently, so that the face in two hands remained. I could lie to see
his hollow form. It cost me indescribable effort, in these hands to
stay and not to look at what they had demolished.

Mir dawned, a face from the inside to see, but I was afraid but am much
more naked before the sore head with no face. I am afraid. Against
the fear you have to do something, even if it has. It would be very ugly,
ill be here, and someone would come to me in the Hôtel-Dieu to create,
then I would certainly die. This hotel is a pleasant hotel, visit
tremendously.

It is hardly the facade of the cathedral of Paris, look no danger of
one of the many cars that as soon as possible on the free plan
then it must go over them.

These are small buses, which are still ringing, and even the Duke
of Sagan would keep his team, if a little dying as it is in their
heads has geradenwegs Hôtel in God to want.

Moribund are stubborn, and Paris falters, when Madame Legrand,
brocanteuse from the rue des Martyrs, after a certain place in the
Cité's mileage.

It should be noted that these small cars deuced immensely stimulating
milk have glass windows, behind which is the most splendid agony
before can stand that satisfies the imagination of a concierge.

If you have more imagination and propose them to other directions,
then the conjecture almost unlimited. But I also have open cabs arriving
to see Zeitdroschken with its open roof, according to the usual taxi
drove two francs for the death hour. This excellent hotel is very old,
already king Clovis times you died in some beds. Now in 559 beds died.
Of course factory. With such enormous production is the individual's death
is not so well executed, but that is also irrelevant. The mass makes it.
Who giebt still something I can not wait for a death? Nobody. Even the
rich, but which it could make detailed die, start, careless and
indifferent to, the desire to own death, it is increasingly rare.

For a while yet, and he will be just as rare as a separate life. God,
that's all there.

One comes, one finds a life, get ready, one has only to attract. Man
wants to go or you are forced to do so: now, no effort: Voilà votre mort,
monsieur. Man dies, just as it comes, you die the death that led
to the disease, which one has (since we all know diseases, we know
also that the different degrees to the lethal disease, and not
belong to the people, and the patient has nothing to do, so to
speak).

In the sanatoria, where so happy and with so much gratitude to
doctors and nurses will have died, dies one of the staff at the
prison deaths, which is often seen.

If someone dies at home, it is of course, those polite circles of the
good death to choose the funeral, as the first class even begins and
the entire sequence of his beautiful manners. Since then the poor are
facing such a house and see themselves fed. Her death is obviously trivial,
without any circumstances. They are happy when they find that approximately
fits. Too far, it may be, you still grow a bit. Only if he is not sent
over the chest or kill, it has its distress when I think back home, where
now no one is, then I believe this must have been different earlier.
Previously, we knew (or perhaps you knew it) that the death was in itself
as the core of the fruit. The children were in a small and a large adult.
The women had it in Schooß and the men in the chest. The man had, and
that gave you a peculiar dignity and a quiet pride.

My grandfather still, the old chamberlain Briggs, saw it, that he contributed
to death in . And what was that for one: two months long and so loudly
that he listened to the last Vorwerk out. The long, old manor house
was too small for this death, it seemed, as one would have to
grow wings, because the body of the chamber was Mr. growing, and
he wanted to continue from one room to another and fell into his
terrible wrath in when the day has not yet ended and there was no
more room in which he had not been located.

Then it came with the whole course of servants, maids and dogs, which he
always had to get the stairs and under estimates of the impact
Haushofmeister, in his dying mother highly blessed the room and
the whole in the state in which they are Twenty-three years before
leave had been obtained and was never someone else could enter.

Now the whole mob broke it. The curtains were withdrawn, and the robust
light of a summer afternoon, looked at all the shy, terrified
objects and turned awkwardly to an open mirrors.

And people did it well. There were as maids, before curiosity did not
know where their hands are just staying young, serves everything anglotzten,
service and older people who herumgingen and searched to remember what
one of them that sealed room in which they are now were happy, everything
had told. Above all, the dogs seemed to reside in a space where all
things smelled, immensely stimulating. The large, narrow employs Russian
greyhounds ran behind the armchairs and forth, through which long dance
in step with the motion weighing chamber, stood out like dog coats
of arms and looked at the slender white paws on the window sill
having golden, with a pointed, tense face and forehead pulled back
to the right and left in the yard.

Small, glove yellow roof dogs sat with faces, as if everything in the
order in which broad, silk upholstered chair by the window, and a
stichelhaariger, grumpy-looking dog chicken rubbed his back on the
edge of a goldbeinigen table on which the painted plate Sèvrestassen
shook.

Yes, it was for this absent-minded, sleepy things a terrible time. It
happened that from the books that any hasty clumsy hand had opened,
rose petals heraustaumelten the crush were small weakly items were
taken and, immediately after they were broken up, lying down again
quickly, many Bent also made curtains, or even behind the golden
network of the fireplace grating thrown.

And from time to time, was something that fell on carpet verhüllt
fell brightly on the hard floor, but it broke here and there, sharp
or zersprang broke almost noiselessly, because these things spoiled
as they were, vertrugen any case.

And would in response to someone asking what the cause of all this is
what this room all anxiously guarded wealth decline herabgerufen
had - there would be only one answer:'s death.

The death of the Chamber Mr. Christoph Detlev Briggs on Ulsgaard. That was
big on his dark blue uniform beyond swell, in the middle of the floor
and did not.

In his large, strange, no one more familiar face, the eyes are admitted
he did not see what happened. They had first tried to kill him on the
bed, but he had resisted, however, because he hated beds since those
first few nights in which his illness was grown. Even had the bed up
there proved to be too small, and there was nothing else left than him so
on the carpet to lay; down because he had not wanted. Because he was
now, and you could feel that he had died . The dogs were, as it slowly
began to dawn, one after another by the Türspalte withdrawn, only the
Harthaarige with the morose face sat with his Lord, and one of his broad,
shaggy Forefeet was on Christoph Detlevs large, gray hand. Even the
servants were now out in most of the white gear that was brighter than
the room, but what remained were still inside, sometimes secretly
watched by the big, dunkelnden pile in the middle, and she wished that
nothing more than a great suit over a corrupt thing. But it was something
else. It was a voice, the voice, still seven weeks before anyone had
known, because it was not the voice of the Lord chamber. Not Christoph
Detlev was to what this voice belonged, it was Christoph Detlevs death.
Detlevs death Christoph lived now for many, many days to Ulsgaard and
talked with everyone and demanded. Required to be worn, called the blue
room, demanded the little parlor, called the hall. Desired dogs, demanding
that you laugh, talk, play and still had everything and at the same time.
Desired friends to see women and deceased, and called himself to die
demanded. Desired and cried. Because when the night came, and the fatigue
of the service people who do not guard had tried to sleep, then
screamed Christoph Detlevs death, cried and moaned, yelled, and
continued so long that the dogs, the first mitheulten, silent and did
not dare lie down and, on their long, slender, trembling legs below,
is feared.

And if it through the wide, silver, Danish summer night in the village
heard that he shouted, as they stood on as the storm, dressed in, and
remained without a word to the lamp sit until it was gone. And the women,
who before the close defeats coming were in the remote offices, and in
the densest Bettverschläge, but they heard it, they heard it as
if it is in their own body would be, and she begged, even up to be allowed
to and were white and wide, and sat down to the others with their faces
blurred. And the cows, which calve at this time were hülflos and closed,
and a man snatched the dead with all the fruit from the abdominal viscera,
as they do not want to come. And everyone did their Tagwerker bad and
forgot hereinzubringen hay because they are frightened by day and
the night before because many of them awake and scared of standing
up so he mattet were that they could reflect on nothing.

And if they are on Sunday in the white church was peaceful, so they prayed
that it might no longer on Mr. Ulsgaard give: because this was a
terrible master. And what they all thought and prayed, the pastor said
the loud from the pulpit down, because he had no more nights and
could not understand God. And the bell is said to have a terrible
rivals had received the whole night and booms against them, even if they
come from all metal began to toll, nothing could. Yes, all told, and it
was one among the young people who had dreamed that he would have gone
into the castle and the merciful Lord would slay with his Mistforke,
and so upset, it was, so to end, so overwrought that all listened
when he told his dream, and him, quite without knowing it, that was then,
if such indeed he was well grown. So we talked and felt throughout the
region, in which the Lord Chamber a few weeks ago had loved and regretted.
But even though you said, nothing changed. Christoph Detlevs death,
on Ulsgaard lived, could not push. He was for ten weeks came and he stayed.
And during this time, he was longer than Christoph Detlev Briggs ever
had, he was like a king, one called the Terrible, later and forever.

That was not the death of any water addict, which was the evil, royal
death, Lord of the chamber throughout his life is taken in and of
itself had nurtured.

All excess of pride, willpower and Mr. Kraft, which he himself in his
quiet days did not have to consume, in his death was received in
the death, which is now on Ulsgaard sat and wasted.

How would the Board Mr.

Briggs the views of any would have demanded that he should die a different
death than this. He died in his grave death. And when I think of the others
that I seen or of which I have heard: there is always the same. They
all have had their own death. These men who were in the arms, inside,
like a prison, these women, the very old and small, and then on an
enormous bed, like on a stage, before the whole family, the servants and
the dogs discreetly and manorial hinübergingen.

Yes the children, even very small, did not have any Kindertod, they took
up and died, what they already were, and what they would
become. And what were the women for a melancholic beauty, if they
were pregnant and stood, and in her great body on which the slender
hands are involuntarily remained were two fruits: a child and a death.
Came the dense, nutrient smile almost entirely in their remaining
face not her, that she sometimes felt it grow both? I have done
something against the fear.

I have sat all night and write, and now I am so tired as well after a
long way over the fields of Ulsgaard. It is difficult to think that
everything is not that strange people live long in the old mansion.
It may be that in the white room in the gable above the maids sleep
now, their heavy, damp sleeping sleep from evening until morning.

And you have nobody and nothing and drive around in the world with a
suitcase and a box of books and actually without curiosity. What a life
is that: without a home, without inherited things without dogs. Had
at least his memories. But who has? Had childhood there, as it is
buried. Maybe you have to be old to get it all heranreichen them. I think
I am good to be old.

Today was a beautiful autumnal morning. I went through the Tuileries.
Everything was against the East, before the sun, blinded. The Angeschienene
was overcast by mist as by a light gray curtain. Gray Gray basks in the
statues in the gardens have not yet revealed.

Individual flowers in long beds stood up and said: red, with a
startled voice. Then came a very tall, slender man around the corner
from the Champs-Elysées ago, he wore a crutch, but no longer pushed by
the shoulder, - he held it before him, easily, and from time to
time, he it finds and loud like a caduceus.

   It was a smile of joy does not oppress and smiled at all over, the
   sun, the trees. His step was shy as a child, but unusually
   light, full of memories of earlier steps. What such a small
   moon every interview.

There are days where everything is a light, light, barely indicated in
the bright air, but clear. The Next already has tones of distance, is
taken away and only shown hergereicht not, and what relationship to the
width: the river, the bridges, the long roads and the places that
are wasted, which has received wide behind him is painted on it
like on silk.

It is not to say what then a light green car may be on the Pont-neuf, or
any red, not to keep, or even just a poster on a wall of fire pearl
gray group of houses. Everything is simplified, to some real bright plan
placed as the face in a portrait Manetschen. And nothing is small
and superfluous. The Quai Bouquinisten on doing their boxes, and the
fresh yellow or vernutzte the books, the purple brown of the volumes, the
larger a Green Portfolio: everything is in place, is taking part and
forms a complete, in which nothing is missing. Below is the following
Composition: a small hand cart, pushed by a woman, then a forward
Leierkasten, lengthwise.

Behind across a children's basket, in which a very small stands on
solid legs, happily in his hood, and do not like to leave. From time to
time, the woman turns on the organ box. The very small is then immediately
stampfend in his basket again, and a little girl in a green dress dances
and Sunday suggests tambourine to the windows up. I think I should
start something to work, now that I see to learn.

I am twenty-eight, and it is as good as nothing has happened. We repeat:
I did a study of Carpaccio, who is poor, a drama, the 'marriage'
means something wrong with ambiguous means to prove, and verses.

Ah, but with verses so little is done when it writes early on.
Fair golden hair, interwoven with little silver
chains and gold pieces, welled out almost too abundantly from beneath her
tiara, and was smoothed over her white temples.

She sprang forward to meet Boges, trembling with eagerness, caught a
hasty glance at herself in the looking-glass, and then, fixing her eyes
on the eunuch, asked impetuously: "Are you pleased with me? Will he
admire me?"

Boges smiled his old, eternal smile and answered: "You always please me,
my golden peacock, and the king would admire you too if he could see you
as you were a moment ago. You were really beautiful when you called out,
'Will he admire me?' for passion had turned your blue eyes black as
night, and your lip was curled with hatred so as to show two rows of
teeth white as the snow on the Demawend!"

Phaedime was flattered and forced her face once more into the admired
expression, saying: "Then take us at once to the banquet, for I know my
eyes will be darker and more brilliant, and my teeth will gleam more
brightly, when I see that Egyptian girl sitting where I ought to sit."

"She will not be allowed to sit there long."

"What! is your plan likely to succeed then? Oh, Boges, do not hide it any
longer from me--I will be as silent as the grave--I will help you--I
will--"

"No, I cannot, I dare not tell you about it, but this much I will say in
order to sweeten this bitter evening: we have dug the pit for our enemy,
and if my golden Phaedime will only do what I tell her, I hope to give
her back her old place, and not only that, but even a higher one."

"Tell me what I am to do; I am ready for anything and everything."

"That was well and bravely spoken; like a true lioness. If you obey me we
must succeed; and the harder the task, the higher the reward. Don't
dispute what I am going to say, for we have not a minute to lose. Take
off all your useless ornaments and only wear the chain the king gave you
on your marriage. Put on a dark simple dress instead of this bright one;
and when you have prostrated yourself before Kassandane, bow down humbly
before the Egyptian Princess too."

"Impossible!"

"I will not be contradicted. Take off those ornaments at once, I entreat
you. There, that is right. We cannot succeed unless you obey me. How
white your neck is! The fair Peri would look dark by your side."

"But--"

"When your turn comes to ask a favor of the king, tell him you have no
wishes, now that the sun of your life has withdrawn his light."

"Yes, that I will do."

"When your father asks after your welfare, you must weep."

"I will do that too."

"And so that all the Achaemenidae can see that you are weeping."

"That will be a fearful humiliation!"

"Not at all; only a means by which to rise the more surely. Wash the red
color from your cheeks and put on white powder. Make yourself pale--paler
still."

"Yes, I shall need that to hide my blushes. Boges, you are asking
something fearful of me, but I will obey you if you will only give me a
reason."

"Girl, bring your mistress's new dark green robe."

"I shall look like a slave."

"True grace is lovely even in rags."

"The Egyptian will completely eclipse me."

"Yes, every one must see that you have not the slightest intention of
comparing yourself with her. Then people will say: 'Would not Phaedime be
as beautiful as this proud woman, if she had taken the same pains to make
herself so?"'

"But I cannot bow down to her."

"You must."

"You only want to humble and ruin me."

"Short-sighted fool! listen to my reasons and obey. I want especially to
excite the Achaemenidae against our enemy. How it will enrage your
grandfather Intaphernes, and your father Otanes to see you in the dust
before a stranger! Their wounded pride will bring them over to our side,
and if they are too 'noble,' as they call it, to undertake anything
themselves against a woman, still they will be more likely to help than
to hinder us, if I should need their assistance. Then, when the Egyptian
is ruined, if you have done as I wish, the king will remember your sad
pale face, your humility and forgetfulness of self. The Achaemenidae, and
even the Magi, will beg him to take a queen from his own family; and
where in all Persia is there a woman who can boast of better birth than
you? Who else can wear the royal purple but my bright bird of Paradise,
my beautiful rose Phaedime? With such a prize in prospect we must no more
fear a little humiliation than a man who is learning to ride fears a fall
from his horse."

And she, princess as she was, answered: "I will obey you."

"Then we are certain of victory," said the eunuch. "There, now your eyes
are flashing darkly again as I like to see them, my queen. And so
Cambyses shall see you when the tender flesh of the Egyptian shall have
become food for dogs and the birds of the air, and when for the first
time after long months of absence, I bring him once more to the door of
your apartments. Here, Armorges! tell the rest of the women to get ready
and enter their litters. I will go on and be there to show them their
places."

          ..........................

The great banqueting-hall was bright as day--even brighter, from the
light of thousands of candles whose rays were reflected in the gold
plates forming the panelling of the walls. A table of interminable length
stood in the middle of the hall, overloaded with gold and silver cups,
plates, dishes, bowls, jugs, goblets, ornaments and incense-altars, and
looked like a splendid scene from fairy-land.

"The king will soon be here," called out the head-steward of the table,
of the great court-lords, to the king's cup-bearer, who was a member of
the royal family. "Are all the wine-jugs full, has the wine been tasted,
are the goblets ranged in order, and the skins sent by Polykrates, have
they been emptied?"

"Yes," answered the cup-bearer, "everything is ready, and that Chian wine
is better than any I ever tasted; indeed, in my opinion, even the Syrian
is not to be compared to it. Only taste it."

So saying he took a graceful little golden goblet from the table in one
hand, raised a wine-pitcher of the same costly metal with the other,
swung the latter high into the air and poured the wine so cleverly into
the narrow neck of the little vessel that not a drop was lost, though the
liquid formed a wide curve in its descent. He then presented the goblet
to the head-steward with the tips of his fingers, bowing gracefully as he
did so.

The latter sipped the delicious wine, testing its flavor with great
deliberation, and said, on returning the cup: "I agree with you, it is
indeed a noble wine, and tastes twice as well when presented with such
inimitable grace. Strangers are quite right in saying that there are no
cupbearers like the Persian."

"Thanks for this praise," replied the other, kissing his friend's
forehead. "Yes, I am proud of my office, and it is one which the king
only gives to his friends. Still it is a great plague to have to stay so
long in this hot, suffocating Babylon. Shall we ever be off for the
summer, to Ecbatana or Pasargada?"

"I was talking to the king about it to-day. He had intended not to leave
before the Massagetan war, and to go straight from Babylon into the
field, but to-day's embassy has changed matters; it is probable that
there may be no war, and then we shall go to Susa three days after the
king's marriage--that is, in one week from the present time."

"To Susa?" cried the cup-bearer. "It's very little cooler there than
here, and besides, the old Memnon's castle is being rebuilt."

"The satrap of Susa has just brought word that the new palace is
finished, and that nothing so brilliant has ever been seen. Directly
Cambyses heard, it he said: Then we will start for Susa three days after
our marriage. I should like to show the Egyptian Princess that we
understand the art of building as well as her own ancestors. She is
accustomed to hot weather on the Nile, and will not find our beautiful
Susa too warm.' The king seems wonderfully fond of this woman."

"He does indeed! All other women have become perfectly indifferent to
him, and he means soon to make her his queen."

"That is unjust; Phaedime, as daughter of the Achaemenidae, has an older
and better right."

"No doubt, but whatever the king wishes, must be right."

"The ruler's will is the will of God."

"Well said! A true Persian will kiss his king's hand, even when dripping
with the blood of his own child."

"Cambyses ordered my brother's execution, but I bear him no more ill-will
for it than I should the gods for depriving me of my parents. Here, you
fellows! draw the curtains back; the guests are coming. Look sharp, you
dogs, and do your duty! Farewell, Artabazos, we shall have warm work
to-night."


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Death is so long and life so short
     No man was allowed to ask anything of the gods for himself
     Take heed lest pride degenerate into vainglory


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 6.


CHAPTER I.

The principal steward of the banquet went forward to meet the guests as
they entered, and, assisted by other noble staff-bearers (chamberlains
and masters of the ceremonies), led them to their appointed places.

When they were all seated, a flourish of trumpets announced that the king
was near. As he entered the hall every one rose, and the multitude
received him with a thundering shout of "Victory to the king!" again and
again repeated.

The way to his seat was marked by a purple Sardian carpet, only to be
trodden by himself and Kassandane. His blind mother, led by Croesus, went
first and took her seat at the head of the table, on a throne somewhat
higher than the golden chair for Cambyses, which stood by it. The king's
lawful wives sat on his left hand; Nitetis next to him, then Atossa, and
by her side the pale, plainly-dressed Phaedime; next to this last wife of
Cambyses sat Boges, the eunuch. Then came the high-priest Oropastes, some
of the principal Magi, the satraps of various provinces (among them the
Jew Belteshazzar), and a number of Persians, Medes and eunuchs, all
holding high offices under the crown.

Bartja sat at the king's right hand, and after him Croesus, Hystaspes,
Gobryas, Araspes, and others of the Achaemenidae, according to their rank
and age. Of the concubines, the greater number sat at the foot of the
table; some stood opposite to Cambyses, and enlivened the banquet by
songs and music. A number of eunuchs stood behind them, whose duty it was
to see that they did not raise their eyes towards the men.

Cambyses' first glance was bestowed on Nitetis; she sat by him in all the
splendor and dignity of a queen, but looking very, very pale in her new
purple robes.

Their eyes met, and Cambyses felt that such a look could only come from
one who loved him very dearly. But his own love told him that something
had troubled her. There was a sad seriousness about her mouth, and a
slight cloud, which only he could see, seemed to veil the usually calm,
clear and cheerful expression of her eyes. "I will ask her afterwards
what has happened," thought he, "but it will not do to let my subjects
see how much I love this girl."

He kissed his mother, sister, brother and his nearest relations on the
forehead--said a short prayer thanking the gods for their mercies and
entreating a happy new year for himself and the Persians--named the
immense sum he intended to present to his countrymen on this day, and
then called on the staff bearers to bring the petitioners before his
face, who hoped to obtain some reasonable request from the king on this
day of grace.

As every petitioner had been obliged to lay his request before the
principal staff bearer the day before, in order to ascertain whether it
was admissible, they all received satisfactory answers. The petitions of
the women had been enquired into by the eunuchs in the same manner, and
they too were now conducted before their lord and master by Boges,
Kassandane alone remaining seated.

The long procession was opened by Nitetis and Atossa, and the two
princesses were immediately followed by Phaedime and another beauty. The
latter was magnificently dressed and had been paired with Phaedime by
Boges, in order to make the almost poverty-stricken simplicity of the
fallen favorite more apparent.

Intaphernes and Otanes looked as annoyed as Boges had expected, on seeing
their grandchild and daughter so pale, and in such miserable array, in
the midst of all this splendor and magnificence.

Cambyses had had experience of Phaedime's former extravagance in matters
of dress, and, when he saw her standing before him so plainly dressed and
so pale, looked both angry and astonished. His brow darkened, and as she
bent low before him, he asked her in an angry and tyrannical tone: "What
is the meaning of this beggarly dress at my table, on the day set apart
in my honor? Have you forgotten, that in our country it is the custom
never to appear unadorned before the king? Verily, if it were not my
birthday, and if I did not owe you some consideration as the daughter of
our dearest kinsman, I should order the eunuchs to take you back to the
harem, that you might have time to think over your conduct in solitude."

These words rendered the mortified woman's task much easier. . . .  She
began to weep loud and bitterly, raising her hands and eyes to her angry
lord in such a beseeching manner that his anger was changed into
compassion, and he raised her from the ground with the question: "Have
you a petition to ask of me?"

"What can I find to wish for, now that the sun of my life has withdrawn
his light?" was her faltering answer, hindered by sobs.

Cambyses shrugged his shoulders, and asked again "Is there nothing then
that you wish for? I used to be able to dry your tears with presents; ask
me for some golden comfort to-day."

"Phaedime has nothing left to wish for now. For whom can she put on
jewels when her king, her husband, withdraws the light of his
countenance?"

"Then I can do nothing for you," exclaimed Cambyses, turning away angrily
from the kneeling woman. Boges had been quite right in advising Phaedime
to paint herself with white, for underneath the pale color her cheeks
were burning with shame and anger. But, in spite of all, she controlled
her passionate feelings, made the same deep obeisance to Nitetis as to
the queen-mother, and allowed her tears to flow fast and freely in sight
of all the Achaemenidae.

Otanes and Intaphernes could scarcely suppress their indignation at
seeing their daughter and grandchild thus humbled, and many an
Achaemenidae looked on, feeling deep sympathy with the unhappy Phaedime
and a hidden grudge against the favored, beautiful stranger.

The formalities were at last at an end and the feast began. Just before
the king, in a golden basket, and gracefully bordered round with other
fruits, lay a gigantic pomegranate, as large as a child's head.

Cambyses noticed it now for the first time, examined its enormous size
and rare beauty with the eye of a connoisseur, and said: "Who grew this
wonderful pomegranate?"

"Thy servant Oropastes," answered the chief of the Magi, with a low
obeisance. "For many years I have studied the art of gardening, and have
ventured to lay this, the most beautiful fruit of my labors, at the feet
of my king."

"I owe you thanks," cried the king: "My friends, this pomegranate will
assist me in the choice of a governor at home when we go out to war, for,
by Mithras, the man who can cherish and foster a little tree so carefully
will do greater things than these. What a splendid fruit! Surely it's
like was never seen before. I thank you again, Oropastes, and as the
thanks of a king must never consist of empty words alone, I name you at
once vicegerent of my entire kingdom, in case of war. For we shall not
dream away our time much longer in this idle rest, my friends. A Persian
gets low-spirited without the joys of war."

A murmur of applause ran through the ranks of the Achaemenidae and fresh
shouts of "Victory to the king" resounded through the hall. Their anger
on account of the humiliation of a woman was quickly forgotten; thoughts
of coming battles, undying renown and conqueror's laurels to be won by
deeds of arms, and recollections of their former mighty deeds raised the
spirits of the revellers.

The king himself was more moderate than usual to-day, but he encouraged
his guests to drink, enjoying their noisy merriment and overflowing
mirth; taking, however, far more pleasure still in the fascinating beauty
of the Egyptian Princess, who sat at his side, paler than usual, and
thoroughly exhausted by the exertions of the morning and the unaccustomed
weight of the high tiara. He had never felt so happy as on this day. What
indeed could he wish for more than he already possessed? Had not the gods
given him every thing that a man could desire? and, over and above all
this, had not they flung into his lap the precious gift of love? His
usual inflexibility seemed to have changed into benevolence, and his
stern severity into good-nature, as he turned to his brother Bartja with
the words: "Come brother, have you forgotten my promise? Don't you know
that to-day you are sure of gaining the dearest wish of your heart from
me? That's right, drain the goblet, and take courage! but do not ask
anything small, for I am in the mood to give largely to-day. Ah, it is a
secret! come nearer then. I am really curious to know what the most
fortunate youth in my entire kingdom can long for so much, that he
blushes like a girl when his wish is spoken of."

Bartja, whose cheeks were really glowing from agitation, bent his head
close to his brother's ear, and whispered shortly the story of his love.
Sappho's father had helped to defend his native town Phocaea against the
hosts of Cyrus, and this fact the boy cleverly brought forward, speaking
of the girl he loved as the daughter of a Greek warrior of noble birth.
In so saying he spoke the truth, but at the same time he suppressed the
facts that this very father had acquired great riches by mercantile
undertakings.

   [The Persians were forbidden by law to contract debts, because
   debtors were necessarily led to say much that was untrue. Herod. I.
   For this reason they held all money transactions in contempt, such
   occupations being also very uncongenial to their military tastes.
   They despised commerce and abandoned it to the conquered nations.]

He then told his brother how charming, cultivated and loving his Sappho
was, and was just going to call on Croesus for a confirmation of his
words, when Cambyses interrupted him by kissing his forehead and saying:
"You need say no more, brother; do what your heart bids you. I know the
power of love too, and I will help you to gain our mother's consent."
Bartja threw himself at his brother's feet, overcome with gratitude and
joy, but Cambyses raised him kindly and, looking especially at Nitetis
and Kassandane, exclaimed: "Listen, my dear ones, the stem of Cyrus is
going to blossom afresh, for our brother Bartja has resolved to put an
end to his single life, so displeasing to the gods.

   [The Persians were commanded by their religion to marry, and the
   unmarried were held up to ridicule. Vendid. IV. Fargard. 130.
   The highest duty of man was to create and promote life, and to have
   many children was therefore considered praiseworthy. Herod. I.
   136.]

In a few days the young lover will leave us for your country, Nitetis,
and will bring back another jewel from the shores of the Nile to our
mountain home."

"What is the matter, sister?" cried Atossa, before her brother had
finished speaking. Nitetis had fainted, and Atossa was sprinkling her
forehead with wine as she lay in her arms.

"What was it?" asked the blind Kassandane, when Nitetis had awakened to
consciousness a few moments later.

"The joy--the happiness--Tachot," faltered Nitetis. Cambyses, as well as
his sister, had sprung to the fainting girl's help. When she had
recovered consciousness, he asked her to take some wine to revive her
completely, gave her the cup with his own hand, and then went on at the
point at which he had left off in his account: "Bartja is going to your
own country, my wife--to Naukratis on the Nile--to fetch thence the
granddaughter of a certain Rhodopis, and daughter of a noble warrior, a
native of the brave town of Phocaea, as his wife."

"What was that?" cried the blind queen-mother.

"What is the matter with you?" exclaimed Atossa again, in an anxious,
almost reproachful tone.

"Nitetis!" cried Croesus admonishingly. But the warning came too late;
the cup which her royal lover had given her slipped from her hands and
fell ringing on the floor. All eyes were fixed on the king's features in
anxious suspense. He had sprung from his seat pale as death; his lips
trembled and his fist was clenched. Nitetis looked up at her lover
imploringly, but he was afraid of meeting those wonderful, fascinating
eyes, and turned his head away, saying in a hoarse voice: "Take the women
back to their apartments, Boges. I have seen enough of them--let us begin
our drinking-bout--good-night, my mother; take care how you nourish
vipers with your heart's blood. Sleep well, Egyptian, and pray to the
gods to give you a more equal power of dissembling your feelings.
To-morrow, my friends, we will go out hunting. Here, cup-bearer, give me
some wine! fill the large goblet, but taste it well--yes, well--for
to-day I am afraid of poison; to-day for the first time. Do you hear,
Egyptian? I am afraid of poison! and every child knows--ah-ha--that all
the poison, as well as the medicine comes from Egypt."

Nitetis left the hall,--she hardly knew how,--more staggering than
walking. Boges accompanied her, telling the bearers to make haste.

When they reached the hanging-gardens he gave her up to the care of the
eunuch in attendance, and took his leave, not respectfully as usual, but
chuckling, rubbing his hands, and speaking in an intimate and
confidential tone: "Dream about the handsome Bartja and his Egyptian
lady-love, my white Nile-kitten! Haven't you any message for the
beautiful boy, whose love-story frightened you so terribly? Think a
little. Poor Boges will very gladly play the go-between; the poor
despised Boges wishes you so well--the humble Boges will be so sorry when
he sees the proud palm-tree from Sais cut down. Boges is a prophet; he
foretells you a speedy return home to Egypt, or a quiet bed in the black
earth in Babylon, and the kind Boges wishes you a peaceful sleep.
Farewell, my broken flower, my gay, bright viper, wounded by its own
sting, my pretty fir-cone, fallen from the tall pine-tree!"

"How dare you speak in this impudent manner?" said the indignant
princess.

"Thank you," answered the wretch, smiling.

"I shall complain of your conduct," threatened Nitetis.

"You are very amiable," answered Boges. "Go out of my sight," she cried.

"I will obey your kind and gentle hints;" he answered softly, as if
whispering words of love into her ear. She started back in disgust and
fear at these scornful words; she saw how full of terror they were for
her, turned her back on him and went quickly into the house, but his
voice rang after her: "Don't forget my lovely queen, think of me now and
then; for everything that happens in the next few days will be a keepsake
from the poor despised Boges."

As soon as she had disappeared he changed his tone, and commanded the
sentries in the severest and most tyrannical manner, to keep a strict
watch over the hanging-gardens. "Certain death," said he, "to whichever
of you allows any one but myself to enter these gardens. No one,
remember--no one--and least of all messengers from the queen-mother,
Atossa or any of the great people, may venture to set foot on these
steps. If Croesus or Oropastes should wish to speak to the Egyptian
Princess, refuse them decidedly. Do you understand? I repeat it, whoever
is begged or bribed into disobedience will not see the light of
to-morrow's sun. Nobody may enter these gardens without express
permission from my own mouth. I think you know me. Here, take these gold
staters, your work will be heavier now; but remember, I swear by Plithras
not to spare one of you who is careless or disobedient."

The men made a due obeisance and determined to obey; they knew that
Boges' threats were never meant in joke, and fancied something great must
be coming to pass, as the stingy eunuch never spent his staters without
good reason.

Boges was carried back to the banqueting-hall in the same litter, which
had brought Nitetis away.

The king's wives had left, but the concubines were all standing in their
appointed place, singing their monotonous songs, though quite unheard by
the uproarious men.

The drinkers had already long forgotten the fainting woman. The uproar
and confusion rose with every fresh wine-cup. They forgot the dignity of
the place where they were assembled, and the presence of their mighty
ruler.

They shouted in their drunken joy; warriors embraced one another with a
tenderness only excited by wine, here and there a novice was carried away
in the arms of a pair of sturdy attendants, while an old hand at the work
would seize a wine-jug instead of a goblet, and drain it at a draught
amid the cheers of the lookers-on.

The king sat on at the head of the table, pale as death, staring into the
wine-cup as if unconscious of what was going on around hint. But at the
sight of his brother his fist clenched.

He would neither speak to him, nor answer his questions. The longer he
sat there gazing into vacancy, the firmer became his conviction that
Nitetis had deceived him,--that she had pretended to love him while her
heart really belonged to Bartja. How shamefully they had made sport of
him! How deeply rooted must have been the faithlessness of this clever
hypocrite, if the mere news that his brother loved some one else could
not only destroy all her powers of dissimulation, but actually deprive
her of consciousness!

When Nitetis left the hall, Otanes, the father of Phaedime had called
out: "The Egyptian women seem to take great interest in the love-affairs
of their brothers-in-law. The Persian women are not so generous with
their feelings; they keep them for their husbands."

Cambyses was too proud to let it be seen that he had heard these words;
like the ostrich, he feigned deafness and blindness in order not to seem
aware of the looks and murmurs of his guests, which all went to prove
that he had been deceived.

Bartja could have had no share in her perfidy; she had loved this
handsome youth, and perhaps all the more because she had not been able to
hope for a return of her love. If he had had the slightest suspicion of
his brother, he would have killed him on the spot. Bartja was certainly
innocent of any share in the deception and in his brother's misery, but
still he was the cause of all; so the old grudge, which had only just
been allowed to slumber, woke again; and, as a relapse is always more
dangerous than the original illness, the newly-roused anger was more
violent than what he had formerly felt.

He thought and thought, but he could not devise a fitting punishment for
this false woman. Her death would not content his vengeance, she must
suffer something worse than mere death!

Should he send her back to Egypt, disgraced and shamed? Oh, no! she loved
her country, and she would be received by her parents with open arms.
Should he, after she had confessed her guilt, (for he was determined to
force a confession from her) shut her up in a solitary dungeon? or should
he deliver her over to Boges, to be the servant of his concubines? Yes!
now he had hit upon the right punishment. How easily he could be
bestohlen. But then came his good, almost exuberant mood again, he pulled
his fur to make something really broad and handsome, and made the
whole fabelhafte capital at present, he is a bit patronizing anredete:
"Nikolaj Kusmitsch," he said sympathetic and introduced himself,
that he also, without fur, thin and poor on the Roßhaarsofa sitting,
"I hope Kusmitsch Nikolai," he said, "You are nothing to your wealth
imagine.

Remember always that this is not the The main thing is, it giebt poor
people who are perfectly respectable, it giebt even impoverished
nobles and General daughters, on the streets around and sell something.
" And the benefactor still led all throughout the city well-known
examples.

Nikolaj Kusmitsch The other, based on the Roßhaarsofa, the person, was
still without being made, one could assume that it would be sensible. He
changed, in fact, nothing in his modest regular living, and Sundays, he
now to be his account in order. But after a few weeks it fell on
him, that he so much ausgäbe. I will restrict myself, he thought. He was
earlier on, he washed less extensively, as he drank his tea, he ran into
the office and came much too soon.

   He saved a bit over time. But on Sunday there was no savings.
   Because he understood that he was cheated. I would not be
   allowed to change, he said it. How long did it in such a year.
   But since this infamous money that goes out, you do not know how.

And it was an ugly afternoon, when he was in the sofa corner and sat on
the gentleman in the fur waited from the time he wanted to reclaim.
He wanted the door locked and it can not continue until he was not so
herausgerückt. "In notes, he wanted to say" my ten years. " Four bills
and one to ten to five, and the rest should keep it in the devil's name.
Yes, he was ready to submit the rest to give just so that no
difficulties arise.

Irritable Roßhaarsofa he sat and waited, but the Lord did not. And
he, Nikolay Kusmitsch of a few weeks ago was so easily sit see, he could
now that he really was sitting on the other Kusmitsch Nikolaj, the Fur,
the Generous, not imagined. Heaven knows what became of him, probably it
was his fraud came to the track, and he was now firmly somewhere. Sure
he had him alone, not brought into the accident. Such fraud will always
work in the large. It struck him that there is a public authority must
give a kind of time banking, where he was at least a portion of its paltry
seconds umwechseln could. True, they were finally. He had never heard
of such an institution, but in the address book would certainly like
of which can be found in Z, or maybe it was called 'Bank of Time', one
could easily under B for details. Possibly was also the letter K to take
into account, because it was assumed that it was imperial institution,
which corresponded to its importance.

Nikolaj Later Kusmitsch always assured that he had on that Sunday evening,
although he was understandably fairly pressed mood was nothing 've
drunk.

He was completely sober when the following happened at all if you can
say what happened. Maybe that they are a bit in his corner was eingeschlummert,
which could still think. This little sleep initially gave him a loud
relief. I was with the numbers appeared, he talked to. Well, I
do not understand numbers. But it is clear that they were not too
much significance must admit, they are, so to speak, but only an
institution of state due to the regulation's sake. No one had ever yet
elsewhere than on the paper seen. It was impossible that one to the example
of a company in a seven or a twenty-five met.

Since there was simply not true.

And then there was this little confusion occurred which, from
pure absentmindedness: time and money, as if that could not keep
apart.

Nikolaj Kusmitsch almost laughed. It was good, so if you came to the tricks,
and timely, that was the important thing, time.

Now it should be otherwise. The time, yes, that was an embarrassing thing.
But it was about him alone, she not also the other way as he had found
in seconds, even if they did not know? Nikolaj Kusmitsch was not entirely
free of gloating: Maybe they are still - he just wanted to think
, but as something peculiar happened.

It suddenly blew in his face, it moved him past his ears, he felt
it in his hands. He opened his eyes wide. The window was tightly
closed.

And how he was so with wide eyes sat in the dark room, as he
began to understand that what he now felt the time was real, which passed.
He recognized it formally, all these Sekündchen equal lau, a like
the others, but fast, but fast.

Heaven knows what they are intended. The fact that he just had the befall
of any kind of wind felt as an insult. Now would you sit and it would
always be to move on, our whole life long. He saw all the neuralgia,
which you would get it, he was beside himself with rage. He jumped up,
but the SURPRISES were not yet at an end. Also under his feet was something
like a movement, not just one, several, oddly muddled fluctuating movements.
It froze before the horror: could the Earth be? Certainly, that was the
Earth. They moved anyway.

The school had been talked about, it was something that left hurriedly,
and later it was covered up like it was not suitable to say. But now,
because once he had become sensitive, he also got the feeling. Whether the
other felt it? Perhaps, but they were not. Maybe it made them from
nothing, these seafarers.

Nikolaj Kusmitsch however, was precisely on this point somewhat delicate,
he avoided even the trams. He stumbled around the room like on deck
and had the right and left. Unfortunately it was still something of the
oblique position of the earth axis one. No, he was all these movements
are not tolerated. He felt miserable. Loungers and keep quiet, he had
once read somewhere.

And since then was Nikolai Kusmitsch. He stood and had their eyes closed.
And there were times, less turbulent days, so to speak, where it was quite
bearable. And then he had invented with the poems.

One should not believe how that helped. If you have a poem hersagte
slowly, with emphasis on uniform Endreime, it was certainly something
stable because, as you could see inside of course.

An happiness, that he knew all of these poems.

But he was always very interested in literature.

He complained about his condition is not, assured me that the student
who knew him long.

Only had time with an exaggerated admiration for him has emerged
in which, as the student, herumgingen and the movement of the earth
vertrugen.

I remember this story as accurate, because it calmed me immensely.

I can say I have never again had such pleasant neighbor, Nikolai
Kusmitsch like this, which is certainly also would have admired me.

I took after this experience, in similar cases, always equal to the facts
loszugehen.

I noticed how easy and relief they were, compared to the conjecture.

As if I had not known that all of our insights are retrofitted,
closing, nothing more.

Immediately behind it begins a new page with something completely
different, without carryover.

What helped me now in the present case, the few facts that are
easily found them.

I will enumerate them in the same if I would have said what I am currently
employed: that they tend to have helped my situation, which (as I now
admit) was quite difficult, yet annoying way.

It was my honor to say, that I have written a lot in those days,
I've written spasmodic.

However, when I expected, so I thought do not like to come home. I even
made little detours and lost in this way for half an hour, during
which I would write.

I admit that this was a weakness. But once I was in my room so I had
nothing to be ashamed of.

I wrote, I had my life, and because the next door was a totally
different life, with whom I shared nothing: the life of a student
of medicine, studied for his exams.

I did not have anything similar in front of me, even that was a crucial
difference. And even otherwise, our circumstances as different as possible.
All this shone me.

Up to that moment, because I knew it would, because I forgot that
there is no common ground between us there. I listened so that my heart
was quite loud.

I had everything and listened. And then it came: I was never wrong. Almost
everyone knows the noise made by some tinny, round thing, we suppose, the
lid of a tin can, cause if it is entglitten.

Usually he is not even very loud at the bottom, it falls short on,
rolls on the edge, and is really only uncomfortable, if the momentum
to an end and he goes to all sides staggering aufschlägt, eh it
comes to lying.

So, that's the whole thing, such a metallic object was next door, rolled,
remained, and in between, at certain intervals, it is stamped. Like all
the noises that are repeated through, also had this internally
organized itself, it turned out, it was never the same.

But it is precisely the language for its legality. It could be fierce or
mild, or melancholy, it could almost pass rush or infinitely long
hingleiten, eh it came to rest. And the last wavering was always
surprising. By contrast, the Aufstampfen, which added something
almost mechanical.

But it told the noise is always different, which seemed to be his
job. I can understand the details much better now than see the room
beside me is empty.

He has traveled back home, in the province. He should relax. I live on
the top floor. Right is another house below me is nobody recovered:
I am without a neighbor. In this Constitution, I am almost surprised
that I did not easily adopted.

Although I have always been warned in advance by my feeling. That would
have been exploited.

Erschrick not, would I have to say, now there, I knew that I was never
deceived. But that was perhaps just the facts that I had to say, since I
knew I was still frightened become defective. It touched me almost spooky
that what this noise triggered, those small, slow, silent movement,
with the eyelid to be handed over his right eye cut and cleared, while he
read.

This was the essence of his story, a trifle.

He had been a few times to pass exams to have his ambition had become
sensitive, and people probably rushed home as often as they wrote.

What remained then left when zusammenzunehmen.

But there was a few months before the decision to set this weakness,
this small, fatigue impossible, so ridiculous, as if a curtain
window will not stay up.

I'm sure for weeks that he felt it would have to dominate can. Otherwise
I would not be forfeited to the idea, my will to him.

One day I understood that that was his end.

And since then, when I felt it coming, because I stood on my side of the
wall and asked him to serve.

And over time it became clear to me that he has indicated this.

Maybe he would not be allowed to do so, especially when you consider
that there is nothing really helped. Suppose even that we have the
matter a little hinhielten, it remains questionable whether he
really was capable of, the moments that we so won exploit.

And what my expenditure, so I began to feel it. I know, I wondered whether
this should continue, especially in the afternoon, when someone came
into our bunk. This resulted in the narrow entrance is always a
lot of unrest in the small hotel.

A while later, it seemed to me as you do with my neighbor one. Our
doors were the last in the course of his cross and close to the mean. I
knew however, that he sometimes saw friends with him, and, as I said,
I am not interested for his conditions. It is possible that his
door was still open on several occasions that it came out and went. But
I was not really responsible.

Now at that same evening it was worse than ever.

It was still not very late, but I was tired from already gone to bed, I
thought it likely that I would sleep. As I drove on, as if you had touched
me. Immediately thereafter it broke off. It jumped and ran and rolled
and wavered somewhere and went. The pitching was terrible. In between,
we knocked down a stick, deep, clear and angry against the ceiling.

The new tenant was obviously disturbed. Now: this had to be his
door. I was so awake that I heard his door said, although he surprisingly
cautious so circumvented. It came to me before, he more than themselves.
Sure, he wanted to know which room it was. What baffled me was really
exaggerated its consideration. He had but just can say that it came to
rest not in the House. Why in the world oppressed his step? For a while I
believed him at my door, and then I heard, it was no doubt that it happened
next door. He entered without further next one. And now (yes, how should
I describe it?)

, Now it was quiet. Still, as if a pain to stop. A peculiarly tactile,
tingling silence, as if a wound is healed. I would immediately able to
sleep, I would be able to get their breath and sleep. Only my surprise,
kept me awake. Someone nearby said, but also the one with the silence.
This must be experienced, as this silence was to play it is not.

   Also out was how to balance everything. I sat, I listened, it was
   like in the countryside. Dear God, I thought that his mother is
   here. They sat next to the light, she talked to him, maybe he had
   a little head against her shoulder made. Immediately they would
   bring him to bed. Now I understood the silent walking outside in
   the hallway. Oh, that it existed. Such a system, before the doors
   are completely different than before to give us. Yes, we were
   able to sleep now. I have my neighbor almost forgotten. I see
   well that there is no right to participate was what I had for him.
   Below, I sometimes wonder in passing whether news of him since,
   and which. And I am glad if they are good. But I exaggerate.
   I did not really need to know. This is no longer with him, that I
   sometimes feel a sudden stimulus, next door to enter. It is only a
   step from my door to the other, and the room is not locked. I
   would be interested to know how this room is actually designed.
   One can easily be any room to imagine, and often it is true then
   some. Only the room, the man next to him, is always quite different
   than you are thinking. I tell myself that it is this circumstance
   that excites me. But I know quite well that there are some metallic
   object, which is waiting on me. I have assumed that it is a
   cap gun that although I may be wrong of course. That worries me.
   It is now one of my plant, the thing on a rifle to slide lid.

One can think that he has not taken away.

Probably you up, you've got the lid on his rifle set, as it should
be. And now the two together form the word gun, rifle round, just
expressed in a simple, well-known concept. I, as entsänne me that they
stand on the fireplace, the two who represent the bush. Yes,
they even stand in front of the mirror so that it is still a rifle,
a deceptively similar, imaginary.

A rifle, which we do not want, but after, for example, a monkey
would use. True, there were even two monkeys after use, because the monkey
would be twice as soon as he stands on the edge ankäme fireplace. So,
it's the cover of this rifle, it has on me apart. Some of us about
it: the top of a rifle, a healthy bush, whose edge is not bent as his
own, so a cover would have no other desire to know when on his rifle
to find this would be the extreme, imagine what he can, one can
not be taken satisfaction, the fulfillment of all his wishes.

There is also something almost ideal, patiently and gently inserted on the
small Gegenwulst evenly aufzuruhen and intrusive edge to feel resilient
and just as sharp as you are on the edge is when you daliegt
individually.

Ah, but how few giebt cover it, which is still appreciate. Here it
is quite as confusing dealing with the people on the things worked.

The people that, if it is concerned, they are temporarily in such lids to
compare sit very reluctantly and poorly on their occupations.

Part because they do not come to the right are in a hurry, partly because
they are wrong, and has set up angry, partly because the edges, which are
successive, are bent, each on a different kind, let us be very honest:
they think in fact it only when it can do some, hinunterzuspringen, to
roll and sheet. Where else would all these so-called diversions,
and the noise, they cause?

The things that have been in centuries. It is no wonder if they are damaged
if they lose the taste in their natural, silent, and the purpose of
existence so want to exploit, as it rings to see exploited. They make
attempts to withdraw their applications, they are careless and
pain, and people are not at all surprised if they catch on a
debauchery.

You know so well of themselves you are angry because they are stronger
because they are more entitled to my change to have because they feel
nachgeäfft, but they let the thing go, how they let themselves go. But
where one is, who together, a Einsamer about who really is based
on some wanted day and night, because he just calls the opposition,
the scorn, the hatred of the degenerate devices, which, in their
wicked conscience, not can tolerate more, something that is cohesive
and striving after his meaning.

Since they combine to make it to disrupt, discourage, swayed to and
know that they can. As they catch each other zuzwinkernd, seduction,
which then performed to grow and all beings and God himself hinreißt
against one that perhaps stands: the saints. As I now understand the
whimsical images of things in them and regular use limited to relax
and be together and curious concupiscent try jerking in the dispersal
of the approximate fornication.

This kettle, the boiling around these flasks, the thoughts come,
and the idle funnel, which is pushing into a hole on her pleasure.

Sappho told me of one, I think her name was
Penelope, who waited twenty years faithfully and lovingly for her
husband, though every one believed he was dead, and she had fifty lovers
a day at her house."

"My wives would not wait so long for me," said Zopyrus laughing. "To tell
the truth, I don't think I should be sorry to find an empty house, if I
came back after twenty years. For then I could take some new wives into
my harem, young and beautiful, instead of the unfaithful ones, who,
besides, would have grown old. But alas! every woman does not find some
one to run away with her, and our women would rather have an absent
husband than none at all."

"If your wives could hear what you are saying!" said Araspes.

"They would declare war with me at once, or, what is still worse,
conclude a peace with one another."

"How would that be worse?"

"How? it is easy to see, that you have had no experience."

"Then let us into the secrets of your married life."

"With pleasure. You can easily fancy, that five wives in one house do not
live quite so peacefully as five doves in a cage; mine at least carry on
an uninterrupted, mortal warfare. But I have accustomed myself to that,
and their sprightliness even amuses me. A year ago, however, they came to
terms with one another, and this day of peace was the most miserable in
my life."

"You are jesting."

"No, indeed, I am quite in earnest. The wretched eunuch who had to keep
watch over the five, allowed them to see an old jewel-merchant from Tyre.
Each of them chose a separate and expensive set of jewels. When I came
home Sudabe came up and begged for money to pay for these ornaments. The
things were too dear, and I refused. Every one of the five then came and
begged me separately for the money; I refused each of them point blank
and went off to court. When I came back, there were all my wives weeping
side by side, embracing one another and calling each other
fellow-sufferers. These former enemies rose up against me with the most
touching unanimity, and so overwhelmed me with revilings and threats that
I left the room. They closed their doors against me. The next morning the
lamentations of the evening before were continued. I fled once more and
went hunting with the king, and when I came back, tired, hungry and
half-frozen--for it was in spring, we were already at Ecbatana, and the
snow was lying an ell deep on the Orontes--there was no fire on the
hearth and nothing to eat. These noble creatures had entered into an
alliance in order to punish me, had put out the fire, forbidden the cooks
to do their duty and, which was worse than all--had kept the jewels! No
sooner had I ordered the slaves to make a fire and prepare food, than the
impudent jewel-dealer appeared and demanded his money. I refused again,
passed another solitary night, and in the morning sacrificed ten talents
for the sake of peace. Since that time harmony and peace among my beloved
wives seems to me as much to be feared as the evil Divs themselves, and I
see their little quarrels with the greatest pleasure."

"Poor Zopyrus!" cried Bartja.

"Why poor?" asked this five-fold husband. "I tell you I am much happier
than you are. My wives are young and charming, and when they grow old,
what is to hinder me from taking others, still handsomer, and who, by the
side of the faded beauties, will be doubly charming. Ho! slave--bring
some lamps. The sun has gone down, and the wine loses all its flavor when
the table is not brightly lighted."

At this moment the voice of Darius, who had left the arbor and gone out
into the garden, was heard calling: "Come and hear how beautifully the
nightingale is singing."

"By Mithras, you son of Hystaspes, you must be in love," interrupted
Araspes. "The flowery darts of love must have entered the heart of him,
who leaves his wine to listen to the nightingale."

"You are right there, father," cried Bartja. "Philomel, as the Greeks
call our Gulgul, is the lovers' bird among all nations, for love has
given her her beautiful song. What beauty were you dreaming of, Darius,
when you went out to listen to the nightingale?"

"I was not dreaming of any," answered he. "You know how fond I am of
watching the stars, and the Tistar-star rose so splendidly to-night, that
I left the wine to watch it. The nightingales were singing so loudly to
one another, that if I had not wished to hear them I must have stopped my
ears."

"You kept them wide open, however," said Araspes laughing. "Your
enraptured exclamation proved that."

"Enough of this," cried Darius, to whom these jokes were getting
wearisome. "I really must beg you to leave off making allusions to
matters, which I do not care to hear spoken of."

"Imprudent fellow!" whispered the older man; "now you really have
betrayed yourself. If you were not in love, you would have laughed
instead of getting angry. Still I won't go on provoking you--tell me what
you have just been reading in the stars."

At these words Darius looked up again into the starry sky and fixed his
eyes on a bright constellation hanging over the horizon. Zopyrus watched
him and called out to his friends, "Something important must be happening
up there. Darius, tell us what's going on in the heavens just now."

"Nothing good," answered the other. "Bartja, I have something to say to
you alone."

"Why to me alone? Araspes always keeps his own counsel, and from the rest
of you I never have any secrets."

"Still--"

"Speak out."

"No, I wish you would come into the garden with me."

Bartja nodded to the others, who were still sitting over their wine, laid
his hand on Darius' shoulder and went out with him into the bright
moonlight. As soon as they were alone, Darius seized both his friend's
hands, and said: "To-day is the third time that things have happened in
the heavens, which bode no good for you. Your evil star has approached
your favorable constellation so nearly, that a mere novice in astrology
could see some serious danger was at hand. Be on your guard, Bartja, and
start for Egypt to-day; the stars tell me that the danger is here on the
Euphrates, not abroad."

"Do you believe implicitly in the stars?"

"Implicitly. They never lie."

"Then it would be folly to try and avoid what they have foretold."

"Yes, no man can run away from his destiny; but that very destiny is like
a fencing-master--his favorite pupils are those who have the courage and
skill to parry his own blows. Start for Egypt to-day, Bartja."

"I cannot--I haven't taken leave of my mother and Atossa."

"Send them a farewell message, and tell Croesus to explain the reason of
your starting so quickly."

"They would call me a coward."

"It is cowardly to yield to any mortal, but to go out of the way of one's
fate is wisdom."

"You contradict yourself, Darius. What would the fencing-master say to a
runaway-pupil?"

"He would rejoice in the stratagem, by which an isolated individual tried
to escape a superior force."

"But the superior force must conquer at last.--What would be the use of
my trying to put off a danger which, you say yourself, cannot be averted?
If my tooth aches, I have it drawn at once, instead of tormenting and
making myself miserable for weeks by putting off the painful operation as
a coward or a woman would, till the last moment. I can await this coming
danger bravely, and the sooner it comes the better, for then I shall have
it behind me."

"You do not know how serious it is."

"Are you afraid for my life?"

"No."

"Then tell me, what you are afraid of."

"That Egyptian priest with whom I used to study the stars, once cast your
horoscope with me. He knew more about the heavens, than any man I ever
saw. I learnt a great deal from him, and I will not hide from you that
even then he drew my attention to dangers that threaten you now."

"And you did not tell me?"

"Why should I have made you uneasy beforehand? Now that your destiny is
drawing near, I warn you."

"Thank you,--I will be careful. In former times I should not have
listened to such a warning, but now that I love Sappho, I feel as if my
life were not so much my own to do what I like with, as it used to be."

"I understand this feeling . . ."

"You understand it? Then Araspes was right? You don't deny?"

"A mere dream without any hope of fulfilment."

"But what woman could refuse you?"

"Refuse!"

"I don't understand you. Do you mean to say that you--the boldest
sportsman, the strongest wrestler--the wisest of all the young
Persians--that you, Darius, are afraid of a woman?"

"Bartja, may I tell you more, than I would tell even to my own father?"

"Yes."

"I love the daughter of Cyrus, your sister and the king's, Atossa."

"Have I understood you rightly? you love Atossa? Be praised for this, O
ye pure Amescha cpenta! Now I shall never believe in your stars again,
for instead of the danger with which they threatened me, here comes an
unexpected happiness. Embrace me, my brother, and tell me the whole
story, that I may see whether I can help you to turn this hopeless dream,
as you call it, into a reality."

"You will remember that before our journey to Egypt, we went with the
entire court from Ecbatana to Susa. I was in command of the division of
the 'Immortals' appointed to escort the carriages containing the king's
mother and sister, and his wives. In going through the narrow pass which
leads over the Orontes, the horses of your mother's carriage slipped. The
yoke to which the horses were harnessed broke from the pole, and the
heavy, four-wheeled carriage fell over the precipice without obstruction.

   [There was a yoke at the end of the shaft of a Persian carriage,
   which was fastened on to the backs of the horses and took the place
   of our horse-collar and pole-chain.]

On seeing it disappear, we were horrified and spurred our horses to the
place as quickly as possible. We expected of course to see only fragments
of the carriages and the dead bodies of its inmates, but the gods had
taken them into their almighty protection, and there lay the carriage,
with broken wheels, in the arms of two gigantic cypresses which had taken
firm root in the fissures of the slate rocks, and whose dark tops reached
up to the edge of the carriage-road.

"As quick as thought I sprang from my horse and scrambled down one of the
cypresses. Your mother and sister stretched their arms to me, crying for
help. The danger was frightful, for the sides of the carriage had been so
shattered by the fall, that they threatened every moment to give way, in
which case those inside it must inevitably have fallen into the black,
unfathomable abyss which looked like an abode for the gloomy Divs, and
stretched his jaws wide to crush its beautiful victims.

"I stood before the shattered carriage as it hung over the precipice
ready to fall to pieces every moment, and then for the first time I met
your sister's imploring look. From that moment I loved her, but at the
time I was much too intent on saving them, to think of anything else, and
had no idea what had taken place within me. I dragged the trembling women
out of the carriage, and one minute later it rolled down the abyss
crashing into a thousand pieces. I am a strong man, but I confess that
all my strength was required to keep myself and the two women from
falling over the precipice until ropes were thrown to us from above.
Atossa hung round my neck, and Kassandane lay on my breast, supported by
my left arm; with the right I fastened the rope round my waist, we were
drawn up, and I found myself a few minutes later on the high-road--your
mother and sister were saved.

"As soon as one of the Magi had bound up the wounds cut by the rope in my
side, the king sent for me, gave me the chain I am now wearing and the
revenues of an entire satrapy, and then took me to his mother and sister.
They expressed their gratitude very warmly; Kassandane allowed me to kiss
her forehead, and gave me all the jewels she had worn at the time of the
accident, as a present for my future wife. Atossa took a ring from her
finger, put it on mine and kissed my hand in the warmth of her
emotion--you know how eager and excitable she is. Since that happy
day--the happiest in my life--I have never seen your sister, till
yesterday evening, when we sat opposite to each other at the banquet. Our
eyes met. I saw nothing but Atossa, and I think she has not forgotten the
man who saved her. Kassandane . . ."

"Oh, my mother would be delighted to have you for a son-in-law; I will
answer for that. As to the king, your father must apply to him; he is our
uncle and has a right to ask the hand of Cyrus's daughter for his son."

"But have you forgotten your father's dream? You know that Cambyses has
always looked on me with suspicion since that time."

"Oh, that has been long forgotten. My father dreamt before his death that
you had wings, and was misled by the soothsayers into the fancy that you,
though you were only eighteen then, would try to gain the crown. Cambyses
thought of this dream too; but, when you saved my mother and sister,
Croesus explained to him that this must have been its fulfilment, as no
one but Darius or a winged eagle could possibly have possessed strength
and dexterity enough to hang suspended over such an abyss."

"Yes, and I remember too that these words did not please your brother. He
chooses to be the only eagle in Persia; but Croesus does not spare his
vanity--"

"Where can Croesus be all this time?"

"In the hanging-gardens. My father and Gobryas have very likely detained
him."

Just at that moment the voice of Zopyrus was heard exclaiming, "Well, I
call that polite! Bartja invites us to a wine-party and leaves us sitting
here without a host, while he talks secrets yonder."

"We are coming, we are coming," answered Bartja. Then taking the hand of
Darius heartily, he said: "I am very glad that you love Atossa. I shall
stay here till the day after to-morrow, let the stars threaten me with
all the dangers in the world. To-morrow I will find out what Atossa
feels, and when every thing is in the right track I shall go away, and
leave my winged Darius to his own powers."

So saying Bartja went back into the arbor, and his friend began to watch
the stars again. The longer he looked the sadder and more serious became
his face, and when the Tistar-star set, he murmured, "Poor Bartja!" His
friends called him, and he was on the point of returning to them, when he
caught sight of a new star, and began to examine its position carefully.
His serious looks gave way to a triumphant smile, his tall figure seemed
to grow taller still, he pressed his hand on his heart and whispered:
"Use your pinions, winged Darius; your star will be on your side," and
then returned to his friends.

A few minutes after, Croesus came up to the arbor. The youths sprang from
their seats to welcome the old man, but when he saw Bartja's face by the
bright moonlight, he stood as if transfixed by a flash of lightning.

"What has happened, father?" asked Gyges, seizing his hand anxiously.

"Nothing, nothing," he stammered almost inaudibly, and pushing his son on
one side, whispered in Bartja's ear: "Unhappy boy, you are still here?
don't delay any longer,--fly at once! the whip-bearers are close at my
heels, and I assure you that if you don't use the greatest speed, you
will have to forfeit your double imprudence with your life."

"But Croesus, I have . . ."

"You have set at nought the law of the land and of the court, and, in
appearance at least, have done great offence to your brother's honor.
. . ."

"You are speaking . . ."

"Fly, I tell you--fly at once; for if your visit to the hanging-gardens
was ever so innocently meant, you are still in the greatest danger. You
know Cambyses' violent temper so well; how could you so wickedly disobey
his express command?"

"I don't understand."

"No excuses,--fly! don't you know that, Cambyses has long been jealous of
you, and that your visit to the Egyptian to-night . . ."

"I have never once set foot in the hanging-gardens, since Nitetis has
been here."

"Don't add a lie to your offence, I . . ."

"But I swear to you . . ."

"Do you wish to turn a thoughtless act into a crime by adding the guilt
of perjury? The whip-bearers are coming, fly!"

"I shall remain here, and abide by my oath."

"You are infatuated! It is not an hour ago since I myself, Hystaspes, and
others of the Achaemenidae saw you in the hanging-gardens . . ."

In his astonishment Bartja had, half involuntarily, allowed himself to be
led away, but when he heard this he stood still, called his friends and
said "Croesus says he met me an hour ago in the hanging-gardens, you know
that since the sun set I have not been away from you. Give your
testimony, that in this case an evil Div must have made sport of our
friend and his companions."

"I swear to you, father," cried Gyges, "that Bartja has not left this
garden for some hours."

"And we confirm the same," added Araspes, Zopyrus and Darius with one
voice.

"You want to deceive me?" said Croesus getting very angry, and looking at
each of them reproachfully: "Do you fancy that I am blind or mad? Do you
think that your witness will outweigh the words of such men as Hystaspes,
Gobryas, Artaphernes and the high priest, Oropastes? In spite of all your
false testimony, which no amount of friendship can justify, Bartja will
have to die unless he flies at once."

"May Angramainjus destroy me," said Araspes interrupting the old man, "if
Bartja was in the hanging-gardens two hours ago!" and Gyges added:

"Don't call me your son any longer, if we have given false testimony."

Darius was beginning to appeal to the eternal stars, but Bartja put an
end to this confusion of voices by saying in a decided tone: "A division
of the bodyguard is coming into the garden. I am to be arrested; I cannot
escape because I am innocent, and to fly would lay me open to suspicion.
By the soul of my father, the blind eyes of my mother, and the pure light
of the sun, Croesus, I swear that I am not lying."

"Am I to believe you, in spite of my own eyes which have never yet
deceived me? But I will, boy, for I love you. I do not and I will not
know whether you are innocent or guilty, but this I do know, you must
fly, and fly at once. You know Cambyses. My carriage is waiting at the
gate. Don't spare the horses, save yourself even if you drive them to
death. The Soldiers seem to know what they have been sent to do; there
can be no question that they delay so long only in order to give their
favorite time to escape. Fly, fly, or it is all over with you."

Darius, too, pushed his friend forward, exclaiming: "Fly, Bartja, and
remember the warning that the heavens themselves wrote in the stars for
you."

Bartja, however, stood silent, shook his handsome head, waved his friends
back, and answered: "I never ran away yet, and I mean to hold my ground
to-day. Cowardice is worse than death in my opinion, and I would rather
suffer wrong at the hands of others than disgrace myself. There are the
soldiers! Well met, Bischen. You've come to arrest me, haven't you? Wait
one moment, till I have said good-bye to my friends."

Bischen, the officer he spoke to, was one of Cyrus's old captains; he had
given Bartja his first lessons in shooting and throwing the spear, had
fought by his side in the war with the Tapuri, and loved him as if he
were his own son. He interrupted him, saying: "There is no need to take
leave of your friends, for the king, who is raging like a madman, ordered
me not only to arrest you, but every one else who might be with you."

And then he added in a low voice: "The king is beside himself with rage
and threatens to have your life. You must fly. My men will do what I tell
them blindfold; they will not pursue you; and I am so old that it would
be little loss to Persia, if my head were the price of my disobedience."

"Thanks, thanks, my friend," said Bartja, giving him his hand; "but I
cannot accept your offer, because I am innocent, and I know that though
Cambyses is hasty, he is not unjust. Come friends, I think the king will
give us a hearing to-day, late as it is."


CHAPTER III.

Two hours later Bartja and his friends were standing before the king. The
gigantic man was seated on his golden throne; he was pale and his eyes
looked sunken; two physicians stood waiting behind him with all kinds of
instruments and vessels in their hands. Cambyses had, only a few minutes
before, recovered consciousness, after lying for more than an hour in one
of those awful fits, so destructive both to mind and body, which we call
epileptic.

   [The dangerous disease to which Herodotus says Cambyses had been
   subject from his birth, and which was called "sacred" by some, can
   scarcely be other than epilepsy. See Herod, III. 33.]

Since Nitetis' arrival he had been free from this illness; but it had
seized him to-day with fearful violence, owing to the overpowering mental
excitement he had gone through.

If he had met Bartja a few hours before, he would have killed him with
his own hand; but though the epileptic fit had not subdued his anger it
had at least so far quieted it, that he was in a condition to hear what
was to be said on both sides.

At the right hand of the throne stood Hystaspes, Darius's grey-haired
father, Gobryas, his future father-in-law, the aged Intaphernes, the
grandfather of that Phaedime whose place in the king's favor had been
given to Nitetis, Oropastes the high-priest, Croesus, and behind them
Boges, the chief of the eunuchs. At its left Bartja, whose hands were
heavily fettered, Araspes, Darius, Zopyrus and Gyges. In the background
stood some hundred officials and grandees.

After a long silence Cambyses raised his eyes, fixed a withering look on
his fettered brother, and said in a dull hollow voice: "High-priest, tell
us what awaits the man who deceives his brother, dishonors and offends
his king, and darkens his own heart by black lies."

Oropastes came forward and answered: "As soon as such a one is proved
guilty, a death full of torment awaits him in this world, and an awful
sentence on the bridge Chinvat; for he has transgressed the highest
commands, and, by committing three crimes, has forfeited the mercy of our
law, which commands that his life shall be granted to the man who has
sinned but once, even though he be only a slave."

   [On the third day after death, at the rising of the bright sun, the
   souls are conducted by the Divs to the bridge Chinvat, where they
   are questioned as to their past lives and conduct. Vendid.
   Fargard. XIX. 93. On that spot the two supernatural powers fight
   for the soul.]

"Then Bartja has deserved death. Lead him away, guards, and strangle him!
Take him away! Be silent, wretch! never will I listen to that smooth,
hypocritical tongue again, or look at those treacherous eyes. They come
from the Divs and delude every one with their wanton glances. Off with
him, guards!"

Bischen, the captain, came up to obey the order, but in the same moment
Croesus threw himself at the king's feet, touched the floor with his
forehead, raised his hands and cried: "May thy days and years bring
nought but happiness and prosperity; may Auramazda pour down all the
blessings of this life upon thee, and the Amescha cpenta be the guardians
of thy throne!

   [The Amescha cpenta, "holy immortal ones," maybe compared to the
   archangels of the Hebrews. They surround the throne of Auramazda
   and symbolize the highest virtues. Later we find their number fixed
   at six.]

Do not close thine ear to the words of the aged, but remember that thy
father Cyrus appointed me to be thy counsellor. Thou art about to slay
thy brother; but I say unto thee, do not indulge anger; strive to control
it. It is the duty of kings and of the wise, not to act without due
enquiry. Beware of shedding a brother's blood; the smoke thereof will
rise to heaven and become a cloud that must darken the days of the
murderer, and at last cast down the lightnings of vengeance on his head.
But I know that thou desirest justice, not murder. Act then as those who
have to pronounce a sentence, and hear both sides before deciding. When
this has been done, if the criminal is proved guilty and confesses his
crime, the smoke of his blood will rise to heaven as a friendly shadow,
instead of a darkening cloud, and thou wilt have earned the fame of a
just judge instead of deserving the divine judgments."

Cambyses listened in silence, made a sign to Bischen to retire, and
commanded Boges to repeat his accusation.

The eunuch made an obeisance, and began: "I was ill and obliged to leave
the Egyptian and the Hanging-gardens in the care of my colleague
Kandaules, who has paid for his negligence with his life. Finding myself
better towards evening, I went up to the hanging-gardens to see if
everything was in order there, and also to look at the rare flower which
was to blossom in the night. The king, (Auramazda grant him victory!) had
commanded that the Egyptian should be more strictly watched than usual,
because she had dared to send the noble Bartja . . ."

"Be silent," interrupted the king, "and keep to the matter in hand."

"Just as the Tistar-star was rising, I came into the garden, and staid
some time there with these noble Achaemenidae, the high-priest and the
king Croesus, looking at the blue lily, which was marvellously beautiful.
I then called my colleague Kandaules and asked him, in the presence of
these noble witnesses, if everything was in order. He affirmed that this
was the case and added, that he had just come from Nitetis, that she had
wept the whole day, and neither tasted food nor drink. Feeling anxious
lest my noble mistress should become worse, I commissioned Kandaules to
fetch a physician, and was just on the point of leaving the noble
Achaemenidae, in order in person to ascertain my mistress's state of
health, when I saw in the moon-light the figure of a man. I was so ill
and weak, that I could hardly stand and had no one near to help me,
except the gardener.

"My men were on guard at the different entrances, some distance from us.

"I clapped my hands to call some of them, but, as they did not come, I
went nearer to the house myself, under the protection of these
noblemen.--The man was standing by the window of the Egyptian Princess's
apartment, and uttered a low whistle when he heard us coming up. Another
figure appeared directly--clearly recognizable in the bright
moonlight--sprang out of the sleeping-room window and came towards us
with her companion.

"I could hardly believe my eyes on discovering that the intruder was no
other than the noble Bartja. A fig-tree concealed us from the fugitives,
but we could distinctly see them, as they passed us at a distance of not
more than four steps. While I was thinking whether I should be justified
in arresting a son of Cyrus, Croesus called to Bartja, and the two
figures suddenly disappeared behind a cypress. No one but your brother
himself can possibly explain the strange way in which he disappeared. I
went at once to search the house, and found the Egyptian lying
unconscious on the couch in her sleeping-room."

Every one listened to this story in the greatest suspense. Cambyses
ground his teeth and asked in a voice of great emotion: "Can you testify
to the words of the eunuch, Hystaspes?"

"Yes."

"Why did you not lay hands on the offender?"

"We are soldiers, not policemen."

"Or rather you care for every knave more than for your king."

"We honor our king, and abhor the criminal just as we formerly loved the
innocent son of Cyrus."

"Did you recognize Bartja distinctly?"

"Yes."

"And you, Croesus, can you too give no other answer?"

"No! I fancied I saw your brother in the moonlight then, as clearly as I
see him now; but I believe we must have been deceived by some remarkable
likeness." Boges grew pale at these words; Cambyses, however, shook his
head as if the idea did not please him, and said: "Whom am I to believe
then, if the eyes of my best warriors fail them? and who would wish to be
a judge, if testimony such as yours is not to be considered valid?"

"Evidence quite as weighty as ours, will prove that we must have been in
error."

"Will any one dare to give evidence in favor of such an outrageous
criminal?" asked Cambyses, springing up and stamping his foot.

"We will," "I," "we," shouted Araspes, Darius, Gyges and Zopyrus with one
voice.

"Traitors, knaves!" cried the king. But as he caught sight of Croesus'
warning eye fixed upon him, he lowered his voice, and said: "What have
you to bring forward in favor of this fellow? Take care what you say, and
consider well what punishment awaits perjurers."

"We know that well enough," said Araspes, "and yet we are ready to swear
by Mithras, that we have not left Bartja or his garden one moment since
we came back from hunting."

"As for me," said Darius, "I, the son of Hystaspes, have especially
convincing evidence to give in favor of your brother's innocence; I
watched the rising of the Tistar-star with him; and this, according to
Boges, was the very star that shone on his flight."

Hystaspes gazed on his son in astonishment and doubt at hearing these
words, and Cambyses turned a scrutinizing eye first on the one and then
on the other party of these strange witnesses, who wished so much, and
yet found it so impossible, to believe one another, himself unable to
come to a decision.

Bartja, who till now had remained perfectly silent, looking down sadly at
his chained hands, took advantage of the silence to say, making at the
same time a deep obeisance: "May I be allowed to speak a few words, my
King?"

"Speak!"

"From our father we learnt to strive after that which was pure and good
only; so up to this time my life has been unstained. If you have ever
known me take part in an evil deed, you have a right not to believe me,
but if you find no fault in me then trust to what I say, and remember
that a son of Cyrus would rather die than tell a lie. I confess that no
judge was ever placed in such a perplexing position. The best men in your
kingdom testify against one another, friend against friend, father
against son. But I tell you that were the entire Persian nation to rise
up against you, and swear that Cambyses had committed this or that evil
deed, and you were to say, 'I did not commit it,' I, Bartja, would give
all Persia the lie and exclaim, 'Ye are all false witnesses; sooner could
the sea cast up fire than a son of Cyrus allow his mouth to deal in
lies.' No, Cambyses, you and I are so high-born that no one but yourself
can bear evidence against me; and you can only be judged out of your own
mouth."

Cambyses' looks grew a little milder on hearing these words, and his
brother went on: "So I swear to you by Mithras, and by all pure spirits,
that I am innocent. May my life become extinct and my race perish from
off the earth, if I tell you a lie, when I say that I have not once set
foot in the hanging-gardens since my return!"

Bartja's voice was so firm and his tone so full of assurance, as he
uttered this oath that Cambyses ordered his chains to be loosened, and,
after a few moments' thought, said: "I should like to believe you, for I
cannot bear to imagine you the worst and most abandoned of men. To-morrow
we will summon the astrologers, soothsayers and priests. Perhaps they may
be able to discover the truth. Can you see any light in this darkness,
Oropastes?"

"Thy servant supposes, that a Div has taken upon him the form of Bartja,
in order to ruin the king's brother and stain thine own royal soul with
the blood of thy father's son."

Cambyses and every one present nodded their assent to this proposition,
and the king was just going to offer his hand to Bartja, when a
staff-bearer came in and gave the king a dagger. A eunuch had found it
under the windows of Nitetis' sleeping-apartment.

Cambyses examined the weapon carefully. Its costly hilt was thickly set
with rubies and turquoises. As he looked he turned pale, and dashed the
dagger on the ground before Bartja with such violence, that the stones
fell out of their setting.

"This is your dagger, you wretch!" he shrieked, seized by the same
violent passion as before. "This very morning you used it to give the
last thrust to the wild boar, that I had mortally wounded. Croesus, you
ought to know it too, for my father brought it from your treasure-house
at Sardis. At last you are really convicted, you liar!--you impostor! The
Divs require no weapons, and such a dagger as this is not to be picked up
everywhere. Ah, ha! you are feeling in your girdle! You may well turn
pale; your dagger is gone!"

"Yes, it is gone. I must have lost it, and some enemy . . ."

"Seize him, Bischen, put on his fetters! Take him to prison--the traitor,
the perjurer! He shall be strangled to-morrow. Death is the penalty of
perjury. Your heads for theirs, you guards, if they escape. Not one word
more will I hear; away with you, you perjured villains! Boges, go at once
to the hanging-gardens and bring the Egyptian to me. Yet no, I won't see
that serpent again. It is very near dawn now, and at noon she shall be
flogged through the streets. Then I'll . . ."

But here he was stopped by another fit of epilepsy, and sank down on to
the marble floor in convulsions. At this fearful moment Kassandane was
led into the hall by the old general Megabyzus. The news of what had
happened had found its way to her solitary apartments, and,
notwithstanding the hour, she had risen in order to try and discover the
truth and warn her son against pronouncing a too hasty decision. She
believed firmly that Bartja and Nitetis were innocent, though she could
not explain to herself what had happened. Several times she had tried to
put herself in communication with Nitetis, but without avail. At last she
had been herself to the hanging-gardens, but the guards had actually had
the hardihood to refuse her admission.

Croesus went at once to meet her, told her what had happened, suppressing
as many painful details as possible, confirmed her in her belief of the
innocence of the accused, and then took her to the bedside of the king.

The convulsions had not lasted long this time. He lay on his golden bed
under purple silk coverlets, pale and exhausted. His blind mother seated
herself at his side, Croesus and Oropastes took their station at the foot
of the bell, and in another part of the room, four physicians discussed
the patient's condition in low whispers.

   [It was natural, that medicine should be carefully studied among a
   people who set such a high value upon life as did the Persians.
   Pliny indeed, (XXX. I.) maintains, that the whole of Zoroaster's
   religion was founded on the science of medicine, and it is true that
   there are a great many medical directions to be found in the Avesta.
   In the Vendidad, Farg. VII. there is a detailed list of medical
   fees. "The physician shall treat a priest for a pious blessing or
   spell, the master of a house for a small draught animal, etc., the
   lord of a district for a team of four oxen. If the physician cures
   the mistress of the house, a female ass shall be his fee, etc.,
   etc." We read in the same Fargard, that the physician had to pass a
   kind of examination. If he had operated thrice successfully on bad
   men, on whose bodies he had been permitted to try his skill, he was
   pronounced "capable for ever." If, on the other hand, three evil
   Daevayacna (worshippers of the Divs) died under his hands, he was
   pronounced "incapable of healing for evermore."]

Kassandane was very gentle with her son; she begged him not to yield to
passionate anger, and to remember what a sad effect every such outburst
had on his health.

"Yes, mother, you are right," answered the king, smiling bitterly; "I see
that I must get rid of everything that rouses my anger. The Egyptian must
die, and my perfidious brother shall follow his mistress."

Kassandane used all her eloquence to convince him of the innocence of the
accused, and to pacify his anger, but neither prayers, tears, nor her
motherly exhortations, could in the least alter his resolution to rid
himself of these murderers of his happiness and peace.

At last he interrupted her lamentations by saying: "I feel fearfully
exhausted; I cannot bear these sobs and lamentations any longer. Nitetis
has been proved guilty. A man was seen to leave her sleeping-apartment in
the night, and that man was not a thief, but the handsomest man in
Persia, and one to whom she had dared to send a letter yesterday
evening."

"Do you know the contents of that letter?" asked Croesus, coming up to
the bed.

"No; it was written in Greek. The faithless creature made use of
characters, which no one at this court can read."

"Will you permit me to translate the letter?" Cambyses pointed to a small
ivory box in which the ominous piece of writing lay, saying: "There it
is; read it; but do not hide or alter a single word, for to-morrow I
shall have it read over again by one of the merchants from Sinope."

Croesus' hopes revived; he seemed to breathe again as he took the paper.
But when he had read it over, his eyes filled with tears and he murmured:
"The fable of Pandora is only too true; I dare not be angry any longer
with those poets who have written severely against women. Alas, they are
all false and faithless! O Kassandane, how the Gods deceive us! they
grant us the gift of old age, only to strip us bare like trees in winter,
and show us that all our fancied gold was dross and all our pleasant and
refreshing drinks poison!"

Kassandane wept aloud and tore her costly robes; but Cambyses clenched
his fist while Croesus was reading the following words:

"Nitetis, daughter of Amasis of Egypt, to Bartja, son of the great Cyrus:

"I have something important to tell you; I can tell it to no one but
yourself. To-morrow I hope I shall meet you in your mother's apartments.
It lies in your power to comfort a sad and loving heart, and to give it
one happy moment before death. I have a great deal to tell you, and some
very sad news; I repeat that I must see you soon."

The desperate laughter, which burst from her son cut his mother to the
heart. She stooped down and was going to kiss him, but Cambyses resisted
her caresses, saying: "It is rather a doubtful honor, mother, to be one
of your favorites. Bartja did not wait to be sent for twice by that
treacherous woman, and has disgraced himself by swearing falsely. His
friends, the flower of our young men, have covered themselves with
indelible infamy for his sake; and through him, your best beloved
daughter . . . but no! Bartja had no share in the corruption of that
fiend in Peri's form. Her life was made up of hypocrisy and deceit, and
her death shall prove that I know how to punish. Now leave me, for I must
be alone."

They had scarcely left the room, when he sprang up and paced backwards
and forwards like a madman, till the first crow of the sacred bird
Parodar. When the sun had risen, he threw himself on his bed again, and
fell into a sleep that was like a swoon.

Meanwhile Bartja had written Sappho a farewell letter, and was sitting
over the wine with his fellow-prisoners and their elder friend Araspes.
"Let us be merry," said Zopyrus, "for I believe it will soon be up with
all our merriment. I would lay my life, that we are all of us dead by
to-morrow. Pity that men haven't got more than one neck; if we'd two, I
would not mind wagering a gold piece or two on the chance of our
remaining alive."

"Zopyrus is quite right," said Araspes; "we will make merry and keep our
eyes open; who knows how soon they may be closed for ever?"

"No one need be sad who goes to his death as innocently as we do," said
Gyges. "Here, cup-bearer, fill my goblet!"

"Ah! Bartja and Darius!" cried Zopyrus, seeing the two speaking in a low
voice together, "there you are at your secrets again. Come to us and pass
the wine-cup. By Mithras, I can truly say I never wished for death, but
now I quite look forward to the black Azis, because he is going to take
us all together. Zopyrus would rather die with his friends, than live
without them."

"But the great point is to try and explain what has really happened,"
said Darius.

"It's all the same to me," said Zopyrus, "whether I die with or without
an explanation, so long as I know I am innocent and have not deserved
the punishment of perjury. Try and get us some golden goblets, Bischen;
the wine has no flavor out of these miserable brass mugs. Cambyses
surely would not wish us to suffer from poverty in our last hours,
though he does forbid our fathers and friends to visit us."

"It's not the metal that the cup is made of," said Bartja, "but the
wormwood of death, that gives the wine its bitter taste."

"No, really, you're quite out there," exclaimed Zopyrus. "Why I had
nearly forgotten that strangling generally causes death." As he said
this, he touched Gyges and whispered: "Be as cheerful as you can! don't
you see that it's very hard for Bartja to take leave of this world? What
were you saying, Darius?"

"That I thought Oropastes' idea the only admissible one, that a Div had
taken the likeness of Bartja and visited the Egyptian in order to ruin
us."

"Folly! I don't believe in such things."

"But don't you remember the legend of the Div, who took the beautiful
form of a minstrel and appeared before king Kawus?"

"Of course," cried Araspes. "Cyrus had this legend so often recited at
the banquets, that I know it by heart.

"Kai Kawus hearkened to the words of the disguised Div and went to
Masenderan, and was beaten there by the Divs and deprived of his
eyesight."

"But," broke in Darius, "Rustem, the great hero, came and conquered
Erscheng and the other bad spirits, freed the captives and restored sight
to the blind, by dropping the blood of the slaughtered Divs into their
eyes. And so it will be with us, my friends! We shall be set free, and
the eyes of Cambyses and of our blind and infatuated fathers will be
opened to see our innocence. Listen, Bischen; if we really should be
executed, go to the Magi, the Chaldwans, and Nebenchari the Egyptian, and
tell them they had better not study the stars any longer, for that those
very stars had proved themselves liars and deceivers to Darius."

"Yes," interrupted Araspes, "I always said that dreams were the only real
prophecies. Before Abradatas fell in the battle of Sardis, the peerless
Panthea dreamt that she saw him pierced by a Lydian arrow."

"You cruel fellow!" exclaimed Zopyrus. "Why do you remind us, that it is
much more glorious to die in battle than to have our necks wrung off?"

"Quite right," answered the elder man; "I confess that I have seen many a
death, which I should prefer to our own,--indeed to life itself. Ah,
boys, there was a time when things went better than they do now."

"Tell us something about those times."

"And tell us why you never married. It won't matter to you in the next
world, if we do let out your secret."

I am satisfied that neither the clothes nor the behavior of this man was
a bit ridiculous, and even tried to pass him down the Boulevard to watch
as he stumbled over something. As I followed close behind him, took me in
eight, but as the body arrived, there was nothing, pure nothing. We both
went on, he and I, the distance between us remained the same. Now came
a transitional street, and since it happened that the man before me
with unequal legs, the stages of the climb gear hinunterhüpfte in the
way around, as children sometimes while walking aufhüpfen or jump when
they are happy. On the sidewalk corridor beyond it just came with a long
step up. But he was hardly above, he is a leg a bit and hopped on the
other once high and then again and again. Now this could be a sudden
movement back quite good for a trip, if you einredete, because it
would have been a trifle, a core, the slippery bowl of fruit, something,
and the strange was that the man even in the presence an obstacle seemed
to believe, because he was always with that annoying half-, half-accusatory
glance, the people in such moments, after the tedious job to. Once again
called me a little warning to the other side of the road, but I did not
and remained behind to continue this husband by my full attention was
directed at his legs. I must confess that I felt oddly relieved, when
about twenty steps in that long-hopping is not returned, but now
since I picked up my Aeugst, I noticed that the man another scandal
arose.

The collar of his overcoat had been drawn up, and as he also soon with
one hand, and soon both cumbersome tried him down, it would not succeed.
That was before. It troubled me. But immediately I saw with boundless
admiration, that in the hands of the people employed by two steps
were: a secret, swift, with which he imperceptibly hochklappte the
collar, and all those other more detailed, persistent, almost
exaggerated spelled motion, the moving of the collar should accomplish.

This observation confused me so much that two minutes passed before I
realized that the man in the neck, behind the hochgeschobenen About
puller and the nervous hands of the same terrible acting, two-hopping was
that his legs had just left. From that moment on I was bound to him. I
understood that this hopping in his body herumirrte that tried here and
there being. I understood his fear of the people, and I myself began
cautiously to examine whether the passers noticed something. A cold
stab went through my back, his legs suddenly as a small, jerking leap
made, but nobody had seen it, and I thought to myself, that I wanted to
stumble a bit, in case anyone was aware.

That would certainly be a way to make onlookers believe that it would
have given it a small, nondescript obstacle located in the way
that we had coincidentally both underfoot. But while so I thought Hülfe,
he had himself a new, excellent outcome.

I forgot to say that he wore a stick, well, it was a simple stick, made
of dark wood with a simple, curved around the handle. And it was seeking
him in his fear came to mind, this first floor with one hand (because who
knows what the second would still be necessary) on the back to keep the
spine straight, cross him to push and the end of the round crutch
in the collar to slide so that it is hard and as a stop behind the
cervical and first dorsal vertebra felt.

That was an attitude that is not conspicuous, maximum was a little
wanton, and the unexpected spring day was the excuse.

Nobody was there to look around, and now it went. It was great. Admittedly,
the next street, two skip transitions from two small, halbunterdrückte
hop, which were totally irrelevant, and the one that was really visible
so cleverly leap appropriate (it was just a spray hose across the road)
that had nothing to fear. Yes still everything went well, from time to
time, grabbed the second hand on the floor and pressed him solid,
and the danger was over again.

I could not do that but my fear grew. I knew that, while he went and
tried with infinite effort, indifferent and scattered groups, the
dreadful twitching in his body is accumulated, even in me was the
fear with which he felt to grow and grow, and I saw how he are
clinging to the stick when it comes inside him began to shake.

Then there was the expression of these hands so relentlessly and rigorously,
all that I hope in his will set the size needed. But what was there a
will. The moment had come, because his strength was over, he could not
be far. And I, I am behind him with a strong percussive herging heart, I
put together my little force, such as money, and when I looked at his
hands, I asked him, he would take if it is needed. I think he made it
has, what I could see to it that it no longer was. On the Place St-Michel,
many vehicles and rushed to and fro of people, we were often between
two cars and then he fetched breath and let himself go a bit, like
to rest , and it hopped a little and nodded a little.

Maybe it was the cunning with which the disease caught him overcome wanted.
The will was broken in two places, and the easing was in the muscles
possessed a faint, alluring charm left behind and the two compelling.
But the stick was still in his place, and saw the hands of evil and angry,
so we entered the bridge, and it went. It was. Now came a little
uncertainty in the aisle, and now he ran two steps, and now he stood.
The standard left hand broke softly from the floor and lifted up slowly
so that I tremble before the air saw, he pushed his hat back and a
little stressed out about the forehead. He turned his head a little,
and his glance wavered over the sky, houses and water out without
them, and then he said after. The floor was gone, he stretched his arms
out as if he wanted auffliegen, and it broke from him like a natural
force and bent before him and snatched him back and let him nod and
tilt dance force and threw him out from among the crowd.

Already, many people around him, and I saw him no more. What is the sense,
nor anywhere to go, I was empty. Like a blank paper, I drove to
the homes along the Boulevard again. A draft letter. I try to teach
you to write, although there's nothing giebt necessary for a farewell.
I try it yet, I think I must do it, because I saw the Holy in the
Pantheon, the lonely, holy woman and the roof and the door and inside the
lamp with the light bescheidnen circle and over the sleeping city and the
river and the distance in the moonlight.

The Holy watches over the sleeping city. I've cried. I cried because
it all at once there was so unexpected. I have cried before, I knew
not to help me. I'm in Paris, are pleased to hear it, most of them envy
me. You are right. It is a great city, great, full of strange temptations.
As for me, I must admit that I have them in certain respects I do.

I think it can not otherwise say. I'm not impose these temptations, and
this has made some changes had to follow, if not in my character,
then at least in my belief, any event in my life.

A completely different view of all things has been under these influences
emerged in me, and there are some differences as to me by the people
more than anything so far off. A changing world. A new life full of new
meanings. I have it currently somewhat difficult, because everything
is new. I am a beginner in my own circumstances. Whether it would not be
possible, once the sea to see? Yes, but just think, I was me, you
could come. Would you give me maybe you can tell whether a doctor giebt?
I forgot to inquire after me. Incidentally, I need it now no more. Do you
remember incredible Baudelaire poem 'Une Charogne'? It may be that I
understand it now. Apart from the last verse he was in the law. What
should he do, as befell him?

It was his task, in this horrible, apparently only repugnant to the
Being, which is all Being.

Giebt selection and rejection is not. Do you think it a coincidence
that Flaubert's Saint Julien l'Hospitalier has written? It seems to me,
as would be the decisive factor: whether one it brings to the lepers
and to him to warm the heart with warmth of love nights, that can not
otherwise be well out. Faith is not just that I am here suffer disappointments,
on the contrary. It amazes me sometimes how easily I abandon everything
Expected for the real, even if it is bad. My God, if something like this
would have to share. But would it be, would it be? No, it is only at the
price of the exclusive one. The existence of the horrific in every part
of the air.

You breathe it is a transparent, but in you propose to settle it is hard,
takes sharp, geometric forms between the institutions, because
everything is in agony and horror has issued guidance on the
creation, in the torture rooms, the great houses the operating room,
under the arches in the autumn after everything that's from a tough
immortality, all that exists and depends on, jealous of all being,
in its terrible reality.

People want to forget much of it; feilt her sleeping gently on such grooves
in the brain, but dreams push and pull him from the drawings referred
to. And they wake up and gasp and let slip a candle to dissolve in the
darkness and drink, such as sweetened water, the calming halbhelle.
But, ah, what edge to keep this security.

Only a small twist, and again, the views of more familiar and friendly,
and just so comforting contour is marked as an edge of horror.

Beware of the light, which makes the hollow space; see thee not,
if not perhaps a shadow behind your seated up as your Lord.

Better, perhaps, you would have remained in the darkness and your heart
unabgegrenztes had tried all of the indistinguishable heavy heart
to his.

Now did you put together in you, see you before you stop in your
hands, draw from time to time with an inaccurate motion after your
face.

And in you is almost no room, and it almost soothes you, that in this in
you Engheit impossible very large may reside; that also must be within
Unerhörte and restrict the circumstances under. But outside, outdoors,
it is without waiver, and if it is rising out there, so it also fills in
you, not in the vessels, partly in your power, or phlegm in your equanimity
organs: in the capillaries, it takes to Röhrig sucked up into the
extreme ramifications of your zahlloszweigigen life. There are
highlights, there is more than you, come higher than your breath,
on the hinaufflüchtest you like on your last job. Oh, and then where,
where then? Your heart is pushing you out of yourself, your heart is
behind thee forth, and you're almost, except you, and can not go back.
Like a beetle, on the one it replaces, so you are from Quill you out,
and your top bit of hardship and adaptation is without meaning. O
night without objects. O dull window, O carefully locked doors; bodies
since ancient times, accepted, trusted, and never quite understood. O
silence in the staircase. Silence from the side rooms, quiet, high
up on the ceiling.

O mother, o thou only, all this silence has adjusted, once in childhood.
The taking them on, says: erschrick not, I'm there. The has the courage,
in the stillness of the night to be for what is fear, which degenerate
from fear. You kindle a light, and even the sound du bist du haelen
And there before you and say: I'm there, erschrick not. And you put it
out slowly, and there is no doubt about it: you're there, you are the
light to warm the usual things that make sense without the background
because, well, simple, clear. And if it unruhigt in the wall somewhere,
or makes a step in the floorboards so you just smile, smile, smile on
a bright clear reason bangsame in the face, the research up to you when
you're under a secret one and with each Halblaut, abgeredet with him
and agree. Equals a power of your power in the earthly reign? Sieh,
kings, and rigid, and the storyteller can not be distracted.

On the blessed her breasts Lieblingin überkriecht them the horror and
makes them schlottrig and listless. But you come and do the monster behind
you and you're completely and utterly against him, not like a curtain,
because it can crack or there. No, as thou wouldst have it overhauled
the call out that you needed. As if you were all pre-empted much of what
may come in the back and had only your Hereilen thy eternal way, the
flight of your love. The Mouleur that I vorüberkomme every day, has two
screens displayed next to its door. The face of the young drowned, the man
in the Morgue declined because it was beautiful because it smiled, because
it is so deceptively smiled when knew it. And knowing including
his face. This hard knot firmly drawn from the senses.

This relentless self-compacting ausdampfen continually wanting to music.
The face of the one God, the hearing has closed, so there is no sound
except his. Thus he would not beirrt Turbid and by the falling of the
noise. He, in its clarity and length was, so that only the soundless
world, meaning he register as a silent, a tense, waiting world,
immature, before the creation of sound. Weltvollendender: how,
what falls as rain over the earth and the water, carelessly niederfällt
randomly falling, - Invisible and glad to get up of legislators
from all, and climbs and floats and the sky is so you stood up from
the rise of our umwölbte rainfall and the world with music.

Your music: that they had around the world may be, not to us. The fact
that you get a fortepiano built in would Thebaïs, and you have an
angel in front of the lonely hingeführt tool through the ranks
of the desert mountains, where kings and rest Heta and Anachoreten.
And he would have thrown high and away, afraid that you were starting.
And then did you ausgeströmt, Streaming, unheard, All the key back,
just what the universe endures. The Bedouins were in the distance vorbeigejagt,
superstitious, but the merchants had hingeworfen on the edge of your music
when you're the storm. Individual lions only had thee well at night
orbits, from themselves frightened by their threatening blood moving.
Whoever gets now from the ears, which are concupiscent?

Who is driving them out of the music halls, the purchase with the
barren hearing, the hurt and never receives? Since radiates from seeds,
and they adhere to as prostitutes and play with it, or he falls, while
lying in their spare gratifications, such as seeds Onan between them all.
But where, Lord, a virgin unbeschlafenen in your ear would sound: he
animosity to die or he would be infinite and fertilized brain would burst
at birth louder. I guess not. I know it takes courage to do so. But we
assume for a moment, it would have it one, this de luxe courage,
pursue them, and then forever (because who could forget or confuse?)

To know where to go afterwards and what they hineinkriechen the many
other days begin and whether they sleep at night. This would be especially
noted: whether they sleep. But with the courage, it is not yet done
so. Because they do not come and go like the other people to follow would
be a trifle. They are there, and again, made out and taken away as
Bleisoldaten. There are a few isolated places, where to find it, but
certainly not hidden. The bushes are back, the road turns a little to
the lawn around: because they have a lot of space to get through, as if
they were under a glass would fall.

You could for walkers keep pensive, unassuming men of this small, modest
in every way shape. But thou art mistaken. Do you see the left hand as it
takes for something crooked in the pocket of the old overcoat, as it
finds and herausholt small and awkward and conspicuous object in the air
it? It takes no time, then two, three birds there, sparrows, the curious
heranhüpfen. And if the man succeeds in its very accurate view of
immobility to meet, there is no reason why they do not come even
closer. And finally, increasing the first and running a little
nervous in the amount of that hand, which (God knows) a small piece
of sweet bread with worn unassuming, explicit waiver of hinbietet
fingers. And the more people will gather around him, in the corresponding
distance of course, the less he has with them in common. Like a chandelier
because it stands, the ausbrennt, and lights with the rest of the wick
and is very warm it and has never stirred. And as he attracts, as it
attracts, which can be many, small, stupid birds do not judge. If the
audience would not and you could stand it long enough, I'm sure that
once an angel came and EASHAW walls and the old, sweet morsel from
the atrophied hand.

Which are now, as always, the people in the paths. They ensure that only
birds and they will find plenty, and they say that he expected nothing
else. What should they expect this old, rainy doll, a little obliquely
in the soil as the ship's figures in the small gardens at home, even if
it comes this attitude which her that she once stood in front has somewhere
in their life where the motion is greatest? Is it now so faded, because
it was once colored? Will you ask them? Only the women do not ask if
you have a feed see. Where one could even follow, they do so in passing,
it would be easy. But let them.

You do not know how it came. You have to have a lot of bread in her hand
bag, and they hold large pieces out of their thin Mantille, pieces
that are a bit chewed and humid. That does them well that their
saliva a little in the world that the little birds around with
this flavor, if of course it also just forget.

As I sat on your books, self Inniger, and she tried to think like the
others who do not leave together and have taken their share, satisfied.
Since I have not yet grasped the glory, the dismantling of a
expectant public, in whose building the volume collapses, the stones
move him.

A young man somewhere in the slightly rising, which makes him shiver,
it is useful that you do not know. And if they oppose you, you are
nothing, and if you give up entirely, which, with those around you, and
if they want to eradicate thee to thy love's sake idea what this is
significant risk that you together in you against the cunning enmity
of Fame later that you made harmless by you ausstreut. Please no, that
he talks about you, not even scornful. And when the time goes and you
realize how your name be overturned by the people who do not take
him more seriously than anything you can find in their mouths.
Thinking: he's become bad, and do it. Take one to another, some so that
God can call you at night. And hide it from everyone. You lonely, set
apart, as they have sought thee on thy fame. How long is it since they
were against you from the ground, and now they go with you to how to
deal with their peers.
The rising sun generally gives comfort to sad hearts who have passed the
night in weeping, but to a guilty conscience, which longs for darkness,
his pure light is an unwelcome guest. While Nitetis slept, Mandane lay
awake, tormented by fearful remorse. How gladly she would have held back
the sun which was bringing on the day of death to this kindest of
mistresses, and have spent the rest of her own life in perpetual night,
if only her yesterday's deed could but have been undone!

The good-natured, thoughtless girl called herself a wretched murderess
unceasingly, resolved again and again to confess the whole truth and so
to save Nitetis; but love of life and fear of death gained the victory
over her weak heart every time. To confess was certain death, and she
felt as if she had been made for life; she had so many hopes for the
future, and the grave seemed so dreadful. She thought she could perhaps
have confessed the whole truth, if perpetual imprisonment had been all
she had to fear; but death! no, she could not resolve on that. And
besides, would her confession really save the already condemned Nitetis?

Had she not sent a message to Bartja herself by that unfortunate
gardener's boy? This secret correspondence had been discovered, and that
was enough of itself to ruin Nitetis, even if she, Mandane, had done
nothing in the matter. We are never so clever as when we have to find
excuses for our own sins.

At sunrise, Mandane was kneeling by her mistress's couch, weeping
bitterly and wondering that Nitetis could sleep so calmly.

Boges, the eunuch, had passed a sleepless night too, but a very happy
one. His hated colleague, Kandaules, whom he had used as a substitute for
himself, had been already executed, by the king's command, for
negligence, and on the supposition that he had accepted a bribe; Nitetis
was not only ruined, but certain to die a shameful death. The influence
of the king's mother had suffered a severe shock; and lastly, he had the
pleasure of knowing, not only that he had outwitted every one and
succeeded in all his plans, but that through his favorite Phaedime he
might hope once more to become the all-powerful favorite of former days.
That sentence of death had been pronounced on Croesus and the young
heroes, was by no means an unwelcome thought either, as they might have
been instrumental in bringing his intrigues to light.

In the grey of the morning he left the king's apartment and went to
Phaedime. The proud Persian had taken no rest. She was waiting for him
with feverish anxiety, as a rumor of all that had happened had already
reached the harem and penetrated to her apartments. She was lying on a
purple couch in her dressing-room; a thin silken chemise and yellow
slippers thickly sown with turquoises and pearls composed her entire
dress. Twenty attendants were standing round her, but the moment she
heard Boges she sent her slaves away, sprang up to meet him, and
overwhelmed him with a stream of incoherent questions, all referring to
her enemy Nitetis.

"Gently, gently, my little bird," said Boges, laying his hand on her
shoulder. "If you can't make up your mind to be as quiet as a little
mouse while I tell my story, and not to ask one question, you won't hear
a syllable of it to-day. Yes, indeed, my golden queen, I've so much to
tell that I shall not have finished till to-morrow, if you are to
interrupt me as often as you like. Ah, my little lamb, and I've still so
much to do to-day. First I must be present at an Egyptian donkey-ride;
secondly, I must witness an Egyptian execution . . . but I see I am
anticipating my story; I must begin at the beginning. I'll allow you to
cry, laugh and scream for joy as much as you will, but you're forbidden
to ask a single question until I have finished. I think really I have
deserved these caresses. There, now I am quite at my ease, and can begin.
Once upon a time there was a great king in Persia, who had many wives,
but he loved Phaedime better than the rest, and set her above all the
others. One day the thought struck him that he would ask for the hand of
the King of Egypt's daughter in marriage, and he sent a great embassy to
Sais, with his own brother to do the wooing for him--"

"What nonsense!" cried Phaedime impatiently; "I want to know what has
happened now."

"Patience, patience, my impetuous March wind. If you interrupt me again,
I shall go away and tell my story to the trees. You really need not
grudge me the pleasure of living my successes over again. While I tell
this story, I feel as happy as a sculptor when he puts down his hammer
and gazes at his finished work."

"No, no!" said Phaedime, interrupting him again. "I cannot listen now to
what I know quite well already. I am dying of impatience, and every fresh
report that the eunuchs and slave-girls bring makes it worse. I am in a
perfect fever--I cannot wait. Ask whatever else you like, only deliver me
from this awful suspense. Afterwards I will listen to you for days, if
you wish."

Boges' smile at these words was one of great satisfaction; he rubbed his
hands and answered: "When I was a child I had no greater pleasure than to
watch a fish writhing on the hook; now I have got you, my splendid golden
carp, at the end of my line, and I can't let you go until I have sated
myself on your impatience."

Phaedime sprang up from the couch which she had shared with Boges,
stamping her foot and behaving like a naughty child. This seemed to amuse
the eunuch immensely; he rubbed his hands again and again, laughed till
the tears ran down over his fat cheeks, emptied many a goblet of wine to
the health of the tortured beauty, and then went on with his tale: "It
had not escaped me that Cambyses sent his brother (who had brought
Nitetis from Egypt), out to the war with the Tapuri purely from jealousy.
That proud woman, who was to take no orders from me, seemed to care as
little for the handsome, fair-haired boy as a Jew for pork, or an
Egyptian for white beans. But still I resolved to nourish the king's
jealousy, and use it as a means of rendering this impudent creature
harmless, as she seemed likely to succeed in supplanting us both in his
favor. It was long, however, before I could hit on a feasible plan.

"At last the new-year's festival arrived and all the priests in the
kingdom assembled at Babylon. For eight days the city was full of
rejoicing, feasting and merry-making. At court it was just the same, and
so I had very little time to think of my plans. But just then, when I had
hardly any hope of succeeding, the gracious Amescha cpenta sent a youth
across my path, who seemed created by Angramainjus himself to suit my
plan. Gaumata, the brother of Oropastes, came to Babylon to be present at
the great new-year's sacrifice. I saw him first in his brother's house,
whither I had been sent on a message from the king, and his likeness to
Bartja was so wonderful, that I almost fancied I was looking at an
apparition. When I had finished my business with Oropastes the youth
accompanied me to my carriage. I showed no signs of astonishment at this
remarkable likeness, treated him however, with immense civility, and
begged him to pay me a visit. He came the very same evening. I sent for
my best wine, pressed him to drink, and experienced, not for the first
time, that the juice of the vine has one quality which outweighs all the
rest: it can turn even a silent man into a chatter-box. The youth
confessed that the great attraction which had brought him to Babylon was,
not the sacrifice, but a girl who held the office of upper attendant to
the Egyptian Princess. He said he had loved her since he was a child; but
his ambitious brother had higher views for him, and in order to get the
lovely Mandane out of his way, had procured her this situation. At last
he begged me to arrange an interview with her. I listened good-naturedly,
made a few difficulties, and at last asked him to come the next day and
see how matters were going on. He came, and I told him that it might be
possible to manage it, but only if he would promise to do what I told him
without a question. He agreed to everything, returned to Rhagae at my
wish, and did not come to Babylon again until yesterday, when he arrived
secretly at my house, where I concealed him. Meanwhile Bartja had
returned from the war. The great point now was to excite the king's
jealousy again, and ruin the Egyptian at one blow. I roused the
indignation of your relations through your public humiliation, and so
prepared the way for my plan. Events were wonderfully in my favor. You
know how Nitetis behaved at the birthday banquet, but you do not know
that that very evening she sent a gardener's boy to the palace with a
note for Bartja. The silly fellow managed to get caught and was executed
that very night, by command of the king, who was almost mad with rage;
and I took care that Nitetis should be as entirely cut off from all
communication with her friends, as if she lived in the nest of the
Simurg. You know the rest."

"But how did Gaumata escape?"

"Through a trap-door, of which nobody knows but myself, and which stood
wide open waiting for him. Everything turned out marvellously; I even
succeeded in getting hold of a dagger which Bartja had lost while
hunting, and in laying it under Nitetis' window. In order to get rid of
the prince during these occurrences, and prevent him from meeting the
king or any one else who might be important as a witness, I asked the
Greek merchant Kolxus, who was then at Babylon with a cargo of Milesian
cloth, and who is always willing to do me a favor, because I buy all the
woollen stuffs required for the harem of him, to write a Greek letter,
begging Bartja, in the name of her he loved best, to come alone to the
first station outside the Euphrates gate at the rising of the
Tistar-star. But I had a misfortune with this letter, for the messenger
managed the matter clumsily. He declares that he delivered the letter to
Bartja; but there can be no doubt that he gave it to some one else,
probably to Gaumata, and I was not a little dismayed to hear that Bartja
was sitting over the wine with his friends on that very evening. Still
what had been done could not be undone, and I knew that the witness of
men like your father, Hystaslies, Croesus and Intaphernes, would far
outweigh anything that Darius, Gyges and Araspes could say. The former
would testify against their friend, the latter for him. And so at last
everything went as I would have had it. The young gentlemen are sentenced
to death and Croesus, who as usual, presumed to speak impertinently to
the king, will have lived his last hour by this time. As to the Egyptian
Princess, the secretary in chief has just been commanded to draw up the
following order. Now listen and rejoice, my little dove! "'Nitetis, the
adulterous daughter of the King of Egypt, shall be punished for her
hideous crimes according to the extreme rigor of the law, thus: She shall
be set astride upon an ass and led through the streets of Babylon; and
all men shall see that Cambyses knows how to punish a king's daughter, as
severely as his magistrates would punish the meanest beggar.

--To Boges, chief of the eunuchs, is entrusted the execution of this
order.

By command of King Cambyses. Ariabignes, chief of the Secretaries'

"I had scarcely placed these lines in the sleeve of my robe, when the
king's mother, with her garments rent, and led by Atossa, pressed hastily
into the hall. Weeping and lamentation followed; cries, reproaches,
curses, entreaties and prayers; but the king remained firm, and I verily
believe Kassandane and Atossa would have been sent after Croesus and
Bartja into the other world, if fear of Cyrus's spirit had not prevented
the son, even in this furious rage, from laying hands on his father's
widow. Kassandane, however, did not say one word for Nitetis. She seems
as fully convinced of her guilt as you and I can be. Neither have we
anything to fear from the enamored Gaumata. I have hired three men to
give him a cool bath in the Euphrates, before he gets back to Rhagae. Ah,
ha! the fishes and worms will have a jolly time!"

Phaedime joined in Boges' laughter, bestowed on him all the flattering
names which she had caught from his own smooth tongue, and in token of
her gratitude, hung a heavy chain studded with jewels round his neck with
her own beautiful arms.


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Call everything that is beyond your comprehension a miracle
     Never so clever as when we have to find excuses for our own sins
     So long as we are able to hope and wish


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 7.


CHAPTER V.

Before the sun had reached his mid-day height, the news of what had
happened and of what was still to happen had filled all Babylon. The
streets swarmed with people, waiting impatiently to see the strange
spectacle which the punishment of one of the king's wives, who had proved
false and faithless, promised to afford. The whip-bearers were forced to
use all their authority to keep this gaping crowd in order. Later on in
the day the news that Bartja and his friends were soon to be executed
arrived among the crowd; they were under the influence of the palm-wine,
which was liberally distributed on the king's birthday and the following
days, and could not control their excited feelings; but these now took
quite another form.

Bands of drunken men paraded the streets, crying: "Bartja, the good son
of Cyrus, is to be executed!" The women heard these words in their quiet
apartments, eluded their keepers, forgot their veils, and rushing forth
into the streets, followed the excited and indignant men with cries and
yells. Their pleasure in the thought of seeing a more fortunate sister
humbled, vanished at the painful news that their beloved prince was
condemned to death. Men, women and children raged, stormed and cursed,
exciting one another to louder and louder bursts of indignation. The
workshops were emptied, the merchants closed their warehouses, and the
school-boys and servants, who had a week's holiday on occasion of the
king's birthday, used their freedom to scream louder than any one else,
and often to groan and yell without in the least knowing why.

If he is joining them, so he could believe this would be to learn: to
come and go, before it and to turn, so that no doubt was. Immense hopes
covered his heart. In this restless lit, oddly indeterminate Trinity
Hall of the hospital he sat daily at his best seat and stood up before
the agitation, and took up as a student.

Others wept, but he was in full glossy tears and pressed the cold
hands together to make it endure. Sometimes, in the extreme, if a
player suddenly wegtrat agreed from his great vision, he removed the
face and was shocked: how long since he was already there:
Monseigneur Saint Michael, above, vorgetreten to the edge of the scaffolding
in its reflective silver armor. In such moments, he is. He looked like
prior to a decision. He was very close to it, the counterpart of
this action here to see the large, anxious, profane Passion, in which he
played. But once it was over. All moved without meaning. Open flares came
up to him, and threw up the camber is formless shadow.

People he did not know, pulled on him. He wanted to play but nothing came
of his mouth, his movements showed no gesture. They pushed so peculiar
to him, it came to him the idea that he should bear the cross. And he
wanted to wait that they entail. But they were stronger, and they pushed
him out. Exterior is much different. I do not know how. But inside and
in front of you, my God, the inside front of you, viewers: We are not
without action? We probably discover that we do not know the role we are
looking for a mirror, we want abschminken and remove the wrong thing
and be true. But somewhere still liable to us a piece of trim, which
we forget. An exaggeration track remains in our eyebrows, we do not realize
that our mouth corners are bent. And so we go around, a mockery and
a half: neither being, nor an actor. That was in the theater of Orange.
Without quite aufzusehen only in the mind of the Rustic rupture,
now makes its facade, I was through the small door of the guard occurred.
I was lying between the pillars and small bodies Althaeabäumen, but it
only covered me for a moment the open shell of the auditorium
slope, the lying, divided by the shadow of the afternoon as a giant
sundial concave.

I walked quickly towards them. I felt between the seat rows in ascending
order, as I fell into this environment.

Above, a little higher, were badly distributed, a few residents around
in idle curiosity, and their suits were clearly uncomfortable, but
their scale was not worth mentioning.

For a while they took me in the eye and wondered about my small size.

This made that I turned around. Oh, I was totally unprepared.

It was played. An immense, a superhuman drama was underway, the drama
scene, this huge wall, whose vertical structure triple occurred
before roaring size, and suddenly, almost scathing in moderate
excess.

I was out before me happier dismay. This standing there with his face
liability order shadows, with darkness gathered in its mouth, limited,
top, the cornices gleichlockiger hairstyle: it was the strong, all
adjustment Antikisch mask behind which the world together to face
shot. Here, in this large, eingebogenen District seat was a waiting,
empty, sucking life: everything was happening over there: gods and fate.
And over there was (if you're highly aufsah) easy on the Wandgrat:
Collection of the eternal heaven.

This hour, which I understand now, shut me out forever from our theaters.
What should I do? What should I do a scene in which the wall (the Ikonwand
of Russian churches) has been removed because it no longer has the
power, through their hardship the action durchzupressen which
gaseous, in the full heavy Öltropfen exit.

Now the pieces fall into chunks by the lochige Grobsieb the stages and
accumulate and are removed when it is enough. It is the same Hungarian
reality which lies on the streets and in the houses, only that more of
them there together, when else in one evening goes. (Let us be honest, we
do not have a theater, so we have a God: they heard together.

Each has its own particular ideas and concerns, and he lets others see
them as much as it uses and adapts. We continually dilute our comprehension,
so it should be rich, instead of screaming for the wall of a common need,
behind the the incomprehensible time to collect and anzuspannen.) If
we had a theater, would you then, you always tragic so narrow, so cash,
so no excuse shape facing the pain of your issued its urgent
curiosity fun?

You saw, unutterable touching the Wirklichsein advance of your suffering,
in Verona at the time, than you, almost still a child, playing
theater, all roses in front of you felt like a front view maskige who
try to hide should be increased. It is true you were a child actor and
if your playing, so they wanted to be seen, but you beat from Art of the
profession you should be, what Alcoforado Marianna, but they knew
it, the nuns shank was a trim, tight and permanent enough to
unreservedly behind her miserable to be with the implore, with the
Blessed Blessed are invisible.

In all cities, where you did, they described your gesture, but they just
do not like you, hopeless from day to day, always a gasket in front
of you hobst whether you berge.

You kept your hair, your hands, any thing in front of the dense translucent
bodies.

You test the wafer, which were transparent, you makes you small, you
have hidden test you, such as children into hiding, and then you had
those short, happy Auflaut, and no more than an angel would you be looking
for. But then you look carefully, it was no doubt that the whole time you
had seen all the ugly, hollow, äugigen room: you, you, you and nothing
else. And it came to thee, their arm shortened entgegenzustrecken sign
with his finger against the evil eye. It came close to them to grab your
face, on which it consumes. It came to you, you yourself to be. Your
teammates fell to the courage, as one would with a female panther
zusammengesperrt, they crept along to the scenes and spoke what
was due not only to irritate you.

However, since they indicate zogst test and put it back and went with them
to how to deal with reality. The slippers doors hingetäuschten the
curtains, the objects without crowding you back to the opposition.
You felt like your heart is steadily increased to a huge reality
and, frightened, you try once again with the eyes off of you as long
filaments Indian summer -: But since they already broke into applause
from their fear of the extremes: how to at the last moment turn
away from something, which would force them, to change their lives.
Bad, and the lovers live in danger. Oh that they were lovers and would
überstünden. To the lovers is louder security. Nobody suspected them
more, and they themselves are unable to be betrayed. In them is
the secret of healing, they scream it in its entirety as nightingales,
it has no parts. You complain to, but the whole of nature in a true: it
is the action to Eternal. They rush after the lost, but already with the
first steps to overtake it, and before them, only God. Their legend
is that of Byblis the Kaunos prosecuted to Lycia out. Your heart crowd
chased them through the countries on its track, and finally she
was at the end of the force, but so strong was their nature movement
that, hinsinkend beyond death as a source of wiedererschien, haste,
haste as a resource.

What is different the Portuguese to happen: that when she was inside
to the source?

What you, Heloise?

What you, lovers, whose actions we have had Gaspara Stampa, The Countess
of d'Anduze and Clara, Louise Labbé, Marceline DESBORDES, Elisa
Mercoeur?

But you, poor volatile AISS, you have hesitated and gave after.

Tired Julie Lespinasse.

Dismal saga of the lucky Parks: Marie-Anne de Clermont.

I remember exactly once, early, at home, I found a Schmucketui it was two
big hands, with a fan eingepreßten flowers in dark green edge Saffian. I
suggested it: it was empty. I can say now after such a long time. But
then, since I had opened it, I saw only what was this emptiness:
velvet, from a small hill light, no longer fresh velvet; jewelry
from the groove, which is a trace of melancholy bright, empty, it
was.

For a moment it was bearable.

But most of those who stay behind as a lover, it is perhaps always
the case.

Scrolls back in your diaries.

Was it not always about the springs a time when the emerging years
as a reproach unto you concerned?

It was a desire to Frohsein in you, and yet, if you hinaustratet
in the spacious outdoors, this was a surprise out there in the air,
and You were unsure how to go in on a ship.

The garden started, but her (it was), it enters and schlepptet winter last
year, for you it was best to continue.

While her wartetet that participating in your soul, empfandet her sudden
weight of your limbs, and something like the possibility of becoming
ill, did you open in anticipation.

Your schobt it on to your light dress, her spanntet the shawl around the
shoulders, her lieft the avenue to the end: and then standet her
heart knocking, in the broad ring, decided to agree with all of his.

But a bird sounded and was alone and denied you. Oh, it would have have
died? Maybe. Perhaps that is new that we are about: a year and love.
Flowers and fruits are ripe when they fall, the animals feel and
see each other and are happy.

But we, we have God, we can not cope. We move beyond our nature, we need
more time. What is our year? What is everybody? Even God anyway we
started, we pray to him, let us on the night stand. And then the Kranksein.
And then love. Clémence de Bourges That has die in their emergence.

You, the same was without, among the tools that they like to play not
understood, the most beautiful, at least for itself in the sound of
her voice played unforgettable.

Your Mädchentum was of such high determination that a flood of loving
hearts this emerging Sonette zueignen the book was that each verse
was ungestillt.

Louise Labbé afraid not to frighten the child with the long suffering
of love. She showed her the longing of the nocturnal rise, they promised
her the pain like a larger space, and they felt that they experienced
with their pain behind the dark behind somewhat expected, from
which this Jünglingin was beautiful.

Girls in my hometown. That the best of you in the summer in an afternoon
in the darkened library, the little book would be, the Jan of 1556 has
printed Tourne. That they the cool, smooth band mitnähme also buzzing
in the orchard or over to Phlox, in which a ground scent übersüßtem
sentence sheer candy stands. That they would find it early. In the days
since their eyes start to become, while the younger still capable
of mouth is much too large pieces of an apple and make full abzubeißen.

And then when the time comes to moving friendships, girls, that your
secrecy would be to call each other Dika and Anaktoria, Gyrinno and atthis.
That one, perhaps a neighbor, an elderly man who traveled in his
youth, and as long Sonderling apply these names you betrayed.

That he sometimes you are einlüde to its famous peaches sake or because
of Equitation Ridingerstiche to the top of the white gear, of which so
much is spoken, that they would have seen. Perhaps persuades him to tell.
Perhaps those of you who may ask him, the old travel diaries hervorzuholen
who can know it? The same that it is a day to elicit understands
that individual agencies of the Sappho poem to us have come, and
not resting until they know what is almost a secret: that this
reclusive husband loved it, at times his leisure to the transfer
of these Versstücke to turn.

He must admit that he no longer thought about, and what is there, he
assured, was not worth mentioning. But now he is happy but, before
these unsuspecting girlfriends when they are pushing a verse to say. He
even discovered the Greek text in his memory, he's talking about it
before, because the translation does not giebt, in his opinion, and to the
youth of this beautiful, genuine jewelry massive fracture of the language
to show that in such a strong flame was bent. Over the all he heats up
again for his work. There are beautiful, almost youthful evenings for
him, the autumn evenings, for example, much more quiet night before them.
In his cabinet is a long light. He does not always bent over the leaves,
he often leans back, closes his eyes again on a read line, and their sense
is spread in his blood. Never was he so sure of antiquity. Almost wish
he smile of generations, they have beweint as a lost show, in which
they occurred would be happy. Now he understands now the importance
of early dynamic world unity, something like a new, simultaneous recording
of all human labor was.

It beirrt him not to say that those consistent with their culture somehow
completed Versichtbarungen for many subsequent glances a whole seemed
to form a whole in the past. Although there really was life to the
heavenly half semicircular bowl of being fit, like two hemispheres for a
full heal, golden ball go together.

But this was hardly done, it felt trapped in their minds completely
realizing this only as a parable, and the massive star lost weight and
went on into the room, and in his golden rounding restrained reflected
the sadness of what has not yet deal was.

What he thinks of the night in his lonely, thinks and knows he noticed
a plate of fruit on the windowsill. Involuntarily he picks an apple
out and submit it prior to the table.

What is my life around this fruit, he thinks. Ready To everything rises
and increases undone.

And there, on the spare, ersteht him, almost too quickly, the small, ad
infinitum beyond tense form, which (according to testimony Galien)
all thought that if they said the poet.

Because, as behind the works of Herakles demolition and rebuilding of the
world stood up demanding, so crowded, lived to be withdrawn from
inventories of being on the deeds of their hearts the animosity up
and despair, which must survive the times.

He knows at once this resolute heart that was ready, the whole love
to go to the ends.

It surprised him that it was unrecognized, that in this very future
lovers just the profusion saw, not the new measure of love and heart
pain.

That is the inscription of their existence they were interpreted as
being credible was that she finally called excessive death of the
one God incites from the hinauszulieben without reply.

Perhaps even among the educated girls of her own, which is not understood
: that they are at the height of their actions is not an accused who had
openly embrace her, but to no longer possible, of their love had
grown.

Here, the meaning and occurs at the end of his window, his great
room is too close to him he wants to see stars, if possible.

He is not mistaken about himself he knows that this movement met
him, because among young girls from the neighborhood which is that
it is concerned.

He wishes (not for themselves, no, but for them), they understand
it in a nightly hour that passes, the claim of love.

He expects her to say nothing of it. It seems to him the utmost, alone
and awake, and to her to think how much those in the right lover
was: if they knew that the association can not be meant as an
increase in loneliness, when they end, the timing of sex broke
through with his intention infinite.

If they are in the darkness of hugs not Stillung grub, but by desire.
If they despised that of deuces is one of the lovers and a lover and the
lover weak, which they wore to camp, to become lovers glowed, the
they left.

At such high farewells her heart to nature. About the fate of the firn,
she sang her favorite indoor bridal song; increased their wedding,
they drove through the near-husband, so that they can zusammennähmen for
him as a god and his glory even überstünden. Once more, Abelone, in recent
years, I felt and you saw a sudden, not long after I thought of you. It
was in Venice, in the autumn, in one of those salons, where strangers
temporarily to the lady of the house together, which is as alien to them.
These people stand around with their cup of tea and are thrilled whenever
a neighbor experienced it briefly and disguised under the door rotates
to give them a name zuzuflüstern, the Venetian sounds. You are on the
outermost name taken, nothing can surprise them, because so sparingly
otherwise they also may be experiencing in this city it is the
nonchalant übertriebensten ways out.

In their ordinary life they constantly confused with the Extraordinary
forbidden, so that the expectation of a marvelous, they are now allowed,
as a rough, debauchery expression occurs in their faces. What they
are currently only at home, in concerts or if it happens with a novel
alone, the bear under these conditions than flattering legitimate
state for review.

How they, quite unprepared, do not understand danger, from the almost fatal
confessions of the music itself can incentivize as physical indiscretions,
then transmit it without the existence of Venice in the least to cope
with the powerlessness of rewarding gondolas.

No longer new spouses during the whole trip just nasty replicas of each
other were sinking into silent tolerance, the man comes through the
pleasant fatigue of his ideals, while they are young and feel the
lazy locals zunickt encouragingly with a smile, as if it had teeth
from sugar, which is resistant to resolve.

And one hears that it yields is that they travel tomorrow or tomorrow or
the end of the week.

As I now stood between them and me happy that I am not traveling.

In short, it would be cold.

The soft, opiates Venice and needs of their prejudices will disappear
with these somnolenten foreigners, and one morning the other one
is there, the real, wake up to shatter brittle, not quite perfect:
the middle of nowhere to become the sunken forests, and finally
forced to through and through existing Venice.

The hardy, restricted to the bare body, through the night watch Arsenal's
blood drive his work, and penetrating the body, is continually
expanding spirit that was stronger than the scent of aromatic
countries.

The picturesque state of the salt and glass of his poverty exchanged
against the treasures of the peoples.

The beautiful counterbalance to the world, until his ornaments
inside is full of latent energy, which is always fine vernervten
-: this Venice.

The consciousness that I knew it, over me in all this is deceptive people
with so much opposition that I aufsah to notify me somehow. Was it
conceivable that in these halls was not one who involuntarily
waited, about the nature of this environment to be solved?

A young man who immediately realized that this is not an added benefit,
but was an example of the will, as nowhere requesting strict and could
be found?

I went around my truth troubled me.

Because they sent me here under 50 had taken many brought with them
the desire, expressed, defended, proved to be.

The grotesque idea arose in me, as I have in the next moment into
the hands would clap out against the hatred of all zerredete
misunderstanding.

In this ridiculous sentiment, I noticed it.

She stood alone before a bright window and looked at me, not really with
the eyes, which were seriously and thoughtfully, but even with the mouth,
the evil seems to express my face ironic imitations. I immediately
felt the tension in my impatient trains and took a calm face, whereupon
her mouth and was obviously proud. Then, after recent concerns, we smiled
at each other simultaneously.

They reminded, if you will, to a certain image of the beautiful youth
of agony Benedicte, Baggesens in life plays a role. It was the dark stillness
of their eyes do not see the clear darkness without their voices to be
assumed.

Incidentally, the Flechtung her hair and the neckline of her dress so bright
Copenhagen, I decided that was it Danish anzureden. I was still not close
enough, as pushed by the other side a flow out to her and our gästeglückliche
Countess itself, in her warm, enthusiastic absentmindedness, threw
himself with a lot of advice about them to make them on the spot to sing
remitted. I was sure that the girl would be so sorry that nobody in
the society are interested could be heard singing danish. They also did
this, and they came to words. The crowd to form around the inside
diameter was eager, someone knew that they also sing German. "And
Italian," said a laughing voice with malicious conviction. I knew no excuse
that I wish it would, but I doubted not that they would resist.
Even spread over a dry aggrieved by the long faces smile Guyed of
persuasion that have joined the good Countess to nothing to forgive
, compassionate and worthy of a step, because when it is no longer
needed, gave them to.

I felt like I was pale disappointment, my gaze was filled with reproach,
but I turned away, it is not worth it The sehn it.

But you did the others go, and was at once beside me. Their dress seemed
to me, the flowery smell their warmth stood around me. "I really want
to sing," she said in Danish along my cheek, "not because it's demand, not
a sham, because now I must sing." Her words broke the same angry
intolerance of which they had liberated me. I slowly followed the group
with which they are removed.
Meanwhile my Egyptian companion had
fetched a potion from the travelling medicine-chest, without which an
Egyptian does not care to leave his native country.

   [A similar travelling medicine-chest is to be seen in the Egyptian
   Museum at Berlin. It is prettily and compendiously fitted up, and
   must be very ancient, for the inscription on the chest, which
   contained it stated that it was made in the 11th dynasty (end of the
   third century B. C.) in the reign of King Mentuhotep.]

The drops worked wonders; in a few hours the fever was quieted, and at
sunrise the patient opened his eyes once more. We bowed down before him,
believing him to be your brother, and asked if he would like to be taken
to the palace in Babylon. This he refused vehemently, and asseverated
that he was not the man we took him for, but, . . ."

"Who can be so like Bartja? tell me quickly," interrupted the king, "I am
very curious to know this."

"He declared that he was the brother of your high-priest, that his name
was Gaumata, and that this would be proved by the pass which we should
find in the sleeve of his Magian's robe. The landlord found this document
and, being able to read, confirmed the statement of the sick youth; he
was, however, soon seized by a fresh attack of fever, and began to speak
incoherently."

"Could you understand him?"

"Yes, for his talk always ran on the same subject. The hanging-gardens
seemed to fill his thoughts. He must have just escaped some great danger,
and probably had had a lover's meeting there with a woman called
Mandane."

"Mandane, Mandane," said Cambyses in a low voice; "if I do not mistake,
that is the name of the highest attendant on Amasis' daughter."

These words did not escape the sharp ears of the Greek. He thought a
moment and then exclaimed with a smile; "Set the prisoners free, my King;
I will answer for it with my own head, that Bartja was not in the
hanging-gardens."

The king was surprised at this speech but not angry. The free,
unrestrained, graceful manner of this Athenian towards himself produced
the same impression, that a fresh sea-breeze makes when felt for the
first time. The nobles of his own court, even his nearest relations,
approached him bowing and cringing, but this Greek stood erect in his
presence; the Persians never ventured to address their ruler without a
thousand flowery and flattering phrases, but the Athenian was simple,
open and straightforward. Yet his words were accompanied by such a charm
of action and expression, that the king could understand them,
notwithstanding the defective Persian in which they were clothed, better
than the allegorical speeches of his own subjects. Nitetis and Phanes
were the only human beings, who had ever made him forget that he was a
king. With them he was a man speaking to his fellow-man, instead of a
despot speaking with creatures whose very existence was the plaything of
his own caprice. Such is the effect produced by real manly dignity,
superior culture and the consciousness of a right to freedom, on the mind
even of a tyrant. But there was something beside all this, that had
helped to win Cambyses' favor for the Athenian. This man's coming seemed
as if it might possibly give him back the treasure he had believed was
lost and more than lost. But how could the life of such a foreign
adventurer be accepted as surety for the sons of the highest Persians in
the realm? The proposal, however, did not make him angry. On the
contrary, he could not help smiling at the boldness of this Greek, who in
his eagerness had freed himself from the cloth which hung over his mouth
and beard, and exclaimed: "By Mithras, Greek, it really seems as if you
were to prove a messenger of good for us! I accept your offer. If the
prisoners, notwithstanding your supposition, should still prove guilty
you are bound to pass your whole life at my court and in my service, but
if, on the contrary, you are able to prove what I so ardently long for, I
will make you richer than any of your countrymen."

Phanes answered by a smile which seemed to decline this munificent offer,
and asked: "Is it permitted me to put a few questions to yourself and to
the officers of your court?"

"You are allowed to say and ask whatever you wish."

At this moment the master of the huntsmen, one of those who daily ate at
the king's table, entered, out of breath from his endeavors to hasten the
preparations, and announced that all was ready.

"They must wait," was the king's imperious answer. "I am not sure, that
we shall hunt at all to-day. Where is Bischen, the captain of police?"

Datis, the so-called "eye of the king," who held the office filled in
modern days by a minister of police, hurried from the room, returning in
a few minutes with the desired officer. These moments Phanes made use of
for putting various questions on important points to the nobles who were
present.

"What news can you bring of the prisoners?" asked the king, as the man
lay prostrate before him. "Victory to the king! They await death with
calmness, for it is sweet to die by thy will."

"Have you heard anything of their conversation?"

"Yes, my Ruler."

"Do they acknowledge their guilt, when speaking to each other?"

"Mithras alone knows the heart; but you, my prince, if you could hear
them speak, would believe in their innocence, even as I the humblest of
your servants."

The captain looked up timidly at the king, fearing lest these words
should have excited his anger; Cambyses, however, smiled kindly instead
of rebuking him. But a sudden thought darkened his brow again directly,
and in a low voice he asked: "When was Croesus executed?"

The man trembled at this question; the perspiration stood on his
forehead, and he could scarcely stammer the words: "He is . . . he has
. . . we thought. . . ."

"What did you think?" interrupted Cambyses, and a new light of hope
seemed to dawn in his mind. "Is it possible, that you did not carry out
my orders at once? Can Croesus still be alive? Speak at once, I must know
the whole truth."

The captain writhed like a worm at his lord's feet, and at last stammered
out, raising his hands imploringly towards the king: "Have mercy, have
mercy, my Lord the king! I am a poor man, and have thirty children,
fifteen of whom . . ."

"I wish to know if Croesus is living or dead."

"He is alive! He has done so much for me, and I did not think I was doing
wrong in allowing him to live a few hours longer, that he might. . . ."

"That is enough," said the king breathing freely. "This once your
disobedience shall go unpunished, and the treasurer may give you two
talents, as you have so many children.--Now go to the prisoners,--tell
Croesus to come hither, and the others to be of good courage, if they are
innocent."

"My King is the light of the world, and an ocean of mercy."

"Bartja and his friends need not remain any longer in confinement; they
can walk in the court of the palace, and you will keep guard over them.
You, Datis, go at once to the hanging-gardens and order Boges to defer
the execution of the sentence on the Egyptian Princess; and further, I
wish messengers sent to the post-station mentioned by the Athenian, and
the wounded man brought hither under safe escort."

The "king's eye" was on the point of departure, but Phanes detained
him, saying: "Does my King allow me to make one remark?"

"Speak."

"It appears to me, that the chief of the eunuchs could give the most
accurate information. During his delirium the youth often mentioned his
name in connection with that of the girl he seemed to be in love with."

"Go at once, Datis, and bring him quickly."

"The high-priest Oropastes, Gaumata's brother, ought to appear too; and
Mandane, whom I have just been assured on the most positive authority, is
the principal attendant of the Egyptian Princess."

"Fetch her, Datis."

"If Nitetis herself could . . ."

At this the king turned pale and a cold shiver ran through his limbs. How
he longed to see his darling again! But the strong man was afraid of this
woman's reproachful looks; he knew the captivating power that lay in her
eyes. So he pointed to the door, saying "Fetch Boges and Mandane; the
Egyptian Princess is to remain in the hanging-gardens, under strict
custody."

The Athenian bowed deferentially; as if he would say: "Here no one has a
right to command but the king."

Cambyses looked well pleased, seated himself again on the purple divan,
and resting his forehead on his hand, bent his eyes on the ground and
sank into deep thought. The picture of the woman he loved so dearly
refused to be banished; it came again and again, more and more vividly,
and the thought that these features could not have deceived him--that
Nitetis must be innocent--took a firmer root in his mind; he had already
begun to hope. If Bartja could be cleared, there was no error that might
not be conceivable; in that case he would go to the hanging-gardens, take
her hand and listen to her defence. When love has once taken firm hold of
a man in riper years, it runs and winds through his whole nature like one
of his veins, and can only be destroyed with his life.

The entrance of Croesus roused Cambyses from his dream; he raised the old
man kindly from the prostrate position at his feet, into which he had
thrown himself on entering, and said: "You offended me, but I will be
merciful; I have not forgotten that my father, on his dying bed, told me
to make you my friend and adviser. Take your life back as a gift from me,
and forget my anger as I wish to forget your want of reverence. This man
says he knows you; I should like to hear your opinion of his
conjectures."

Croesus turned away much affected, and after having heartily welcomed the
Athenian, asked him to relate his suppositions and the grounds on which
they were founded.

The old man grew more and more attentive as the Greek went on, and when
he had finished raised his hands to heaven, crying: "Pardon me, oh ye
eternal gods, if I have ever questioned the justice of your decrees. Is
not this marvellous, Cambyses? My son once placed himself in great danger
to save the life of this noble Athenian, whom the gods have brought
hither to repay the deed tenfold. Had Phanes been murdered in Egypt, this
hour might have seen our sons executed."

And as he said this he embraced Hystaspes; both shared one feeling; their
sons had been as dead and were now alive.

The king, Phanes, and all the Persian dignitaries watched the old men
with deep sympathy, and though the proofs of Bartja's innocence were as
yet only founded on conjecture, not one of those present doubted it one
moment longer. Wherever the belief in a man's guilt is but slight, his
defender finds willing listeners.


CHAPTER VI.

THE sharp-witted Athenian saw clearly how matters lay in this sad story;
nor did it escape him that malice had had a hand in the affair. How could
Bartja's dagger have come into the hanging-gardens except through
treachery?

While he was telling the king his suspicions, Oropastes was led into the
hall.

The king looked angrily at him and without one preliminary word, asked:
"Have you a brother?"

"Yes, my King. He and I are the only two left out of a family of six. My
parents . . ."

"Is your brother younger or older than yourself?"

"I was the eldest of the family; my brother, the youngest, was the joy of
my father's old age."

"Did you ever notice a remarkable likeness between him and one of my
relations?"

"Yes, my King. Gaumata is so like your brother Bartja, that in the school
for priests at Rhagae, where he still is, he was always called 'the
prince.'"

"Has he been at Babylon very lately?"

"He was here for the last time at the New Year's festival."

"Are you speaking the truth?"

"The sin of lying would be doubly punishable in one who wears my robes,
and holds my office."

The king's face flushed with anger at this answer and he exclaimed:
"Nevertheless you are lying; Gaumata was here yesterday evening. You may
well tremble."

"My life belongs to the king, whose are all things; nevertheless I
swear--the high-priest-by the most high God, whom I have served
faithfully for thirty years, that I know nothing of my brother's presence
in Babylon yesterday."

"Your face looks as if you were speaking the truth."

"You know that I was not absent from your side the whole of that high
holiday."

"I know it."

Again the doors opened; this time they admitted the trembling Mandane.
The high-priest cast such a look of astonishment and enquiry on her, that
the king saw she must be in some way connected with him, and therefore,
taking no notice of the trembling girl who lay at his feet, he asked: "Do
you know this woman?"

"Yes, my King. I obtained for her the situation of upper attendant to
the--may Auramazda forgive her!--King of Egypt's daughter."

"What led you,--a priest,--to do a favor to this girl?"

"Her parents died of the same pestilence, which carried off my brothers.
Her father was a priest, respected, and a friend of our family; so we
adopted the little girl, remembering the words: 'If thou withhold help
from the man who is pure in heart and from his widow and orphans, then
shall the pure, subject earth cast thee out unto the stinging-nettles, to
painful sufferings and to the most fearful regions!' Thus I became her
foster-father, and had her brought up with my youngest brother until he
was obliged to enter the school for priests."

The king exchanged a look of intelligence with Phanes, and asked: "Why
did not you keep the girl longer with you?"

"When she had received the ear-rings I, as priest, thought it more
suitable to send such a young girl away from my house, and to put her in
a position to earn her own living."

"Has she seen your brother since she has been grown up?"

"Yes, my King. Whenever Gaumata came to see me I allowed him to be with
her as with a sister; but on discovering later that the passionate love
of youth had begun to mingle with the childish friendship of former days,
I felt strengthened in my resolution to send her away."

"Now we know enough," said the king, commanding the high-priest by a nod
to retire. He then looked down on the prostrate girl, and said
imperiously: "Rise!"

Mandane rose, trembling with fear. Her fresh young face was pale as
death, and her red lips were blue from terror.

"Tell all you know about yesterday evening; but remember, a lie and your
death are one and the same."

The girl's knees trembled so violently that she could hardly stand, and
her fear entirely took away the power of speaking.

"I have not much patience," exclaimed Cambyses. Mandane started, grew
paler still, but could not speak. Then Phanes came forward and asked the
angry king to allow him to examine the girl, as he felt sure that fear
alone had closed her lips and that a kind word would open them.

Cambyses allowed this, and the Athenian's words proved true; no sooner
had he assured Mandane of the good-will of all present, laid his hand on
her head and spoken kindly to her, than the source of her tears was
unlocked, she wept freely, the spell which had seemed to chain her
tongue, vanished, and she began to tell her story, interrupted only by
low sobs. She hid nothing, confessed that Boges had given her his
sanction and assistance to the meeting with Gaumata, and ended by saying:
"I know that I have forfeited my life, and am the worst and most
ungrateful creature in the world; but none of all this would have
happened, if Oropastes had allowed his brother to marry me."

The serious audience, even the king himself, could not resist a smile at
the longing tone in which these words were spoken and the fresh burst of
sobs which succeeded them.

And this smile saved her life. But Cambyses would not have smiled, after
hearing such a story, if Mandane, with that instinct which always seems
to stand at a woman's command in the hour of her greatest danger, had not
known how to seize his weak side, and use it for her own interests, by
dwelling much longer than was necessary, on the delight which Nitetis had
manifested at the king's gifts.

"A thousand times" cried she, "did my mistress kiss the presents which
were brought from you, O King; but oftenest of all did she press her lips
to the nosegay which you plucked with your own hands for her, some days
ago. And when it began to fade, she took every flower separately, spread
out the petals with care, laid them between woollen cloths, and, with her
own hands, placed her heavy, golden ointment-box upon them, that they
might dry and so she might keep them always as a remembrance of your
kindness."

Seeing Cambyses' awful features grow a little milder at these words, the
girl took fresh courage, and at last began to put loving words into her
mistress's mouth which the latter had never uttered; professing that she
herself had heard Nitetis a hundred times murmur the word "Cambyses" in
her sleep with indescribable tenderness. She ended her confession by
sobbing and praying for mercy.

The king looked down at her with infinite contempt, though without anger,
and pushing her away with his foot said: "Out of my sight, you dog of a
woman! Blood like yours would soil the executioner's axe. Out of my
sight!"

Mandane needed no second command to depart. The words "out of my sight"
sounded like sweet music in her ears. She rushed through the courts of
the palace, and out into the streets, crying like a mad woman "I am free!
I am free!"

She, had scarcely left the hall, when Datis, the "king's eye" reappeared
with the news that the chief of the eunuchs was nowhere to be found. He
had vanished from the hanging-gardens in an unaccountable manner; but he,
Datis, had left word with his subordinates that he was to be searched for
and brought, dead or alive.

The king went off into another violent fit of passion at this news, and
threatened the officer of police, who prudently concealed the excitement
of the crowd from his lord, with a severe punishment, if Boges were not
in their hands by the next morning.

As he finished speaking, a eunuch was brought into the hall, sent by the
king's mother to ask an interview for herself with her son.

Cambyses prepared at once to comply with his mother's wish, at the same
time giving Phanes his hand to kiss, a rare honor, only shown to those
that ate at the king's table, and saying: "All the prisoners are to be
set at liberty. Go to your sons, you anxious, troubled fathers, and
assure them of my mercy and favor. I think we shall be able to find a
satrapy a-piece for them, as compensation for to-night's undeserved
imprisonment. To you, my Greek friend, I am deeply indebted. In discharge
of this debt, and as a means of retaining you at my court, I beg you to
accept one hundred talents from my treasury."

"I shall scarcely be able to use so large a sum," said Phanes, bowing
low.

"Then abuse it," said the king with a friendly smile, and calling out to
him, "We shall meet again at supper," he left the hall accompanied by his
court.

          ........................

In the meantime there had been sadness and mourning in the apartments of
the queen-mother. Judging from the contents of the letter to Bartja,
Kassandane had made up her mind that Nitetis was faithless, and her own
beloved son innocent. But in whom could she ever place confidence again,
now that this girl, whom she had looked upon as the very embodiment of
every womanly virtue, had proved reprobate and faithless--now that the
noblest youths in the realm had proved perjurers?

Nitetis was more than dead for her; Bartja, Croesus, Darius, Gyges,
Araspes, all so closely allied to her by relationship and friendship, as
good as dead. And yet she durst not indulge her sorrow; she had to
restrain the despairing outbursts of grief of her impetuous child.

Atossa behaved like one deprived of her senses when she heard of the
sentences of death. The self-control which she had learnt from Nitetis
gave way, and her old impetuosity burst forth again with double
vehemence.

Nitetis, her only friend,--Bartja, the brother whom she loved with her
whole heart,--Darius, whom she felt now she not only looked up to as her
deliverer, but loved with all the warmth of a first affection--Croesus to
whom she clung like a father,--she was to lose every one she loved in one
day.

She tore her dress and her hair, called Cambyses a monster, and every one
who could possibly believe in the guilt of such people, infatuated or
insane. Then her tears would burst out afresh, she would utter imploring
supplications to the gods for mercy, and a few minutes later, begin
conjuring her mother to take her to the hanging-gardens, that they might
hear Nitetis' defence of her own conduct.

Kassandane tried to soothe the violent girl, and assured her every
attempt to visit the hanging-gardens would be in vain. Then Atossa began
to rage again, until at last her mother was forced to command silence,
and as morning had already began to dawn, sent her to her sleeping-room.

The girl obeyed, but instead of going to bed, seated herself at a tall
window looking towards the hanging-gardens. Her eyes filled with tears
again, as she thought of her friend--her sister-sitting in that palace
alone, forsaken, banished, and looking forward to an ignominious death.
Suddenly her tearful, weary eyes lighted up as if from some strong
purpose, and instead of gazing into the distance, she fixed them on a
black speck which flew towards her in a straight line from Nitetis'
house, becoming larger and more distinct every moment; and finally
settling on a cypress before her window. The sorrow vanished at once from
her lovely face and with a deep sigh of relief she sprang up, exclaiming:

"Oh, there is the Homai, the bird of good fortune! Now everything will
turn out well."

It was the same bird of paradise which had brought so much comfort to
Nitetis that now gave poor Atossa fresh confidence.

She bent forward to see whether any one was in the garden; and finding
that she would be seen by no one but the old gardener, she jumped out,
trembling like a fawn, plucked a few roses and cypress twigs and took
them to the old man, who had been watching her performances with a
doubtful shake of the head.

She stroked his cheeks coaxingly, put her flowers in his brown hand, and
said: "Do you love me, Sabaces?"

"O, my mistress!" was the only answer the old man could utter, as he
pressed the hem of her robe to his lips.

"I believe you, my old friend, and I will show you how I trust my
faithful, old Sabaces. Hide these flowers carefully and go quickly to the
king's palace. Say that you had to bring fruit for the table. My poor
brother Bartja, and Darius, the son of the noble Hystaspes, are in
prison, near the guard-house of the Immortals. You must manage that these
flowers reach them, with a warm greeting from me, but mind, the message
must be given with the flowers."

"But the guards will not allow me to see the prisoners."

"Take these rings, and slip them into their hands."

"I will do my best."

"I knew you loved me, my good Sabaces. Now make haste, and come back
soon."

The old man went off as fast as he could. Atossa looked thoughtfully
after him, murmuring to herself: "Now they will both know, that I loved
them to the last. The rose means, 'I love you,' and the evergreen
cypress, 'true and steadfast.'" The old man came back in an hour;
bringing her Bartja's favorite ring, and from Darius an Indian
handkerchief dipped in blood.

Atossa ran to meet him; her eyes filled with tears as she took the
tokens, and seating herself under a spreading plane-tree, she pressed
them by turns to her lips, murmuring: "Bartja's ring means that he thinks
of me; the blood-stained handkerchief that Darius is ready to shed his
heart's blood for me."

Atossa smiled as she said this, and her tears, when she thought of her
friends and their sad fate, were quieter, if not less bitter, than
before.

A few hours later a messenger arrived from Croesus with news that the
innocence of Bartja and his friends had been proved, and that Nitetis
was, to all intents and purposes, cleared also.

Kassandane sent at once to the hanging-gardens, with a request that
Nitetis would come to her apartments. Atossa, as unbridled in her joy as
in her grief, ran to meet her friend's litter and flew from one of her
attendants to the other crying: "They are all innocent; we shall not lose
one of them--not one!"

When at last the litter appeared and her loved one, pale as death, within
it, she burst into loud sobs, threw her arms round Nitetis as she
descended, and covered her with kisses and caresses till she perceived
that her friend's strength was failing, that her knees gave way, and she
required a stronger support than Atossa's girlish strength could give.

The Egyptian girl was carried insensible into the queen-mother's
apartments. When she opened her eyes, her head-more like a marble piece
of sculpture than a living head--was resting on the blind queen's lap,
she felt Atossa's warm kisses on her forehead, and Cambyses, who had
obeyed his mother's call, was standing at her side.

She gazed on this circle, including all she loved best, with anxious,
perplexed looks, and at last, recognizing them one by one, passed her
hand across her pale fore head as if to remove a veil, smiled at each,
and closed her eyes once more. She fancied Isis had sent her a beautiful
vision, and wished to hold it fast with all the powers of her mind.

Then Atossa called her by her name, impetuously and lovingly. She opened
her eyes again, and again she saw those loving looks that she fancied had
only been sent her in a dream. Yes, that was her own Atossa--this her
motherly friend, and there stood, not the angry king, but the man she
loved. And now his lips opened too, his stern, severe eyes rested on her
so beseechingly, and he said: "O Nitetis, awake! you must not--you cannot
possibly be guilty!" She moved her head gently with a look of cheerful
denial and a happy smile stole across her features, like a breeze of
early spring over fresh young roses.

"She is innocent! by Mithras, it is impossible that she can be guilty,"
cried the king again, and forgetful of the presence of others, he sank on
his knees.

A Persian physician came up and rubbed her forehead with a sweet-scented
oil, and Nebenchari approached, muttering spells, felt her pulse, shook
his head, and administered a potion from his portable medicine-chest.
This restored her to perfect consciousness; she raised herself with
difficulty into a sitting posture, returned the loving caresses of her
two friends, and then turning to Cambyses, asked: "How could you believe
such a thing of me, my King?" There was no reproach in her tone, but deep
sadness, and Cambyses answered softly, "Forgive me."

Kassandane's blind eyes expressed her gratitude for this
self-renunciation on the part of her son, and she said: "My daughter, I
need your forgiveness too."

"But I never once doubted you," cried Atossa, proudly and joyfully
kissing her friend's lips.

"Your letter to Bartja shook my faith in your innocence," added
Kassandane.

"And yet it was all so simple and natural," answered Nitetis. "Here, my
mother, take this letter from Egypt. Croesus will translate it for you.
It will explain all. Perhaps I was imprudent. Ask your mother to tell you
what you would wish to know, my King. Pray do not scorn my poor, ill
sister. When an Egyptian girl once loves, she cannot forget. But I feel
so frightened. The end must be near. The last hours have been so very,
very terrible. That horrible man, Boges, read me the fearful sentence of
death, and it was that which forced the poison into my hand. Ah, my
heart!"

And with these words she fell back into the arms of Kassandane.

Nebenchari rushed forward, and gave her some more drops, exclaiming: "I
thought so! She has taken poison and her life cannot be saved, though
this antidote may possibly prolong it for a few days." Cambyses stood by,
pale and rigid, following the physician's slightest movements, and Atossa
bathed her friend's forehead with her tears.

"Let some milk be brought," cried Nebenchari, "and my large
medicine-chest; and let attendants be called to carry her away, for quiet
is necessary, above all things."

Atossa hastened into the adjoining room; and Cambyses said to the
physician, but without looking into his face: "Is there no hope?"

"The poison which she has taken results in certain death."

On hearing this the king pushed Nebenchari away from the sick girl,
exclaiming: "She shall live. It is my will. Here, eunuch! summon all the
physicians in Babylon--assemble the priests and Alobeds! She is not to
die; do you hear? she must live, I am the king, and I command it."

Nitetis opened her eyes as if endeavoring to obey her lord. Her face was
turned towards the window, and the bird of paradise with the gold chain
on its foot, was still there, perched on the cypress-tree. Her eyes fell
first on her lover, who had sunk down at her side and was pressing his
burning lips to her right hand. She murmured with a smile: "O, this great
happiness!" Then she saw the bird, and pointed to it with her left hand,
crying: "Look, look, there is the Phoenix, the bird of Ra!"

After saying this she closed her eyes and was soon seized by a violent
attack of fever.


CHAPTER VII.

Prexaspes, the king's messenger, and one of the highest officials at
court, had brought Gaumata, Mandane's lover, whose likeness to Bartja was
really most wonderful, to Babylon, sick and wounded as he was. He was now
awaiting his sentence in a dungeon, while Boges, the man who had led him
into crime, was nowhere to be found, notwithstanding all the efforts of
the police. His escape had been rendered possible by the trap-door in the
hanging-gardens, and greatly assisted by the enormous crowds assembled in
the streets.

Immense treasures were found in his house. Chests of gold and jewels,
which his position had enabled him to obtain with great ease, were
restored to the royal treasury. Cambyses, however, would gladly have
given ten times as much treasure to secure possession of the traitor.

To Phaedime's despair the king ordered all the inhabitants of the harem,
except his mother, Atossa and the dying Nitetis, to be removed to Susa,
two days after the accused had been declared innocent. Several eunuchs of
rank were deposed from their offices. The entire caste was to suffer for
the sins of him who had escaped punishment.

Oropastes, who had already entered on his duties as regent of the
kingdom, and had clearly proved his non-participation in the crime of
which his brother had been proved guilty, bestowed the vacant places
exclusively on the Magi. The demonstration made by the people in favor of
Bartja did not come to the king's ears until the crowd had long
dispersed. Still, occupied as he was, almost entirely, by his anxiety for
Nitetis, he caused exact information of this illegal manifestation to be
furnished him, and ordered the ringleaders to be severely punished. He
fancied it was a proof that Bartja had been trying to gain favor with the
people, and Cambyses would perhaps have shown his displeasure by some
open act, if a better impulse had not told him that he, not Bartja, was
the brother who stood in need of forgiveness. In spite of this, however,
he could not get rid of the feeling that Bartja, had been, though
innocent, the cause of the sad events which had just happened, nor of his
wish to get him out of the way as far as might be; and he therefore gave
a ready consent to his brother's wish to start at once for Naukratis.

Bartja took a tender farewell of his mother and sister, and started two
days after his liberation. He was accompanied by Gyges, Zopyrus, and a
numerous retinue charged with splendid presents from Cambyses for Sappho.
Darius remained behind, kept back by his love for Atossa. The day too was
not far distant, when, by his father's wish, he was to marry Artystone,
the daughter of Gobryas.

Bartja parted from his friend with a heavy heart, advising him to be very
prudent with regard to Atossa. The secret had been confided to
Kassandane, and she had promised to take Darius' part with the king.

If any one might venture to raise his eyes to the daughter of Cyrus,
assuredly it was the son of Hystaspes; he was closely connected by
marriage with the royal family, belonged like Cambyses to the Pasargadae,
and his family was a younger branch of the reigning dynasty. His father
called himself the highest noble in the realm, and as such, governed the
province of Persia proper, the mother-country, to which this enormous
world-empire and its ruler owed their origin. Should the family of Cyrus
become extinct, the descendants of Hystaspes would have a well-grounded
right to the Persian throne. Darius therefore, apart from his personal
advantages, was a fitting claimant for Atossa's hand. And yet no one
dared to ask the king's consent. In the gloomy state of mind into which
he had been brought by the late events, it was likely that he might
refuse it, and such an answer would have to be regarded as irrevocable.
So Bartja was obliged to leave Persia in anxiety about the future of
these two who were very dear to him.

Croesus promised to act as mediator in this case also, and before Bartja
left, made him acquainted with Phanes.

The youth had heard such a pleasant account of the Athenian from Sappho,
that he met him with great cordiality, and soon won the fancy of the
older and more experienced man, who gave him many a useful hint, and a
letter to Theopompus, the Milesian, at Naukratis. Phanes concluded by
asking for a private interview.

Bartja returned to his friends looking grave and thoughtful; soon,
however, he forgot his cause of anxiety and joked merrily with them over
a farewell cup. Before he mounted his horse the next morning, Nebenchari
asked to be allowed an audience. He was admitted, and begged Bartja to
take the charge of a large written roll for king Amasis. It contained a
detailed account of Nitetis' sufferings, ending with these words: "Thus
the unhappy victim of your ambitious plans will end her life in a few
hours by poison, to the use of which she was driven by despair. The
arbitrary caprices of the mighty can efface all happiness from the life
of a human creature, just as we wipe a picture from the tablet with a
sponge. Your servant Nebenchari is pining in a foreign land, deprived of
home and property, and the wretched daughter of a king of Egypt dies a
miserable and lingering death by her own hand. Her body will be torn to
pieces by dogs and vultures, after the manner of the Persians. Woe unto
them who rob the innocent of happiness here and of rest beyond the
grave!"

Bartja had not been told the contents of this letter, but promised to
take it with him; he then, amid the joyful shouts of the people, set up
outside the city-gate the stones which, according to a Persian
superstition, were to secure him a prosperous journey, and left Babylon.

Nebenchari, meanwhile, prepared to return to his post by Nitetis'
dying-bed.

Just as he reached the brazen gates between the harem-gardens and the
courts of the large palace, an old man in white robes came up to him. The
sight seemed to fill Nebenchari with terror; he started as if the gaunt
old man had been a ghost. Seeing, however, a friendly and familiar smile
on the face of the other, he quickened his steps, and, holding out his
hand with a heartiness for which none of his Persian acquaintances would
have given him credit, exclaimed in Egyptian: "Can I believe my eyes? You
in Persia, old Hib? I should as soon have expected the sky to fall as to
have the pleasure of seeing you on the Euphrates. But now, in the name of
Osiris, tell me what can have induced you, you old ibis, to leave your
warm nest on the Nile and set out on such a long journey eastward."

While Nebenchari was speaking, the old man listened in a bowing posture,
with his arms hanging down by his side, and when he had finished, looked
up into his face with indescribable joy, touched his breast with
trembling fingers, and then, falling on the right knee, laying one hand
on his heart and raising the other to heaven, cried: "Thanks be unto
thee, great Isis, for protecting the wanderer and permitting him to see
his master once more in health and safety. Ah, child, how anxious I have
been! I expected to find you as wasted and thin as a convict from the
quarries; I thought you would have been grieving and unhappy, and here
you are as well, and handsome and portly as ever. If poor old Hib had
been in your place he would have been dead long ago."

"Yes, I don't doubt that, old fellow. I did not leave home of my own will
either, nor without many a heartache. These foreigners are all the
children of Seth. The good and gracious gods are only to be found in
Egypt on the shores of the sacred, blessed Nile."

"I don't know much about its being so blessed," muttered the old man.

"You frighten me, father Hib. What has happened then?"

"Happened! Things have come to a pretty pass there, and you'll hear of it
soon enough. Do you think I should have left house and grandchildren at
my age,--going on for eighty,--like any Greek or Phoenician vagabond, and
come out among these godless foreigners (the gods blast and destroy
them!), if I could possibly have staid on in Egypt?"

"But tell me what it's all about."

"Some other time, some other time. Now you must take me to your own
house, and I won't stir out of it as long as we are in this land of
Typhon."

The old man said this with so much emphasis, that Nebenchiari could not
help smiling and saying: "Have they treated you so very badly then, old
man?"

"Pestilence and Khamsin!" blustered the old man.

   [The south-west wind, which does so much injury to the crops in the
   Nile valley. It is known to us as the Simoom, the wind so perilous
   to travellers in the desert.]

"There's not a more good-for-nothing Typhon's brood on the face of the
earth than these Persians. I only wonder they're not all red-haired and
leprous. Ah, child, two whole days I have been in this hell already, and
all that time I was obliged to live among these blasphemers. They said no
one could see you; you were never allowed to leave Nitetis' sick-bed.
Poor child! I always said this marriage with a foreigner would come to no
good, and it serves Amasis right if his children give him trouble. His
conduct to you alone deserves that."

"For shame, old man!"

"Nonsense, one must speak one's mind sometimes. I hate a king, who comes
from nobody knows where. Why, when he was a poor boy he used to steal
your father's nuts, and wrench the name-plates off the house-doors. I saw
he was a good-for-nothing fellow then. It's a shame that such people
should be allowed to. . . ."

"Gently, gently, old man. We are not all made of the same stuff, and if
there was such a little difference between you and Amasis as boys, it, is
your own fault that, now you are old men, he has outstripped you so far.

"My father and grandfather were both servants in the temple, and of
course I followed in their footsteps."

"Quite right; it is the law of caste, and by that rule, Amasis ought
never to have become anything higher than a poor army-captain at most."

"It is not every one who's got such an easy conscience as this upstart
fellow."

"There you are again! For shame, Hib! As long as I can remember, and that
is nearly half a century, every other word with you has been an abusive
one. When I was a child your ill-temper was vented on me, and now the
king has the benefit of it."

"Serves him right! All, if you only knew all! It's now seven months since
. . ."

"I can't stop to listen to you now. At the rising of the seven stars I
will send a slave to take you to my rooms. Till then you must stay in
your present lodging, for I must go to my patient."

"You must?--Very well,--then go and leave poor old Hib here to die. I
can't possibly live another hour among these creatures."

"What would you have me do then?"

"Let me live with you as long as we are in Persia."

"Have they treated you so very roughly?"

"I should think they had indeed. It is loathsome to think of. They forced
me to eat out of the same pot with them and cut my bread with the same
knife. An infamous Persian, who had lived many years in Egypt, and
travelled here with us, had given them a list of all the things and
actions, which we consider unclean. They took away my knife when I was
going to shave myself. A good-for-nothing wench kissed me on the
forehead, before I could prevent it. There, you needn't laugh; it will be
a month at least before I can get purified from all these pollutions. I
took an emetic, and when that at last began to take effect, they all
mocked and sneered at me. But that was not all. A cursed cook-boy nearly
beat a sacred kitten to death before my very eyes. Then an
ointment-mixer, who had heard that I was your servant, made that godless
Bubares ask me whether I could cure diseases of the eye too. I said yes,
because you know in sixty years it's rather hard if one can't pick up
something from one's master. Bubares was interpreter between us, and the
shameful fellow told him to say that he was very much disturbed about a
dreadful disease in his eyes. I asked what it was, and received for
answer that he could not tell one thing from another in the dark!"

"You should have told him that the best remedy for that was to light a
candle."

"Oh, I hate the rascals! Another hour among them will be the death of
me!"

"I am sure you behaved oddly enough among these foreigners," said
Nebenchiari smiling, "you must have made them laugh at you, for the
Persians are generally very polite, well-behaved people. Try them again,
only once. I shall be very glad to take you in this evening, but I can't
possibly do it before."

"It is as I thought! He's altered too, like everybody else! Osiris is
dead and Seth rules the world again."

"Farewell! When the seven stars rise, our old Ethiopian slave, Nebununf,
will wait for you here."

"Nebununf, that old rogue? I never want to see him again."

"Yes, the very same."

"Him--well it's a good thing, when people stay as they were. To be sure I
know some people who can't say so much of themselves, and who instead of
minding their own business, pretend to heal inward diseases, and when a
faithful old servant . . ."

"Hold your tongue, and wait patiently till evening." These last words
were spoken seriously, and produced the desired impression. The old man
made another obeisance, and before his master left him, said: "I came
here under the protection of Phanes, the former commander of the Greek
mercenaries. He wishes very much to speak with you."

"That is his concern. He can come to me."

"You never leave that sick girl, whose eyes are as sound as . . ."

"Hib!"

"For all I care she may have a cataract in both. May Phanes come to you
this evening?"

"I wished to be alone with you."

"So did I; but the Greek seems to be in a great hurry, and he knows
nearly everything that I have to tell you."

"Have you been gossiping then?"

"No--not exactly--but . . ."

"I always thought you were a man to be trusted."

"So I was. But this Greek knows already a great deal of what I know, and
the rest . . ."

"Well?"

"The rest he got out of me, I hardly know how myself. If I did not wear
this amulet against an evil eye, I should have been obliged . . ."

"Yes, yes, I know the Athenian--I can forgive you. I should like him to
come with you this evening. But I see the sun is already high in the
heavens. I have no time to lose. Tell me in a few words what has
happened."

"I thought this evening . . ."

"No, I must have at least a general idea of what has happened before I
see the Athenian. Be brief."

"You have been robbed!"

"Is that all?"

"Is not that enough?"

"Answer me. Is that all?"

"Yes!"

"Then farewell."

"But Nebenchari!"

The physician did not even hear this exclamation; the gates of the harem
had already closed behind him.

When the Pleiades had risen, Nebenchari was to be found seated alone in
one of the magnificent rooms assigned to his use on the eastern side of
the palace, near to Kassandane's apartments. The friendly manner in which
he had welcomed his old servant had given place to the serious expression
which his face usually wore, and which had led the cheerful Persians to
call him a morose and gloomy man.

Nebenchari was an Egyptian priest through and through; a member of that
caste which never indulged in a jest, and never for a moment forgot to be
dignified and solemn before the public; but when among their relations
and their colleagues completely threw off this self-imposed restraint,
and gave way at times even to exuberant mirth.

Though he had known Phanes in Sais, he received him with cold politeness,
and, after the first greeting was ended, told Hib to leave them alone.

"I have come to you," said the Athenian, "to speak about some very
important affairs."

"With which I am already acquainted," was the Egyptian's curt reply.

"I am inclined to doubt that," said Phanes with an incredulous smile.

"You have been driven out of Egypt, persecuted and insulted by Psamtik,
and you have come to Persia to enlist Cambyses as an instrument of
revenge against my country."

"You are mistaken. I have nothing against your country, but all the more
against Amasis and his house. In Egypt the state and the king are one, as
you very well know."

"On the contrary, my own observations have led me to think that the
priests considered themselves one with the state."

"In that case you are better informed than I, who have always looked on
the kings of Egypt as absolute. So they are; but only in proportion as
they know how to emancipate themselves from the influence of your
caste.--Amasis himself submits to the priests now."

"Strange intelligence!"

"With which, however, you have already long been made acquainted."

"Is that your opinion?"

"Certainly it is. And I know with still greater certainty that once--you
hear me--once, he succeeded in bending the will of these rulers of his to
his own."

"I very seldom hear news from home, and do not understand what you are
speaking of."

"There I believe you, for if you knew what I meant and could stand there
quietly without clenching your fist, you would be no better than a dog
who only whimpers when he's kicked and licks the hand that torments him."

The physician turned pale. "I know that Amasis has injured and insulted
me," he said, "but at the same time I must tell you that revenge is far
too sweet a morsel to be shared with a stranger."

"Well said! As to my own revenge, however, I can only compare it to a
vineyard where the grapes are so plentiful, that I am not able to gather
them all myself."

"And you have come hither to hire good laborers."

"Quite right, and I do not even yet give up the hope of securing you to
take a share in my vintage."

"You are mistaken. My work is already done. The gods themselves have
taken it in hand. Amasis has been severely enough punished for banishing
me from country, friends and pupils into this unclean land."

"You mean by his blindness perhaps?"

"Possibly."

"Then you have not heard that Petammon, one of your colleagues, has
succeeded in cutting the skin, which covered the pupil of the eye and so
restoring Amasis' sight?"

The Egyptian started and ground his teeth; recovered his presence of
mind, however, in a moment, and answered: "Then the gods have punished
the father through the children."

"In what way? Psamtik suits his father's present mood very well. It is
true that Tachot is ill, but she prays and sacrifices with her father all
the more for that; and as to Nitetis, you and I both know that her death
will not touch him very closely."

"I really do not understand you."

"Of course not, so long as you fancy that I believe your beautiful
patient to be Amasis' daughter."

The Egyptian started again, but Phanes went on without appearing to
notice his emotion: "I know more than you suppose. Nitetis is the
daughter of Hophra, Amasis' dethroned predecessor. Amasis brought her up
as his own child-first, in order to make the Egyptians believe that
Hophra had died childless; secondly, in order to deprive her of her
rights to the throne; for you know women are allowed to govern on the
Nile."

"These are mere suppositions."

"For which, however, I can bring irrefragable proofs. Among the papers
which your old servant Hib brought with him in a small box, there must be
some letters from a certain Sonnophre, a celebrated accoucheur, your own
father, which . . ."

   [To judge from the pictures on the monuments and from the 1st Chap.
   of Exodus, it would seem that in ancient, as in modern Egypt,
   midwives were usually called in to assist at the birth of children;
   but it is also certain, that in difficult cases physicians were
   employed also. In the hieratic medical papyrus in Berlin, women are
   often spoken of as assisting at such times. In the medical Papyrus
   Ebers certain portions are devoted to diseases peculiar to women.
   "There were special rooms set aside in private houses for the birth
   of children, as symbolical ones were reserved in the temples. These
   chambers were called meschen, and from them was derived the name
   given to midwives, to meschennu.]

"If that be the case, those letters are my property, and I have not the
slightest intention of giving them up; besides which you might search
Persia from one end to the other without finding any one who could
decipher my father's writing."

"Pardon me, if I point out one or two errors into which you have fallen.
First, this box is at present in my hands, and though I am generally
accustomed to respect the rights of property, I must assure you that, in
the present instance, I shall not return the box until its contents have
served my purpose. Secondly, the gods have so ordained, that just at this
moment there is a man in Babylon who can read every kind of writing known
to the Egyptian priests. Do you perhaps happen to know the name of
Onuphis?"

For the third time the Egyptian turned pale. "Are you certain," he said,
"that this man is still among the living?"

"I spoke to him myself yesterday. He was formerly, you know, high-priest
at Heliopolis, and was initiated into all your mysteries there. My wise
countryman, Pythagoras of Samos, came to Egypt, and after submitting to
some of your ceremonies, was allowed to attend the lessons given in the
schools for priests. His remarkable talents won the love of the great
Onuphis and he taught him all the Egyptian mysteries, which Pythagoras
afterwards turned to account for the benefit of mankind. My delightful
friend Rhodopis and I are proud of having been his pupils. When the rest
of your caste heard that Onuphis had betrayed the sacred mysteries, the
ecclesiastical judges determined on his death. This was to be caused by a
poison extracted from peach-kernels. The condemned man, however, heard of
their machinations, and fled to Naukratis, where he found a safe asylum
in the house of Rhodopis, whom he had heard highly praised by Pythagoras,
and whose dwelling was rendered inviolable by the king's letter. Here he
met Antimenidas the brother of the poet Alcarus of Lesbos, who, having
been banished by Pittakus, the wise ruler of Mitylene, had gone to
Babylon, and there taken service in the army of Nebuchadnezzar, the King
of Assyria. Antimenidas gave him letters to the Chaldians. Onuphis
travelled to the Euphrates, settled there, and was obliged to seek for
some means of earning his daily bread, as he had left Egypt a poor man.
He is now supporting himself in his old age, by the assistance which his
superior knowledge enables him to render the Chaldoeans in their
astronomical observations from the tower of Bel. Onuphis is nearly
eighty, but his mind is as clear as ever, and when I saw him yesterday
and asked him to help me, his eyes brightened as he promised to do so.
Your father was one of his judges, but he bears you no malice and sends
you a greeting."

Nebenchari's eyes were fixed thoughtfully on the ground during this tale.
When Phanes had finished, he gave him a penetrating look and said: "Where
are my papers?"

"They are in Onuphis' hands. He is looking among them for the document I
want."

"I expected to hear that. Be so good as to tell me what the box is like,
which Hib thought proper to bring over to Persia?"

"It is a small ebony trunk, with an exquisitely-carved lid. In the centre
is a winged beetle, and on the four corners . . ."

"That contains nothing but a few of my father's notices and memorandums,"
said Nebenchari, drawing a deep breath of relief.

"They will very likely be sufficient for my purpose. I do not know
whether you have heard, that I stand as high as possible in Cambyses'
favor."

"So much the better for you. I can assure you, however, that the paper.
which would have been most useful to you have all been left behind in
Egypt."

"They were in a large chest made of sycamore-wood and painted in colors."

"How do you know that?"

"Because--now listen well to what I am going to say, Nebenchari--because
I can tell you (I do not swear, for our great master Pythagoras forbade
oaths), that this very chest, with all it contained, was burnt in the
grove of the temple of Neith, in Sais, by order of the king."

Phanes spoke slowly, emphasizing every syllable, and the words seemed to
strike the Egyptian like so many flashes of lightning. His quiet coolness
and deliberation gave way to violent emotion; his cheeks glowed and his
eyes flashed. But only for one single minute; then the strong emotion
seemed to freeze, his burning cheeks grew pale. "You are trying to make
me hate my friends, in order to gain me as your ally," he said, coldly
and calmly. "I know you Greeks very well. You are so intriguing and
artful, that there is no lie, no fraud, too base, if it will only help to
gain your purpose."

"You judge me and my countrymen in true Egyptian fashion; that is, they
are foreigners, and therefore must be bad men. But this time your
suspicions happen to be misplaced. Send for old Hib; he will tell you
whether I am right or not."

Nebenchari's face darkened, as Hib came into the room.

"Come nearer," said he in a commanding tone to the old man.

Hib obeyed with a shrug of the shoulders.

"Tell me, have you taken a bribe from this man? Yes or no? I must know
the truth; it can influence my future for good or evil. You are an old
and faithful servant, to whom I owe a great deal, and so I will forgive
you if you were taken in by his artifices, but I must know the truth. I
conjure you to tell me by the souls of your fathers gone to Osiris!"

The old man's sallow face turned ashy pale as he heard these words. He
gulped and wheezed some time before he could find an answer, and at last,
after choking down the tears which had forced their way to his eyes,
said, in a half-angry, half-whining tone: "Didn't I say so? they've
bewitched him, they've ruined him in this wicked land. Whatever a man
would do himself, he thinks others are capable of. Aye, you may look as
angry as you like; it matters but little to me. What can it matter indeed
to an old man, who has served the same family faithfully and honestly for
sixty years, if they call him at last a rogue, a knave, a traitor, nay
even a murderer, if it should take their fancy."

And the scalding tears flowed down over the old man's cheeks, sorely
against his will.

The easily-moved Phanes clapped him on the shoulder and said, turning to
Nebenchari: "Hib is a faithful fellow. I give you leave to call me a
rascal, if he has taken one single obolus from me."

The physician did not need Phanes' assurance; he had known his old
servant too well and too long not to be able to read his simple, open
features, on which his innocence was written as clearly as in the pages
of an open book. "I did not mean to reproach you, old Hib," he said
kindly, coming up to him. "How can any one be so angry at a simple
question?"

"Perhaps you expect me to be pleased at such a shameful suspicion?"

"No, not that; but at all events now you can tell me what has happened at
our house since I left."

"A pretty story that is! Why only to think of it makes my mouth as
bitter, as if I were chewing wormwood."

"You said I had been robbed."

"Yes indeed: no one was ever so robbed before. There would have been some
comfort if the knaves had belonged to the thieves' caste, for then we
should have got the best part of our property back again, and should not
after all have been worse off than many another; but when . . ."

   [The cunning son of the architect, who robbed the treasure-house of
   Rhampsinitus was, according to Herodotus, (II. 120), severely
   punished; but in Diod. I. 80. we see that when thieves acknowledged
   themselves to the authorities to be such, they were not punished,
   though a strict watch was set over them. According to Diodorus,
   there was a president of the thieves' caste, from whom the stolen
   goods could be reclaimed on relinquishment of a fourth part of the
   same. This strange rule possibly owed its rise to the law, which
   compelled every Egyptian to appear once in each year before the
   authorities of his district and give an account of his means of
   subsistence. Those who made false statements were punished with
   death. Diod. I. 77. Thus no one who valued his life could escape
   the watchful eye of the police, and the thief sacrificed the best
   part of his gains in order to save his life.]

"Keep to the point, for my time is limited."

"You need not tell me that; I see old Hib can't do anything right here in
Persia. Well, be it so, you're master; you must give orders; I am only
the servant, I must obey. I won't forget it. Well, as I was saying, it
was just at the time when the great Persian embassy came over to Sais to
fetch Nitetis, and made everybody stare at them as if they were monsters
or prodigies, that this shameful thing happened. I was sitting on the
mosquito-tower just as the sun was setting, playing with my little
grandson, my Baner's eldest boy--he's a fine strapping little lad now,
wonderfully sharp and strong for his age. The rogue was just telling me
how his father, the Egyptians do that when their wives leave the children
too much alone--had hidden his mother's shoes, and I was laughing
heartily, because my Baner won't let any of the little ones live with me,
she always says I spoil them, and so I was glad she should have the trick
played her--when all of a sudden there was such a loud knocking at the
house-door, that I thought there must be a fire and let the child drop
off my lap. Down the stairs I ran, three steps at a time, as fast as my
long legs would carry me, and unbarred the door. Before I had time to ask
them what they wanted, a whole crowd of temple-servants and
policemen--there must have been at least fifteen of them--forced their
way into the house. Pichi,--you know, that impudent fellow from the
temple of Neith,--pushed me back, barred the door inside and told the
police to put me in fetters if I refused to obey him. Of course I got
angry and did not use very civil words to them--you know that's my way
when I'm put out--and what does that bit of a fellow do--by our god
Thoth, the protector of knowledge who must know all, I'm speaking the
truth--but order them to bind my hands, forbid me--me, old Hib--to speak,
and then tell me that he had been told by the high-priest to order me
five-and-twenty strokes, if I refused to do his bidding. He showed me the
high-priest's ring, and so I knew there was nothing for it but to obey
the villain, whether I would or no. And what was his modest demand? Why,
nothing less than to give him all the written papers you had left behind.
But old Hib is not quite so stupid as to let himself be caught in that
way, though some people, who ought to know better, do fancy he can be
bribed and is no better than the son of an ass. What did I do then? I
pretended to be quite crushed into submission by the sight of the
signet-ring, begged Pichi as politely as I could to unfasten my hands,
and told him I would fetch the keys. They loosened the cords, I flew up
the stairs five steps at a time, burst open the door of your
sleeping-room, pushed my little grandson, who was standing by it, into
the room and barred it within. Thanks to my long legs, the others were so
far behind that I had time to get hold of the black box which you had
told me to take so much care of, put it into the child's arms, lift him
through the window on to the balcony which runs round the house towards
the inner court, and tell him to put it at once into the pigeon-house.
Then I opened the door as if nothing had happened, told Pichi the child
had had a knife in his mouth, and that that was the reason I had run
upstairs in such a hurry, and had put him out on the balcony to punish
him. That brother of a hippopotamus was easily taken in, and then he made
me show him over the house. First they found the great sycamore-chest
which you had told me to take great care of too, then the papyrus-rolls
on your writing-table, and so by degrees every written paper in the
house. They made no distinction, but put all together into the great
chest and carried it downstairs; the little black box, however, lay safe
enough in the pigeon-house. My grandchild is the sharpest boy in all
Sais!

"When I saw them really carrying the chest downstairs, all the anger I'd
been trying so hard to keep down burst out again. I told the impudent
fellows I would accuse them before the magistrates, nay, even before the
king if necessary, and if those confounded Persians, who were having the
city shown them, had not come up just then and made everybody stare at
them, I could have roused the crowd to take my side. The same evening I
went to my son-in-law-he is employed in the temple of Neith too, you
know,--and begged him to make every effort to find out what had become of
the papers. The good fellow has never forgotten the handsome dowry you
gave my Baner when he married her, and in three days he came and told me
he had seen your beautiful chest and all the rolls it contained burnt to
ashes. I was so angry that I fell ill of the jaundice, but that did not
hinder me from sending in a written accusation to the magistrates. The
wretches,--I suppose only because they were priests too,--refused to take
any notice of me or my complaint. Then I sent in a petition to the king,
and was turned away there too with the shameful threat, that I should be
considered guilty of high treason if I mentioned the papers again. I
valued my tongue too much to take any further steps, but the ground burnt
under my feet; I could not stay in Egypt, I wanted to see you, tell you
what they had done to you, and call on you, who are more powerful than
your poor servant, to revenge yourself. And besides, I wanted to see the
black box safe in your hands, lest they should take that from me too. And
so, old man as I am, with a sad heart I left my home and my grandchildren
to go forth into this foreign Typhon's land. Ah, the little lad was too
sharp! As I was kissing him, he said: 'Stay with us, grandfather. If the
foreigners make you unclean, they won't let me kiss you any more.' Baner
sends you a hearty greeting, and my son-in-law told me to say he had
found out that Psamtik, the crown-prince, and your rival, Petammon, had
been the sole causes of this execrable deed. I could not make up my mind
to trust myself on that Typhon's sea, so I travelled with an Arabian
trading caravan as far as Tadmor,--[Palmyra]--the Phoenician palm-tree
station in the wilderness, and then on to Carchemish, on the Euphrates,
with merchants from Sidon. The roads from Sardis and from Phoenicia meet
there, and, as I was sitting very weary in the little wood before the
station, a traveller arrived with the royal post-horses, and I saw at
once that it was the former commander of the Greek mercenaries."

"And I," interrupted Phanes, "recognized just as soon in you, the longest
and most quarrelsome old fellow that had ever come across my path. I
said breathlessly, and I was not clear whether the gut or is entirely
bad. He just laughed, and I did not know what next. My light flickered,
and I was the expression of his face does not quite recognize. It was
surely bad, that he was there. But as he said, he came closer: "Your
picture is not there, we are still looking up." With his voice and the
half a movable eyes, he somehow climb. And I understood that he felt the
ground. But once I had a strange idea. "We?" I asked, "is because they
are up there?"

"Yes," he nodded and stood close to me. "She studied with myself?"

"Yes, we are looking for." "It has therefore fortgestellt the picture?"
"Yes, just think," he said indignantly. But I could not quite what they
wanted to. "You want to see," he whispered very close. "Yes, so" I made
as if I understood. As he blew out the light. I saw how he vorstreckte,
to light inside, with a raised eyebrow. Then wars dark. I involuntarily
stepped back. "What are you doing?" I cried and was completely
suppressed in the dry throat. He jumped me and hung on my arm and giggled.
"What then?" I went to him and wanted him off, but he was solid. I
could not stop the arm that he had to put my neck. "Shall I say it?"
he hissed, and a little saliva injected into my ear. "Yes, yes, fast."
I did not know what I'm talking. He hugged me now totally stretched out
here. "I brought her a mirror," he said, and giggled again. "A mirror?"
"Yes, but because the image is not there." "No, no," I made . He
took me at once a little farther down the window and trick me out so
sharply in the upper arm, that I cried. "She is not there," he blew me
into the ear. I involuntarily pushed him away from me, a little
crack in it , I felt as if I had it broken. "Go, go," and now I had
to laugh at himself, "not in it, because why not there?" "You're stupid,"
he whispered evil and nothing more. His voice was handled, as he were
starting a new, still unused pieces. "You're either in it," he dictated
to precocious and severe, "then one is not here, or here if you can not
be there." "Of course," I replied quickly, without thinking.

I was afraid he might otherwise go away and leave me alone. Even after I
grabbed him. "Do we want to be friends?" I suggested. He could ask. "I
like ists," he said pertly. I tried to start our friendship, but I
dared not try to hug. "Dear Erik," I only brought out and touched him
somewhere a little of.

I was suddenly very tired.

I looked around me, I did not remember how I came here was that I had not
feared.

I did not know quite where the windows were and where the images. And
as we went, he had to lead me.

"They do nothing to you," he assured magnanimous and giggled again.

Dear, dear Erik, perhaps you but my only friend.

Because I've never had. It is a shame that you gave nothing to friendship.
I would like to tell you something.

Perhaps we are tolerated. One can not know. I remember that then your image
has been painted.

The grandfather had come to someone, you are painted. Every morning an
hour. I can not reflect how the painting looked like to me his name is
omitted, although Mathilde Brahe every moment of it recurring. Whether
he has seen you, as I see thee? You wore a suit of heliotropfarbenem
velvet. Mathilde Brahe enthused for this suit. But that is irrelevant
now. Only if he has seen you, I want to know. Let us assume that there
is a real painter war.Nehmen us that he had not thought that you might die
before he would be ready, that he is the thing that was not sentimental,
that he simply worked. That the inequality of your two brown eyes
raptured him, that he is not ashamed of that moment, the immovable,
the bar that he had nothing hinzuzulegen on the table to your hand, which
is perhaps a little support -. Let everything else you need to apply
and leave it: it is a picture as your picture in the gallery on the
last Urnekloster. (And if one goes, and you have seen them all, so
there is a boy. A moment: who is this? A Brahe. Do you see the silver
pole in a black box and the peacock feathers? There is also the name:
Erik Brahe. Was not that a Erik Brahe, who was executed? Of course,
that's known enough. But to it can not act. This boy is a boy died,
the same amount of time. Can you not see?) If there was visiting and Erik
was called, it assured the lady Mathilde Brahe everytime it was
almost unbelievable how much he resembles the old Countess Brahe, my
grandmother. It is a very great lady been. I did not know. On the other
hand, I remember very well from the Mother of my father, the real mistress
of Ulsgaard. That was probably always been, how much they are also Maman
übelnahm that as of Jägermeister woman came into the house. Since then,
she did resistant, as they would be back, and sent the service people with
every little further into Maman, while in important matters calmly and
had decided, without telling anyone accountability.

Maman, I think it would not do otherwise. She was so little done, a
big house to see her completely lacked the division of things into minor
and major.

All of which she spoke, it seemed always to be the whole thing, and they
forgot about the other, but also the still was there.

They never complained about her mother.

And with whom would they also complain to?

Father was a very respectful son, and grandfather had little to say.
Mrs Margaret Briggs has always been, as far as I can remember, a
tall, inaccessible Greisin.

I can not imagine that as she was much older than the chamberlain.

She lived among us their lives without having someone to be taken.

She was not instructed by us and always had a kind of general partner, an
aging Komtesse OXE to which they are ihrgendeine boon had committed
indefinitely. This had been a single exception, because otherwise
wohltun was not their kind do not loved children, and animals were
not allowed in their vicinity.

I do not know if anything else she loved. It was told that they are
quite the beautiful young girl betrothed Felix Lichnowski was then
in Frankfurt so cruelly killed.

And in fact, was after her death, a portrait of the monarch since, if I
am not mistaken, to The family has been returned.

     Perhaps, I think now that they have missed this confiscated rural
life, the life on Ulsgaard from year to year had become a different,
brilliant: its natural.

     It is difficult to say whether they
     mourned. Maybe they despised it that it did
     not come was that it had missed the
     opportunity, with skill and talent to have been lived.
     She had everything so far in the hineingenommen and
     had applied to shells, many, brittle, somewhat shiny
     metallic shells, which are respective top and cool new exception.
     Sometimes indeed they betrayed but by a naive impatience, not
enough attention to be on my time, she could then suddenly be
swallowed at table in any significant and complicated nature, it
secured the participation of all and they, at least for a moment,
then sensational and exciting could appear, as it generally would
be like.

However, I suspect that my father was the only one of these too
frequent coincidences seriously.

He saw her, politely vorübergeneigt to, you could remember how he
thought it in his own proper trachea and offered almost entirely
available.

The chamberlain was clearly also stopped to eat, he took a small
sip of wine and gave each opinion.

He was at table one time, his wife against his maintained.

That was long ago, but the story was still maliciously and secretly passed,
there were almost everywhere someone who they had not yet heard. It was
argued that the board mistress at a certain time is very Weinfieckeereifern
was caused by clumsiness ran into the table stuff, that such a spot,
at which occasion he also liked to happen, she noticed and under the
heaviest blame was exposed, so to speak. This would it once had, when
several well-known and had guests. A few innocent stains, which
they drove, were the subject of their scornful accusations, and how much
the grandfather is also sought, through small signs and jokingly
shouts to warn, it would still stubborn in their allegations have
remained, which then, however, the middle the sentences had to leave.

It was something unprecedented and totally incomprehensible. The chamberlain
had the red wine can give, who has just been passed around, and was now
in all the attention, his own glass to fill. Only that he,
miraculously, einzugießen not stopped, as long it was full, but under
increasing silence slowly and carefully weitergoß until Maman who never
was able to contain himself, auflachte and thus the whole affair after
the laughter brought out okay. Because now all agreed to facilitate, and
the chamberlain looked at the servant and handed the bottle. Later won
another peculiarity of the upper hand with my grandmother. She could not
bear that someone in the house became ill. Once when the cook was injured
and she saw them randomly with the included hand, she claimed that
Iodoform throughout the home to smell, and it was hard to convince
that one person that could not be dismissed.

They did not want to be remembered Kranksein. Had someone the imprudence,
before her some small discomfort to speak, so it was nothing more
than a personal insult to them, and they wore it long after. That autumn,
as Maman died, joined the board with mistress Sophie OXE very their rooms,
and broke all traffic with us. Not even her son was adopted. It is true,
that death was quite inappropriate.

The rooms were cold, the ovens were smoking, and the mice were pushed into
the house, there was nowhere safe from them. But that alone, it was not,
Mrs. Margaret Briggs was outraged that Maman died, because that one
thing on the agenda, by refusing to talk about it, that the young woman
to reach the anmaßte in front of her, once thought to be dying
certainly not yet a fixed date. After that she would die, she thought
often. But they did not want to be pushed. She would die, certainly, when
she liked, and then yes, they could all die quietly, behind, if they had
it so hurriedly. Maman death never forgave us completely. Incidentally,
you aged rapidly during the following winter. In walking, she was still
high, but the chair fell down together, and their hearing was difficult.
You could sit and watch it great for hours, they felt it not. She was
somewhere inside, they were only rarely and only for moments in their
senses, which were empty, they are no longer inhabited.

Then she said something to the Komtesse which the Mantille directed, and
participated with the large, freshly washed hands, her dress in itself,
as water would be shed or as if we were not very cleanly. She died
against the spring, in the city, one night. Sophie OXE, whose door was
open, had not heard. Since it took place in the morning, she was cold
as glass. Immediately thereafter began the chamberlain great and terrible
disease. It was as if he had to await its end, so as to be ruthlessly
killed, as he had. It was in the year following Maman death that I first
noticed Abelone. Abelone was always there. That did the large entry. And
then there was Abelone unsympathetic, which I had completely once found
on any occasion, and it was never a serious review of these thoughts
came. To ask what it Abelone for an explanation had to be me until
then appeared almost laughable. Abelone was there, and we used them, just
as you could. But once I asked myself: Why is Abelone there? Each of us
had a certain sense as to when he by no means always so evident, as for
example the application of Miss OXE. But why was Abelone there? A long
time had been talk that they should disperse. But it fell into oblivion.
Nobody has contributed something to Abelones for dispersal. It did not
give the impression that they disperse. Abelone way, had a good:
they sang.

In other words, there were times when she sang. There was a strong,
unwavering in her music. If it is true that the angels are male, so you
can say that something male in her voice was a radiant, heavenly
masculinity. I, even as a child of the music was so suspicious (not
because she gave me more than anything forthob from me, but because I
had noticed that they do not re-test there, where they had found me,
but deeper, Work anywhere in the whole of it), I endured this music,
the man was able to maintain upward climb higher and higher, until you
said this would have been about the heaven for a while. I knew not that I
have other Abelone should open sky. First of all, our relationship is
that they told me of girls Maman told Time. They gave a lot to
convince me how brave and young Maman would have been. There was no
one under their insurance, which is in dancing or horseback riding in
it I could measure. "It was the boldest and tirelessly, and then she
married at once," said Abelone, still amazed after so many years. "There
was so unexpectedly, no one could quite understand.

"I was interested why Abelone had not married. She came to me before
relatively old and that it still could, because I thought not." There
was nobody there, "she answered simply and was really nice here. Is Abelone
beautiful? I asked surprised.

Then I came away from home, on the noble Academy, and it began a
repulsive and arge time.

But if I go to Soro, apart from the others, stood in the window, and
they left me a little peace, so I looked out into the trees, and
in such moments, and the night grew in me the assurance that Abelone
was beautiful.

And I began to it with all those letters to write long and short,
lots of secret letters, I was Ulsgaard to act like this and said
that I was unhappy.

But it will surely, as I see it now, love letters have been be.

After all, the holiday that you do not want to come, and there it was like
to date that we are not against the other again.

There was absolutely nothing agreed between us, but since the car einbog
in the park, I could not let off, maybe just because I do not want
to start, as any stranger.

It was full summer. I ran into one of the pathways inside and a rain of
gold. And there was Abelone. Beautiful, beautiful Abelone.

I will never forget how it was when you watch me.

How did your shows, almost like something is not Attached to stop it
zurückgeneigtem face. Ah, if the climate is not at all has changed?
Whether it is not to become milder Ulsgaard around all of our heat?
Whether individual roses bloom is now no longer in the park, to
enter into December?

I will not tell you, Abelone.

Not because we fooled each other: because you are a loved, well then,
you never forget you, loving, and I: all women, but because the
tales just done wrong.

It giebt carpets here Abelone, tapestries.

I bilde me, you're as six rugs, come, let us pass slowly. But only occurs
back and see all at the same time. How calm they are not? There is
little variety in it. There is always this blue oval island, floating in
the restrained red background, which is flowery and small, are employed
with animals inhabited. Only there, in the last carpet, the island rises
a little, as if it had become easier.

It will always be a figure, a woman in various costumes, but always
the same.

Sometimes, a smaller figure beside her, a servant, and always are
the wappentragenden animals as large, on the island, with the plot.

Left, a lion, and the right light, the unicorn, they keep the same
banner, the show high above them, three silver moons rising in a
blue binder on a red field .-- Hast thou seen, do you want when you
first begin?

You feeding the hawks. How wonderful it is tightening.

The bird is on the hand and comes dressed themselves. She sees him and
demands it in the dish, which brings her the servant to him a bit
too rich.

Right at the bottom of the train keeps a small seidenhaariger dog
that aufsieht and hopes you will remember his.

And, have you noticed a low lattice Rose closes behind the island.

The heraldic coat of arms animals grow arrogant. The coat of arms, they
once again as a shell surrounded. A beautiful Agraffe holds it together.
It blows. Is not involuntarily silent on the carpet next to when you
maintain, as it is absorbed: it binds a wreath, a small, round crown of
flowers.

Nachdenklich selects the color of the next carnation in the shallow basin,
which holds her servant, during the previous anreiht. Behind a bank
is not used a basket full of roses, a monkey discovered.

This should be carnations. The lion is no longer participating, but
the right sees the unicorn.

Music had not come into this silence, it was not behave there? Heavy
decorated and breastfeeding, it is (how slow, is not it?)

To the portable organ played underfoot and, standing, whistling through
the plant separated from the servant, which moves beyond the bellows. So
beautiful, she was never. Wunderlich is the hair in two lichens and taken
forward over the head above summarized, so that it ends with his
coming from the federal government as a short bush helmet. Detuned
to endure the sounds of the lion, reluctantly, verbeißend howling. The
unicorn is beautiful but, as moves in waves. The island is wide. A
tent is erected. From a blue damask and goldgeflammt. The animals gather
it, and quite nearly in its princely dress before she enters. After all,
what are their pearls against themselves The servant has a small
chest open, and she raises now a chain, a heavy, magnificent jewel,
which was always closed.

The little dog sits at her, raised, prepared at the place and see it.

And have you discovered the acquittal on the top edge of the
tent?

As is: 'A mon seul désir.' What happened, why the little rabbit jumps down
there, why does it matter that it jumps? Everything is so biased. The
lion has nothing to do.

It even holds the banner.

Or is she off? It has with the other hand, after the horn of the unicorn
taken. Is it sadness, grief can be so upright, and a mourning dress as
secretive as this green velvet with the black bodies wither? Yet,
there is a feast, no one is charged to do so. Expectation plays no
role. It's all there. Everything forever. The lion looks almost
threateningly around: there must be no one coming.

We have never seen tired, she is tired? Or did they just established,
because they hold something heavy? One might think that a monstrance.
But she leans against the other arm out the unicorn, and the animal
bäumt be flattered, and the rise and based on their Schooß.

It is a mirror, what she believes. You see: it shows the unicorn its
image -. Abelone, I bilde me, you're there. Understand you, Abelone? I
think you must understand.

Well, the carpets of Dame à la Licorne is no longer in the old castle
of Boussac. The time is here, where everything from the houses will continue,
they can no longer keep. The danger is safer than the security. Nobody
from the family of the Delle Viste is next to a, and has in the
blood.

They are all gone. Nobody speaks your name, Pierre d'Aubusson, Grand Master
of an ancient big house, at his will out, perhaps these images have been
woven, all the praise and nothing to give. (Oh, that the poets from
differently depending women have written, literally, like they meant it.
It is safe, we could not know than that) Now do you randomly from among
random and almost appalled, not to be loaded. But there are other
and go over, if there are never many. The young people with little to
hold, unless that somehow in their field heard these things once seen to
have the specific property or those out. Young girls, however, sometimes
one finds it.

Because it giebt a lot of young girls in the museums, the fortgegangen
are from somewhere in the houses, which no longer retain. They are
found from these carpets and forget a little. You have always felt that
it has such a quiet life slowly, never quite enlightened gestures,
and they remember dark, even for a time thought it would be her life.
But then they quickly pull out a magazine and begin to draw, much like
what one of the flowers or a small, fun animal. That would be
not to have them foregoing, it is precisely what would be. And that's
really not. Only that is drawn, that's the main thing, because they are
fortgegangen this one day, fairly violent. They are from good family.
But if they are now drawing the arms raised so yields, that her dress
is back or not zugeknöpft but not quite.

There are a few buttons, you can not reach. Because when this dress was
made, was not talk, that she would suddenly leave alone. In the family
is always someone for such buttons. But here, dear God, who should therefore
submit to such a big city. You should already have a girlfriend, but
friends are in the same situation, and since there have pointed out that
the clothes are mutually close. This is ridiculous and reminiscent of
the family to which you do not want to be reminded. It can not avoid
it while drawing at times about whether it would not have been possible
but would have to remain. If we would have to be pious, savory pious
at the same pace with the others. But it was so absurd that the joint
to try. The journey is somehow closer: Families can no longer be God.
There remained only several other things you need to share could. Then
came but then, if you honestly informed, so little to the individual
that it was a disgrace.

And when you defrauded parts, such disputes arose. No, it really is
better to draw, much like what. With time, the resemblance already. And
art, if you do so gradually, is something quite enviable. And on the
initiated job with what they have made these young girls, they are no
longer about aufzusehen.

   You do not realize how they draw in all but nothing, as the unalterable
   life under press, which in these woven images beaming in front of
   them is added in its infinite unspeakable.
   Gaumata uttered a low cry as he recognized her, collected himself,
however, in a moment, and said: "What do you want with me, Mandane?"

The wretched girl raised her hands beseechingly to him, crying: "Oh, do
not leave me, Gaumata! Take me with you! I forgive you all the misery you
have brought on me and my poor mistress. I love you so much, I will take
care of you and nurse you as if I were the lowest servant-girl."

A short struggle passed in Gaumata's mind. He was just going to open the
carriage-door and clasp Mandane-his earliest love-in his arms, when the
sound of horses' hoofs coming nearer struck on his ear, and looking round
he saw, a carriage full of Magi, among whom were several who had been his
companions at the school for priests. He felt ashamed and afraid of being
seen by the very youths, whom he had often treated proudly and haughtily
because he was the brother of the high-priest, threw Mandane a purse of
gold, which his brother had given him at parting, and ordered the driver
to go on as fast as possible. The mules galloped off. Mandane kicked the
purse away, rushed after the carriage and clung to it firmly. One of the
wheels caught her dress and dragged her down. With the strength of
despair she sprang up, ran after the mules, overtook them on a slight
ascent which had lessened their speed, and seized the reins. The driver
used his three-lashed whip, or scourge, the creatures reared, pulled the
girl down and rushed on. Her last cry of agony pierced the wounds of the
mutilated man like a sharp lance-thrust.

          .....................

On the twelfth day after Nitetis' death Cambyses went out hunting, in the
hope that the danger and excitement of the sport might divert his mind.
The magnates and men of high rank at his court received him with thunders
of applause, for which he returned cordial thanks. These few days of
grief had worked a great change in a man so unaccustomed to suffering as
Cambyses. His face was pale, his raven-black hair and beard had grown
grey, and the consciousness of victory which usually shone in his eyes
was dimmed. Had he not, only too painfully, experienced that there was a
stronger will than his own, and that, easily as he could destroy, it did
not be in his power to preserve the life of the meanest creature? Before
starting, Cambyses mustered his troop of sportsmen, and calling Gobryas,
asked why Phanes was not there.

"My King did not order . . ."

"He is my guest and companion, once for all; call him and follow us."

Gobryas bowed, dashed back to the palace, and in half an hour reappeared
among the royal retinue with Phanes.

The Athenian was warmly welcomed by many of the group, a fact which seems
strange when we remember that courtiers are of all men the most prone to
envy, and a royal favorite always the most likely object to excite their
ill will. But Phanes seemed a rare exception to this rule. He had met the
Achaemenidae in so frank and winning a manner, had excited so many hopes
by the hints he had thrown out of an expected and important war, and had
aroused so much merriment by well-told jests, such as the Persians had
never heard before, that there were very few who did not welcome his
appearance gladly, and when--in company with the king--he separated from
the rest in chase of a wild ass, they openly confessed to one another,
that they had never before seen so perfect a man. The clever way in which
he had brought the innocence of the accused to light, the finesse which
he had shown in securing the king's favor, and the ease with which he had
learnt the Persian language in so short a time, were all subjects of
admiration. Neither was there one even of the Achaemenidae themselves,
who exceeded him in beauty of face or symmetry of figure. In the chase he
proved himself a perfect horseman, and in a conflict with a bear an
exceptionally courageous and skilful sportsman. On the way home, as the
courtiers were extolling all the wonderful qualities possessed by the
king's favorite, old Araspes exclaimed, "I quite agree with you that this
Greek, who by the way has proved himself a better soldier than anything
else, is no common man, but I am sure you would not praise him half as
much, if he were not a foreigner and a novelty."

Phanes happened to be only separated from the speaker by some thick
bushes, and heard these words. When the other had finished, he went up
and said, smiling: "I understood what you said and feel obliged to you
for your kind opinion. The last sentence, however, gave me even more
pleasure than the first, because it confirmed my own idea that the
Persians are the most generous people in the world--they praise the
virtues of other nations as much, or even more, than their own."

His hearers smiled, well pleased at this flattering remark, and Phanes
went on: "How different the Jews are now, for instance! They fancy
themselves the exclusive favorites of the gods, and by so doing incur the
contempt of all wise men, and the hatred of the whole world. And then the
Egyptians! You have no idea of the perversity of that people. Why, if the
priests could have their way entirely, (and they have a great deal of
power in their hands) not a foreigner would be left alive in Egypt, nor a
single stranger allowed to enter the country. A true Egyptian would
rather starve, than eat out of the same dish with one of us. There are
more strange, astonishing and wonderful things to be seen in that country
than anywhere else in the world. And yet, to do it justice, I must say
that Egypt has been well spoken of as the richest and most highly
cultivated land under the sun. The man who possesses that kingdom need
not envy the very gods themselves. It would be mere child's play to
conquer that beautiful country. Ten years there gave me a perfect insight
into the condition of things, and I know that their entire military caste
would not be sufficient to resist one such troop as your Immortals. Well,
who knows what the future may bring! Perhaps we may all make a little
trip together to the Nile some day. In my opinion, your good swords have
been rather long idle." These well-calculated words were received with
such shouts of applause, that the king turned his horse to enquire the
cause. Phanes answered quickly that the Achaemenidae were rejoicing in
the thought that a war might possibly be near at hand.

"What war?" asked the king, with the first smile that had been seen on
his face for many days.

"We were only speaking in general of the possibility of such a thing,"
answered Phanes carelessly; then, riding up to the king's side, his voice
took an impressive tone full of feeling, and looking earnestly into his
face, he began: "It is true, my Sovereign, that I was not born in this
beautiful country as one of your subjects, nor can I boast of a long
acquaintance with the most powerful of monarchs, but yet I cannot resist
the presumptuous, perhaps criminal thought, that the gods at my birth
appointed me to be your real friend. It is not your rich gifts that have
drawn me to you. I did not need them, for I belong to the wealthier class
of my countrymen, and I have no son,--no heir,--to whom I can bequeath my
treasures. Once I had a boy--a beautiful, gentle child;--but I was not
going to speak of that,--I . . . Are you offended at my freedom of
speech, my Sovereign?"

"What is there to offend me?" answered the king, who had never been
spoken to in this manner before, and felt strongly attracted to the
original foreigner.

"Till to-day I felt that your grief was too sacred to be disturbed, but
now the time has come to rouse you from it and to make your heart glow
once more. You will have to hear what must be very painful to you."

"There is nothing more now, that can grieve me."

"What I am going to tell you will not give you pain; on the contrary, it
will rouse your anger."

"You make me curious."

"You have been shamefully deceived; you and that lovely creature, who
died such an early death a few days ago."

Cambyses' eyes flashed a demand for further information.

"Amasis, the King of Egypt, has dared to make sport of you, the lord of
the world. That gentle girl was not his daughter, though she herself
believed that she was; she . . ."

"Impossible!"

"It would seem so, and yet I am speaking the simple truth. Amasis spun a
web of lies, in which he managed to entrap, not only the whole world, but
you too, my Sovereign. Nitetis, the most lovely creature ever born of
woman, was the daughter of a king, but not of the usurper Amasis. Hophra,
the rightful king of Egypt, was the father of this pearl among women. You
may well frown, my Sovereign. It is a cruel thing to be betrayed by one's
friends and allies."

Cambyses spurred his horse, and after a silence of some moments, kept by
Phanes purposely, that his words might make a deeper impression, cried,
"Tell me more! I wish to know everything."

"Hophra had been living twenty years in easy captivity in Sais after his
dethronement, when his wife, who had borne him three children and buried
them all, felt that she was about to give birth to a fourth. Hophra, in
his joy, determined to offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving in the temple of
Pacht, the Egyptian goddess supposed to confer the blessing of children,
when, on his way thither, a former magnate of his court, named
Patarbemis, whom, in a fit of unjust anger, he had ignominiously
mutilated, fell upon him with a troop of slaves and massacred him. Amasis
had the unhappy widow brought to his palace at once, and assigned her an
apartment next to the one occupied by his own queen Ladice, who was also
expecting soon to give birth to a child. A girl was born to Hophra's
widow, but the mother died in the same hour, and two days later Ladice
bore a child also.--But I see we are in the court of the palace. If you
allow, I will have the report of the physician, by whom this imposture
was effected, read before you. Several of his notes have, by a remarkable
conjuncture of circumstances, which I will explain to you later, fallen
into my hands. A former high-priest of Heliopolis, Onuphis, is now living
in Babylon, and understands all the different styles of writing in use
among his countrymen. Nebenchari will, of course, refuse to help in
disclosing an imposture, which must inevitably lead to the ruin of his
country."

"In an hour I expect to see you here with the man you have just spoken
of. Croesus, Nebenchari, and all the Achaemenidae who were in Egypt, will
have to appear also. I must have certainty before I can act, and your
testimony alone is not sufficient, because I know from Amasis, that you
have cause to feel a grudge against his house."

At the time appointed all were assembled before the king in obedience to
his command.

Onuphis, the former high-priest, was an old man of eighty. A pair of
large, clear, intelligent, grey eyes looked out of a head so worn and
wasted, as to be more like a mere skull than the head of a living man. He
held a large papyrus-roll in his gaunt hand, and was seated in an easy
chair, as his paralyzed limbs did not allow of his standing, even in the
king's presence. His dress was snow-white, as beseemed a priest, but
there were patches and rents to be seen here and there. His figure might
perhaps once have been tall and slender, but it was now so bent and
shrunk by age, privation and suffering, as to look unnatural and
dwarfish, in comparison with the size of his head.

Nebenchari, who revered Onuphis, not only as a high-priest deeply
initiated in the most solemn mysteries, but also on account of his great
age, stood by his side and arranged his cushions. At his left stood
Phanes, and then Croesus, Darius and Prexaspes.

The king sat upon his throne. His face was dark and stern as he broke the
silence with the following words:--"This noble Greek, who, I am inclined
to believe, is my friend, has brought me strange tidings. He says that I
have been basely deceived by Amasis, that my deceased wife was not his,
but his predecessor's daughter."

A murmur of astonishment ran through the assembly. "This old man is here
to prove the imposture." Onuphis gave a sign of assent.

"Prexaspes, my first question is to you. When Nitetis was entrusted to
your care, was it expressly said that she was the daughter of Amasis?"

"Expressly. Nebenchari had, it is true, praised Tachot to the noble
Kassandane as the most beautiful of the twin sisters; but Amasis insisted
on sending Nitetis to Persia. I imagined that, by confiding his most
precious jewel to your care, he meant to put you under a special
obligation; and as it seemed to me that Nitetis surpassed her sister, not
only in beauty but in dignity of character, I ceased to sue for the hand
of Tachot. In his letter to you too, as you will remember, he spoke of
confiding to you his most beautiful, his dearest child."

"Those were his words."

"And Nitetis was, without question, the more beautiful and the nobler of
the two sisters," said Croesus in confirmation of the envoy's remark.
"But it certainly did strike me that Tachot was her royal parents'
favorite."

"Yes," said Darius, "without doubt. In any case, I had a fear the two sides,
as before a mirror, before someone is. I have never read it. I do not
know whether the whole book I have read. It was not very strong, but there
were a lot of stories there, especially in the afternoon, it was
always a given that you are not yet known.

I remember only two.

I want to say what the end of the Grischa Otrepjow and fall of
Charles the Bold. God knows if it made me feel at that time. But now, after
so many years, I have correctly described as the remains of the
tsar in the wrong amount had been thrown and lay three days, and
shredded zerstochen and a mask before the face.

Of course it is no prospect that the little book I ever return to
the hands.

But this body must have been odd. I would also like to find out how the
meeting went with the mother. He might have felt very safe, because he had
come to Moscow, I am even convinced that he at that time in itself so
strongly believed that he Indeed, his mother said to invoke. And this
Marie Nagoi, in quick Tagreisen from their poor monastery was won
everything even if they agreed. Whether but its uncertainty is not just
started, that she recognized him? I'm not disinclined to believe the
power of his metamorphosis would have been based, nobody's more to his
son. (This is ultimately the strength of all young people who are
fortgegangen.) The people, if it desired, without a present, made it
only free and unlimited in its possibilities. But the statement by the
mother had, even as a deliberate fraud, nor the power to reduce it,
they lifted him from the wealth of his invention, they limited
him to imitate a tired, they put him down to the individual, he
was not: it made him the fraudsters.

And now came quietly dissolving, this marina Mniczek added to it on their
way denied by them, it later proved not to believe him, but to
everyone. Of course I can not vouch for how well everything in that
story was taken into account. This seems to me to tell would have been.
But apart from this incident is by no means outdated. It is now conceivable
narrator of care to the last moments spent, he would not be wrong. It's a
lot in them: How he made the innermost sleep to the window and jumps
through the window into the yard between the guards. He may not be
alone, they must help him. It is likely that the foot is broken. At two
of the men leaned, he feels that they believe in it. He looks round, also
the others believe in him. They take him nearly that these huge Strelitz,
it has come a long way: they have known Ivan Grosnij in all its reality,
and believe in him. He would like to enlighten them, but the open
mouth would just scream. The pain in the foot is livid, and he thinks so
little of itself at that moment that he knows nothing than the pain. And
then there is no time. They push up, he sees the Schuiskij and behind it
all. Immediately, there will be over. But as close to his guards. They
give him not to. And a miracle happens. The belief of these old men planting
has continued, suddenly nobody wants anymore. Schuiskij, closely in
front of him, calling desperately for a window up. It does not. He
knows who is there and he understands that it still is, very quietly
without any transition.

Now the voice, which he knows from her then, the high, false voice, which
überanstrengt. And as he hears the Zarinmutter who disowns him. Up to
here is the thing by itself, but now, please, a storyteller, a storyteller,
because of the few lines that still remain, you must force out of any
further opposition. Whether it is being said or not, you have to swear
that between voice and pistol shot, infinite zusammengedrängt again will
and power in him, everything to be. Otherwise you do not understand how
it is consistently brilliant that it pierced his night dress and herumstachen
in it, whether on the hard a person would encounter. And that in death
he still wore the mask for three days on which he had almost abandoned.
If ichs remember now, it seems strange to me that in the same book
which tells the source was, throughout his life One was the same, and not
hard to change as a granite, and increasingly difficult to all those
who endured it. It giebt a picture of him in Dijon. But you know it so
well that he is short, transverse, was defiant and despairing. Only at
the hands if you had perhaps not thought of. There are evil hands warm,
always continued to cool, and involuntarily put on cold, spread
with air between all fingers.

In these hands could shoot into the blood, as befits a head to rise,
and concentrated, they were really like the heads of the cleats, raging
from incursions.

It was one incredible caution about using this blood to live. The Duke
was enclosed in himself, and at times feared ers when it comes to
him herumging, crouching and dark.

It was his own gruesome alien in this nimble, halbportugiesische
blood, which he hardly knew.

Often, it frightens him that it could occur in sleep and tear. He
pretended to be tamed first, but he was always in his fear. He
never dared to love a woman, so it would not be jealous, and so
rapidly, it was that wine never came through his lips, instead of
drinking sänftigte first with Rosenmus.

But once he drank in the camp of Lausanne, as Granson lost was
because he was sick and secluded, and drank a lot of pure wine.

But his blood was asleep.

In his last years senseless sometimes lapsed into this heavy, animal
sleep.

Then, it became apparent how much he was in his violence because
when it is asleep, he was nothing.

Then nobody could come from his surroundings, he could not understand
what they were talking.

The foreign envoys he could not show SC as he was.

Then he sat and waited, that it woke up. And it usually went with one
jump, and broke from the heart and roared. For this blood trailed
all the things with which he gave nothing. The three big diamonds and all
the stones, the Flemish lace and carpets from Arros , haufenweis.

His silken Gezelter with gold twisted cords and four hundred tents
for his entourage.

And pictures, painted on wood, and the twelve apostles from full
silver.

And the prince of Taranto and the Duke of Cleve and Philipp von
Baden and the Lord of Château-Guyon.

Because he wanted to persuade his blood that he was emperor, and
nothing about him, so he is afraid.

But his blood is not believed him, despite such evidence, it was a
suspicious blood.

Maybe he got it for a while in doubt. But the horns of Uri betrayed
him. Since then, knew his blood that was lost in a: and wanted out.

So I see it now, but back then it made me feel especially from the Epiphany
to read, as it looked. The young Lorraine Lord, the day before , immediately
after the curiously hasty battle in his wretched city of Nancy
eingeritten had very early in its surroundings awakened and asked the
Duke.

Messenger was sent by messenger, and he himself appeared from time
to time at the window, restless and worried.

He recognized not always who they brought on their carts and
stretchers, he saw only that it was not the Duke.

And also among the wounded, he was not, and by the prisoners that
are still ongoing in revenue, had not seen him.

The refugees, but contributed to all sides and several messages were
confused and startled as they were afraid to zuzulaufen him. It is
already dark, and we had heard nothing from him. The customer that he
disappeared, had herumzukommen time in the long winter evening. And where
it came from, because they all produced a sharp, exaggerated certainty
that he lived. Never perhaps was the Duke really in every fantasy in this
night. There was no house, where you woke up and not waiting for him and
his rapping presented. And if he did not, so wars, because he was already
gone.

It was cold that night, and it was as Frör the idea that he was so tough
she was. And years and years passed, eh they dissolve. All these people,
without quite knowing it, there were now upon him.

The fate that he had brought upon them, was only bearable due to its shape.
They had learned so severe that he was, but now, as it were, they
found that it is well to remember and not to forget.

But the next morning, the seventh of January, a Tuesday, but began to
search again .

And this was a guide there. It was a Page of the Duke, and it meant that
he had his master from afar topple see now he should show the body. He
himself had not told the Count of Campobasso had brought him and had
spoken to him. Then he went forward, and the others were close
behind him.

Anyone who saw him, masked and strangely insecure, he had trouble believing
that it really Gian-Battista Colonna was the beautiful as a girl was
thin and in the joints. He trembled from the cold, the air was stiff
from the night frost, it sounded like the teeth grinding steps.

Incidentally they all froze. Only the Duke fool, Louis Onze zubenannt
made to move. He played the dog ran ahead, came back and trollte a
while on all fours next to her boy, where he is from a distance saw a
corpse, as he jumped out and bowed himself and talked to her, she
would come together and take his that one was looking.

He left her a little reflection, but then he came sullenly back to the
others, and threatened and cursed and complained about the
stubbornness and slowness of the dead.

And it was always, and there was no end. The city was little more to
see, because the weather had been closed, despite the cold, and
it was gray and become opaque.

The land was flat and remain there, and the small, tight group had
always lost out, the farther they moved.

No one spoke, just an old woman, the mitgelaufen was malmte something
and shook his head in, maybe they prayed.

At the forefront once stayed and looked around him.

Then he turned briefly to Lupi, the Portuguese physician of the duke, and
pointed forward.

A few steps was still ice-skating rink, a sort of pond or pond, and
then beaten, half-caved, ten or twelve corpses.

They were almost naked and robbed.

Lupi went gebückt and attention from one to another. And now recognized
Olivier de la Marche and the clergy, as they are individually
herumgingen.

The old but already knelt in the snow and winselte and bent down
on a big hand with fingers spread her entgegenstarrten.

All ran. Lupi with some minions tried to contact the corpse, as he
stood forward.

But the face was frozen, and since it is from the Ice herauszerrte,
peeled one cheek, the thin and brittle, and it appeared that the other
dogs or wolves were ripped out, and the whole thing was a large wound
split, which began at the ear, so that one face could be no question.
One after the other looked to, and each thought the Romans behind
himself.

But they saw only the fools who came herbeigelaufen, bad and bloody. He
gave a coat of off and shook him as if something fall out, but the
sheath was empty. So we went out to look after plate, and there
were some. They had made a fire and washed the body with warm water
and wine. The scar on the neck came to light and the bodies of the two
large abscesses. The doctor doubted no more. But you still comparing
other. Onze-Louis had a few steps away the corpse of the great
black horse Moreau found that the duke by day, Nancy had ridden.

He sat on it and let the short legs hang. The blood still ran him out
of the nose into the mouth, and you saw him, that he tasted. One of the
servants over there reminded that a nail in the left foot of the Duke
ingrown would now examined all of the nail. The Fool zappelte but as
if he tickled, and cried: "Oh, Monseigneur, forgive them, that they
reveal your grave mistakes, the fools, and you do not acknowledge my long
face, in the virtues of your stand." (The Duke Jester was the first,
occurred when the corpse was bedded. It was in the house of a certain
George Marquis, nobody could say why. The pall was not übergelegt, and
so he had the whole impression. Kamisols The white and the crimson
mantle secretes itself from harsh and unfriendly diverge between
the two black and storage of canopy. scharlachne stood front shaft
boots him with large, gold spurs.

And that head up there was no dispute that could arise once the
crown saw.

It was a great Duke Crown with any stones.

Louis Onze besah went around and everything.

He even touched the Atlas, even though he understood little of it.

It might be a good atlas, maybe a bit cheap for the house of Burgundy
.

He came back once again to the review's sake.

The colors were oddly inconsistent in light snow. He coined each
individually.

"Well dressed," he said, finally acknowledging, "perhaps a trace too much."
The death came to him as a puppeteer who need quickly to establish
a Duke.) You have to do well, some things can not change are easy to
determine, without the facts to be regretted, or even to evaluate. So it
became clear to me that I never was a real reader.

In the childhood I had read as a profession, which one would accept it,
even later, when all the professions came, one after the other. I had
honestly say there is no specific idea of when this could be. I left
myself that it would remember if life somehow umschlug and only came
from the outside, as formerly from the inside.

I trained myself, it would be clear and unambiguous and not
mißzuverstehn.

Absolutely not, on the contrary quite sophisticated, intricate and difficult
for me, but still visible. The peculiar childhood Unlimited, the
Disproportionate that-never-quite foreseeable, which would then be over.
It was not difficult to see why.

Basically, it was still too closed and on all sides, and the more you
hinaussah, the more you stir affairs to God knows where it came
from.

But it probably grew to a limit and then broke in a day.

It was easy to observe that the adults of which very little has
been disturbed, they went around and judged and acted, and if they
were ever in trouble, it was the to external conditions.

At the beginning of such changes, I also moved the reading. Then you would
with books as you know, it would take time to be there, a certain,
and equally pleasing passing time, just as much as a newly fitted.

Of course would be closer to an individual, and it is not to say
that it certainly would be now and then half an hour on them to be
missed: a stroll, a conspiracy, beginning in the theater or an
urgent letter.

But that in a hair twisted and confused, as if it had been that glowing
ears and hands got cold as metal, that a candle next to a long
herunterbrannte and the chandeliers inside, which would then, thank
God, completely excluded.

I'll do these appearances, because I quite striking to me was, back
in those Ulsgaard on holiday, so when I suddenly fell into the
reading.

Because it just showed that I could not.

I did it certainly started before the time that I favor the prospect
had.

   But this year in Sorø louder among others about the same age had made
   me suspicious of such calculations.

There were rapid, unexpected experiences come to me, and it was
clear to see that they sent me as an adult treated.

There were life-size experiences that are so difficult to make, as they
were. In the same extent, but when I really understood her, I went also
to the infinite reality of my child's eyes on one. I knew it would not
stop, as little as the others began. I said to myself that it was free
of any course, to make sections, but they were invented. And it turned
out that I was too clumsy, which I imagine. Whenever I tried it, gave
my life to understand that it knew nothing of them.

Stock but I insist that my childhood was gone, so was in that moment
everything Upcoming continued, and I was just as much as a Bleisoldat among
themselves in order to be able to stand. This discovery isolates me from
even more understandably. You had me in me and filled me with a kind of
definitive Frohheit that I took for Kümmernis because they are far above
my age. It disturbed me, as I myself correctly, that you now that nothing
for a certain period, was much more than could ever miss. And so when I
returned after Ulsgaard and saw all the books, I made myself about her,
quite in a hurry, with almost a bad conscience. What I later had so often
felt that I knew was somehow ahead: not that we had the right, a book
aufzuschlagen if you are not committed, all to read. With each row
broke the world. Among the books she was healing and maybe completely
behind. But how should I, who could not read it all begin? As they
stood, even in this modest book rooms in such a hopeless outnumbered and
held together.

I crashed my defiant and desperate from book to book and beat me through
the pages as if something has to be disproportionate.
"It ruled in the hour of my birth, and its name is Anahita."

"I think I know better. A burning ambition is the sun, whose rays guide
all your actions. Take care; I tried that way myself once; it leads to
fame or to disgrace, but very seldom to happiness. Fame to the ambitious
is like salt water to the thirsty; the more he gets, the more he wants. I
was once only a poor soldier, and am now Cambyses' ambassador. But you,
what can you have to strive for? There is no man in the kingdom greater
than yourself, after the sons of Cyrus . . . Do my eyes deceive me?
Surely those two men riding to meet us with a troop of horsemen must be
Gyges and Zopyrus. The Angare, who left the inn before us, must have told
them of our coming."

"To be sure. Look at that fellow Zopyrus, how he's waving and beckoning
with that palm-leaf."

"Here, you fellows, cut us a few twigs from those bushes-quick. We'll
answer his green palm-leaf with a purple pomegranate-branch."

In a few minutes the friends had embraced one another, and the two bands
were riding together into the populous town, through the gardens
surrounding the lake Gygaeus, the Sardians' place of recreation. It was
now near sunset, a cooler breeze was beginning to blow, and the citizens
were pouring through the gates to enjoy themselves in the open air.
Lydian and Persian warriors, the former wearing richly-ornamented
helmets, the latter tiaras in the form of a cylinder, were following
girls who were painted and wreathed. Children were being led to the lake
by their nurses, to see the swans fed. An old blind man was seated under
a plane-tree, singing sad ditties to a listening crowd and accompanying
them on the Magadis, the twenty-stringed Lydian lute. Youths were
enjoying themselves at games of ball, ninepins, and dice, and half-grown
girls screaming with fright, when the ball hit one of their group or
nearly fell into the water.

The travellers scarcely noticed this gay scene, though at another time it
would have delighted them. They were too much interested in enquiring
particulars of Bartja's illness and recovery.

At the brazen gates of the palace which had formerly belonged to Croesus,
they were met by Oroetes, the satrap of Sardis, in a magnificent
court-dress overloaded with ornaments. He was a stately man, whose small
penetrating black eyes looked sharply out from beneath a bushy mass of
eyebrow. His satrapy was one of the most important and profitable in the
entire kingdom, and his household could bear a comparison with that of
Cambyses in richness and splendor. Though he possessed fewer wives and
attendants than the king, it was no inconsiderable troop of guards,
slaves, eunuchs and gorgeously-dressed officials, which appeared at the
palace-gates to receive the travellers.

The vice-regal palace, which was still kept up with great magnificence,
had been, in the days when Croesus occupied it, the most splendid of
royal residences; after the taking of Sardis, however, the greater part
of the dethroned king's treasures and works of art had been sent to
Cyrus's treasure-house in Pasargadae. When that time of terror had
passed, the Lydians brought many a hidden treasure into the light of day
once more, and, by their industry and skill in art during the peaceful
years which they enjoyed under Cyrus and Cambyses, recovered their old
position so far, that Sardis was again looked upon as one of the
wealthiest cities of Asia Minor, and therefore, of the world.

Accustomed as Darius and Prexaspes were to royal splendor, they were
still astonished at the beauty and brilliancy of the satrap's palace. The
marble work, especially, made a great impression on them, as nothing of
the kind was to be found in Babylon, Susa or Ecbatana, where burnt brick
and cedar-wood supply the place of the polished marble.

   [The palace of Persepolis did not exist at the date of our story.
   It was built partly of black stone from Mount Rachmed, and partly of
   white marble; it was probably begun by Darius. The palace of Susa
   was built of brick, (Strabo p. 728) that of Ecbatana of wood
   overlaid with plates of gold of immense value, and roofed with tiles
   made of the precious metals.]

They found Bartja lying on a couch in the great hall; he looked very
pale, and stretched out his arms towards them.

The friends supped together at the satrap's table and then retired to
Bartja's private room, in order to enjoy an undisturbed conversation.

"Well, Bartja, how did you come by this dangerous illness?" was Darius'
first question after they were seated.

"I was thoroughly well, as you know," said Bartja, "when we left Babylon,
and we reached Germa, a little town on the Sangarius, without the
slightest hindrance. The ride was long and we were very tired, burnt too
by the scorching May sun, and covered with dust; the river flows by the
station, and its waves looked so clear and bright--so inviting for a
bathe--that in a minute Zopyrus and I were off our horses, undressed, and
in the water. Gyges told us we were very imprudent, but we felt confident
that we were too much inured to such things to get any harm, and very
much enjoyed our swim in the cool, green water. Gyges, perfectly calm as
usual, let us have our own way, waited till our bath was over, and then
plunged in himself.

"In two hours we were in our saddles again, pushing on as if for our very
lives, changing horses at every station, and turning night into day.

"We were near Ipsus, when I began to feel violent pains in the head and
limbs. I was ashamed to say anything about it and kept upright on my
saddle, until we had to take fresh horses at Bagis. Just as I was in the
very act of mounting, I lost my senses and strength, and fell down on the
ground in a dead faint."

"Yes, a pretty fright you gave us," interrupted Zopyrus, "by dropping
down in that fashion. It was fortunate that Gyges was there, for I lost
my wits entirely; he, of course, kept his presence of mind, and after
relieving his feelings in words not exactly flattering to us two, he
behaved like a circumspect general.--A fool of a doctor came running up
and protested that it was all over with poor Bart, for which I gave him a
good thrashing."

"Which he didn't particularly object to," said the satrap, laughing,
"seeing that you told them to lay a gold stater on every stripe."

"Yes, yes, my pugnacity costs me very dear sometimes. But to our story.
As soon as Bartja had opened his eyes, Gyges sent me off to Sardis to
fetch a good physician and an easy travelling-carriage. That ride won't
so soon be imitated. An hour before I reached the gates my third horse
knocked up under me, so I had to trust to my own legs, and began running
as fast as I could. The people must all have thought me mad. At last I
saw a man on horseback--a merchant from Kelaenze--dragged him from his
horse, jumped into the saddle, and, before the next morning dawned, I was
back again with our invalid, bringing the best physician in Sardis, and
Oroetes' most commodious travelling-carriage. We brought him to this
house at a slow footpace, and here a violent fever came on, he became
delirious, talked all the nonsense that could possibly come into a human
brain, and made us so awfully anxious, that the mere remembrance of that
time brings the big drops of perspiration to my forehead."

Bartja took his friend's hand: "I owe my life to him and Gyges," said he,
turning to Darius. "Till to-day, when they set out to meet you, they have
never left me for a minute; a mother could not have nursed her sick child
more carefully. And Oroetes, I am much obliged to you too; doubly so
because your kindness subjected you to annoyance."

"How could that be?" asked Darius.

"That Polykrates of Samos, whose name we heard so often in Egypt, has the
best physician that Greece has ever produced. While I was lying here ill,
Oroetes wrote to this Democedes, making him immense promises, if he would
only come to Sardis directly. The Sainian pirates, who infest the whole
Ionian coast, took the messenger captive and brought Oroetes' letter to
their master Polykrates. He opened it, and sent the messenger back with
the answer, that Democedes was in his pay, and that if Oroetes needed his
advice he must apply to Polykrates himself. Our generous friend submitted
for my sake, and asked the Samian to send his physician to Sardis."

"Well," said Prexaspes, "and what followed?"

"The proud island-prince sent him at once. He cured me, as you see, and
left us a few days ago loaded with presents."

"Well," interrupted Zopyrus, "I can quite understand, that Polykrates
likes to keep his physician near him. I assure you, Darius, it would not
be easy to find his equal. He's as handsome as Minutscher, as clever as
Piran Wisa, as strong as Rustem, and as benevolent and helpful as the god
Soma. I wish you could have seen how well he threw those round metal
plates he calls discs. I am no weakling, but when we wrestled he soon
threw me. And then he could tell such famous stories--stories that made a
man's heart dance within him."

   [This very Oroetes afterwards succeeded in enticing Polykrates to
   Sardis and there crucified him. Herod. III. 120-125. Valerius
   Maximus VI. 9. 5.]

"We know just such a fellow too," said Darius, smiling at his friend's
enthusiasm. "That Athenian Phanes, who came to prove our innocence."

"The physician Democedes is from Crotona, a place which must be somewhere
very near the setting sun."

"But is inhabited by Greeks, like Athens." added Oroetes. "Ah, my young
friends, you must beware of those fellows; they're as cunning, deceitful,
and selfish, as they are strong, clever, and handsome."

"Democedes is generous and sincere," cried Zopyrus.

"And Croesus himself thinks Phanes not only an able, but a virtuous man,"
added Darius.

"Sappho too has always, and only spoken well of the Athenian," said
Bartja, in confirmation of Darius's remark. "But don't let us talk any
more about these Greeks," he went on. "They give Oroetes so much trouble
by their refractory and stubborn conduct, that he is not very fond of
them."

"The gods know that," sighed the satrap. "It's more difficult to keep one
Greek town in order, than all the countries between the Euphrates and the
Tigris."

While Oroetes was speaking, Zopyrus had gone to the window. "The stars
are already high in the heavens," he said, "and Bartja is tired; so make
haste, Darius, and tell us something about home."

The son of Hystaspes agreed at once, and began by relating the events
which we have heard already. Bartja, especially, was distressed at
hearing of Nitetis' sad end, and the discovery of Amasis' fraud filled
them all with astonishment. After a short pause, Darius went on:

"When once Nitetis' descent had been fully proved, Cambyses was like a
changed man. He called a council of war, and appeared at table in the
royal robes instead of his mourning garments. You can fancy what
universal joy the idea of a war with Egypt excited. Even Croesus, who you
know is one of Amasis' well-wishers, and advises peace whenever it is
possible, had not a word to say against it. The next morning, as usual,
what had been resolved on in intoxication was reconsidered by sober
heads; after several opinions had been given, Phanes asked permission to
speak, and spoke I should think for an hour. But how well! It was as if
every word he said came direct from the gods. He has learnt our language
in a wonderfully short time, but it flowed from his lips like honey.
Sometimes he drew tears from every eye, at others excited stormy shouts
of joy, and then wild bursts of rage. His gestures were as graceful as
those of a dancing-girl, but at the same time manly and dignified. I
can't repeat his speech; my poor words, by the side of his, would sound
like the rattle of a drum after a peal of thunder. But when at last,
inspired and carried away by his eloquence, we had unanimously decided on
war, he began to speak once more on the best ways and means of
prosecuting it successfully."

Here Darius was obliged to stop, as Zopyrus had fallen on his neck in an
ecstasy of delight. Bartja, Gyges and Oroetes were not less delighted,
and they all begged him to go on with his tale.

"Our army," began Darius afresh, "ought to be at the boundaries of Egypt
by the month Farwardin, (March) as the inundation of the Nile, which
would hinder the march of our infantry, begins in Murdad (July). Phanes
is now on his way to the Arabians to secure their assistance; in hopes
that these sons of the desert may furnish our army with water and guides
through their dry and thirsty land. He will also endeavor to win the rich
island of Cyprus, which he once conquered for Amasis, over to our side.
As it was through his mediation that the kings of the island were allowed
to retain their crowns, they will be willing to listen to his advice. In
short the Athenian leaves nothing uncared for, and knows every road and
path as if he were the sun himself He showed us a picture of the world on
a plate of copper."

Oroetes nodded and said, "I have such a picture of the world too. A
Milesian named Hekataeus, who spends his life in travelling, drew it, and
gave it me in exchange for a free-pass."

   [Hekataeus of Miletus maybe called "the father of geography," as
   Herodotus was "the father of history." He improved the map made by
   Anaximander, and his great work, "the journey round the world," was
   much prized by the ancients; but unfortunately, with the exception
   of some very small fragments, has now perished. Herodotus assures
   us, (V. 36.) that Hekataeus was intimately acquainted with every
   part of the Persian empire, and had also travelled over Egypt. he
   lived at the date of our narrative, having been born at Miletus 550
   B. C. He lived to see the fall of his native city in 4966 B. C.
   His map has been restored by Klausen and can be seen also in Mure's
   Lan. and Lit. of Ancient Greece. Vol. IV. Maps existed, however,
   much earlier, the earliest known being one of the gold-mines, drawn
   very cleverly by an Egyptian priest, and so well sketched as to give
   a pretty clear idea of the part of the country intended. It is
   preserved in the Egyptian Museum at Turin.]

"What notions these Greeks have in their heads!" exclaimed Zopyrus, who
could not explain to himself what a picture of the world could look like.

"To-morrow I will show you my copper tablet, said Oroetes, but now we
must allow Darius to go on."

"So Phanes has gone to Arabia," continued Darius, "and Prexaspes was sent
hither not only to command you, Oroetes, to raise as many forces as
possible, especially Ionians and Carians, of whom Phanes has offered to
undertake the command, but also to propose terms of alliance to
Polykrates."

"To that pirate!" asked Oroetes, and his face darkened.

"The very same," answered Prexaspes, not appearing to notice the change
in Oroetes' face. "Phanes has already received assurances from this
important naval power, which sound as if we might expect a favorable
answer to my proposal."

"The Phoenician, Syrian and Ionian ships of war would be quite sufficient
to cope with the Egyptian fleet."

"There you are right; but if Polykrates were to declare against us, we
should not be able to hold our own at sea; you say yourself that he is
all-powerful in the AEgean."

"Still I decidedly disapprove of entering into treaty with such a
robber."

"We want powerful allies, and Polykrates is very powerful at sea. It will
be time to humble him, when we have used him to help us in conquering
Egypt. For the present I entreat you to suppress all personal feeling,
and keep the success of our great plan alone in view. I am empowered to
say this in the king's name, and to show his ring in token thereof."

Oroetes made a brief obeisance before this symbol of despotism, and
asked: "What does Cambyses wish me to do?"

"He commands you to use every means in your power to secure an alliance
with the Samian; and also to send your troops to join the main army on
the plains of Babylon as soon as possible."

The satrap bowed and left the room with a look betraying irritation and
defiance.

When the echo of his footsteps had died away among the colonnades of the
inner court, Zopyrus exclaimed: "Poor fellow, it's really very hard for
him to have to meet that proud man, who has so often behaved insolently
to him, on friendly terms. Think of that story about the physician for
instance."

"You are too lenient," interrupted Darius. "I don't like this Oroetes. He
has no right to receive the king's commands in that way. Didn't you see
him bite his lips till they bled, when Prexaspes showed him the king's
ring?"

"Yes," cried the envoy, "he's a defiant, perverse man. He left the room
so quickly, only because he could not keep down his anger any longer."

"Still," said Bartja, "I hope you will keep his conduct a secret from my
brother, for he has been very good to me."

Prexaspes bowed, but Darius said: "We must keep an eye on the fellow.
Just here, so far from the king's gate and in the midst of nations
hostile to Persia, we want governors who are more ready to obey their
king than this Oroetes seems to be. Why, he seems to fancy he is King of
Lydia!"

"Do you dislike the satrap?" said Zopyrus.

"Well, I think I do," was the answer. "I always take an aversion or a
fancy to people at first sight, and very seldom find reason to change my
mind afterwards. I disliked Oroetes before I heard him speak a word, and
I remember having the same feeling towards Psamtik, though Amasis took my
fancy."

"There's no doubt that you're very different from the rest of us," said
Zopyrus laughing, "but now, to please me, let this poor Oroetes alone.
I'm glad he's gone though, because we can talk more freely about home.
How is Kassandane? and your worshipped Atossa? Croesus too, how is he?
and what are my wives about? They'll soon have a new companion. To-morrow
I intend to sue for the hand of Oroetes' pretty daughter. We've talked a
good deal of love with our eyes already. I don't know whether we spoke
Persian or Syrian, but we said the most charming things to one another."

The friends laughed, and Darius, joining in their merriment, said: "Now
you shall hear a piece of very good news. I have kept it to the last,
because it is the best I have. Now, Bartja, prick up your ears. Your
mother, the noble Kassandane, has been cured of her blindness! Yes, yes,
it is quite true.--Who cured her? Why who should it be, but that crabbed
old Nebenchari, who has become, if possible, moodier than ever. Come,
now, calm yourselves, and let me go on with my story; or it will be
morning before Bartja gets to sleep. Indeed. I think we had better
separate now: you've heard the best, and have something to dream about
What, you will not? Then, in the name of Mithras, I must go on, though it
should make my heart bleed.

"I'll begin with the king. As long as Phanes was in Babylon, he seemed to
forget his grief for Nitetis.

"The Athenian was never allowed to leave him. They were as inseparable as
Reksch and Rustem. Cambyses had no time to think of his sorrow, for
Phanes had always some new idea or other, and entertained us all, as well
as the king, marvellously. And we all liked him too; perhaps, because no
one could really envy him. Whenever he was alone, the tears came into his
eyes at the thought of his boy, and this made his great cheerfulness--a
cheerfulness which he always managed to impart to the king, Bartja,--the
more admirable. Every morning he went down to the Euphrates with Cambyses
and the rest of us, and enjoyed watching the sons of the Achaemenidae at
their exercises. When he saw them riding at full speed past the
sand-hills and shooting the pots placed on them into fragments with their
arrows, or throwing blocks of wood at one another and cleverly evading
the blows, he confessed that he could not imitate them in these
exercises, but at the same time he offered to accept a challenge from any
of us in throwing the spear and in wrestling. In his quick way he sprang
from his horse, stripped off his clothes--it was really a shame--and, to
the delight of the boys, threw their wrestling-master as if he had been a
feather.

   [In the East, nudity was, even in those days, held to be
   disgraceful, while the Greeks thought nothing so beautiful as the
   naked human body. The Hetaira Phryne was summoned before the judges
   for an offence against religion. Her defender, seeing that sentence
   was about to be pronounced against his client, suddenly tore away
   the garment which covered her bosom. The artifice was successful.
   The judges pronounced her not guilty, being convinced that such
   wondrous grace and beauty could only belong to a favorite of
   Aphrodite. Athen. XIII. p. 590]

"Then he knocked over a number of bragging fellows, and would have thrown
me too if he had not been too fatigued. From there, via the Los
Cerritos Casa Pintada, Salinas by supplying the cities of Santiago de
Chile y Mendoza, and the average distance of two large hills, the
Diamond to the north and the south Nevado, I got a hole in the
Cordillera Grande, who called the river Atué Springs, which is where he
spends the winter Cacica Da Maria Josefa and although this entry could
have transported the Valle Hermoso, it seemed, by the news that they had
acquired I would be easier to make my entry for the other direction because
the gap for my return should be more direct. By that I spent the night
and the next day in the hole to educate and observe the latitude
but had rained, I spelled out these springs, the eleventh day, speaking
for the other hole, it forms a stream called Saladillo the water well
above the springs that form the river Atué. And come this entry was the
best thing we could wish for worthy objects VE, I took the liberty
of putting your name. From there I headed upstream from the
creek, up to the boss and tolderias Cacica who accompanied us. On
this first day, although good, is a setback in a rugged hillside, where
you can easily compose, because it is grounded, and stones that can be
used for stoning the road, because there are no rivers, precipices,
dangerous descents and ascents that can prevent carruage. Of the awning
of the natural pasture to reach D. José María Maturana, the ups and
downs, safely and precipices, are the same as the background: well you
should spend some quantities, not very grown, to compose the way, so they
can pass any kind of carruage because all that distance, say of these
awnings, to the table Planchon, is nothing more than a garden that has
shaped the nature.

This mountain range dividing nature so that the callers of parag
Planchon, where should be the most dangerous, God has placed a
flat terrain, such as the Pampas of Buenos Aires, and to provide
longitude and latitude of, and with a good and beautiful stream,
which is abundant of all bird species and wild quadrupeds, leading
to the situation of land; as well as grasses and wood enough to
supply any troops that may be offered through.

Because throughout the hole and discovered abundant for all purposes a
viagero economically, and without hint of danger, as we have ever thought
of downloading one of the ten charges that traimos to our emergency
department, no less fearful of the apearnos any loss.

Planchon After that, leaving the way for the town of Curico (which is
almost impassable by the heavy snow and gullies that appear to the first
light), and that leads down to the Valley great, low mountain range that
connects with inexplicable softness as four miles, and from there
down, and we spent the river, which is far from another, as four hundred
yards, the one who comes from the Valle Grande snails: and this step
always down as a league, is the Volcancito that there are two good sites,
beautiful and comfortable for bathing. In this way there is a short
downhill very short but very poor, whose land is land and stones, easy
composition, and a regular expense, in respect of those streams,
will never be able to prevent the transit of carruage because the confluence
of the streams have not cited any danger, and the course of the two with
a regular flow. From this confluence, to the position of D. Maria
Jose Maturana, and also to the callers of the parag Quesera, the
road is bad, but also easy composition, because the land is equal to the
short history with a difference. It is true that there is no
way around this hillside village, or open road, but as we followed
the shore of the river, and not cost a regular amount, the difficulty
of the work: it is true that this maneuver should direct the a
physician trained in the art, and practical rather than theoretical:
it is not an engineer of the first order, at least that is second
to be able to handle, and ride with much prudence and economy.

Quesera to The City San Agustin de Talca, nor are there any pregnancy,
although the distance is about twenty miles, because the road is better
than the route from the city of Buenos Aires to the town of Lujan,
and that there are two small rivers and a stream crossing.
They pondered
long, and at last answered, 'that Atossa would become a queen and the
mother of mighty princes.'

"This answer really contented the king, and he smiled strangely to
himself as he told us his dream. 'The same day Kassandane sent for me and
told me to give up all thoughts of her daughter, as I valued my life.

"'Just as I was leaving the queen's garden I saw Atossa behind a
pomegranate-bush. She beckoned. I went to her; and in that hour we forgot
danger and sorrow, but said farewell to each other for ever. Now you know
all; and now that I have given her up--now that I know it would be
madness even to think of her again--I am obliged to be very stern with
myself, lest, like the king, I should fall into deep melancholy for the
sake of a woman. And this is the end of the story, the close of which we
were all expecting, when Atossa, as I lay under sentence of death, sent
me a rose, and made me the happiest of mortals. If I had not betrayed my
secret then, when we thought our last hour was near, it would have gone
with me to my grave. But what am I talking about? I know I can trust to
your secrecy, but pray don't look at me so deplorably. I think I am still
to be envied, for I have had one hour of enjoyment that would outweigh a
century of misery. Thank you,--thank you: now let me finish my story as
quickly as I can.

"Three days after I had taken leave of Atossa I had to marry Artystone,
the daughter of Gobryas. She is beautiful, and would make any other man
happy. The day after the wedding the Angare reached Babylon with the news
of your illness. My mind was made up at once; I begged the king to let me
go to you, nurse you, and warn you of the danger which threatens your
life in Egypt--took leave of my bride, in spite of all my father-in-law's
protestations, and went off at full speed with Prexaspes, never resting
till I reached your side, my dear Bartja. Now I shall go with you and
Zopyrus to Egypt, for Gyges must accompany the ambassador to Samos, as
interpreter. This is the king's command; he has been in better spirits
the last few days; the inspection of the masses of troops coming up to
Babylon diverts him, besides which, the Chaldaeans have assured him that
the planet Adar, which belongs to their war-god Chanon, promises a great
victory to the Persian arms. When do you think you shall be able to
travel, Bartja?"

"To-morrow, if you like," was the answer. "The doctors say the sea-voyage
will do me good, and the journey by land to Smyrna is very short."

"And I can assure you," added Zopyrus, "that Sappho will cure you sooner
than all the doctors in the world."

"Then we will start in three days;" said Darius after some consideration,
"we have plenty to do before starting. Remember we are going into what
may almost be called an enemy's country. I have been thinking the matter
over, and it seems to me that Bartja must pass for a Babylonian
carpet-merchant, I for his brother, and Zopyrus for a dealer in Sardian
red."

"Couldn't we be soldiers?" asked Zopyrus. "It's such an ignominious thing
to be taken for cheating peddlers. How would it be, for instance, if we
passed ourselves off for Lydian soldiers, escaped from punishment, and
seeking service in the Egyptian army?"

"That's not a bad idea," said Bartja, "and I think too that we look more
like soldiers than traders."

"Looks and manner are no guide," said Gyges. "Those great Greek merchants
and ship-owners go about as proudly as if the world belonged to them. But
I don't find Zopyrus' proposal a bad one."

"Then so let it be," said Darius, yielding. "In that case Oroetes must
provide us with the uniform of Lydian Taxiarchs."

"You'd better take the splendid dress of the Chiliarchs at once, I
think," cried Gyges.

"Why, on such young men, that would excite suspicion directly."

"But we can't appear as common soldiers."

"No, but as Hekatontarchs."

"All right," said Zopyrus laughing. "Anything you like except a
shop-keeper.--So in three days we are off. I am glad I shall just have
time to make sure of the satrap's little daughter, and to visit the grove
of Cybele at last. Now, goodnight, Bartja; don't get up too early. What
will Sappho say, if you come to her with pale cheeks?"


CHAPTER X.

The sun of a hot midsummer-day had risen on Naukratis. The Nile had
already begun to overflow its banks, and the fields and gardens of the
Egyptians were covered with water.

The harbor was crowded with craft of all kinds. Egyptian vessels were
there, manned by Phoenician colonists from the coasts of the Delta, and
bringing fine woven goods from Malta, metals and precious stones from
Sardinia, wine and copper from Cyprus. Greek triremes laden with oil,
wine and mastic-wood; metal-work and woollen wares from Chalcis,
Phoenician and Syrian craft with gaily-colored sails, and freighted with
cargoes of purple stuffs, gems, spices, glass-work, carpets and
cedar-trees,--used in Egypt, where wood was very scarce, for building
purposes, and taking back gold, ivory, ebony, brightly-plumaged tropical
birds, precious stones and black slaves,--the treasures of Ethiopia; but
more especially the far-famed Egyptian corn, Memphian chariots, lace from
Sais, and the finer sorts of papyrus. The time when commerce was carried
on merely by barter was now, however, long past, and the merchants of
Naukratis not seldom paid for their goods in gold coin and
carefully-weighed silver.

Large warehouses stood round the harbor of this Greek colony, and
slightly-built dwelling-houses, into which the idle mariners were lured
by the sounds of music and laughter, and the glances and voices of
painted and rouged damsels. Slaves, both white and colored, rowers and
steersmen, in various costumes, were hurrying hither and thither, while
the ships' captains, either dressed in the Greek fashion or in Phoenician
garments of the most glaring colors, were shouting orders to their crews
and delivering up their cargoes to the merchants. Whenever a dispute
arose, the Egyptian police with their long staves, and the Greek warders
of the harbor were quickly at hand. The latter were appointed by the
elders of the merchant-body in this Milesian colony.

The port was getting empty now, for the hour at which the market opened
was near, and none of the free Greeks cared to be absent from the
market-place then. This time, however, not a few remained behind,
curiously watching a beautifully-built Samian ship, the Okeia, with a
long prow like a swan's neck, on the front of which a likeness of the
goddess Hera was conspicuous. It was discharging its cargo, but the
public attention was more particularly attracted by three handsome
youths, in the dress of Lydian officers, who left the ship, followed by a
number of slaves carrying chests and packages.

The handsomest of the three travellers, in whom of course our readers
recognize their three young friends, Darius, Bartja and Zopyrus, spoke to
one of the harbor police and asked for the house of Theopompus the
Milesian, to whom they were bound on a visit.

Polite and ready to do a service, like all the Greeks, the police
functionary at once led the way across the market-place,--where the
opening of business had just been announced by the sound of a bell,--to a
handsome house, the property of the Milesian, Theopompus, one of the most
important and respected men in Naukratis.

The party, however, did not succeed in crossing the market-place without
hindrance. They found it easy enough to evade the importunities of
impudent fishsellers, and the friendly invitations of butchers, bakers,
sausage and vegetable-sellers, and potters. But when they reached the
part allotted to the flower-girls, Zopyrus was so enchanted with the
scene, that he clapped his hands for joy.

   [Separate portions of the market were set apart for the sale of
   different goods. The part appointed for the flower-sellers, who
   passed in general for no better than they should be, was called the
   "myrtle-market." Aristoph. Thesmoph. 448.]

Three wonderfully-lovely girls, in white dresses of some half-transparent
material, with colored borders, were seated together on low stools,
binding roses, violets and orange-blossoms into one long wreath. Their
charming heads were wreathed with flowers too, and looked very like the
lovely rosebuds which one of them, on seeing the young men come up, held
out to their notice.

Since his death, was the dark myth is that it was empty. Fate loves it,
patterns and characters to invent.

His difficulty is based on complicated. Life itself is hard but from
simplicity. It only has a few things beyond our reasonable size.
The Saints, by the fate refuses to elect them, God. But that the woman,
by nature, in relation to the man the same choice must calls the
fate of all love relationships up: schicksalslos determined and how
an eternal, it stands beside him, who transforms.

Always exceeds the lovers the lovers, because life is greater than
fate. Your dedication will be immense: this is their luck. The nameless
suffering, but their love is always been this: that it is required,
this devotion to restrict.

There is no other application ever been sued by women: the first
two letters contain Heloise only they, and five hundred years later
it rises from the letters of the Portuguese, you can see them again
like a Vogelruf.

And suddenly the light goes through this area of insight Sappho
distant figure, which for centuries was not, as they searched in
fate.

I have never dared to him by a newspaper to buy.

I'm not sure that he really always some numbers with them when he
is outside on the Luxembourg garden slowly moves back and forth all
evening long.

He returns to the back of the grid, and his hand touches the stone
edge, where the rods up.

   He is so flat that many a day pass, which he never saw. Although
   he still has a balance of voice and in acts, but that is not unlike
   a noise in a lamp or in the oven or if it is peculiar intervals
   in a cave drips.

And the world is set up so that people giebt that all her life
in the break coming when he, silent as everything that moves, moves
more like a pointer as a pointer shadow, like the time.

What was wrong I am reluctant to look. I am ashamed to note that I often
near the step of accepting others, as I knew him not. Then I heard it in
him, "La Presse" and then say again and a third time in quick
spaces.

And the people next to me looked around and looked at the vote. Only
urgent than I did all as if nothing struck me as I would be very busy
inside. And I was, in fact. I was busy, introduce him to me, I undertook
the work, it einzubilden, and the sweat came from me before exertion.

Because I had to make him like a dead man makes for no more evidence
there are no elements, the interior entirely to be done. I know now that
I helped a little, to the many Christs removed from streaky ivory to
think at all Althändlern lying around. The idea of any Pietà came before
and since -: all this is only likely to cause a certain tendency in
his long face is stopped, and the desolate young Bart in Wang
shade and painful blindness finally sealed his expression, the
upward sloping held was.

But it was also so much of what belonged to him, because that I
understood even then that nothing is irrelevant to him: not the way
the skirt or jacket, rear protruding over the collar to see him, this low
collar, in a large arc around the stretched, nischigen neck stand
without touching him and not the greenish-black tie, to the extent
the whole thing was herumgeschnallt, and especially not the hat,
an old, hochgewölbter, stiff felt hat that he wore Like all blind
people wear their hats: without reference to the lines of the face,
without the possibility of this additional and himself a new external
unit to form, not unlike any concerted foreign object.

In my cowardice, not to see, I brought it so far that the image of this
man finally often without reason and very painful to me to be so hard
zusammenzog misery, that I threatened them, decided the increasing
skill of my imagination by Foreign intimidate the fact and should
be repealed.

   It was towards evening. I took me immediately to alert him pass. Now
   you must know: it went to the spring. The Tagwind had laid, the
   streets were long and satisfied, at its output shone houses, new as
   fresh fracture of a white metal.

But it was a metal, a surprised by its lightness. In the broad, rolling
roads, many people were confused, the car almost without fear, which
were rare. It had to be a Sunday. The essays tower of Saint-Sulpice Fair
and showed unexpectedly high in the calm and through the narrow
streets almost Roman saw involuntarily into the season.

In the garden, and before that was so much movement of people that I saw
him not. Or I saw it first did not distinguish between the quantity?
I knew immediately that my idea was worthless. The no caution or
limited adjustment gave his misery exceeded my budget. I had neither
the inclination angle of his stance had yet grasped the horror with which
the inside of his eyelids he seemed continually to meet. I had never
thought of his mouth, which was recovered as the opening of a process.
Perhaps he had memories, but now was no longer something to his soul than
this daily amorphous feeling of the stone edge behind him on which his
hand is abnutzte. I was stehngeblieben, and while almost everything
I looked at the same time, I felt that he had a different hat and
a Sunday without a doubt, neck binding, it was slanted in yellow
and purple patterned squares, and what the hat, it was a cheaper
new straw hat with a green band.

It is of course nothing in these colors, and it is petty, that I've
kept it.

I just want to say to him that they were as soft on the underside of a bird.
He himself had no desire to, and who by all (I saw around me) was
allowed to think this state would be to him? My God, it fell to me with
vehemence, so are you also. It giebt evidence of your existence. I've
forgotten them all and have not ever required, because the obligation
would be approximately heuere in your certainty. And yet, now is shown
me. This is your taste, here hast thou pleasure.

The fact that we have learned above all to endure and not judge. What
are the major things? What are the merciful? Thou knowest it. If
it is winter again and I must have a new cloak, - gieb me that I
wear it so, as long as he is new. It's not that I differ from them will,
if I live in a better from the start my own clothes around and think
that, somewhere to live. I'm not so far. I do not have the heart to their
lives. When I received the arm, I think I hid it. But (I do not know who
else it was), they appeared every day in front of the cafe
terraces of houses, and though it was very difficult for them to dismiss
the mantle and from the obscure stuff out and under stuff, they spared
no effort to and did and moved out so long, that man could hardly expect
more. And then they stood before us, modestly, with its barren, stunted
piece, and you saw that it was rare. No, it's not that I differ from
them will, but I überhübe me, I wanted them equal. I'm not. I would
have neither their strength nor their degree. I feed myself, and I am
from meal to meal, geheimnislos completely, but they get almost
as eternal. They are in their daily corners, also in November, but not
before yelling winter. The fog comes and makes it unclear and uncertain,
they are nonetheless. I was traveling, I was sick a lot, I passed:
but they are not dead. (I know not even how it is possible that the
school Aufstehn in the chambers fully grauriechender cold; who they
define the skeleton hasty Chen, that they also run into the adult city
in the tilt of the cloudy night, the eternal in school, is still small,
always full anticipation, always late. I have no idea of the amount
of assistance, which are still to be consumed.) This city is
full of those who slowly to them hinabgleiten. Most balk at first, but
then it giebt this faded, aging girls who continually without
resistance hinüberlassen, strong, inwardly unused, have never been
loved.

Maybe you think, my God that I should leave everything and to love
them. Or why is it so difficult to me, not to pursue them if they overtake
me? Why I invent all at once the sweetest, nightly words and my voice
is gently between my throat and heart.

Why do I imagine, as I carefully unutterable would hold my breath,
these dolls, with which life has played them spring to spring for nothing
and nothing is hitting the arms deal until they were loose in the
shoulders.

You are never very high hopes of a fallen, they are not broken, but
behind them and are already living on the poor.

Only lost cats come to them in the evening the board and scrape
them secretly and sleep on them.

Sometimes I follow a two-lanes wide. They go to the houses that people
continually come, they hide it behind them continue to dwindle to nothing.
And yet, I know now if one tried, they liebzuhaben, they would be hard on
him as Zuweitgegangene, go to the stop . I believe that only Jesus ertrüge
them, yet the rise in all limbs has, but it is nothing to them.

             Only the lovers seduce
                    him, not those who wait with a little talent to lover like a cold
lamp.

I know if I'm destined to extremes, so it will not help me that I
adjust my clothes better.

He has not slipped in the middle of the kingdom under the last? He, instead
of positions hinabsank to the bottom. It is true that I have at times
to the other kings believed that although the Parke nothing more to prove.
But it is night, it's winter, I freeze, I believe in him. After all, the
glory is only a moment, and we have never seen anything longer than the
misery. But the king will take. Is not this the only one who got under
his own madness as wax flowers under a glass fall? For others they prayed
in the churches to long life, but he demanded the Chancellor Jean Charlier
Gerson, that he ever had, and that was when he was already poor,
bad and sheer poverty, despite its crown.

          That was then, as from time to time men stranger, with blackened
face, he attacked in his bed for him to fester hineingefaulte shirts
blocks, which he has long held for itself.

It was in the darkened room, and she pulled at his arms stiff crumbly
kernel, the scraps away as they attacked. Then a light, and only because
they discovered jäsige wound on his chest, into which the iron amulet
eingesunken because he is every night to be pressed with all the force
of his fervor, now it was deep in him, terribly expensive, in pus from
a Perlensaum Door like a rest in a hollow Reliquärs. It was tough henchman
chosen, but they were not ekelfest if the worms, disturbed by them
herüberstanden from the Flemish and fustian, from the folds fallen, somewhere
on their sleeves aufzogen. It was without doubt become worse with him since
the days of parva regina, for they had still with him is like,
young and clear as it was.

Then she died. And now no one had dared to Beischläferin to this anzubetten
Aas. She had the words and not leave tenderness with which the king
was to soften. So no one penetrated by this spirit Verwilderung, nobody
helped him from the canyons of his soul, no one understood it when he
suddenly acting out with the round eye of an animal, which goes to the
pasture.

If he is then employed face Juvenal saw him fell the kingdom, as it last
was. And he wanted to do what he had failed.

But it was due to the events of those times that they were not
gently teach.

Where something happened because it happened with all its severity,
and was like a piece if it is said.

Or something like this was to be deducted, that his brother was murdered
was that yesterday Valentina Visconti who he always called his dear
sister, before gekniet he had a loud black widow weghebend disfigured face
of the complaint and accusation? And today was a tough hours, rediger
attorney there and proved the law of the princely donor murder, until
the crime was translucent and light as if it is in heaven. And bade
fair, give everyone because Valentina sorrow of Orléans died, although
she promised revenge. And what helped to give the Burgundian Duke to
forgive and to forgive again, was on the dark rut of despair has
come so that he has for weeks deep in the forest of Argilly lived
in a tent and claimed that at night the deer to have to hear screaming
to his relief.

   When you consider all that had, again and again until the end, just
   as it was so coveted that people a to see, and it saw one: perplexed.

But the people rejoiced in the sight, it understood that this was the king:
this silence, this patient, who was only there to make it admit that God
acted through him away late in his impatience. In these enlightened moments
on the balcony his Hôtels Saint-Pol suspected the king perhaps its
secret progress, the day of Roosbecke dropped him when his uncle of Berry
by the hand he had to add lead him before his first final victory, because
he overlooked the odd langhellen November day the masses of Ghent,
just as they had strangles itself with its own narrow, because anger
against them has been cut from all sides. Ineinandergewunden unge heueres
like a brain, because they were in the pile, which they had bound themselves
together in order to be tight. The air was a way if you here and
there choked their faces looked, you could not leave it to imagine
that they are far above those still standing before the crowd corpses
had been displaced by the sudden exit of so many desperate
souls. This had stamped him as the beginning of his fame. And he had
kept it. But if at the time of the triumph of death was, it was this that
he was on his knees weak, upright in all these eyes: the mystery of love.
On the other he had seen that you understand that the battlefield was so
immense it was. This here would not be grasped, it was just so wonderful
like the stag with the golden collar in the forest of Senlis. Only now
that he himself was the appearance, and others were absorbed in watching.
And he doubted not that they were breathless and wide by the same
expectation as it once on that Jagdtag youths attacked, as the silent
face, äugend, came from the branches. The secret of its visibility
spread about his gentle form, he did not, from shyness to pass, the
thin smile on his broad simple face took on a natural duration as
saints and tried to stone him.

So he gave himself, and it was one of those moments that are forever
in shortening seen. The crowd hardly endured. Encouraged by increased
inexhaustible consolation fed, they broke through the silence with a cry
of joy. But on top of the balcony was only Juvenal of Ursin, and he
cried into the next calm inside, that the king rue Saint-Denis would
come to the Passion of brotherhood, the mysteries are. These days the
king was fully mild consciousness.

Had a painter of that time sought an indication of the existence in
paradise, he would have no more perfect example can be fed as a
figure of the king, as in one of the tall windows of the Louvre was
the fall of their shoulders.

He scrolls in the small book of Christine de Pisan, the "The path of
learning" is and was dedicated to him.

He read not dispute the learned speeches of that allegorical Parliament,
which was prefixed to the prince to find, the worthy, about the
world to prevail.

The book suggested to him always the easiest places on: where the heart
of the speech was the thirteen years as a piston on the pain the fire
had just served, the water of bitterness for the eyes to distill
and he understood that the true Konsolation only began when the
fortune passed enough and was gone for ever.

Nothing was closer to him than this consolation. And while his gaze over
the bridge apparently included, loved it, by that of the strong Cumäa
major routes taken to heart the world to see the former: the risky
seas fremdtürmige cities, which hold the lengths of expression;
collected Mountains ecstatic loneliness and the doubt researched
fürchtigem sky, which only included such as a bowl Saugkindes brain. But
if someone happened, so he was shocked, and slowly beschlug his mind. He
admitted that he was continuing from the window and it employed. They
had him in the habit taught hours over images to admire, and he was
happy, only it grieved him that never leaves you in front of several
pictures and that she kept in folios festsaßen, so that they can not move
between them could . Because someone had a game maps out the completely
forgotten, and the king was in favor of it brought him so much, these
boxes after his heart, which were colorful and individually moving and
full of character. And while the card under the court came into
fashion, the king sat in his library, and played alone. Just like he now
has two co-kings aufschlug, so God had him recently and joined the
Emperor Wenzel, sometimes a queen died, then he laid a heart-Aß on
them, that was like a tombstone. She was surprised it did not make it
in this game were several popes, he directed over Rome on the edge of the
table, and here, under his rights, was Avignon. Rome was indifferent to
him, he put it, for whatever reason, some before and was not further
it. But he knew Avignon. And he thought it unlikely, then repeated his
reminder to the high hermetic palace and überanstrengte themselves. He
closed his eyes and had deep breath. He was afraid to dream bös next
night. On the whole, however, it was really a calming employment, and
they were right, it always pointed to. Such hours fortified him in the
view that he was the king, King Charles the Sixth. That is not to say
that he exaggerated, he was far from the thoughts, more so than a leaf,
but the certainty is reinforced in him that he also had a certain card,
maybe a bad, an angry from specific to ever lost: but always the same,
but never another. And yet, when a week was gone in regular self-affirmation,
as he was close to him.

The skin stretched it to the forehead and neck as he empfände at once
to clear its contour. Nobody knew what he nachgab temptation when he
then asked the mystery and not expect was that they were starting. And
it was once so far, so he lived longer rue Saint-Denis in his Hötel of
Saint-Pol.

It was the Fateful shown these poems, that they are constantly
supplemented and enlarged, and tens of thousands of verses grew, so
the time in them, finally, the real was, like, when did you have
a globe in the scale of the earth.

The hollow Estrade, under the hell was over and, to a pillar grown,
the scaffold of a balcony geländerlose the level of paradise meant
contributed only help to reduce the deception.

Because this year, hundreds had indeed earthly heaven and hell made it
lived from the forces of both in order to survive. There were the days
that avignonesischen Christianity, particularly a human age by
John the Twenty-second had drawn together, with so much involuntary
refuge that in the places of his pontificate, just after him, the
weight of the palace arose, closed and hard like an extreme Notleib
for wohnlose soul of all.

He himself, however, the small, light, spiritual man, lived in the open.
While he barely arrived without delay, on all sides quickly and
just started to act, the dishes were spiced with poison on his
table, the first cup had always weggeschüttet, because the piece
was mißfarbig Einhorn, when it comes to the mouth Treasurer
withdrawing.

Perplexed, not knowing where he should hide it, wore the Siebzigjährige
around the wax effigies, which he had made to him is to spoil, and he
scratched at the long needles with which they were pierced. You could
melt down .

But he had been hidden in these Simulakern appalled that he, against his
strong will, several times the idea formed, he might kill himself so
his Hinsch and wind as the wax on fire. His body was reduced only by
the horror of dry and durable. But now we ventured to the body of
his empire, from Granada, the Jews have been instigated, to all
Christian Vertilger, and this is terrible, they had bought with the
executor.

The building of a
place of sacrifice for the Greeks at Memphis has long been put a stop
to."

"But here," said Darius, "we saw a number of splendid temples as we came
up from the harbor."

"Oh, yes, we have several.--Ah, there comes Zopyrus; the slaves are
carrying a perfect grove of garlands behind him. He's laughing so
heartily, he must have amused himself famously with the flower-girls.
Good-morning, my friend. The sad news which fills all Naukratis does not
seem to disturb you much."

"Oh, for anything I care, Amasis may go on living a hundred years yet.
But if he dies now, people will have something else to do beside looking
after us. When do you set off for Rhodopis' house, friends?"

"At dusk."

"Then please, ask her to accept these flowers from me. I never thought I
could have been so taken by an old woman before. Every word she says
sounds like music, and though she speaks so gravely and wisely it's as
pleasant to the ear as a merry joke. But I shan't go with you this time,
Bartja; I should only be in the way. Darius, what have you made up your
mind to do?"

"I don't want to lose one chance of a conversation with Rhodopis."

"Well, I don't blame you. You're all for learning and knowing everything,
and I'm for enjoying. Friends, what do you say to letting me off this
evening? You see. . . ."

"I know all about it," interrupted Bartja laughing: "You've only seen the
flower-girls by daylight as yet, and you would like to know how they look
by lamplight."

"Yes, that's it," said Zopyrus, putting on a grave face. "On that point I
am quite as eager after knowledge as Darius."

"Well, we wish you much pleasure with your three sisters."

"No, no, not all three, if you please; Stephanion, the youngest, is my
favorite."

Morning had already dawned when Bartja, Darius and Theopompus left
Rhodopis' house. Syloson, a Greek noble who had been banished from his
native land by his own brother, Polykrates the tyrant, had been spending
the evening with them, and was now returning in their company to
Naukratis, where he had been living many years.

This man, though an exile, was liberally supplied with money by his
brother, kept the most brilliant establishment in Naukratis, and was as
famous for his extravagant hospitality as for his strength and
cleverness. Syloson was a very handsome man too, and so remarkable for
the good taste and splendor of his dress, that the youth of Naukratis
prided themselves on imitating the cut and hang of his robes. Being
unmarried, he spent many of his evenings at Rhodopis' house, and had been
told the secret of her granddaughter's betrothal.

On that evening it had been settled, that in four days the marriage
should be celebrated with the greatest privacy. Bartja had formally
betrothed himself to Sappho by eating a quince with her, on the same day
on which she had offered sacrifices to Zeus, Hera, and the other deities
who protected marriage. The wedding-banquet was to be given at the house
of Theopompus, which was looked upon as the bridegroom's. The prince's
costly bridal presents had been entrusted to Rhodopis' care, and Bartja
had insisted on renouncing the paternal inheritance which belonged to his
bride and on transferring it to Rhodopis, notwithstanding her determined
resistance.

Syloson accompanied the friends to Rhodopis' house, and was just about to
leave them, when a loud noise in the streets broke the quiet stillness of
the night, and soon after, a troop of the watch passed by, taking a man
to prison. The prisoner seemed highly indignant, and the less his broken
Greek oaths and his utterances in some other totally unintelligible
language were understood by the Egyptian guards, the more violent he
became.

Directly Bartja and Darius heard the voice they ran up, and recognized
Zopyrus at once.

Syloson and Theopompus stopped the guards, and asked what their captive
had done. The officer on duty recognized them directly; indeed every
child in Naukratis knew the Milesian merchant and the brother of the
tyrant Polykrates by sight; and he answered at once, with a respectful
salutation, that the foreign youth they were leading away had been guilty
of murder.

Theopompus then took him on one side and endeavored, by liberal promises,
to obtain the freedom of the prisoner. The man, however, would concede
nothing but a permission to speak with his captive. Meanwhile his friends
begged Zopyrus to tell them at once what had happened, and heard the
following story: The thoughtless fellow had visited the flower-girls at
dusk and remained till dawn. He had scarcely closed their housedoor on
his way home, when he found himself surrounded by a number of young men,
who had probably been lying in wait for him, as he had already had a
quarrel with one of them, who called himself the betrothed lover of
Stephanion, on that very morning. The girl had told her troublesome
admirer to leave her flowers alone, and had thanked Zopyrus for
threatening to use personal violence to the intruder. When the young
Achaemenidae found himself surrounded, he drew his sword and easily
dispersed his adversaries, as they were only armed with sticks, but
chanced to wound the jealous lover, who was more violent than the rest,
so seriously, that he fell to the ground. Meanwhile the watch had come
up, and as Zopyrus' victim howled "thieves" and "murder" incessantly,
they proceeded to arrest the offender. This was not so easy. His blood
was up, and rushing on them with his drawn sword, he had already cut his
way through the first troop when a second came up. He was not to be
daunted, attacked them too, split the skull of one, wounded another in
the arm and was taking aim for a third blow, when he felt a cord round
his neck. It was drawn tighter and tighter till at last he could not
breathe and fell down insensible. By the time he came to his senses he
was bound, and notwithstanding all his appeals to his pass and the name
of Theopompus, was forced to follow his captors.

When the tale was finished the Milesian did not attempt to conceal his
strong disapprobation, and told Zopyrus that his most unseasonable love
of fighting might be followed by the saddest consequences. After saying
this, he turned to the officer and begged him to accept his own personal
security for the prisoner. The other, however, refused gravely, saying he
might forfeit his own life by doing so, as a law existed in Egypt by
which the concealer of a murder was condemned to death. He must, he
assured them, take the culprit to Sais and deliver him over to the
Nomarch for punishment. "He has murdered an Egyptian," were his last
words, "and must therefore be tried by an Egyptian supreme court. In any
other case I should be delighted to render you any service in my power."

During this conversation Zopyrus had been begging his friends not to take
any trouble about him. "By Mithras," he cried, when Bartja offered to
declare himself to the Egyptians as a means of procuring his freedom, "I
vow I'll stab myself without a second thought, if you give yourselves up
to those dogs of Egyptians. Why the whole town is talking about the war
already, and do you think that if Psamtik knew he'd got such splendid
game in his net, he would let you loose? He would keep you as hostages,
of course. No, no, my friends. Good-bye; may Auramazda send you his best
blessings! and don't quite forget the jovial Zopyrus, who lived and died
for love and war."

The captain of the band placed himself at the head of his men, gave the
order to march, and in a few minutes Zopyrus was out of sight.


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Corpse to be torn in pieces by dogs and vultures
     He is the best host, who allows his guests the most freedom
     The past belongs to the dead; only fools count upon the future
     They praise their butchers more than their benefactors
     We've talked a good deal of love with our eyes already
     Wise men hold fast by the ever young present


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 9.


CHAPTER XI.

According to the law of Egypt, Zopyrus had deserved death.

As soon as his friends heard this, they resolved to go to Sais and try to
rescue him by stratagem. Syloson, who had friends there and could speak
the Egyptian language well, offered to help them.

Bartja and Darius disguised themselves so completely by dyeing their hair
and eyebrows and wearing broad-brimmed felt-hats,--that they could
scarcely recognize each other. Theopompus provided them with ordinary
Greek dresses, and, an hour after Zopyrus' arrest, they met the
splendidly-got-up Syloson on the shore of the Nile, entered a boat
belonging to him and manned by his slaves, and, after a short sail,
favored by the wind, reached Sais,--which lay above the waters of the
inundation like an island,--before the burning midsummer sun had reached
its noonday height.

They disembarked at a remote part of the town and walked across the
quarter appropriated to the artisans. The workmen were busy at their
calling, notwithstanding the intense noonday heat. The baker's men were
at work in the open court of the bakehouse, kneading bread--the coarser
kind of dough with the feet, the finer with the hands. Loaves of various
shapes were being drawn out of the ovens-round and oval cakes, and rolls
in the form of sheep, snails and hearts. These were laid in baskets, and
the nimble baker's boys would put three, four, or even five such baskets
on their heads at once, and carry them off quickly and safely to the
customers living in other quarters of the city. A butcher was
slaughtering an ox before his house, the creature's legs having been
pinioned; and his men were busy sharpening their knives to cut up a wild
goat. Merry cobblers were calling out to the passers-by from their
stalls; carpenters, tailors, joiners and weavers--were all there, busy at
their various callings. The wives of the work-people were going out
marketing, leading their naked children by the hand, and some soldiers
were loitering near a man who was offering beer and wine for sale.

But our friends took very little notice of what was going on in the
streets through which they passed; they followed Syloson in silence.

At the Greek guard-house he asked them to wait for him. Syloson,
happening to know the Taxiarch who was on duty that day, went in and
asked him if he had heard anything of a man accused of murder having been
brought from Naukratis to Sais that morning.

"Of course," said the Greek. "It's not more than half an hour since he
arrived. As they found a purse full of money in his girdle, they think he
must be a Persian spy. I suppose you know that Cambyses is preparing for
war with Egypt."

"Impossible!"

"No, no, it's a fact. The prince-regent has already received information.
A caravan of Arabian merchants arrived yesterday at Pelusium, and brought
the news."

"It will prove as false as their suspicions about this poor young Lydian.
I know him well, and am very sorry for the poor fellow. He belongs to one
of the richest families in Sardis, and only ran away for fear of the
powerful satrap Oroetes, with whom he had had a quarrel. I'll tell you
the particulars when you come to see me next in Naukratis. Of course
you'll stay a few days and bring some friends. My brother has sent me
some wine which beats everything I ever tasted. It's perfect nectar, and
I confess I grudge offering it to any one who's not, like you, a perfect
judge in such matters." The Taxiarch's face brightened up at these words,
and grasping Syloson's hand, he exclaimed. "By the dog, my friend, we
shall not wait to be asked twice; we'll come soon enough and take a good
pull at your wine-skins. How would it be if you were to ask Archidice,
the three flower-sisters, and a few flute-playing-girls to supper?"

   [Archidice--A celebrated Hetaira of Naukratis mentioned by Herod.
   II. 135. Flute-playing girls were seldom missing at the young
   Greeks' drinking-parties]

"They shall all be there. By the bye, that reminds me that the
flower-girls were the cause of that poor young Lydian's imprisonment.
Some jealous idiot attacked him before their house with a number of
comrades. The hot-brained young fellow defended himself . . . ."

"And knocked the other down?"

"Yes; and so that he'll never get up again."

"The boy must be a good boxer."

"He had a sword."

"So much the better for him."

"No, so much the worse; for his victim was an Egyptian."

"That's a bad job. I fear it can only have an unfortunate end. A
foreigner, who kills an Egyptian, is as sure of death as if he had the
rope already round his neck. However, just now he'll get a few days'
grace; the priests are all so busy praying for the dying king that they
have no time to try criminals."

"I'd give a great deal to be able to save that poor fellow. I know his
father."

"Yes, and then after all he only did his duty. A man must defend
himself."

"Do you happen to know where he is imprisoned?"

"Of course I do. The great prison is under repair, and so he has been put
for the present in the storehouse between the principal guard-house of
the Egyptian body-guard and the sacred grove of the temple of Neith. I
have only just come home from seeing them take him there."

"He is strong and has plenty of courage; do you think he could get away,
if we helped him?"

"No, it would be quite impossible; he's in a room two stories high; the
only window looks into the sacred grove, and that, you know, is
surrounded by a ten-foot wall, and guarded like the treasury. There are
double sentries at every gate. There's only one place where it is left
unguarded during the inundation season, because, just here, the water
washes the walls. These worshippers of animals are as cautious as
water-wagtails."

"Well, it's a great pity, but I suppose we must leave the poor fellow to
his fate. Good-bye, Doemones; don't forget my invitation."

The Samian left the guard-room and went back directly to the two friends,
who were waiting impatiently for him.

They listened eagerly to his tidings, and when he had finished his
description of the prison, Darius exclaimed: "I believe a little courage
will save him. He's as nimble as a cat, and as strong as a bear. I have
thought of a plan."

"Let us hear it," said Syloson, "and let me give an opinion as to its
practicability."

"We will buy some rope-ladders, some cord, and a good bow, put all these
into our boat, and row to the unguarded part of the temple-wall at dusk.
You must then help me to clamber over it. I shall take the things over
with me and give the eagle's cry. Zopyras will know at once, because,
since we were children, we have been accustomed to use it when we were
riding or hunting together. Then I shall shoot an arrow, with the cord
fastened to it, up into his window, (I never miss), tell him to fasten a
weight to it and let it down again to me. I shall then secure the
rope-ladder to the cord, Zopyrus will draw the whole affair up again, and
hang it on an iron nail,--which, by the bye, I must not forget to send up
with the ladder, for who knows whether he may have such a thing in his
cell. He will then come down on it, go quickly with me to the part of the
wall where you will be waiting with the boat, and where there must be
another rope-ladder, spring into the boat, and there he is-safe!"

"First-rate, first-rate!" cried Bartja.

"But very dangerous," added Syloson. "If we are caught in the sacred
grove, we are certain to be severely punished. The priests hold strange
nightly festivals there, at which every one but the initiated is strictly
forbidden to appear. I believe, however, that these take place on the
lake, and that is at some distance from Zopyrus' prison."

"So much the better," cried Darius; "but now to the main point. We must
send at once, and ask Theopompus to hire a fast trireme for us, and have
it put in sailing order at once. The news of Cambyses' preparations have
already reached Egypt; they take us for spies, and will be sure not to
let either Zopyrus or his deliverers escape, if they can help it. It
would be a criminal rashness to expose ourselves uselessly to danger.
Bartja, you must take this message yourself, and must marry Sappho this
very day, for, come what may, we must leave Naukratis to-morrow. Don't
contradict me, my friend, my brother! You know our plan, and you must see
that as only one can act in it, your part would be that of a mere
looker-on. As it was my own idea I am determined to carry it out myself.
We shall meet again to-morrow, for Auramazda protects the friendship of
the pure."

It was a long time before they could persuade Bartja to leave his friends
in the lurch, but their entreaties and representations at last took
effect, and he went down towards the river to take a boat for Naukratis,
Darius and Syloson going at the same time to buy the necessary implements
for their plan.

In order to reach the place where boats were to be hired, Bartja had to
pass by the temple of Neith. This was not easy, as an immense crowd was
assembled at the entrance-gates. He pushed his way as far as the obelisks
near the great gate of the temple with its winged sun-disc and fluttering
pennons, but there the temple-servants prevented him from going farther;
they were keeping the avenue of sphinxes clear for a procession. The
gigantic doors of the Pylon opened, and Bartja, who, in spite of himself,
had been pushed into the front row, saw a brilliant procession come out
of the temple. The unexpected sight of many faces he had formerly known
occupied his attention so much, that he scarcely noticed the loss of his
broad-brimmed hat, which had been knocked off in the crowd. From the
conversation of two Ionian mercenaries behind him he learnt that the
family of Amasis had been to the temple to pray for the dying king.

The procession was headed by richly-decorated priests, either wearing
long white robes or pantherskins. They were followed by men holding
office at the court, and carrying golden staves, on the ends of which
peacocks' feathers and silver lotus-flowers were fastened, and these by
Pastophori, carrying on their shoulders a golden cow, the animal sacred
to Isis. When the crowd had bowed down before this sacred symbol, the
queen appeared. She was dressed in priestly robes and wore a costly
head-dress with the winged disc and the Uraeus. In her left hand she held
a sacred golden sistrum, the tones of which were to scare away Typhon,
and in her right some lotus-flowers. The wife, daughter and sister of the
high-priest followed her, in similar but less splendid ornaments. Then
came the heir to the throne, in rich robes of state, as priest and
prince; and behind him four young priests in white carrying Tachot, (the
daughter of Amasis and Ladice and the pretended sister of Nitetis,) in an
open litter. The heat of the day, and the earnestness of her prayers, had
given the sick girl a slight color. Her blue eyes, filled with tears,
were fixed on the sistrum which her weak, emaciated hands had hardly
strength to hold.

A murmur of compassion ran through the crowd; for they loved their dying
king, and manifested openly and gladly the sympathy so usually felt for
young lives from whom a brilliant future has been snatched by disease.
Such was Amasis' young, fading daughter, who was now being carried past
them, and many an eye grew dim as the beautiful invalid came in sight.
Tachot seemed to notice this, for she raised her eyes from the sistrum
and looked kindly and gratefully at the crowd. Suddenly the color left
her face, she turned deadly pale, and the golden sistrum fell on to the
stone pavement with a clang, close to Bartja's feet. He felt that he had
been recognized and for one moment thought of hiding himself in the
crowd; but only for one moment--his chivalrous feeling gained the day, he
darted forward, picked up the sistrum, and forgetting the danger in which
he was placing himself, held it out to the princess.

Tachot looked at him earnestly before taking the golden sistrum from his
hands, and then said, in a low voice, which only he could understand:
"Are you Bartja? Tell me, in your mother's name--are you Bartja?"

"Yes, I am," was his answer, in a voice as low as her own, "your friend,
Bartja."

He could not say more, for the priests pushed him back among the crowd.
When he was in his old place, he noticed that Tachot, whose bearers had
begun to move on again, was looking round at him. The color had come back
into her cheeks, and her bright eyes were trying to meet his. He did not
avoid them; she threw him a lotus-bud-he stooped to pick it up, and then
broke his way through the crowd, for this hasty act had roused their
attention.

A quarter of an hour later, he was seated in the boat which was to take
him to Sappho and to his wedding. He was quite at ease now about Zopyrus.
In Bartja's eyes his friend was already as good as saved, and in spite of
the dangers which threatened himself, he felt strangely calm and happy,
he could hardly say why.

Meanwhile the sick princess had been carried home, had had her oppressive
ornaments taken off, and her couch carried on to one of the
palace-balconies where she liked best to pass the hot summer days,
sheltered by broad-leaved plants, and a kind of awning.

From this veranda, she could look down into the great fore-court of the
palace, which was planted with trees. To-day it was full of priests,
courtiers, generals and governors of provinces. Anxiety and suspense were
expressed in every face: Amasis' last hour was drawing very near.

Tachot could not be seen from below; but listening with feverish
eagerness, she could hear much that was said. Now that they had to dread
the loss of their king, every one, even the priests, were full of his
praises. The wisdom and circumspection of his plans and modes of
government, his unwearied industry, the moderation he had always shown,
the keenness of his wit, were, each and all, subjects of admiration. "How
Egypt has prospered under Amasis' government!" said a Nomarch. "And what
glory he gained for our arms, by the conquest of Cyprus and the war with
the Libyans!" cried one of the generals. "How magnificently he
embellished our temples, and what great honors he paid to the goddess of
Sais!" exclaimed one of the singers of Neith. "And then how gracious and
condescending he was!" murmured a courtier. "How cleverly he managed to
keep peace with the great powers!" said the secretary of state, and the
treasurer, wiping away a tear, cried: "How thoroughly he understood the
management of the revenue! Since the reign of Rameses III. the treasury
has not been so well filled as now." "Psamtik comes into a fine
inheritance," lisped the courtier, and the soldier exclaimed, "Yes, but
it's to be feared that he'll not spend it in a glorious war; he's too
much under the influence of the priests." "No, you are wrong there,"
answered the temple-singer. "For some time past, our lord and master has
seemed to disdain the advice of his most faithful servants." "The
successor of such a father will find it difficult to secure universal
approbation," said the Nomarch. "It is not every one who has the
intellect, the good fortune and the wisdom of Amasis." "The gods know
that!" murmured the warrior with a sigh.

Tachot's tears flowed fast. These words were a confirmation of what they
had been trying to hide from her: she was to lose her dear father soon.

After she had made this dreadful certainty clear to her own mind, and
discovered that it was in vain to beg her attendants to carry her to her
dying father, she left off listening to the courtiers below, and began
looking at the sistrum which Bartja himself had put into her hand, and
which she had brought on to the balcony with her, as if seeking comfort
there. And she found what she sought; for it seemed to her as if the
sound of its sacred rings bore her away into a smiling, sunny landscape.

That faintness which so often comes over people in decline, had seized
her and was sweetening her last hours with pleasant dreams.

The female slaves, who stood round to fan away the flies, said afterwards
that Tachot had never looked so lovely.

She had lain about an hour in this state, when her breathing became more
difficult, a slight cough made her breast heave, and the bright red blood
trickled down from her lips on to her white robe. She awoke, and looked
surprised and disappointed on seeing the faces round her. The sight of
her mother, however, who came on to the veranda at that moment, brought a
smile to her face, and she said, "O mother, I have had such a beautiful
dream."

"Then our visit to the temple has done my dear child good?" asked the
queen, trembling at the sight of the blood on the sick girl's lips.

"Oh, yes, mother, so much! for I saw him again." Ladice's glance at the
attendants seemed to ask "Has your poor mistress lost her senses?" Tachot
understood the look and said, evidently speaking with great difficulty:
"You think I am wandering, mother. No, indeed, I really saw and spoke to
him. He gave me my sistrum again, and said he was my friend, and then he
took my lotus-bud and vanished. Don't look so distressed and surprised,
mother. What I say is really true; it is no dream.--There, you hear,
Tentrut saw him too. He must have come to Sais for my sake, and so the
child-oracle in the temple-court did not deceive me, after all. And now I
don't feel anything more of my illness; I dreamt I was lying in a field
of blooming poppies, as red as the blood of the young lambs that are
offered in sacrifice; Bartja was sitting by my side, and Nitetis was
kneeling close to us and playing wonderful songs on a Nabla made of
ivory. And there was such a lovely sound in the air that I felt as if
Horus, the beautiful god of morning, spring, and the resurrection, was
kissing me. Yes, mother, I tell you he is coming soon, and when I am
well, then--then--ah, mother what is this? . . . I am dying!"

Ladice knelt down by her child's bed and pressed her lips in burning
kisses on the girl's eyes as they grew dim in death.

An hour later she was standing by another bedside--her dying husband's.

Severe suffering had disfigured the king's features, the cold
perspiration was standing on his forehead, and his hands grasped the
golden lions on the arms of the deep-seated invalid chair in which he was
resting, almost convulsively.

When Ladice came in he opened his eyes; they were as keen and intelligent
as if he had never lost his sight.

"Why do not you bring Tachot to me?" he asked in a dry voice.

"She is too ill, and suffers so much, that . . ."

"She is dead! Then it is well with her, for death is not punishment; it
is the end and aim of life,--the only end that we can attain without
effort, but through sufferings!--the gods alone know how great. Osiris
has taken her to himself, for she was innocent. And Nitetis is dead too.
Where is Nebenchari's letter?"

"Here is the place: 'She took her own life, and died calling down a heavy
curse on thee and thine. The poor, exiled, scorned and plundered oculist
Nebenchari in Babylon sends thee this intelligence to Egypt. It is as
true as his own hatred of thee.' Listen to these words, Psamtik, and
remember how on his dying bed thy father told thee that, for every drachm
of pleasure purchased on earth by wrong-doing, the dying bed will be
burdened by a talent's weight of remorse. Fearful misery is coming on
Egypt for Nitetis' sake. Cambyses is preparing to make war on us. He will
sweep down on Egypt like a scorching wind from the desert. Much, which I
have staked my nightly sleep and the very marrow of my existence to bring
into existence, will be annihilated. Still I have not lived in vain. For
forty years I have been the careful father and benefactor of a great
nation. Children and children's children will speak of Amasis as a great,
wise and humane king; they will read my name on the great works which I
have built in Sais and Thebes, and will praise the greatness of my power.
Neither shall I be condemned by Osiris and the forty-two judges of the
nether world; the goddess of truth, who holds the balances, will find
that my good deeds outweigh my bad."--Here the king sighed deeply and
remained silent for some time. Then, looking tenderly at his wife, he
said: "Ladice, thou hast been a faithful, virtuous wife to me. For this I
thank thee, and ask thy forgiveness for much. We have often misunderstood
one another. Indeed it was easier for me to accustom myself to the Greek
modes of thought, than for a Greek to understand our Egyptian ideas. Thou
know'st my love of Greek art,--thou know'st how I enjoyed the society of
thy friend Pythagoras, who was thoroughly initiated in all that we
believe and know, and adopted much from us. He comprehended the deep
wisdom which lies in the doctrines that I reverence most, and he took
care not to speak lightly of truths which our priests are perhaps too
careful to hide from the people; for though the many bow down before that
which they cannot understand, they would be raised and upheld by those
very truths, if explained to them. To a Greek mind our worship of animals
presents the greatest difficulty, but to my own the worship of the
Creator in his creatures seems more just and more worthy of a human
being, than the worship of his likeness in stone. The Greek deities are
moreover subject to every human infirmity; indeed I should have made my
queen very unhappy by living in the same manner as her great god Zeus."

At these words the king smiled, and then went on: "And what has given
rise to this? The Hellenic love of beauty in form, which, in the eye of a
Greek, is superior to every thing else. He cannot separate the body from
the soul, because he holds it to be the most glorious of formed things,
and indeed, believes that a beautiful spirit must necessarily inhabit a
beautiful body. Their gods, therefore, are only elevated human beings,
but we adore an unseen power working in nature and in ourselves. The
animal takes its place between ourselves and nature; its actions are
guided, not, like our own, by the letter, but by the eternal laws of
nature, which owe their origin to the Deity, while the letter is a device
of man's own mind. And then, too, where amongst ourselves do we find so
earnest a longing and endeavor to gain freedom, the highest good, as
among the animals? Where such a regular and well-balanced life from
generation to generation, without instruction or precept?"

Here the king's voice failed. He was obliged to pause for a few moments,
and then continued: "I know that my end is near; therefore enough of
these matters. My son and successor, hear my last wishes and act upon
them; they are the result of experience. But alas! how often have I seen,
that rules of life given by one man to another are useless. Every man
must earn his own experience. His own losses make him prudent, his own
learning wise. Thou, my son, art coming to the throne at a mature age;
thou hast had time and opportunity to judge between right and wrong, to
note what is beneficial and what hurtful, to see and compare many things.
I give thee, therefore, only a few wholesome counsels, and only fear that
though I offer them with my right hand, thou wilt accept them with the
left.

"First, however, I must say that, notwithstanding my blindness, my
indifference to what has been going on during the past months has been
only apparent. I left you to your own devices with a good intention.
Rhodopis told me once one of her teacher AEsop's fables: 'A traveller,
meeting a man on his road, asked him how long it would be before he
reached the nearest town.' 'Go on, go on,' cried the other. 'But I want
to know first when I shall get to the town.' 'Go on, only go on,' was the
answer. The traveller left him with angry words and abuse; but he had not
gone many steps when the man called after him: 'You will be there in an
hour. I could not answer your question until I had seen your pace.'

"I bore this fable in my mind for my son's sake, and watched in silence
at what pace he was ruling his people. Now I have discovered what I wish
to know, and this is my advice: Examine into everything your self. Scarcely
had I created one of these suits, I had to admit that I got into his
power, that he give me my movements, my facial expression, and even
instructed my ideas, my hand on the top cuff and was dropped again, was
perfectly not my usual source, they moved like a player, yes, I would
say that they saw themselves to be so exaggerated as this sounds. These
adjustments, however, never went so far that I felt alienated from
myself, on the contrary, ever more diverse, I abwandelte, the more
convinced I was of myself I became bolder and bolder, and I always
threw me later, because my skill in catching was beyond all doubt.

I noticed not the temptation in this fast-growing security. To my doom was
missing only that the last cabinet, which I previously thought not
to be able to open one day nachgab for me, instead of costumes, all sorts
of vague stuff mask extradite its fantastic to me about the blood
drive in the cheeks. It does not enumerate what it all was. Except for
a Bautta which I correctly, there were dominoes in various colors, there
Mrs skirts, bright ringing of the coins with which they were benäht;
Pierrots gave it to me silly occurred, and wrinkled, Turkish and Persian
trousers caps from which small camphor bag herausglitten and Kronreifen
with silly expressive loose stones. This is all I despised a little, it
was so meager and unreality hung so abgebalgt and armsälig there and
accepts schlappte together when it comes to light herauszerrte. As for
me, but in a kind of intoxicating transferees, the coats were spacious,
the towels the scarf, the veil, all of these yielding large, unused
materials, which were soft and flattering, or so smoothly that you
hardly got to act, or so easy that they like a wind in a vorbeiflogen,
or simply difficult to reconcile with its full load. In them I saw
only truly free and unlimited mobile opportunities: a slave to be sold,
or Jeanne d'Arc to be old or a king or a wizard, all you had now in hand,
especially since even as masks were looming large or astonished faces
with real beards and full or raised eyebrows. I had never seen masks
before, but I saw immediately that it must give masks. I had to laugh when
I einfiel that we had a dog that is exception, as he would a. I presented
me with his warm eyes, which always hineinsahen back into the hairy face.
I laughed even while I was disguised, and I totally forgot about
what I really wanted to imagine.

Well, it was new and exciting, the first post in front of the mirror to
decide. The face that I Vorband, smelled peculiarly hollow, lay it on
my notes, but I could easily see through, and I chose only when
the mask has sat, all kinds of scarves, which I like a kind of turbans
around the head wall, so that the edge of the mask, the bottom of
a huge yellow jacket passed into it, even at the top and the side was
almost entirely obscured. Finally, when I could no longer, I was sufficiently
masked. I still grabbed a large stick, which I, as far as the arm enough,
next to me was reciprocating, and dragged it, not without difficulty, but,
as happens to me, full of dignity, in the strange room and walked to the
mirror. It was really großartig of all expectation. Der Spiegel, there was
also the moment again, it was too convincing. It would not have been
necessary to move too much, this appearance was perfect, even if they
did nothing. But there was to know what I actually was, and so I turned
a little, and finally brought the two arms: large, almost incantatory
movement, which was, as I have already remarked, the only right thing
to do. But especially in this solemn moment I heard, muffled through
my disguise, not in my proximity was an often complex noise, very
frightened, I lost over there the essence of the eye and was badly out of
tune, too aware that I have a small, round table had overturned
the sky knows what, probably very fragile items. I bent myself as best
I could and found my worst expectations are confirmed: it looked as if
everything asunder. The two superfluous, green and purple porcelain
parrots were, of course, each to a different kind of spiteful, shattered.
A can, candy from the roll, which looked as silky eingepuppte insects had
their lids are thrown far away from that one saw only his half, the other
was ever pursued. But the worst was in a thousand tiny shards shattered
bottle, from which the rest of any essence herausgespritzt old, was now a
patch of very repulsive physiognomy on the clear floor formed. I wiped
it quickly with something that is in me herunterhing, but he was only
blacker and unpleasant.

I was quite desperate. I raised myself and looked for any item with which
I could Gutmacher everything. But there was none. Also, I was so hindered
in seeing and in every movement, that the anger in me against my
aufstieg absurd condition, which I no longer understood. I pulled at
all, but it just closed itself even more closely with. The cords of the
mantle choked me, and the stuff on my head, pushed, as if still more.
It was the air became cloudy with mist and the haze of the elderly
spilled liquid. Heiß angry and I fell in front of the mirror and saw
through the mask laboriously through, as my hands worked. But
that he had only waited. The moment of vengeance had come for him. While
I was growing anxiety in me immeasurably effort, I am somehow out of my
disguise hinauszuzwängen, he urged me, I do not know what, aufzusehen
and dictated to me a picture, no, a reality, a strange, incomprehensible
monstrous reality with which I durchtränkt was against my will, because
now he was the strongest, and I was the mirror. I stared at this big,
terrible unknowns in front of me, and it seemed outrageous to me, with
him alone. But at the same moment, because I thought this was extreme:
I lost all sense, I fell out. One second I had an indescribable, woe
and futile longing for me, and he was just there was nothing but him . I
ran away, but now it was he who ran. He was everywhere, he knew the
house, he knew not where he fell down a flight of stairs, he fell on the
way about a person, which is made freely screaming. A door was on, there
were several people out: Ah, ah, what was it good for them to know. That
was Sieversen, good Sieversen, and the maid servant and silver: it now
had to decide. But she jumped up and not be rescued, and their cruelty
was without boundaries. They stood there and laughed, my God, they
could dastehn and laugh.

          I wept, but the mask was not beyond the tears, she ran in over my
face and dried the same and ran again and dried.

And finally, I knelt in front of them out, as never a man has gekniet;
I knelt and lifted my hands to them and begged: "Remove, if it still goes,
and keep", but they heard it not, I had no more voice .

Sieversen told until the end, I would umgesunken and how they still had
weitergelacht in the belief that one of them. They were so accustomed
to me. But then I would have stayed but always lie and would not
have responded.

And the horror when she finally discovered that I was without reflection
and lying like a piece in all the towels, clean as a piece. The time
went quickly unpredictable, and at once it was already so far that the
preacher Dr.

Jespersen had to be loaded. It was then for all parts of painstaking
and lengthy breakfast. accustomed to the very pious neighborhood, which
is always completely dissolved by him, he was not with us in his place,
so to speak, he stood on the land and snapped . The gill respiration,
which he had trained in itself, was uncomfortable in front of him, it
formed bubbles, and the whole was not without danger. Talk was, if you
just want to be none at all because there were remnants sold at
unbelievable prices, it was a liquidation of all stocks.

Dr. Jespersen had to deal with us, be a kind of private man, the straight
but he never had. He was, as far as he could imagine, professionals
employed in the soul. The soul was a public institution for him, which
he took, and he brought it to something, never to be out of service,
not even in dealing with his wife, "his humble, loyal, Kindergebären
seligwerdenden by Rebekah", as Lavater in a Otherwise, put it. (What,
incidentally my father was concerned, so was his attitude towards God
completely correct and impeccable politeness. In the church, it seemed
to me sometimes as if he almost Jägermeister with God, when he
stood and waited, and bowed.

Maman on the other hand, it seemed almost hurt that someone with God in a
courteous relationship could stand. Had it into a religion with clear and
detailed practices advised it would be a bliss for her, to kneel for
hours, and add throw, and quite large with the cross sign in front
of the chest and the shoulders around.

They really taught me not pray but it was her a calming, happy that I knelt
and bent their hands soon, and soon folded up, as I just seemed
expressive.

Rather left in peace, I made an early series of developments that I only
much later in a time of distress related to God, and with such
ferocity that he formed and zersprang, almost in the same moment.

It is clear that I start from scratch had afterward. And with this
beginning, I said sometimes, Maman required to have, although it was
right of course, yes, it durchzumachen alone. And since she was indeed
long dead) Dr.

Jespersen to Maman could be almost omitted. They settled in talks with
him, which he took seriously, and if he is heard talking, she said, which
is sufficient, and forgot him suddenly, as if he had continued.

"How can he," she said of him sometimes, "and go around to the people if
they just die."

He also came to her on this occasion, but it certainly has not seen. Your
senses were received, one after another, first the face. It was in autumn,
you should already be in the city, but because they are ill, or rather,
she began to like to die slow and bleak abzusterben on the entire
surface.

The doctors came, and on any given day, they were all together there and
dominated the entire house. It was a few hours, as it now belonged to
the secret and his assistants, and as we would have nothing more to
say. But immediately afterwards they lost all interest, only one came, as
from pure politeness, in order to accept a cigar and a glass of port.
And Maman died, however.

We waited only on Maman single brother, the Count Christian Brahe, who,
as you will remember, a time in Turkey's services had, where he, as it
always was, was very excellent.

He came in one morning, accompanied by a strange servant, and it surprised
me to see that he was greater as a father and apparently even older. The
two men exchanged a few words now, which, as I suspected, based on
Maman. There was a pause. Then my father said: "It is very garbled." I
understood that expression, but it fröstelte me, because I heard
him.

I felt as if my father would have to overcome before it proceedings. But
it was probably above all his pride, which suffered by this he admitted.
Several years later, I heard again from Count Christian talk. It was on
Urnekloster, Mathilde and Brahe, it was associated with liking of him. I
am however sure that the individual episodes rather arbitrarily designed,
because the life of my uncle, which is only rumors in the public and even
penetrated into the family, rumors, which he never refuted, was
almost unlimited interpretations. Urnekloster is now in his possession.
But nobody knows whether it is inhabited.

Perhaps he still travels, as his habit was, perhaps, the news of
his death from any continent on the far, from the hand of the third
servant is written in poor English, or in some unknown language.

Maybe giebt this man of no character, if one day he just left behind. Perhaps
they are both long since disappeared and are only on the ship list
of a missing vessel name, which were not.

Of course, if then Urnekloster to import a car, so I always expected him
to see happen, and my heart beat on a special Art Mathilde Brahe
claimed: so would he, so that would be its specificity, because
suddenly to be when it is least possible to think.

He never came, but my imagination dealt with him for weeks, I had the
feeling as if we owe each other a relationship, and I would like
something really knew of him.

As soon, however my interest umschlug and as a result of certain
events entirely on Christine Brahe transferred eigentümlicherweise
I tried not to bring something from their life circumstances, to
learn.

On the other hand, troubled me the idea, whether it is portrait in the
gallery there. And the desire to determine unilaterally and took
so distressing, that I is not slept for several nights, until,
quite unexpectedly, that there was in me, God knows, hinaufging
stood up and with my light, which seemed to fear.

What I am concerned, I thought not to fear. I thought do not, I went.
The doors were so high after playing in front of me and above me, the
rooms, by which I came, remained calm. And I finally realized the depth
to which anwehte me that I had taken the gallery.

I felt on the right side of the window with the night, and had left his
images. I lifted my light as high as I could. Yes: there were the
pictures. First, I took me only after the women to see, but then I saw
one and another that is similar in Ulsgaard hung, and when I do so from
the bottom beschien, then mixed them up and wanted come to light, and it
seemed heartless to me, not least to be seen. There was always the Fourth
Christian with the beautifully woven Cadenette beside the broad, slowly
arched cheek. There were probably his wives, of whom I only knew
Kirstine Munk, and suddenly saw my wife Ellen Marsvin to suspicious
widow in her dress and with the same beads on the brim of the high hat.
There were King Christian's children: always fresh from the new women,
the 'incomparable' Eleanor on a white Paßgänger in its most brilliant
period prior to visitation. The Gyldenlöves: Hans Ulrik, from which the
women in Spain felt that he was the face paint, so he was full of blood,
and Ulrik Christian, you do not forget again. And almost all Ulfelder.

Besides which, after the bath, which both bride and bridegroom were
   obliged to take, she was anointed with sweet-smelling essences.
   Thucyd. II. 15. Xenoph. Symp. II. 3.]

"We will conduct the maiden thither by the centre door, and there we will
enjoy a merry wedding-feast by the family hearth. Here, slavegirls, come
and form yourselves into two choruses. Half of your number take the part
of the youths; the other half that of the maidens, and sing us Sappho's
Hymenaeus. I will be the torch-bearer; that dignity is mine by right. You
must know, Bartja, that my family has an hereditary right to carry the
torches at the Eleusinian mysteries and we are therefore called Daduchi
or torch-bearers. Ho, slave! see that the door of the andronitis is hung
with flowers, and tell your comrades to meet us with a shower of
sweetmeats as we enter. That's right, Melitta; why, how did you manage to
get those lovely violet and myrtle marriage-crowns made so quickly? The
rain is streaming through the opening above. You see, Hymen has persuaded
Zeus to help him; so that not a single marriage-rite shall be omitted.
You could not take the bath, which ancient custom prescribes for the
bride and bridegroom on the morning of their wedding-day, so you have
only to stand here a moment and take the rain of Zeus as an equivalent
for the waters of the sacred spring. Now, girls, begin your song. Let the
maidens bewail the rosy days of childhood, and the youths praise the lot
of those who marry young."

Five well-practised treble voices now began to sing the chorus of virgins
in a sad and plaintive tone.

Suddenly the song was hushed, for a flash of lightning had shone down
through the aperture beneath which Kallias had stationed the bride and
bridegroom, followed by a loud peal of thunder. "See!" cried the
Daduchus, raising his hand to heaven, "Zeus himself has taken the
nuptial-torch, and sings the Hymenaeus for his favorites."

At dawn the next morning, Sappho and Bartja left the house and went into
the garden. After the violent storm which had raged all night, the garden
was looking as fresh and cheerful in the morning light as the faces of
the newly-married pair.

Bartja's anxiety for his friends, whom he had almost forgotten in the
excitement of his marriage, had roused them so early.

The garden had been laid out on an artificial hill, which overlooked the
inundated plain. Blue and white lotus-blossoms floated on the smooth
surface of the water, and vast numbers of water-birds hovered along the
shores or over the flood. Flocks of white, herons appeared on the banks,
their plumage gleaming like glaciers on distant mountain peaks; a
solitary eagle circled upward on its broad pinions through the pure
morning air, turtle-doves nestled in the tops of the palm-trees; pelicans
and ducks fluttered screaming away, whenever a gay sail appeared. The air
had been cooled by the storm, a fresh north-wind was blowing, and,
notwithstanding the early hour, there were a number of boats sailing over
the deluged fields before the breeze. The songs of the rowers, the
plashing strokes of their oars and the cries of the birds, all
contributed to enliven the watery landscape of the Nile valley, which,
though varied in color, was somewhat monotonous.

Bartja and Sappho stood leaning on each other by the low wall which ran
round Rhodopis' garden, exchanging tender words and watching the scene
below, till at last Bartja's quick eye caught sight of a boat making
straight for the house and coming on fast by the help of the breeze and
powerful rowers.

A few minutes later the boat put in to shore and Zopyrus with his
deliverers stood before them.

Darius's plan had succeeded perfectly, thanks to the storm, which, by its
violence and the unusual time of its appearance, had scared the
Egyptians; but still there was no time to be lost, as it might reasonably
be supposed that the men of Sais would pursue their fugitive with all the
means at their command.

Sappho, therefore, had to take a short farewell of her grandmother, all
the more tender, however, for its shortness,--and then, led by Rartja and
followed by old Melitta, who was to accompany her to Persia, she went on
board Syloson's boat. After an hour's sail they reached a
beautifully-built and fast-sailing vessel, the Hygieia, which belonged to
Kallias.

He was waiting for them on board his trireme. The leave-taking between
himself and his young friends was especially affectionate. Bartja hung a
heavy and costly gold chain round the neck of the old man in token of his
gratitude, while Syloson, in remembrance of the dangers they had shared
together, threw his purple cloak over Darius' shoulders. It was a
master-specimen of Tynan dye, and had taken the latter's fancy. Darius
accepted the gift with pleasure, and said, as he took leave: "You must
never forget that I am indebted to you, my Greek friend, and as soon as
possible give me an opportunity of doing you service in return."

"You ought to come to me first, though," exclaimed Zopyrus, embracing his
deliverer. "I am perfectly ready to share my last gold piece with you; or
what is more, if it would do you a service, to sit a whole week in that
infernal hole from which you saved me. Ah! they're weighing anchor.
Farewell, you brave Greek. Remember me to the flower-sisters, especially
to the pretty, little Stephanion, and tell her her long-legged lover
won't be able to plague her again for some time to come at least. And
then, one more thing; take this purse of gold for the wife and children
of that impertinent fellow, whom I struck too hard in the heat of the
fray."

The anchors fell rattling on to the deck, the wind filled the sails, the
Trieraules--[Flute-player to a trireme]--took his flute and set the
measure of the monotonous Keleusma or rowing-song, which echoed again
from the hold of the vessel. The beak of the ship bearing the statue of
Hygieia, carved in wood, began to move. Bartja and Sappho stood at the
helm and gazed towards Naukratis, until the shores of the Nile vanished
and the green waves of the Hellenic sea splashed their foam over the deck
of the trireme.


CHAPTER XII.

Our young bride and bridegroom had not travelled farther than Ephesus,
when the news reached them that Amasis was dead. From Ephesus they went
to Babylon, and thence to Pasargadae, which Kassandane, Atossa and
Croesus had made their temporary residence. Kassandane was to accompany
the army to Egypt, and wished, now that Nebenchari had restored her
sight, to see the monument which had lately been built to her great
husband's memory after Croesus' design, before leaving for so long a
journey. She rejoiced in finding it worthy of the great Cyrus, and spent
hours every day in the beautiful gardens which had been laid out round
the mausoleum.

It consisted of a gigantic sarcophagus made of solid marble blocks, and
resting like a house on a substructure composed of six high marble steps.
The interior was fitted up like a room, and contained, beside the golden
coffin in which were preserved such few remains of Cyrus as had been
spared by the dogs, vultures, and elements, a silver bed and a table of
the same metal, on which were golden drinking-cups and numerous garments
ornamented with the rarest and most costly jewels.

The building was forty feet high. The shady paradises--[Persian
pleasure-gardens]--and colonnades by which it was surrounded had been
planned by Croesus, and in the midst of the sacred grove was a
dwelling-house for the Magi appointed to watch over the tomb.

The palace of Cyrus could be seen in the distance--a palace in which he
had appointed that the future kings of Persia should pass at least some
months of every year. It was a splendid building in the style of a
fortress, and so inaccessibly placed that it had been fixed on as the
royal treasure-house.

Here, in the fresh mountain air of a place dedicated to the memory of the
husband she had loved so much, Kassandane felt well and at peace; she was
glad too to see that Atossa was recovering the old cheerfulness, which
she had so sadly lost since the death of Nitetis and the departure of
Darius. Sappho soon became the friend of her new mother and sister, and
all three felt very loath to leave the lovely Pasargadm.

Darius and Zopyrus had remained with the army which was assembling in the
plains of the Euphrates, and Bartja too had to return thither before the
march began.

Cambyses went out to meet his family on their return; he was much
impressed with Sappho's great beauty, but she confessed to her husband
that his brother only inspired her with fear.

The king had altered very much in the last few months. His formerly pale
and almost noble features were reddened and disfigured by the quantities
of wine he was in the habit of drinking. In his dark eyes there was the
old fire still, but dimmed and polluted. His hair and beard, formerly so
luxuriant, and black as the raven's wing, hung down grey and disordered
over his face and chin, and the proud smile which used so to improve his
features had given way to an expression of contemptuous annoyance and
harsh severity.

Sometimes he laughed,--loudly, immoderately and coarsely; but this was
only when intoxicated, a condition which had long ceased to be unusual
with him.

He continued to retain an aversion to his wives; so much so that the
royal harem was to be left behind in Susa, though all his court took
their favorite wives and concubines with them on the campaign. Still no
one could complain that the king was ever guilty of injustice; indeed he
insisted more eagerly now than before on the rigid execution of the law;
and wherever he detected an abuse his punishments were cruel and
inexorable. Hearing that a judge, named Sisamnes, had been bribed to
pronounce an unjust sentence, he condemned the wretched man to be flayed,
ordered the seat of justice to be covered with his skin, appointed the
son to the father's vacant place and compelled him to occupy this fearful
seat.--[Herodot. V. 25.]--Cambyses was untiring as commander of the
forces, and superintended the drilling of the troops assembled near
Babylon with the greatest rigor and circumspection.

The hosts were to march after the festival of the New Year, which
Cambyses celebrated this time with immense expense and profusion. The
ceremony over, he betook himself to the army. Bartja was there. He came
up to his brother, beaming with joy, kissed the hem of his robe, and told
him in a tone of triumph that he hoped to become a father. The king
trembled as he heard the words, vouchsafed his brother no answer, drank
himself into unconsciousness that evening, and the next morning called
the soothsayers, Magi and Chaldaeans together, in order to submit a
question to them. "Shall I be committing a sin against the gods, if I
take my sister to wife and thus verify the promise of the dream, which ye
formerly interpreted to mean that Atossa should bear a future king to
this realm?"

The Magi consulted a short time together. Then Oropastes cast himself at
the king's feet and said, "We do not believe, O King, that this marriage
would be a sin against the gods; inasmuch as, first: it is a custom among
the Persians to marry with their own kin; and secondly, though it be not
written in the law that the pure man may marry his sister, it is written
that the king may do what seemeth good in his own eyes. That which
pleaseth thee is therefore always lawful."

Cambyses sent the Magi away with rich gifts, gave Oropastes full powers
as regent of the kingdom in his absence, and soon after told his
horrified mother that, as soon as the conquest of Egypt and the
punishment of the son of Amasis should have been achieved, he intended to
marry his sister Atossa.

At length the immense host, numbering more than 800,000 fighting men,
departed in separate divisions, and reached the Syrian desert in two
months. Here they were met by the Arabian tribes whom Phanes had
propitiated--the Amalekites and Geshurites--bringing camels and horses
laden with water for the host.

At Accho, in the land of the Canaanites, the fleets of the Syrians,
Phoenicians and Ionians belonging to Persia, and the auxiliary ships from
Cyprus and Samos, won by the efforts of Phanes, were assembled. The case
of the Samian fleet was a remarkable one. Polykrates saw in Cambyses'
proposal a favorable opportunity of getting rid of all the citizens who
were discontented with his government, manned forty triremes with eight
thousand malcontent Samians, and sent them to the Persians with the
request that not one might be allowed to return home.--[Herod. III. 44.]

As soon as Phanes heard this he warned the doomed men, who at once,
instead of sailing to join the Persian forces, returned to Samos and
attempted to overthrow Polykrates. They were defeated, however, on land,
and escaped to Sparta to ask help against the tyrant.

A full month before the time of the inundation, the Persian and Egyptian
armies were standing face to face near Pelusium on the north-east coast
of the Delta.

Phanes' arrangements had proved excellent. The Arabian tribes had kept
faith so well that the journey through the desert, which would usually
have cost thousands of lives, had been attended with very little loss,
and the time of year had been so well chosen that the Persian troops
reached Egypt by dry roads and without inconvenience.

The king met his Greek friend with every mark of distinction, and
returned a friendly nod when Phanes said: "I hear that you have been less
cheerful than usual since the death of your beautiful bride. A woman's
grief passes in stormy and violent complaint, but the sterner character
of a man cannot so soon be comforted. I know what you feel, for I have
lost my dearest too. Let us both praise the gods for granting us the best
remedy for our grief--war and revenge." Phanes accompanied the king to an
inspection of the troops and to the evening revel. It was marvellous to
see the influence he exercised over this fierce spirit, and how calm--nay
even cheerful--Cambyses became, when the Athenian was near.

The Egyptian army was by no means contemptible, even when compared with
the immense Persian hosts. Its position was covered on the right by the
walls of Pelusium, a frontier fortress designed by the Egyptian kings as
a defence against incursions from the east. The Persians were assured by
deserters that the Egyptian army numbered altogether nearly six hundred
thousand men. Beside a great number of chariots of war, thirty thousand
Karian and Ionian mercenaries, and the corps of the Mazai, two hundred
and fifty thousand Kalasirians, one hundred and sixty thousand
Hermotybians, twenty thousand horsemen, and auxiliary troops, amounting
to more than fifty thousand, were assembled under Psamtik's banner;
amongst these last the Libyan Maschawascha were remarkable for their
military deeds, and the Ethiopians for their numerical superiority.

The infantry were divided into regiments and companies, under different
standards, and variously equipped.

   [In these and the descriptions immediately following, we have drawn
   our information, either from the drawings made from Egyptian
   monuments in Champollion, Wilkinson, Rosellini and Lepsius, or from
   the monuments themselves. There is a dagger in the Berlin Museum,
   the blade of which is of bronze, the hilt of ivory and the sheath of
   leather. Large swords are only to be seen in the hands of the
   foreign auxiliaries, but the native Egyptians are armed with small
   ones, like daggers. The largest one of which we have any knowledge
   is in the possession of Herr E. Brugsch at Cairo. It is more than
   two feet long.]

The heavy-armed soldiers carried large shields, lances, and daggers; the
swordsmen and those who fought with battle-axes had smaller shields and
light clubs; beside these, there were slingers, but the main body of the
army was composed of archers, whose bows unbent were nearly the height of
a man. The only clothing of the horse-soldiers was the apron, and their
weapon a light club in the form of a mace or battle-axe. Those warriors,
on the contrary, who fought in chariots belonged to the highest rank of
the military caste, spent large sums on the decoration of their
two-wheeled chariots and the harness of their magnificent horses, and
went to battle in their most costly ornaments. They were armed with bows
and lances, and a charioteer stood beside each, so that their undivided
attention could be bestowed upon the battle.

The Persian foot was not much more numerous than the Egyptian, but they
had six times the number of horse-soldiers.

As soon as the armies stood face to face, Cambyses caused the great
Pelusian plain to be cleared of trees and brushwood, and had the
sand-hills removed which were to be found here and there, in order to
give his cavalry and scythe-chariots a fair field of action. Phanes'
knowledge of the country was of great use. He had drawn up a plan of
action with great military skill, and succeeded in gaining not only
Cambyses' approval, but that of the old general Megabyzus and the best
tacticians among the Achaemenidae. His local knowledge was especially
valuable on account of the marshes which intersected the Pelusian plain,
and might, unless carefully avoided, have proved fatal to the Persian
enterprise. At the close of the council of war Phanes begged to be heard
once more: "Now, at length," he said, "I am at liberty to satisfy your
curiosity in reference to the closed waggons full of animals, which I
have had transported hither. They contain five thousand cats! Yes, you
may laugh, but I tell you these creatures will be more serviceable to us
than a hundred thousand of our best soldiers. Many of you are aware that
the Egyptians have a superstition which leads them rather to die than
kill a cat, I, myself, nearly paid for such a murder once with my life.
Remembering this, I have been making a diligent search for cats during my
late journey; in Cyprus, where there are splendid specimens, in Samos and
in Crete. All I could get I ordered to be caught, and now propose that
they be distributed among those troops who will be opposed to the native
Egyptian soldiers. Every man must be told to fasten one firmly to his
shield and hold it out as he advances towards the enemy. I will wager
that there's not one real Egyptian, who would not rather fly from the
battle-field than take aim at one of these sacred animals."

This speech was met by a loud burst of laughter; on being discussed,
however, it was approved of, and ordered to be carried out at once. The
ingenious Greek was honored by receiving the king's hand to kiss, his
expenses were reimbursed by a magnificent present, and he was urged to
take a daughter of some noble Persian family in marriage.

   [Themistocles too, on coming to the Persian court, received a high-
   born Persian wife in marriage. Diod. XI. 57.]

The king concluded by inviting him to supper, but this the Athenian
declined, on the plea that he must review the Ionian troops, with whom he
was as yet but little acquainted, and withdrew.

At the door of his tent he found his slaves disputing with a ragged,
dirty and unshaven old man, who insisted on speaking with their master.
Fancying he must be a beggar, Phanes threw him a piece of gold; the old
man did not even stoop to pick it up, but, holding the Athenian fast by
his cloak, cried, "I am Aristomachus the Spartan!"

Cruelly as he was altered, Phanes recognized his old friend at once,
ordered his feet to be washed and his head anointed, gave him wine and
meat to revive his strength, took his rags off and laid a new chiton over
his emaciated, but still sinewy, frame.

Aristomachus received all in silence; and when the food and wine had
given him strength to speak, began the following answer to Phanes' eager
questions.

On the murder of Phanes' son by Psamtik, he had declared his intention of
leaving Egypt and inducing the troops under his command to do the same,
unless his friend's little daughter were at once set free, and a
satisfactory explanation given for the sudden disappearance of the boy.
Psamtik promised to consider the matter. Two days later, as Aristomachus
was going up the Nile by night to Memphis, he was seized by Egyptian
soldiers, bound and thrown into the dark hold of a boat, which, after a
voyage of many days and nights, cast anchor on a totally unknown shore.
The prisoners were taken out of their dungeon and led across a desert
under the burning sun, and past rocks of strange forms, until they
reached a range of mountains with a colony of huts at its base. These
huts were inhabited by human beings, who, with chains on their feet, were
driven every morning into the shaft of a mine and there compelled to hew
grains of gold out of the stony rock. Many of these miserable men had
passed forty years in this place, but most died soon, overcome by the
hard work and the fearful extremes of heat and cold to which they were
exposed on entering and leaving the mine.

   [Diodorus (III. 12.) describes the compulsory work in the gold mines
   with great minuteness. The convicts were either prisoners taken in
   war, or people whom despotism in its blind fury found it expedient
   to put out of the way. The mines lay in the plain of Koptos, not
   far from the Red Sea. Traces of them have been discovered in modern
   times. Interesting inscriptions of the time of Rameses the Great,
   (14 centuries B. C.) referring to the gold-mines, have been found,
   one at Radesich, the other at Kubnn, and have been published and
   deciphered in Europe.]

"My companions," continued Aristomachus, "were either condemned murderers
to whom mercy had been granted, or men guilty of high treason whose
tongues had been cut out, and others such as myself whom the king had
reason to fear. Three months I worked among this set, submitting to the
strokes of the overseer, fainting under the fearful heat, and stiffening
under the cold dews of night. I felt as if picked out for death and only
kept alive by the hope of vengeance. It happened, however, by the mercy
of the gods, that at the feast of Pacht, our guards, as is the custom of
the Egyptians, drank so freely as to fall into a deep sleep, during which
I and a young Jew who had been deprived of his right hand for having used
false weights in trade, managed to escape unperceived; Zeus Lacedaemonius
and the great God whom this young man worshipped helped us in our need,
and, though we often heard the voices of our pursuers, they never
succeeded in capturing us. I had taken a bow from one of our guards; with
this we obtained food, and when no game was to be found we lived on
roots, fruits and birds' eggs. The sun and stars showed us our road. We
knew that the gold-mines were not far from the Red Sea and lay to the
south of Memphis. It was not long before we reached the coast; and then,
pressing onwards in a northerly direction, we fell in with some friendly
mariners, who took care of us until we were taken up by an Arabian boat.
The young Jew understood the language spoken by the crew, and in their
care we came to Eziongeber in the land of Edom. There we heard that
Cambyses was coming with an immense army against Egypt, and travelled as
far as Harma under the protection of an Amalekite caravan bringing water
to the Persian army. From thence I went on to Pelusium in the company of
some stragglers from the Asiatic army, who now and then allowed me a seat
on their horses, and here I heard that you had accepted a high command in
Cambyses' army. I have kept my vow, I have been true to my nation in
Egypt; now it is your turn to help old Aristomachus in gaining the only
thing he still cares for--revenge on his persecutors."

"And that you shall have!" cried Phanes, grasping the old man's hand.
"You shall have the command of the heavy-armed Milesian troops, and
liberty to commit what carnage you like among the ranks of our enemies.
This, however, is only paying half the debt I owe you. Praised be the
gods, who have put it in my power to make you happy by one single
sentence. Know then, Aristomachus, that, only a few days after your
disappearance, a ship arrived in the harbor of Naukratis from Sparta. It
was guided by your own noble son and expressly sent by the Ephori in your
honor--to bring the father of two Olympic victors back to his native
land."

The old man's limbs trembled visibly at these words, his eyes filled with
tears and he murmured a prayer. Then smiting his forehead, he cried in a
voice trembling with feeling: "Now it is fulfilled! now it has become a
fact! If I doubted the words of thy priestess, O Phoebus Apollo! pardon
my sin! What was the promise of the oracle?

   "If once the warrior hosts from the snow-topped mountains
   descending,
   Come to the fields of the stream watering richly the plain,
   Then shall the lingering boat to the beckoning meadows convey thee,
   Which to the wandering foot peace and a home can afford.
   When those warriors come, from the snow-topped mountains descending,
   Then will the powerful Five grant thee what long they refused."

"The promise of the god is fulfilled. Now I may return home, and I will;
but first I raise my hands to Dice, the unchanging goddess of justice,
and implore her not to deny me the pleasure of revenge."

"The day of vengeance will dawn to-morrow," said Phanes, joining in the
old man's prayer. "Tomorrow I shall slaughter the victims for the
dead--for my son--and will take no rest until Cambyses has pierced the
heart of Egypt with the arrows which I have cut for him. Come, my friend,
let me take you to the king. One man like you can put a whole troop of
Egyptians to flight."

          .......................

It was night. The Persian soldiers, their position being unfortified,
were in order of battle, ready to meet any unexpected attack. The
foot-soldiers stood leaning on their shields, the horsemen held their
horses saddled and bridled near the camp-fires. Cambyses was riding
through the ranks, encouraging his troops by words and looks. Only one
part of the army was not yet ranged in order of battle--the centre. It
was composed of the Persian body-guard, the apple-bearers, Immortals, and
the king's own relatives, who were always led into battle by the king in
person.

The Ionian Greeks too had gone to rest, at Phanes' command. He wanted to
keep his men fresh, and allowed them to sleep in their armor, while he
kept watch. Aristomachus was welcomed with shouts of joy by the Greeks,
and kindly by Cambyses, who assigned him, at the head of one half the
Greek troops, a place to the left of the centre attack, while Phanes,
with the other half, had his place at the right. The king himself was to
take the lead at the head of the ten thousand Immortals, preceded by the
blue, red and gold imperial banner and the standard of Kawe. Bartja was
to lead the regiment of mounted guards numbering a thousand men, and that
division of the cavalry which was entirely clothed in mail.

Croesus commanded a body of troops whose duty it was to guard the camp
with its immense treasures, the wives of Cambyses' nobles, and his own
mother and sister.

At last Mithras appeared and shed his light upon the earth; the spirits
of the night retired to their dens, and the Magi stirred up the sacred
fire which had been carried before the army the whole way from Babylon,
until it became a gigantic flame. They and the king united in feeding it
with costly perfumes, Cambyses offered the sacrifice, and, holding the
while a golden bowl high in the air, besought the gods to grant him
victory and glory. He then gave the password, "Auramazda, the helper and
guide," and placed himself at the head of his guards, who went into the
battle with wreaths on their tiaras. The Greeks offered their own
sacrifices, and shouted with delight on hearing that the omens were
auspicious. Their war-cry was "Hebe."

Meanwhile the Egyptian priests had begun their day also with prayer and
sacrifice, and had then placed their army in order of battle.

Psamtik, now King of Egypt, led the centre. He was mounted on a golden
chariot; the trappings of his horses were of gold and purple, and plumes
of ostrich feathers nodded on their proud heads. He wore the double crown
of Upper and Lower Egypt, and the charioteer who stood at his left hand
holding the reins and whip, was descended from one of the noblest
Egyptian families.

The Hellenic and Karian mercenaries were to fight at the left of the
centre, the horse at the extreme of each wing, and the Egyptian and
Ethiopian foot were stationed, six ranks deep, on the right and left of
the armed chariots, and Greek mercenaries.

Psamtik drove through the ranks of his army, giving encouraging and
friendly words to all the men. He drew up before the Greek division, and
addressed them thus: "Heroes of Cyprus and Libya! your deeds in arms are
well known to me, and I rejoice in the thought of sharing your glory
to-day and crowning you with fresh laurels. Ye have no need to fear, that
in the day of victory I shall curtail your liberties. Malicious tongues
have whispered that this is all ye have to expect from me; but I tell
you, that if we conquer, fresh favors will be shown to you and your
descendants; I shall call you the supporters of my throne. Ye are
fighting to-day, not for me alone, but for the freedom of your own
distant homes. It is easy to perceive that Cambyses, once lord of Egypt,
will stretch out his rapacious hand over your beautiful Hellas and its
islands. I need only remind you, that they be between Egypt and your
Asiatic brethren who are already groaning under the Persian yoke. Your
acclamations prove that ye agree with me already, but I must ask for a
still longer hearing. It is my duty to tell you who has sold, not only
Egypt, but his own country to the King of Persia, in return for immense
treasures. The man's name is Phanes! You are angry and inclined to doubt?
I swear to you, that this very Phanes has accepted Cambyses' gold and
promised not only to be his guide to Egypt, but to open the gates of your
own Greek cities to him. He knows the country and the people, and can be
bribed to every perfidy. Look at him! there he is, walking by the side of
the king. See how he bows before him! I thought I had heard once, that
the Greeks only prostrated themselves before their gods. But of course,
when a man sells his country, he ceases to be its citizen. Am I not
right? Ye scorn to call so base a creature by the name of countryman?
Yes? then I will deliver the wretch's daughter into your hands. Do what
ye will with the child of such a villain. Crown her with wreaths of
roses, fall down before her, if it please you, but do not forget that she
belongs to a man who has disgraced the name of Hellene, and has betrayed
his countrymen and country!"

As he finished speaking the men raised a wild cry of rage and took
possession of the trembling child. A soldier held her up, so that her
father--the troops not being more than a bow-shot apart--could see all
that happened. At the same moment an Egyptian, who afterwards earned
celebrity through the loudness of his voice, cried: "Look here, Athenian!
see how treachery and corruption are rewarded in this country!" A bowl of
wine stood near, provided by the king, from which the soldiers had just
been drinking themselves into intoxication. A Karian seized it, plunged
his sword into the innocent child's breast, and let the blood flow into
the bowl; filled a goblet with the awful mixture, and drained it, as if
drinking to the health of the wretched father. Phanes stood watching the
scene, as if struck into a statue of cold stone. The rest of the soldiers
then fell upon the bowl like madmen, and wild beasts could not have
lapped up the foul drink with greater eagerness.--[Herodotus tells this
fearful tale (III. ii.)]

In the same moment Psamtik triumphantly shot off his first arrow into the
Persian ranks.

The mercenaries flung the child's dead body on to the ground; drunk with
her blood, they raised their battle-song, and rushed into the strife far
ahead of their Egyptian comrades.

But now the Persian ranks began to move. Phanes, furious with pain and
rage, led on his heavy-armed troops, indignant too at the brutal
barbarity of their countrymen, and dashed into the ranks of those very
soldiers, whose love he had tried to deserve during ten years of faithful
leadership.

At noon, fortune seemed to be favoring the Egyptians; but at sunset the
Persians had the advantage, and when the full-moon rose, the Egyptians
were flying wildly from the battle-field, perishing in the marshes and in
the arm of the Nile which flowed behind their position, or being cut to
pieces by the swords of their enemies.

Twenty thousand Persians and fifty thousand Egyptians lay dead on the
blood-stained sea-sand. The wounded, drowned, and prisoners could
scarcely be numbered.

   [Herod. III. 12. Ktesias, Persica 9. In ancient history the loss
   of the conquered is always far greater than that of the conquerors.
   To a certain extent this holds good in the present day, but the
   proportion is decidedly not so unfavorable for the vanquished.]

Psamtik had been one of the last to fly. He was well mounted, and, with a
few thousand faithful followers, reached the opposite bank of the Nile
and made for Memphis, the well-fortified city of the Pyramids.

Of the Greek mercenaries very few survived, so furious had been Phanes'
revenge, and so well had he been supported by his Ionians. Ten thousand
Karians were taken captive and the murderer of his little child was
killed by Phanes' own hand.

Aristomachus too, in spite of his wooden leg, had performed miracles of
bravery; but, notwithstanding all their efforts, neither he, nor any of
his confederates in revenge, had succeeded in taking Psamtik prisoner.

When the battle was over, the Persians returned in triumph to their
tents, to be warmly welcomed by Croesus and the warriors and priests who
had remained behind, and to celebrate their victory by prayers and
sacrifices.

The next morning Cambyses assembled his generals and rewarded them with
different tokens of distinction, such as costly robes, gold chains,
rings, swords, and stars formed of precious stones. Gold and silver coins
were distributed among the common soldiers.

The principal attack of the Egyptians had been directed against the
centre of the Persian army, where Cambyses commanded in person; and with
such effect that the guards had already begun to give way. At that moment
Bartja, arriving with his troop of horsemen, had put fresh courage into
the wavering, had fought like a lion himself, and by his bravery and
promptitude decided the day in favor of the Persians.

The troops were exultant in their joy: they shouted his praises, as "the
conqueror of Pelusium" and the "best of the Achaemenidae."

Their cries reached the king's ears and made him very angry. He knew he
had been fighting at the risk of life, with real courage and the strength
of a giant, and yet the day would have been lost if this boy had not
presented him with the victory. The brother who had embittered his days
of happy love, was now to rob him of half his military glory. Cambyses
felt that he hated Bartja, and his fist clenched involuntarily as he saw
the young hero looking so happy in the consciousness of his own
well-earned success.

Phanes had been wounded and went to his tent; Aristomachus lay near him,
dying.

"The oracle has deceived me, after all," he murmured. "I shall die
without seeing my country again."

"The oracle spoke the truth," answered Phanes. "Were not the last words
of the Pythia?"

   'Then shall the lingering boat to the beckoning meadows convey thee,
   Which to the wandering foot peace and a home will afford?'

"Can you misunderstand their meaning? They speak of Charon's lingering
boat, which will convey you to your last home, to the one great
resting-place for all wanderers--the kingdom of Hades."

"Yes, my friend, you are right there. I am going to Hades."

"And the Five have granted you, before death, what they so long
refused,--the return to Lacedaemon. You ought to be thankful to the gods
for granting you such sons and such vengeance on your enemies. A silence
was that just yet nobody thought possible, they took on, they stretched,
and now stood in her voice. (Abelone, I thought. Abelone.) This time
it was strong, full and yet not hard, in one piece, without breaking,
without seam.

It was an unknown German song. She sang it oddly easy as something
necessary.

She sang: "You, the ichs not say that I was crying at night, their essence
makes me tired like a cradle.

You know, I do not say if they watched my: how, if we pass this splendor
without silent in us ertrügen? (brief pause, and reluctantly): Look
at the lovers, if only the confession began as soon as they are
lying.

"Again the silence. God knows who did it. Then touch the people who
came together, apologized, hüstelten. Already, they wanted to in a general
noise that blurs go, because the voice suddenly broke out, determined
to wide and urged: "You make me alone.

You can only confuse me.'re Dus a while, then again it's the noise, or
it is A fragrance without rest Oh, the poor, I lost them all, you
only, you will always be reborn because I never stopped you, I hold
you firmly.

"No one had expected.

All were like crouching under this vote.

And at the end was such a security in it, as if they had known for
years that they are at this moment would only have.

Sometimes I wondered earlier why Abelone the calories of their great esteem
not turned to God. I know they longed, they love everything about
Transitive, but her true heart was about to deceive, that God is
only one way of love is not love the subject?

She knew not that there is no counterpart of love was to be afraid of
him? They knew not the reticence of this superior lover of the quiet
pleasure hinausschiebt to us, Slow, our whole heart afford to leave? Or -
she wanted to avoid Christ?

They feared, half-way he stopped at his lover to be? Covered therefore
reluctant to Julie Reventlow? Fast I think it when I remember how to
facilitate such a God-loving as naïve Mechthild, so adorable like Therese
of Avila, a so sore as the Blessed Rose of Lima, hinsinken could
yielding, but loved.

Ah, for the weak, was a helper) is such an injustice strong, where they
have nothing more anticipated than the endless path, as it occurs again
in an exciting Vorhimmel designed and pampers them with accommodation
and confused them with Mannheit. His strong heart-breaking lens is once
again her heart already parallel beams together, and they are the
very angels of God to receive hoped to flare in the drought of their
longing.

(Geliebtsein means aufbrennen. Lieben is: Luminaires with inexhaustible
oil. Be Loved is passed, love is time.) It is nevertheless possible
that Abelone in later years has tried, with the heart to think, to
discreetly and directly with God in relationship to come. I can
imagine that there are letters from her giebt to the careful examination
of the inner Princess Amalie Galitzin remember, but if these letters
were addressed to somebody, the years they have been close, as the
mag have suffered under their change.

And they themselves, I suppose, they feared nothing more than that eerie
Anders Will, you do not remember, because you constantly all evidence,
as the stranger, from the hands can be. It is difficult to me to convince
that the story of the prodigal son is not the legend which is not wanted
to be loved. Since he was a kid, loved it all home. He grew up, he did
not know it differently and habituated in their soft heart because
he was a child.

But boy, he wanted to save his habits. He would not say it, but if
he herumstrich outside all day and not even the dogs mithaben wanted to
wars, because they loved him, because in their eyes was observation
and participation, expectations and concerns, because we also
nothing they could do without looking or to offend.

What he meant was, that was the indifference of his dear heart, it sometimes
early in the boxes seized with such purity, that he began to run, no
time to breath and to have more than a lighter moment in which The
morning comes to consciousness. The secret of his life yet has never been
spread before him. Involuntarily, he left the footpath and ran
further feldein, arms outstretched, as he could in this latitude several
directions at once. And then threw it somewhere behind a stains, and no
one put value on it. He peeled a flute, he threw a stone after a small
predator, he bowed himself and forced a beetle reverse: all this was not
inevitable, and the sky went as about nature. Finally came the afternoon
with a loud incursions; Bucanier was a man on the island of Tortuga,
and there was no commitment to it to be, you besieged Campeche, one
captured Vera Cruz, it was possible, the whole army to be a leader
or horse or a ship at sea: depending on you felt.

Feel it is but a hinzuknien, so it was quickly Déodat of Gozón and
had killed the dragon and heard, quite hot, that this was heroism hoffährtig
without obedience. Because we saved nothing that belonged to the cause.
As far as fantasies but also terminated, in between was still time,
nothing but a bird to be uncertain what.

Only that the way home then. My God, what was there all off and
forget, because remember correctly, it was necessary, otherwise you are
betrayed when they were pushing.

How much you umsah and hesitated, but finally came to the gable up.
The first window, grabbed the top generate an eye, it probably wants
someone stand there. The dogs, in which the expectation of the whole
day was grown, preschten through the bushes and drove to a composite,
she said. And did the rest of the house. One had only to enter into its
full aroma, was in the most decided. Trifles could still change in the
whole of it was already, for here they were, of whom they made his
little past and their own desires has long had a life, the common
nature, the day and night, under the suggestion of their love stood
between their hope and their suspicion, prior to their censure or applause.
such a benefit is nothing, with unspeakable caution to climb the stairs.
All are in the living room, and the door should just go, so you can
see out. He remains in the dark, he wants to wait for their
questions. But then comes the worst. They take it in their hands, they
drag it to the table and all, as much as their are curious stretch
before the lamp. You have it good, they do dark, and falls on him alone,
with the light, all the shame to have a face.

   Will he stay and the approximate life after lie, which they attribute
   to him, and all of them with her whole face similar be? Will he
   divide between the tender truthfulness of his will and the clumsy
   fraud that it corrupts itself? Will he give up to be what those of
   his family, who only have a weak heart, could be harmful? No, he
   will go away. For example, all the while they are employed, it's
   birthday with a table to order the goods bad guess, once again, all
   the offset. Continue walking for ever. Much later he will realize
   how much he was then carried out, never to love, to avoid the
horrific situation to bring to his beloved.

Years afterward, it is him, and, like other resolutions, so this is also
impossible. Because he has loved and loved back in his solitude, each
with its entire natural wastage and unspeakable fear for the freedom
of others. Gradually, he learned the beloved object with the beam of
his feelings to show through, instead it is to eat. And he was
spoiled by the delight of the ever more transparent form of the lover
to see the lengths that they want possession of his infinite auftat. How
could he then long nights yearning cry, even checked it to be. But a
mistress who nachgiebt is still no long lovers. O, dreary nights,
since his flood of gifts in pieces wiederempfing, hard of transience. As
he thought of the troubadours who feared nothing more than to be
heard. Everything acquired and propagated for money he gave out this
is not yet to know.

He grieved with his gross pay, from day to day, bang, they could try to
use his love of detail. Because he had no more hope, the lover to
see it through.

Even in the time when the poverty him daily with new hardships
terrified, because his favorite thing, the head of misery and was
very worn, as everywhere in his body ulcers aufschlugen as Notaugen
against the blackness of the visitation, as it dawned before debris
in which it had left because he was the same: even there, when he
bethought, it was his greater dismay, to have been reciprocated.

What were all eclipses since then against the sadness of those tight
hugs, where everything is lost. Not watched it with the feeling, with no
future to be? It was not meaningless without the right to roam all the
risk? Did you not promise a hundred times, not to die? Maybe it was the
stubbornness of this wicked memory, which is coming to coming
to get a job, what his life was during the shipment.

Finally they found him again. And until then, until the shepherds
years, calmed down a lot of his past. Who describes what happened to
him then? Which poet has the persuasion, his then day length to tolerate
with the brevity of life? What art is far enough, while its narrow,
vermantelte shape and cause the whole room over his huge night.

That was the time that began that he is anonymous and generally felt like
a reluctant Gene transmitter. He loved not, unless, that he loved to be.
The low love of his sheep were not to him, as light that falls through
clouds, they are scattered around him, and gleamed softly on the
meadow.

On the fault-free progressive track their hunger he silently on the
pastures of the world. Stranger saw him on the Acropolis, and perhaps he
was long one of the shepherds in the Baux, and saw the petrified
time sex on the high stand, which won all seven of the sixteen and
three-rays of his star could not conquer.

Or should I consider him to Orange, to the rural Triumphtor rested?
Should I see him seelengewohnten in the shadow of the Allyscamps, as his
gaze between the graves, which are open as the graves of Risen, a
dragonfly has? Same lot. I see more than him, I see his existence, then
the long love of God began, the silent, aimless work. Because
of him, who always had to behave, came once more the growing non Anders
Can his heart. And this time he hoped to Erhörung. His whole, in
the long Aloneness ahnend and care has become irreversibly promised him
that those whom he now thought to love understood with penetrating, radiant
love. But while he longed to finally so masterfully loved to be understood
in its usual sense of the Far God's extreme distance. nights came, as
he said to him zuzuwerfen in the room; hours of discovery in which he
felt strong enough, after the earth surface, it hinaufzureißen on the storm
surge of his heart. He was like one who hears a beautiful language and
fiebernd itself out in her tight.

Still he stood before the dismay of knowing how difficult this language
was, for he did not believe it at first, that a long life could
go on, the initial brief slip rates, which are without meaning.

   He threw himself into learning as a runner in the bet, but
   the density of what was to be overcome, slowed him. There was nothing
   to imagine what could be humiliating than this beginner shank.
   He had the stone of the Wise Men found, and now he was forced to
rapidly made his fortune gold unceasingly to transform lead into
the lumpy patience.

He, who had adapted to the room, moved like a worm without output tortuous
course and direction. Now that he so laboriously learned to love and
grief, he was shown how negligent and low so far was all love, which he
supposed to afford. As none had to be something, because he had not
started on its work to be done and to realize it.

In those years he went into the big changes. He almost forgot about God
to the hard work, closer to him and everything he with time, perhaps he
hoped to achieve was "sa patience de supporter une âme." The coincidences
of fate, to which the people hold long had fallen from him, but now lost,
even in what pleasure and pain was necessary, the term spicy flavor and
was pure and nutritious for him. From the roots of his being led to the
firm, a fertile wintering plant joyousness. He went all over it
to cope with what his domestic life of that, he did not want to skip,
because he doubted not that in all his love was, and rose. Yes, his
inner text went so far that he decided the most important thing
of what he had previously not afford to simply durchwartet what was
up.

He thought especially of childhood, they came to him, the calmer he bethought
more undone before, all her memories were of Vague intuitions in
themselves and that they were gone when she made nearly future.

All this once more and really to take, was the reason why the
estranged returned home. We do not know if he stayed, and we know
only that he returned. The history tells, try it at this point, we at the
house to remember what it was, because there is very little time has
passed, a little Counted time, all in the house can say how much. The
dogs are old, but they still live.

It is reported that one aufheulte. A break goes through the whole Tagwerker.
Faces appear at the windows, and weathered faces of adult touching
similarity. And in a very old suddenly pale proposes recognizing through.
Recognizing? Only recognizing Really? - The Excuse. The forgiveness of
which - the love.

My God: love. He, the Recognized, he had not thought of it, busy as he
was: that she still could be. It is understandable that from everything
that happened now, only it was handed down, his gesture, the
unprecedented gesture, the man never before had seen the gesture
of prayer, with which he threw at her feet, she incantatory that
they are not loved.

Frightened and vacillating lifted him up to himself. They laid his
vehemence of their way, they forgave. It must be for him undescribably
been exempted end that all misunderstood him, despite the despairing
posture of his uniqueness. Probably he could stay. Because he knew from
day to day, that love was not him, to which they were so vain and they
encouraged each other secretly. Almost he had to smile when it is
effort, and it became clear how little they think it could. What they
knew who he was. He was now terribly difficult to love, and he felt
that only one able to do it. The wanted but not yet.
Phanes bowed in silence, kissed the king's robe, and descended slowly
into the court. Psamtik watched him, quivering with excitement, sprang
towards the veranda, but before his lips could utter the curse which his
heart had prepared, he sank powerless on to the ground.

Cambyses beckoned to his followers to make immediate preparations for a
lion-hunt in the Libyan mountains.


     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

     Between two stools a man falls to the ground
     Human beings hate the man who shows kindness to their enemies
     Misfortune too great for tears
     Nothing is more dangerous to love, than a comfortable assurance
     Ordered his feet to be washed and his head anointed
     Rules of life given by one man to another are useless


AN EGYPTIAN PRINCESS.

By Georg Ebers

Volume 10.


CHAPTER XIII.

The waters of the Nile had begun to rise again. Two months had passed
away since Phanes' disappearance, and much had happened.

The very day on which he left Egypt, Sappho had given birth to a girl,
and had so far regained strength since then under the care of her
grandmother, as to be able to join in an excursion up the Nile, which
Croesus had suggested should take place on the festival of the goddess
Neith. Since the departure of Phanes, Cambyses' behavior had become so
intolerable, that Bartja, with the permission of his brother, had taken
Sappho to live in the royal palace at Memphis, in order to escape any
painful collision. Rhodopis, at whose house Croesus and his son, Bartja,
Darius and Zopyrus were constant guests, had agreed to join the party.

On the morning of the festival-day they started in a gorgeously decorated
boat, from a point between thirty and forty miles below Memphis, favored
by a good north-wind and urged rapidly forward by a large number of
rowers.

A wooden roof or canopy, gilded and brightly painted, sheltered them from
the sun. Croesus sat by Rhodopis, Theopompus the Milesian lay at her
feet. Sappho was leaning against Bartja. Syloson, the brother of
Polykrates, had made himself a comfortable resting-place next to Darius,
who was looking thought fully into the water. Gyges and Zopyrus busied
themselves in making wreaths for the women, from the flowers handed them
by an Egyptian slave.

"It seems hardly possible," said Bartja, "that we can be rowing against
the stream. The boat flies like a swallow."

"This fresh north-wind brings us forward," answered Theopompus. "And then
the Egyptian boatmen understand their work splendidly."

"And row all the better just because we are sailing against the stream,"
added Croesus. "Resistance always brings out a man's best powers."

"Yes," said Rhodopis, "sometimes we even make difficulties, if the river
of life seems too smooth."

"True," answered Darius. "A noble mind can never swim with the stream. In
quiet inactivity all men are equal. We must be seen fighting, to be
rightly estimated."

"Such noble-minded champions must be very cautious, though," said
Rhodopis, "lest they become contentious, and quarrelsome. Do you see
those melons lying on the black soil yonder, like golden balls? Not one
would have come to perfection if the sower had been too lavish with his
seed. The fruit would have been choked by too luxuriant tendrils and
leaves. Man is born to struggle and to work, but in this, as in
everything else, he must know how to be moderate if his efforts are to
succeed. The art of true wisdom is to keep within limits."

"Oh, if Cambyses could only hear you!" exclaimed Croesus. "Instead of
being contented with his immense conquests, and now thinking for the
welfare of his subjects, he has all sorts of distant plans in his head.
He wishes to conquer the entire world, and yet, since Phanes left,
scarcely a day has passed in which he has not been conquered himself by
the Div of drunkenness."

"Has his mother no influence over him?" asked Rhodopis. "She is a noble
woman."

"She could not even move his resolution to marry Atossa, and was forced
to be present at the marriage feast."

"Poor Atossa!" murmured Sappho.

"She does not pass a very happy life as Queen of Persia," answered
Croesus; "and her own naturally impetuous disposition makes it all the
more difficult or her to live contentedly with this husband and mother; I
am sorry to hear it said that Cambyses neglects her sadly, and treats her
like a child. But the marriage does not seem to have astonished the
Egyptians, as brothers and sisters often marry here."

"In Persia too," said Darius, putting on an appearance of the most
perfect composure, "marriages with very near relations are thought to be
the best."

"But to return to the king," said Croesus, turning the conversation for
Darius' sake. "I can assure you, Rhodopis, that he may really be called a
noble man. His violent and hasty deeds are repented of almost as soon as
committed, and the resolution to be a just and merciful ruler has never
forsaken him. At supper, for instance, lately, before his mind was
clouded by the influence of wine, he asked us what the Persians thought
of him in comparison with his father."

"And what was the answer?" said Rhodopis. "Intaphernes got us out of the
trap cleverly enough," answered Zopyrus, laughing. "He exclaimed: 'We are
of opinion that you deserve the preference, inasmuch as you have not only
preserved intact the inheritance bequeathed you by Cyrus, but have
extended his dominion beyond the seas by your conquest of Egypt.' This
answer did not seem to please the king, however, and poor Intaphernes was
not a little horrified to hear him strike his fist on the table and cry,
'Flatterer, miserable flatterer!' He then turned to Croesus and asked his
opinion. Our wise friend answered at once: 'My opinion is that you have
not attained to the greatness of your father; for,' added he in a
pacifying tone, 'one thing is wanting to you--a son such as Cyrus
bequeathed us in yourself."

"First-rate, first-rate," cried Rhodopis clapping her hands and laughing.
"An answer that would have done honor to the ready-witted Odysseus
himself. And how did the king take your honeyed pill?"

"He was very much pleased, thanked Croesus, and called him his friend."

"And I," said Croesus taking up the conversation, "used the favorable
opportunity to dissuade him from the campaigns he has been planning
against the long lived Ethiopians, the Ammonians and the Carthaginians.
Of the first of these three nations we know scarcely anything but through
fabulous tales; by attacking them we should lose much and gain little.
The oasis of Ammon is scarcely accessible to a large army, on account of
the desert by which it is surrounded; besides which, it seems to me
sacrilegious to make war upon a god in the hope of obtaining possession
of his treasures, whether we be his worshippers or not. As to the
Carthaginians, facts have already justified my predictions. Our fleet is
manned principally by Syrians and Phoenicians, and they have, as might be
expected, refused to go to war against their brethren. Cambyses laughed
at my reasons, and ended by swearing, when he was already somewhat
intoxicated, that he could carry out difficult undertakings and subdue
powerful nations, even without the help of Bartja and Phanes."

"What could that allusion to you mean, my son?" asked Rhodopis.

"He won the battle of Pelusiam," cried Zopyrus, before his friend could
answer. "He and no one else!"

"Yes," added Croesus, "and you might have been more prudent, and have
remembered that it is a dangerous thing to excite the jealousy of a man
like Cambyses. You all of you forget that his heart is sore, and that the
slightest vexation pains him. He has lost the woman he really loved; his
dearest friend is gone; and now you want to disparage the last thing in
this world that he still cares for,--his military glory."

"Don't blame him," said Bartja, grasping the old man's hand. "My brother
has never been unjust, and is far from envying me what I must call my
good fortune, for that my attack arrived just at the right time can
hardly be reckoned as a merit on my part. You know he gave me this
splendid sabre, a hundred thorough-bred horses, and a golden hand-mill as
rewards of my bravery."

Croesus' words had caused Sappho a little anxiety at first; but this
vanished on hearing her husband speak so confidently, and by the time
Zopyrus had finished his wreath and placed it on Rhodopis' head, all her
fears were forgotten.

Gyges had prepared his for the young mother. It was made of snow-white
water-lilies, and, when she placed it among her brown curls, she looked
so wonderfully lovely in the simple ornament, that Bartja could not help
kissing her on the forehead, though so many witnesses were present. This
little episode gave a merry turn to the conversation; every one did his
best to enliven the others, refreshments of all kinds were handed round,
and even Darius lost his gravity for a time and joined in the jests that
were passing among his friends.

When the sun had set, the slaves set elegantly-carved chairs, footstools,
and little tables on the open part of the deck. Our cheerful party now
repaired thither and beheld a sight so marvellously beautiful as to be
quite beyond their expectations.

The feast of Neith, called in Egyptian "the lamp-burning," was celebrated
by a universal illumination, which began at the rising of the moon. The
shores of the Nile looked like two long lines of fire. Every temple,
house and but was ornamented with lamps according to the means of its
possessors. The porches of the country-houses and the little towers on
the larger buildings were all lighted up by brilliant flames, burning in
pans of pitch and sending up clouds of smoke, in which the flags and
pennons waved gently backwards and forwards. The palm-trees and sycamores
were silvered by the moonlight and threw strange fantastic reflections on
the red waters of the Nile-red from the fiery glow of the houses on their
shores. But strong and glowing as was the light of the illumination, its
rays had not power to reach the middle of the giant river, where the boat
was making its course, and the pleasure-party felt as if they were
sailing in dark night between two brilliant days. Now and then a
brightly-lighted boat would come swiftly across the river and seem, as it
neared the shore, to be cutting its way through a glowing stream of
molten iron.

Lotus-blossoms, white as snow, lay on the surface of the river, rising
and falling with the waves, and looking like eyes in the water. Not a
sound could be heard from either shore. The echoes were carried away by
the north-wind, and the measured stroke of the oars and monotonous song
of the rowers were the only sounds that broke the stillness of this
strange night--a night robbed of its darkness.

For a long time the friends gazed without speaking at the wonderful
sight, which seemed to glide past them. Zopyrus was the first to break
the silence by saying, as he drew a long breath: "I really envy you,
Bartja. If things were as they should be, every one of us would have his
dearest wife at his side on such a night as this."

"And who forbade you to bring one of your wives?" answered the happy
husband.

"The other five," said the youth with a sigh. "If I had allowed Oroetes'
little daughter Parysatis, my youngest favorite, to come out alone with
me to-night, this wonderful sight would have been my last; tomorrow there
would have been one pair of eyes less in the world."

Bartja took Sappho's hand and held it fast, saying, "I fancy one wife
will content me as long as I live." The young mother pressed his hand
warmly again, and said, turning to Zopyrus: "I don't quite trust you, my
friend. It seems to me that it is not the anger of your wives you fear,
so much as the commission of an offence against the customs of your
country. I have been told that my poor Bartja gets terribly scolded in
the women's apartments for not setting eunuchs to watch over me, and for
letting me share his pleasures."

"He does spoil you terribly," answered Zopyrus, "and our wives are
beginning to quote him as an example of kindness and indulgence, whenever
we try to hold the reins a little tight. Indeed there will soon be a
regular women's mutiny at the king's gate, and the Achaemenidae who
escaped the swords and arrows of the Egyptians, will fall victims to
sharp tongues and floods of salt tears."

"Oh! you most impolite Persian!" said Syloson laughing. "We must make you
more respectful to these images of Aphrodite."

"You Greeks! that's a good idea," answered the youth. "By Mithras, our
wives are quite as well off as yours. It's only the Egyptian women, that
are so wonderfully free."

"Yes, you are quite right," said Rhodopis. "The inhabitants of this
strange land have for thousands of years granted our weaker sex the same
rights, that they demand for themselves. Indeed, in many respects, they
have given us the preference. For instance, by the Egyptian law it is the
daughters, not the sons, who are commanded to foster and provide for
their aged parents, showing how well the fathers of this now humbled
people understood women's nature, and how rightly they acknowledged that
she far surpasses man in thoughtful solicitude and self-forgetful love.
Do not laugh at these worshippers of animals. I confess that I cannot
understand them, but I feel true admiration for a people in the teaching
of whose priests, even Pythagoras, that great master in the art of
knowledge, assured me lies a wisdom as mighty as the Pyramids."

"And your great master was right," exclaimed Darius. "You know that I
obtained Neithotep's freedom, and, for some weeks past, have seen him and
Onuphis very constantly, indeed they have been teaching me. And oh, how
much I have learnt already from those two old men, of which I had no idea
before! How much that is sad I can forget, when I am listening to them!
They are acquainted with the entire history of the heavens and the earth.
They know the name of every king, and the circumstances of every
important event that has occurred during the last four thousand years,
the courses of the stars, the works of their own artists and sayings of
their sages, during the same immense period of time. All this knowledge
is recorded in huge books, which have been preserved in a palace at
Thebes, called the 'place of healing for the soul.' Their laws are a
fountain of pure wisdom, and a comprehensive intellect has been shown in
the adaptation of all their state institutions to the needs of the
country. I wish we could boast of the same regularity and order at home.
The idea that lies at the root of all their knowledge is the use of
numbers, the only means by which it is possible to calculate the course
of the stars, to ascertain and determine the limits of all that exists,
and, by the application of which in the shortening and lengthening of the
strings of musical instruments, tones can be regulated.

   [We agree with Iamblichus in supposing, that these Pythagorean views
   were derived from the Egyptian mysteries.]

"Numbers are the only certain things; they can neither be controlled nor
perverted. Every nation has its own ideas of right and wrong; every law
can be rendered invalid by circumstances; but the results obtained from
numbers can never be overthrown. Who can dispute, for instance, that
twice two make four? Numbers determine the contents of every existing
thing; whatever is, is equal to its contents, numbers therefore are the
true being, the essence of all that is."

Several men had their heads in the flat hands, others with severe sleep
deeply, buried faces. A fat man with a red, swollen neck vorübergebeugt
sat there, stierte on the floor and play from time to time klatschend
at a spot that seemed to fit him. A child sobbed in a corner, the
long legs magern it had to be drawn on the bank, and now they felt
it includes in itself and pressed, as it would take them farewell.

A small, pale woman, with a round, black flowers Krepphut TRIMMED schief
sat on the hair, the grimace of a smile to the poor lips, but her eyelids
were sore constantly on. Not far from her had a girl sat down with a round
smooth face and eyes herausgedrängten who were without expression, his
mouth was open, so that the white, slimy gums saw with the old, stunted
teeth.

And there were many associations. Associations, the whole head moved layer
by layer, until only a single eye was there, which belonged to no
one more.

Associations that are concealed, and associations, which showed what it
was. Associations, which we had opened, and which now, like in a
dirty bed, was a hand, which was no more, and an inline leg, made the
series stand out as large as an entire human being. I went up
and down and gave me trouble, to be quiet. I busy myself a lot with the
opposite wall. I noticed that a number of single doors and not contained
to the ceiling enough so that the course of the premises, which also had
to lie, was not entirely separated. I saw on the clock, I was an hour
to and from gone. A while later came the doctors. First, a few young
people, with the indifferent faces were gone, finally, where I
was, in light gloves, Chapeau ähuit reflets, impeccable overcoat.

   When he saw me, he lifted his hat a little scattered and smiled. I
   was now hoping to be created equal, but it went back an hour. I
   can not remember what I spent. They passed. An old man came in a
   blemished apron, a kind of caretaker, and touched me on the shoulder.
   I stepped into one of the adjoining room. The doctor and the young
   people sat around a table and looked at me, you gave me a chair.
   Sun and now I should tell how this actually would be with me. As
   short as possible, s'il vous plaît. Because a lot of time the Lords
   had not.

I was strangely reasonable. The young people sat and looked at me with
that superior, professional curiosity, which they had learned. The doctor,
whom I knew, pointed his black goatee and smiled allayed. I thought that
I would break out crying, but I heard myself French say: "I had the honor
of you, my Lord, to give any information that I can give.

Do you think it is necessary that these gentlemen will be inaugurated so
are you after our interview certainly capable of this with a few
words to do it to me during very difficult. " The doctor stood up with a
polite smile, met with the Assistant to the window and said a few
words, which he with a horizontal, fluctuating guided hand movement.
After three minutes, one of the young people, short-sighted and erratic,
back to the table and said he tried to me to be tough: "You sleep well,
sir?" "No, bad." What it comes back to the group jumped back. There is
still negotiating for a while, then turned to the doctor to me and told
me that you would call me. I reminded him that I am on a clock had been
ordered.

He smiled and made a few quick, sudden movements with his small white
hands, which would mean that he was extremely busy. So I turned in my
gear back in the air much of last had become and started again, back and
forth to go, although I felt tired. Finally, the moist, accumulated
smell me dizzy and I stayed at the door and opened it a little.
Look how the painted
walls and columns gleam in the light, and what marvellous figures the
shadows of the obelisks and sphinxes throw on the smooth yellow
pavement!"

"And how mysterious the sacred grove looks yonder!" added Croesus. "I
never saw anything so wonderful before."

"I have seen something more wonderful still," said Darius. "You will
hardly believe me when I tell you that I have witnessed a celebration of
the mysteries of Neith."

"Tell us what you saw, tell us!" was the universal outcry.

"At first Neithotep refused me admission, but when I promised to remain
hidden, and besides, to obtain the freedom of his child, he led me up to
his observatory, from which there is a very extensive view, and told me
that I should see a representation of the fates of Osiris and his wife
Isis.

"He had scarcely left, when the sacred grove became so brightly
illuminated by colored lights that I was able to see into its innermost
depths.

"A lake, smooth as glass, lay before me, surrounded by beautiful trees
and flower-beds. Golden boats were sailing on this lake and in them sat
lovely boys and girls dressed in snow-white garments, and singing sweet
songs as they passed over the water. There were no rowers to direct these
boats, and yet they moved over the ripples of the lake in a graceful
order, as if guided by some magic unseen hand. A large ship sailed in the
midst of this little fleet. Its deck glittered with precious stones. It
seemed to be steered by one beautiful boy only, and, strange to say, the
rudder he guided consisted of one white lotus-flower, the delicate leaves
of which seemed scarcely to touch the water. A very lovely woman, dressed
like a queen, lay on silken cushions in the middle of the vessel; by her
side sat a man of larger stature than that of ordinary mortals. He wore a
crown of ivy on his flowing curls, a panther-skin hung over his shoulders
and he held a crooked staff in the right hand. In the back part of the
ship was a roof made of ivy, lotus-blossoms and roses; beneath it stood a
milk-white cow with golden horns, covered with a cloth of purple. The man
was Osiris, the woman Isis, the boy at the helm their son Horus, and the
cow was the animal sacred to the immortal Isis. The little boats all
skimmed over the water, singing glad songs of joy as they passed by the
ship, and receiving in return showers of flowers and fruits, thrown down
upon the lovely singers by the god and goddess within. Suddenly I heard
the roll of thunder. It came crashing on, louder, and louder, and in the
midst of this awful sound a man in the skin of a wild boar, with hideous
features and bristling red hair, came out of the gloomiest part of the
sacred grove, plunged into the lake, followed by seventy creatures like
himself, and swam up to the ship of Osiris.

   [We have taken our description of this spectacle entirely from the
   Osiris-myth, as we find it in Plutarch, Isis and Orisis 13-19.
   Diod. I. 22. and a thousand times repeated on the monuments. Horus
   is called "the avenger of his father," &c. We copy the battle with
   all its phases from an inscription at Edfu, interpreted by Naville.]

"The little boats fled with the swiftness of the wind, and the trembling
boy helmsman dropped his lotus-blossom.

"The dreadful monster then rushed on Osiris, and, with the help of his
comrades, killed him, threw the body into a coffin and the coffin into
the lake, the waters of which seemed to carry it away as if by magic.
Isis meanwhile had escaped to land in one of the small boats, and was now
running hither and thither on the shores of the lake, with streaming
hair, lamenting her dead husband and followed by the virgins who had
escaped with her. They believed that comedy should be written only
by the learned and learned only to represent, it is true, as we think,
to be written for the common people, and also to represent large vulgo.
And why we are opposed to the changes of scene, because of these changes
is not the subtlety of the concepts, the elegance of the phrase and the
brightness of the display. From here we make little of the harsh laws to
write comedies, because they represent the common people, who do not
understand these laws, and hence neglect the moving scene, because
the writers are able to appreciate the concepts of primary and
verses, poems to praise the good drama, do not need these requirements.

I venture to say that because comedies are written by the learned or the
unlearned, must move to accommodate the scene and the appearance of the
representation, because the variety delights equally unlearned is
learned from .--(_ T. T._)) [112] Wrong seems the Academy Española_
_The said in his foreword to Moratín comedies, says that when _las
comedias espada_ layer is represented with such decorations simple
and unchanging, and that the Otherwise, all else is held more scenic
luxury.

Comedy of cloak and sword, whose representation is inconceivable without
a change of decoration, pointed out in former editions, for example,
in _The Jardín_ a confusion of Moreto in scenes which are unintelligible,
not to assume that theater is adorned with trees. There are, however, other
works of this kind, whose first-grade, rare in these do not require,
however, moving scene, as in Tirso entitled _Amor and jealousy make
discretos_ whose action is presumed to occur in a single room. [113]
"To leave here we recite nine or ten (people) for a very short, two
or three and a half hours."

   (Gaspar Aguilar, _The Comedy of the loa humilde_ Daughter-in-law.) "In
   this Senate illustrious Oidnos alone two hours, and if a lot, just
   see the time all things. "(Tárrega, loa of _The Amaltea_ persecuted.)"
   The comedy started now, two hours from now we will, when finished.
   (Lope de Vega, loa first volume of his _Comedias_.) [114] Lope de
   Vega, in the era in which comedy had four days, said that each
   of the three intervals depicting a side dish, but then not done,
   and is typically represented one. "Then at the three distances were
   three young starters, and now just one, and then a dance."

(_Arte new to comedias._) [115] The people, in particular, came in droves
to theaters, Seville distinguished by disturbances that they were
committed, in which city, says Rojas, ants in the theater and the
swordsmen barateros. [116] Lope de Vega says in his art _Nuevo to
comedias_, Philip II could not suffer that appear in the real scene,
but despite this, it is false, says as a German writer, to publish
any law for that purpose. [117] In the library of the Royal Academy
of History, is the manuscript that made _Consulta King Philip II
of Loaysa Garcia, Diego de Yepes Friar and Friar Gaspar de Cordova
on comedias_.

The authors of this paper call for an absolute ban on comedies and say,
among other things: 'DEST plays and comedies are still other serious
damage, is that people are at leisure, and Deleyto gifts and fun of the
militia, and the rogue who dances every day they invent these
faranduleros and festivals, banquets and comedies are the people
of Spain haze dock and effeminate and inability to things and travajo
war .-- It being so, and taking V Mgd. so precious need Hazer war
to the enemies of the faith, and demand for it, either quan vee rig
is bad for weapons use as ordinary aora comedies that are represented
in Spain.

And people juizio prudent, or whether the Turkish Xarife or King of
England wanted to find an effective invention to ruin and destroy us, not
find better than the Deste faranduleros as a way of thieves hands, hugging
and kill the taste atosigan and like what they represent, and Hazen
mugeriles loose and hearts of our Spanish, not to continue the war
or are useless for the work and exercises della.

"Of the manuscripts of the same library also copy the following two
ordinances actual: 'I. The Council is aware that, in comedy and
performances, which are recited in this city, come to represent mugeres,
many of which are still drawbacks. Tendreys particular cuydado that
mugeres not represent in such comedies, with a punishment that
will appear, aperciviendoles that would otherwise be executed by
them.

Madrid September to five thousand and five hundred and ninety-seys years.
II. As just causes and considerations to His Majesty commanded that in
all these kingdom can not aver, but representatives of eight companies
and many other comedies these perpetrators of which are _Gaspar of
Porras_, _Nicolas of Rios_, _Baltasar of Pinedo_, _Melchor of
Leon_, _Antonio Granados_, _Diego Lopez Alcazar_, _Antonio of
Villegas_, _Juan of Morales_, and no other company that represents
them in which he warns Vm. ansi to execute and enforce the
ynviolablemente throughout his district and jurisdiction, and whether
any other company shall represent the author and her representatives,
and punished with the rigor required, and in no way allow any time
of year depicted in comedies Frayles monastery or nuns, or in that
of Lent aya representations of them, even to the divine, which will
save and deliver.

Else it will be by His Majesty desservido. Valladolid 20 and six years in
April 1603. "In _Relaciones_ already mentioned, Luis Cabrera de
Cordova, reads:" Madrid 16 henero 1599. Aviase provided at their
hospitals, which are represented by the great comedies need that suffered
from the poor relief Desto them to leave, but Confesor HM has resisted
so that was sent to revoke the order given. Madrid, 17 April 1599. Has
also been given license to do from here forward are comedies in theaters
as requests haver, which say they will begin to represent since
Monday. "[118] In _Tratado of comedies, which states whether are
lawful, and if, strictly speaking, will represent the mortal sin,
and watch them on consentirlas_ by Bisbe Fruttuoso and Vidal, doctor
of both rights: Barcelona, 1618, was with the greatest zeal
anatematizan comedies depraved and immoral, among which, apparently,
are the most famous of this era.

It's fun to end the following paragraph, pp. 54 back: "The principle
that the heresies were in Germany, was for these comedies such: gradually
began to introduce de facto representatives of clergy, religious,
loose, free and nuns and marriages performed by religious faith.

That began to dismiss people, coming to represent the ears to do this,
came then to do what they really represented the beginning of ridicule
and is married, publicly, religious faith, with serious scandal
and came to reject religion and entered this other heresies, which
was what the devil wanted. "[119]" Other component (comedy) without
looking as they do, then they need to represent the reciter of
Huirse and leave, fearful of being punished, as has often been, for
the fact some things to the detriment of kings, and in some lineages
of dishonor.

And all these problems would cease, and even many more who do not
say, that the court had in a discreet and intelligent person to examine
all plays before they represent only those that _no be made in corte_,
but all wanted to be represented in Spain. "Dedúcese of the underlined
words, which then existed in Madrid censor theaters (and, indeed,
are ancient manuscripts of Lope de Vega and others, which accompanies
the license of the censor) very indulgent but, apparently, not to
fill more than a mere formality, disappearing shortly after full.

   (See notes to Clemencín Diego _Quijote_, Part 1. Nd, chap. 8. º.) [120]
   _Alonso, many amos_ mozo, made by Dr. Jerónimo de Alcalá Yáñez:
   in Barcelona, by Stephen Libera 1625, pp. 144 back. [121] Francisco
   de los Santos, _Historia of the order of St.

Jerónimo_, part 4. ª, lib.

II, chap. 1 .º--_ said and done for Philip III_, pp. 229 and 240. [122]
Navarrete, _Vida of Cervantes_, pp. 184. [123] From the memoirs of
a Santiago Ortiz, written at the beginning of the reign of Philip
IV, of them are after, is that the managers of the companies paid
nothing for the guild, but on the contrary, they received them
progress and aid in money. [124] Pellicer, in his confused and
disorganized _Tratado HISTORY_, etc..

We speak of them without reflection and criticism, sometimes referring to
the funds of the brotherhoods, to those of other companies, or confused
from each other, and always with their growing dark and flawed
approach to the contradictions observed in these data. [125] It
will curious news: The annual amount received by the brotherhoods,
the calculation done by the end of the sixteenth century, amounted
to some 14,000 ducats.

Each produces about 300 real representation, and one of August 10 1603:
Royal. Women in the pan 97 in the Men _patio, bleachers, bancos_, etc
_Los chambers 119 and desvanes_ 48 _Las lattices and rejas_ 18 ---
TOTAL 282 This account is not the full amount that it reserved the
director of the company. [126] Mesonero Romans, in an article entitled
_Las houses and streets of Madrid_ of much merit and a result of
diligent research, he says (_Semanario pintoresco_) as following: "In
both popular theaters in Madrid, as well as the sumptuous del Buen Retiro
Palace and the royal residence and Pardo Zarzuela, shone in his
time equally popular muses Lope de Vega, Tirso, and Moreto Calderon,
the first, however, preferred the drama of the Cross, and King Philip
IV, who was attending to his duties incognito through the square
of the Angel and then immediately to a home theater, and encapsulated
in which, according to our news, it was D.

Jerome Villaizán. In this drama were the acclaimed María Calderón, the
no less famous Amaryllis (Maria Cordova) and Antandra (Antonia
Granados). D. Rodrigo Calderón, the Duke of Lerma and other magnates, on
the contrary, it implies more to Prince, which had a room with
blinds.

The famous actresses, subsequent to the above, Lavenant Maria Fernandez
and Maria del Rosario (the Tirana), commonly represented in the Prince.
"[127]" Reply wished Don Quixote to Sancho Panza, but estorbóselo a cart
that went across the road charged with the most diverse and strange
personages and figures that could be imagined.

Which guided the mules, and served as a wagoner was ugly demon. The
cart was discovered at the surface unsheeted or brambles. The first
was offered in the eyes of Don Quixote, was the death of the human
face, along with it came an angel with large painted wings, to one
side was an emperor with a crown, apparently of gold in the head
at the feet of Death was the god called Cupid, without blinkers,
but with his bow, arrows and quiver, came a knight armed at point
blank, except that no helmet or brought morrión but a hat with
feathers of various colors they came with other people in different
costumes and faces.

All of which, viewed in some ways unexpectedly fuss Don Quixote,
and put fear into the heart of Sancho, but then Don Quixote was
glad, thinking that he was offered a new and dangerous adventure,
and with this thought and spirit with provisions to undertake any
danger, was in front of the cart, and with loud and menacing, said:
"Carter, coachman, or devil, or what you are, do not hesitate to
tell me who you are, the more you do and who are the people who
take your carricoche, which seems more of a boat that Caron cart
that is used.

"To which gently, stopping the cart, the devil, he replied:" Sir, we are
reciter of the angle of the Poor, we have in a place that is behind
that hill, this morning, the eighth of the Corpus, the act of the
Parliament of death, and hémosle to that place this afternoon in
which it appears here, and being so close and refuse to work to
strip and re-dress, we wear the same clothes that we represent.

That man is death, the other angel, that woman, who is the author, ranging
from Queen, the other soldier, one of the emperor, and I, demon, I
am one of the leading figures of car, because I do this in the first paper
company .»--_ Don Quijote_, part 2. nd, chap. 11. [128] _Don Quijote_,
Part 1. Nd, chap. 12.

In the comic novel _Alonso, mozo much amor_ (Barcelona, 1625), read
the following anecdote on this point: "In a place of Castilla la Vieja,
a day of Corpus, the joy and festivity, they representation mozuelos some
tenants, and was of the order of Christ _Cena Our Señor_: púsose
stage in a well-dressed table, sat the twelve apostles to eat with
his master, brought a lamb in a large source of silver; hízose pieces
and were eating it, and as willingly as they would have lunch some of
the best runners in his life. The person representing the glorious
Gospel of St. John, as though it was asleep at the breast of the Lord,
as he saw that the other apostles were eating, as he could, from time to
time, I took his hand and picked up the best bite of the lamb and
assist their peers. Whoever did the character of Judas, the apostle mad,
seeing that the property was not to be, with much anger he said: - O ye
or you are not San Juan San Juan: San Juan if you are, do not eat and
sleep; and if you do not, eat, and go to serve another for you. "[129] has
the hero of this story (p. 136 back), who served in Seville as a
stage director, had to write all the ads morning, then went from
one, to be sentry at the door of the theater, his love came later and
sat in the office, returning to the dressing room to take care of the
chests and clothes that were used in the comedy . Sometimes played the
role of the dragon in _comedias of santos_, other times the dead in tragic
parts, then did a dancer, etc.. [130] _Joco-Seria_, or _Burlas really
festive Reprehension moral and civil unrest in twelve represented oeuvres
and twenty-four cantados_. Loas _Van insert six and six Jácaras that
the authors have made comedies and sung in theaters this Corte._ By Luis
Quinones de Benavente: Madrid, 1645, and Barcelona, 1654, fol. 1 .--
In this same work (fol. 816), also read the following verses, similar
to those cited: "Sages and critical banks; Gradas well-intentioned, pious
railings; attics learned soul; room, you know that silence fill our faults;
Infantry Spanish (because it is quite stale call The Musketeers);
Ladies, that ye aquesa We cage with horns and keys dawn In the
evening: To serve, I have.

Traigo Six comedies studied, and three for study, all NEW: Letters that
sing and dance, famous, 'and so on. These verses Benavente, citing Mr.
Schack, were copied from the book which is entitled to dramatic
_Colección, starters, and jácaras eulogies written by the licensed
Luis Quiñones de Benavente, and taken from several publications or
manuscripts associates recently by D. Cayetano Rosell, devotísimo of
autor_ as one of the old _Libros again given birth to several aficionados_:
Madrid, book of Bibliophiles, 1872. The work consists of two volumes, with
curious remarks at the end of the first, very interesting notes,
and various appendices to the final seconds on the actors and
actresses of the era of .--(_ N.

T._) [131] " If there is anyone with lengua_ As _A _A mano_ some applause,
Vítor One or another currency, in this or another occasion, I pay
the poet.

"(Francisco de Rojas, _The most improper verdugo_, upon termination.)
[132] Cervantes, _Persiles and Sigismundo_, lib. III, chap. 2. º - Guevara,
_The Devil cojuelo_, Trance 4. º [133] Montalván, _Fama póstuma_. [134]
Lope de Vega says (preface to the volume of their _Comedias_ IX), he has
not written any comedy to be transplanted to the office of the theater
of the reader .-- The case of Cervantes, who printed his own before being
represented, perhaps the only thing we offer Spanish literature
of his time. [135] are useful for this purpose between works of
Lope, his innumerable epistles, the dedications of his comedies,
and the second part of _The Filomena_ and _The Dorotea_.

Apparently, the poet refers to the latter, under the name of Don
Fernando, the adventures of a part of his youth. But as poetry can
be mixed with reality, should not give full credit to what it says,
and in this Mr.

Fauriel not go quite right when (_Revue des deux mondes_, chap. 19)
considered as event real life of Lope as it refers; the opposite, but
equally wrong, is sustained by a Dámaso Hinard (in _Revue
independante_) of the entire novel is a fiction, since it says Lope
More than once the story is true, and that many parts of the life
of Don Fernando agrees with the vicissitudes of his well known.

Parécenos most adopt a sensible balance between these two extremes,
considering _The Dorotea_ as an aid to illustrated biography of the
poet, provided that their information is confirmed by other data
authentic. [136] _Epístola of Belardo á Amarilis._ [137] In a
collection of letters of Lope de Vega to the Duke of Sessa, D.

Agustín Durán has copied from the original autographs and that has made
me consider that I profess friendship is as follows: "I was born in
Madrid, where wall in the middle of Charles V became the pride of France
between two walls, and always be offered the opportunity, will make his
grandson as the example of his father, for he and San Quentin
can not forget the times that enters into San Lorenzo. "According
Mesonero Romans, the most profound knowledge of all locations Madrid,
Lope de Vega was born in the street, and at home, now modern construction,
numbers 7 and 8 older and 82 modern, block 415. As this house is located
near the ancient gate of Guadalajara and the plaza de la Villa, where
Francis I was a prisoner in the house of Lujanes, this data is
consistent with the indication made by the same Lope de Vega. Remarkable
thing is that the house where this great poet was born, was straight
in front of one another, in which Calderon lived most of his life. The
collection of letters referred to, whose authenticity can not be doubted,
because the same Durán says have copied from the original autographs
of Lope, and signs and also provide very reliable intrinsic character,
it contains many news insignificant, but there are other useful and
confirm to complete the biography of Lope.

Most importantly, a paragraph, when Madrid July 6 of 1611, which says:
"This way, most excellent sir, my life with this evil importunate my wife,
exercising acts of patience, who volunteers as if they were accurate, it
would not be here unless your penance principle Purgatory, "and another
September 7th of 1611, in which the Duke said that his wife Jane is
better. Dedúcese also Lope that it did not come in as soon as the state
church Navarrete says, and following me, after repeated ... Some
questions I had were not committed any error in the copy the date, but
after mature thought, I have found that other circumstances confirm its
accuracy.

Most of the Achaemenidae burst into loud shouts of delight at this
marvellous proof of strength; but Bartja's nearest friends turned pale
and were silent; they were watching the king, who literally quivered with
rage, and Bartja, who was radiant with pride and joy.

Cambyses was a fearful sight at that moment. It seemed to him as if that
arrow, in piercing the target, had pierced his own heart, his strength,
dignity and honor. Sparks floated before his eyes, in his ears was a
sound like the breaking of a stormy sea on the shore; his cheeks glowed
and he grasped the arm of Prexaspes who was at his side. Prexaspes only
too well understood what that pressure meant, when given by a royal hand,
and murmured: "Poor Bartja!"

At last the king succeeded in recovering his presence of mind. Without
saying a word, he threw a gold chain to his brother, ordered his nobles
to follow him, and left the garden, but only to wander restlessly up and
down his apartments, and try to drown his rage in wine. Suddenly he
seemed to have formed a resolution and ordered all the courtiers, except
Prexaspes, to leave the hall. When they were alone, he called out in a
hoarse voice and with a look that proved the extent of his intoxication:
"This life is not to be borne! Rid me of my enemy, and I will call you my
friend and benefactor."

Prexaspes trembled, threw himself at the king's feet and raised his hands
imploringly; but Cambyses was too intoxicated, and too much blinded by
his hatred to understand the action. He fancied the prostration was meant
as a sign of devotion to his will, signed to him to rise, and whispered,
as if afraid of hearing his own words: "Act quickly and secretly; and, as
you value your life, let no one know of the upstart's death. Depart, and
when your work is finished, take as much as you like out of the treasury.
But keep your wits about you. The boy has a strong arm and a winning
tongue. Think of your own wife and children, if he tries to win you over
with his smooth words."

As he spoke he emptied a fresh goblet of pure wine, staggered through the
door of the room, calling out as he turned his back on Prexaspes: "Woe be
to you if that upstart, that woman's hero, that fellow who has robbed me
of my honor, is left alive."

Long after he had left the hall, Prexaspes stood fixed on the spot where
he had heard these words. The man was ambitious, but neither mean nor
bad, and he felt crushed by the awful task allotted to him. He knew that
his refusal to execute it would bring death or disgrace on himself and on
his family; but he loved Bartja, and besides, his whole nature revolted
at the thought of becoming a common, hired murderer. A fearful struggle
began in his mind, and raged long after he left the palace. On the way
home he met Croesus and Darius. He fancied they would see from his looks
that he was already on the way to a great crime, and hid himself behind
the projecting gate of a large Egyptian house. As they passed, he heard
Croesus say: "I reproached him bitterly, little as he deserves reproach
in general, for having given such an inopportune proof of his great
strength. We may really thank the gods, that Cambyses did not lay violent
hands on him in a fit of passion. He has followed my advice now and gone
with his wife to Sais. For the next few days Bartja must not come near
the king; the mere sight of him might rouse his anger again, and a
monarch can always find unprincipled servants . . ."

The rest of the sentence died away in the distance, but the words he had
heard were enough to make Prexaspes start, as if Croesus had accused him
of the shameful deed. He resolved in that moment that, come what would,
his hands should not be stained with the blood of a friend. This
resolution restored him his old erect bearing and firm gait for the time,
but when he reached the dwelling which had been assigned as his abode in
Sais his two boys ran to the door to meet him. They had stolen away from
the play-ground of the sons of the Achaemenidae, (who, as was always the
case, had accompanied the king and the army), to see their father for a
moment. He felt a strange tenderness, which he could not explain to
himself, on taking them in his arms, and kissed the beautiful boys once
more on their telling him that they must go back to their play-ground
again, or they should be punished. Within, he found his favorite wife
playing with their youngest child, a sweet little girl. Again the same
strange, inexplicable feeling of tenderness. He overcame it this time for
fear of betraying his secret to his young wife, and retired to his own
apartment early.

Night had come on.

The sorely-tried man could not sleep; he turned restlessly from side to
side. The fearful thought, that his refusal to do the king's will would
be the ruin of his wife and children, stood before his wakeful eyes in
the most vivid colors. The strength to keep his good resolution forsook
him, and even Croesus' words, which, when he first heard them had given
his nobler feelings the victory, now came in as a power on the other
side. "A monarch can always find unprincipled servants." Yes, the words
were an affront, but at the same time a reminder, that though he might
defy the king's command a hundred others would be ready to obey it. No
sooner had this thought become clear to him, than he started up, examined
a number of daggers which hung, carefully arranged, above his bed, and
laid the sharpest on the little table before him.

He then began to pace the room in deep thought, often going to the
opening which served as a window, to cool his burning forehead and see if
dawn were near.

When at last daylight appeared, he heard the sounding brass calling the
boys to early prayer. That reminded him of his sons and he examined the
dagger a second time. A troop of gaily-dressed courtiers rode by on their
way to the king. He put the dagger in his girdle; and at last, on hearing
the merry laughter of his youngest child sound from the women's
apartments, he set the tiara hastily on his head, left the house without
taking leave of his wife, and, accompanied by a number of slaves, went
down to the Nile. There he threw himself into a boat and ordered the
rowers to take him to Sais.

          .........................

A few hours after the fatal shooting-match, Bartja had followed Croesus'
advice and had gone off to Sais with his young wife. They found Rhodopis
there. She had yielded to an irresistible impulse and, instead of
returning to Naukratis, had stopped at Sais. Bartja's fall on stepping
ashore had disturbed her, and she had with her own eyes seen an owl fly
from the left side close by his head. These evil omens, to a heart which
had by no means outgrown the superstitions of the age, added to a
confused succession of distressing dreams which had disturbed her
slumbers, and her usual wish to be always near Bartja and Sappho, led her
to decide quickly on waiting for her granddaughter at Sais.

Bartja and Sappho were delighted to find such a welcome guest, and after
she had dandled and played with her great grandchild, the little Parmys,
to her heart's content, they led her to the rooms which had been prepared
for her.

   [Herodotus states, that beside Atossa, &c.. Darius took a daughter
   of the deceased Bartja, named Parmys, to be his wife. Herod. III.
   88. She is also mentioned VII. 78.]

They were the same in which the unhappy Tachot had spent the last months
of her fading existence. Rhodopis could not see all the little trifles
which showed, not only the age and sex of the former occupant, but her
tastes and disposition, without feeling very sad. On the dressing-table
were a number of little ointment-boxes and small bottles for perfumes,
cosmetics, washes and oils. Two larger boxes, one in the form of a
Nile-goose, and another on the side of which a woman playing on a lute
had been painted, had once contained the princess's costly golden
ornaments, and the metal mirror with a handle in the form of a sleeping
maiden, had once reflected her beautiful face with its pale pink flush.
Everything in the room, from the elegant little couch resting on lions'
claws, to the delicately-carved ivory combs on the toilet-table, proved
that the outward adornments of life had possessed much charm for the
former owner of these rooms. The golden sisirum and the
delicately-wrought nabla, the strings of which had long ago been broken,
testified to her taste for music, while the broken spindle in the corner,
and some unfinished nets of glass beads shewed that she had been fond of
woman's usual work.

It was a sad pleasure to Rhodopis to examine all these things, and the
picture which she drew in her own mind of Tachot after the inspection,
differed very little from the reality. At last interest and curiosity led
her to a large painted chest. She lifted the light cover and found,
first, a few dried flowers; then a ball, round which some skilful hand
had wreathed roses and leaves, once fresh and bright, now, alas, long ago
dead and withered. Beside these were a number of amulets in different
forms, one representing the goddess of truth, another containing spells
written on a strip of papyrus and concealed in a little golden case. Then
her eyes fell on some letters written in the Greek character. She read
them by the light of the lamp. They were from Nitetis in Persia to her
supposed sister, and were written in ignorance of the latter's illness.
When Rhodopis laid them down her eyes were full of tears. The dead girl's
secret lay open before her. She knew now that Tachot had loved Bartja,
that he had given her the faded flowers, and that she had wreathed the
ball with roses because he had thrown it to her. The amulets must have
been intended either to heal her sick heart, or to awaken love in his.

As she was putting the letters back in their old place, she touched some
cloths which seemed put in to fill up the bottom of the chest, and felt a
hard round substance underneath. She raised them, and discovered a bust
made of colored wax, such a wonderfully-exact portrait of Nitetis, that
an involuntary exclamation of surprise broke from her, and it was long
before she could turn her eyes away from Theodorus' marvellous work.

She went to rest and fell asleep, thinking of the sad fate of Nitetis,
the Egyptian Princess.

The next morning Rhodopis went into the garden--the same into which we
led our readers during the lifetime of Amasis-and found Bartja and Sappho
in an arbor overgrown with vines.

Sappho was seated in a light wicker-work chair. Her child lay on her lap,
stretching out its little hands and feet, sometimes to its father, who
was kneeling on the ground before them, and then to its mother whose
laughing face was bent down over her little one.

Bartja was very happy with his child. When the little creature buried its
tiny fingers in his curls and beard, he would draw his head back to feel
the strength of the little hand, would kiss its rosy feet, its little
round white shoulders and dimpled arms. Sappho enjoyed the fun, always
trying to draw the little one's attention to its father.

Sometimes, when she stooped down to kiss the rosy baby lips, her forehead
would touch his curls and he would steal the kiss meant for the little
Parmys.

Rhodopis watched them a long time unperceived, and, with tears of joy in
her eyes, prayed the gods that they might long be as happy as they now
were. At last she came into the arbor to wish them good-morning, and
bestowed much praise on old Melitta for appearing at the right moment,
parasol in hand, to take her charge out of the sunshine before it became
too bright and hot, and put her to sleep.

The old slave had been appointed head-nurse to the high-born child, and
acquitted herself in her new office with an amount of importance which
was very comical. Hiding her old limbs under rich Persian robes, she
moved about exulting in the new and delightful right to command, and kept
her inferiors in perpetual motion.

Sappho followed Melitta into the palace, first whispering in her
husband's ear with her arm round his neck: "Tell my grandmother
everything and ask whether you are right."

Before he could answer, she had stopped his mouth with a kiss, and then
hurried after the old woman who was departing with dignified steps.

The prince smiled as he watched her graceful walk and beautiful figure,
and said, turning to Rhodopis: "Does not it strike you, that she has
grown taller lately."

"It seems so," answered Rhodopis. "A woman's girlhood has its own
peculiar charm, but her true dignity comes with motherhood. It is the
feeling of having fulfilled her destiny, which raises her head and makes
us fancy she has grown taller."

"Yes," said Bartja, "I think she is happy. Yesterday our opinions
differed for the first time, and as she was leaving us just now, she
begged me, privately, to lay the question before you, which I am very
glad to do, for I honor your experience and wisdom just as much, as I
love her childlike inexperience."

Bartja then told the story of the unfortunate shooting-match, finishing
with these words: "Croesus blames my imprudence, but I know my brother; I
know that when he is angry he is capable of any act of violence, and it
is not impossible that at the moment when he felt himself defeated he
could have killed me; but I know too, that when his fierce passion has
cooled, he will forget my boastful deed, and only try to excel me by
others of the same kind. A year ago he was by far the best marksman in
Persia, and would be so still, if drink and epilepsy had not undermined
his strength. I must confess I feel as if I were becoming stronger every
day."

"Yes," interrupted Rhodopis, "pure happiness strengthens a man's arm,
just as it adds to the beauty of a woman, while intemperance and mental
distress ruin both body and mind far more surely even than old age. My
son, beware of your brother; his strong arm has become paralyzed, and his
generosity can be forfeited too. Trust my experience, that the man who is
the slave of one evil passion, is very seldom master of the rest; besides
which, no one feels humiliation so bitterly as he who is sinking--who
knows that his powers are forsaking him. I say again, beware of your
brother, and trust the voice of experience more than that of your own
heart, which, because it is generous itself, believes every one else to
be so."

"I see," said Bartja, "that you will take Sappho's side. Difficult as it
will be for her to part from you, she has still begged me to return with
her to Persia. She thinks that Cambyses may forget his anger, when I am
out of sight. I thought she was over-anxious, and besides, it would
disappoint me not to take part in the expedition against the Ethiopians."

"But I entreat you," interrupted Rhodopis, "to follow her advice. The
gods only know what pain it will give me to lose you both, and yet I
repeat a thousand times: Go back to Persia, and remember that none but
fools stake life and happiness to no purpose. As to the war with
Ethiopia, it is mere madness; instead of subduing those black inhabitants
of the south, you yourselves will be conquered by heat, thirst and all
the horrors of the desert. In saying this I refer to the campaigns in
general; as to your own share in them, I can only say that if no fame is
to be won there, you will be putting your own life and the happiness of
your family in jeopardy literally for nothing, and that if, on the other
hand, you should distinguish yourself again, it would only be giving
fresh cause of jealousy and anger to your brother. No, go to Persia, as
soon as you can."

Bartja was just beginning to make various objections to these arguments,
when he caught sight of Prexaspes coming up to them, looking very pale.

After the usual greeting, the envoy whispered to Bartja, that he should
like to speak with him alone. Rhodopis left them at once, and he began,
playing with the rings on his right hand as he spoke, in a constrained,
embarrassed way. "I come from the king. Your display of strength
irritated him yesterday, and he does not wish to see you again for some
time. His orders are, that you set out for Arabia to buy up all the
camels that are to be had.

   [Camels are never represented on the Egyptian monuments, whereas
   they were in great use among the Arabians and Persians, and are now
   a necessity on the Nile. They must have existed in Egypt, however.
   Hekekyan-Bey discovered the bones of a dromedary in a deep bore.
   Representations of these creatures were probably forbid We know this
   was the case with the cock, of which bird there were large numbers
   in Egypt: It is remarkable, that camels were not introduced into
   Barbary until after the birth of Christ.]

"As these animals can bear thirst very long, they are to be used in
conveying food and water for our army on the Ethiopian campaign. There
must be no delay. Take leave of your wife, and (I speak by the king's
command) be ready to start before dark. You will be absent at least a
month. I am to accompany you as far as Pelusium. Kassandane wishes to
have your wife and child near her during your absence. Send them to
Memphis as soon as possible; under the protection of the queen mother,
they will be in safety."

Prexaspes' short, constrained way of speaking did not strike Bartja. He
rejoiced at what seemed to him great moderation on the part of his
brother, and at receiving a commission which relieved him of all doubt on
the question of leaving Egypt, gave his friend, (as he supposed him to
be), his hand to kiss and an invitation to follow him into the palace.

In the cool of the evening, he took a short but very affectionate
farewell of Sappho and his child, who was asleep in Melitta's arms, told
his wife to set out as soon as possible on her journey to Kassandane,
called out jestingly to his mother-in-law, that at least this time she
had been mistaken in her judgment of a man's character, (meaning his
brother's), and sprang on to his horse.

As Prexaspes was mounting, Sappho whispered to him, "Take care of that
reckless fellow, and remind him of me and his child, when you see him
running into unnecessary danger."

"I shall have to leave him at Pelusium," answered the envoy, busying
himself with the bridle of his horse in order to avoid meeting her eyes.

"Then may the gods take him into their keeping!" exclaimed Sappho,
clasping her husband's hand, and bursting into tears, which she could not
keep back. Bartja looked down and saw his usually trustful wife in tears.
He felt sadder than he had ever felt before. Stooping down lovingly from
his saddle, he put his strong arm round her waist, lifted her up to him,
and as she stood supporting herself on his foot in the stirrup, pressed
her to his heart, as if for a long last farewell. He then let her safely
and gently to the ground, took his child up to him on the saddle, kissed
and fondled the little creature, and told her laughingly to make her
mother very happy while he was away, exchanged some warm words of
farewell with Rhodopis, and then, spurring his horse till the creature
reared, dashed through the gateway of the Pharaohs' palace, with
Prexaspes at his side.

When the sound of the horses' hoofs had died away in the distance, Sappho
laid her head on her grandmother's shoulder and wept uncontrollably.
Rhodopis remonstrated and blamed, but all in vain, she could not stop her
tears.


CHAPTER XV.

On the morning after the trial of the bow, Cambyses was seized by such a
violent attack of his old illness, that he was forced to keep his room
for two days and nights, ill in mind and body; at times raging like a
madman, at others weak and powerless as a little child.

On the third day he recovered consciousness and remembered the awful
charge he had laid on Prexaspes, and that it was only too possible he
might have executed it already. At this thought he trembled, as he had
never trembled in his life before. He sent at once for the envoy's eldest
son, who was one of the royal cup-bearers. The boy said his father had
left Memphis, without taking leave of his family. He then sent for
Darius, Zopyrus and Gyges, knowing how tenderly they loved Bartja, and
enquired after their friend. On hearing from them that he was at Sais, he
sent the three youths thither at once, charging them, if they met
Prexaspes on the way, to send him back to Memphis without delay. This
haste and the king's strange behavior were quite incomprehensible to the
young Achaemenidae; nevertheless they set out on their journey with all
speed, fearing that something must be wrong.

Cambyses, meanwhile, was miserably restless, inwardly cursed his habit of
drinking and tasted no wine the whole of that clay. Seeing his mother in
the palace-gardens, he avoided her; he durst not meet her eye.

The next eight days passed without any sign of Prexaspes' return; they
seemed to the king like a year. A hundred times he sent for the young
cup-bearer and asked if his father had returned; a hundred times he
received the same disappointing answer.

At sunset on the thirteenth day, Kassandane sent to beg a visit from him.
The king went at once, for now he longed to look on the face of his
mother; he fancied it might give him back his lost sleep.

After he had greeted her with a tenderness so rare from him, that it
astonished her, he asked for what reason she had desired his presence.
She answered, that Bartja's wife had arrived at Memphis under singular
circumstances and had said she wished to present a gift to Cambyses. He
gave Sappho an audience at once, and heard from her that Prexaspes had
brought her husband an order to start for Arabia, and herself a summons
to Memphis from the queen-mother. At these words the king turned very
pale, and his features were agitated with pain as he looked at his
brother's lovely young wife. She felt that something unusual was passing
in his mind, and such dreadful forebodings arose in her own, that she
could only offer him the gift in silence and with trembling hands.

"My husband sends you this," she said, pointing to the
ingeniously-wrought box, which contained the wax likeness of Nitetis.
Rhodopis had advised her to take this to the king in Bartja's name, as a
propitiatory offering.

Cambyses showed no curiosity as to the contents of the box, gave it in
charge to a eunuch, said a few words which seemed meant as thanks to his
sister-in law, and left the women's apartments without even so much as
enquiring after Atossa, whose existence he seemed to have forgotten.

He had come to his mother, believing that the visit would comfort and
calm his troubled mind, but Sappho's words had destroyed his last hope,
and with that his last possibility of rest or peace. By this time either
Prexaspes would already have committed the murder, or perhaps at that
very moment might be raising his dagger to plunge it into Bartja's heart.

How could he ever meet his mother again after Bartja's death? how could
he answer her questions or those of that lovely Sappho, whose large,
anxious, appealing eyes had touched him so strangely?

A voice within told him, that his brother's murder would be branded as a
cowardly, unnatural, and unjust deed, and he shuddered at the thought. It
seemed fearful, unbearable, to be called an assassin. He had already
caused the death of many a man without the least compunction, but that
had been done either in fair fight, or openly before the world. He was
king, and what the king did was right. Had he killed Bartja with his own
hand, his conscience would not have reproached him; but to have had him
privately put out of the way, after he had given so many proofs of
possessing first-rate manly qualities, which deserved the highest
praise--this tortured him with a feeling of rage at his own want of
principle,-a feeling of shame and remorse which he had never known
before. He began to despise himself. The consciousness of having acted,
and wished to act justly, forsook him, and he began to fancy, that every
one who had been executed by his orders, had been, like Bartja, an
innocent victim of his fierce anger. These thoughts became so
intolerable, that he began to drink once more in the hope of drowning
them. But now the wine had precisely the opposite effect, and brought
such tormenting thoughts, that, worn out as he was already by epileptic
fits and his habit of drinking, both body and mind threatened to give way
to the agitation caused by the events of the last months. Burning and
shivering by turns, he was at last forced to lie down. While the
attendants were disrobing him, he remembered his brother's present, had
the box fetched and opened, and then desired to be left alone. The
Egyptian paintings on the outside of the box reminded him of Nitetis, and
then he asked himself what she would have said to his deed. Fever had
already begun, and his mind was wandering as he took the beautiful wax
bust out of the box. He stared in horror at the dull, immovable eyes. The
likeness was so perfect, and his judgment so weakened by wine and fever,
that he fancied himself the victim of some spell, and yet could not turn
his eyes from those dear features. Suddenly the eyes seemed to move. He
was seized with terror, and, in a kind of convulsion, hurled what he
thought had become a living head against the wall. The hollow, brittle
wax broke into a thousand fragments, and Cambyses sank back on to his bed
with a groan.

From that moment the fever increased. In his delirium the banished Phanes
appeared, singing a scornful Greek song and deriding him in such infamous
words, that his fists clenched with rage. Then he saw his friend and
adviser, Croesus, threatening him in the very same words of warning,
which he had used when Bartja had been sentenced to death by his command
on account of Nitetis: "Beware of shedding a brother's blood; the smoke
thereof will rise to heaven and become a cloud, that must darken the days
of the murderer, and at last cast down the lightnings of heaven upon his
head."

And in his delirious fancy this figure of speech became a reality. A rain
of blood streamed down upon him from dark clouds; his clothes and hands
were wet with the loathsome moisture. He went down to the Nile to cleanse
himself, and suddenly saw Nitetis coming towards him. She had the same
sweet smile with which Theodorus had modelled her. Enchanted with this
lovely vision, he fell down before her and took her hand, but he had
scarcely touched it, when drops of blood appeared at the tips of her
delicate fingers, and she turned away from him with every sign of horror.
He humbly implored her to forgive him and come back; she remained
inexorable. He grew angry, and threatened her, first with his wrath, and
then with awful punishments. At last, as she only answered his threats by
a low scornful laugh, he ventured to throw his dagger at her. She
crumbled at once into a thousand pieces, like the wax statue. But the
derisive laughter echoed on, and became louder. Many voices joined in it,
each trying to outbid the other. And the voices of Bartja and Nitetis
were the loudest,--their tone the most bitter. At last he could bear
these fearful sounds no longer and stopped his ears; this was of no use,
and he buried his head, first in the glowing desert-sand and then in the
icy cold Nile-water, until his senses forsook him. On awaking, the actual
state of things seemed incomprehensible to him. He had gone to bed in the
evening, and yet he now saw, by the direction of the sun's rays which
fell on his bed, that, instead of dawning as he had expected, the day was
growing dark. There could be no mistake; he heard the chorus of priests
singing farewell to the setting Mithras.

Then he heard a number of people moving behind a curtain, which had been
hung up at the head of his bed. He tried to turn in his bed, but could
not; he was too weak. At last, finding it impossible to discover whether
he was in real life or still in a dream, he called for his dressers and
the courtiers, who were accustomed to be present when he rose. They
appeared in a moment, and with them his mother, Prexaspes, a number of
the learned among the Magi, and some Egyptians who were unknown to him.
They told him, that he had been lying in a violent fever for weeks, and
had only escaped death by the special mercy of the gods, the skill of the
physicians, and the unwearied nursing of his mother. He looked
enquiringly first at Kassandane, then at Prexaspes, lost consciousness
again, and fell into a deep sleep, from which he awoke the next morning
with renewed strength.

In four days he was strong enough to sit up and able to question
Prexaspes on the only subject, which occupied his thoughts.

In consideration of his master's weakness the envoy was beginning an
evasive reply, when a threatening movement of the king's gaunt, worn
hand, and a look which had by no means lost its old power of awing into
submission, brought him to the point at once, and in the hope of giving
the king a great pleasure and putting his mind completely at rest, he
began: "Rejoice, O King! the youth, who dared to desire the disparagement
of thy glory, is no more. This hand slew him and buried his body at
Baal-Zephon. The sand of the desert and the unfruitful waves of the Red
Sea were the only witnesses of the deed; and no creature knows thereof
beside thyself, O King, thy servant Prexaspes, and the gulls and
cormorants, that hover over his grave."

The king uttered a piercing shriek of rage, was seized by a fresh
shivering-fit, and sank back once more in raving delirium.

Long weeks passed, every day of which threatened its death. At last,
however, his strong constitution gained the day, but his mind had given
way, and remained disordered and weak up to his last hour.

When he was strong enough to leave the sick-room and to ride and shoot
once more, he abandoned himself more than ever to the pleasure of
drinking, and lost every remnant of self-control.

The delusion had fixed itself in his disordered mind, that Bartja was not
dead, but transformed into the bow of the King of Ethiopia, and that the
Feruer (soul) of his father Cyrus had commanded him to restore Bartja to
its original form, by subjugating the black nation.

This idea, which he confided to every one about him as a great secret,
pursued him day and night and gave him no rest, until he had started for
Ethiopia with an immense host. He was forced, however, to return without
having accomplished his object, after having miserably lost the greater
part of his army by heat and the scarcity of provisions. An historian,
who may almost be spoken of as contemporary, tells us that the wretched
soldiers, after having subsisted on herbs as long as they could, came to
deserts where there was no sign of vegetation, and in their despair
resorted to an expedient almost too fearful to describe. Lots were drawn
by every ten men, and he on whom the lot fell was killed and eaten by the
other nine.

   [Herodotus visited Egypt some 60 years after the death of Cambyses,
   454 B.C. He describes the Ethiopian campaign, III. 25.]

At last things went so far, that his subjects compelled this madman to
return, but only, with their slavish Asiatic feelings, to obey him all
the more blindly, when they found themselves once more in inhabited
regions.

On reaching Memphis with the wreck of his army, he found the Egyptians in
glorious apparel celebrating a festival. They had found a new Apis and
were rejoicing over the reappearance of their god, incarnate in the
sacred bull.

As Cambyses had heard at Thebes, that the army he had sent against the
oasis of Ammon in the Libyan desert, had perished miserably in a Khamsin,
or Simoom, and that his fleet, which was to conquer Carthage, had refused
to fight with a people of their own race, he fancied that the Memphians
must be celebrating a festival of joy at the news of his misfortunes,
sent for their principal men, and after reproaching them with their
conduct, asked why they had been gloomy and morose after his victories,
but joyous at hearing of his misfortunes. The Memphians answered by
explaining the real ground for their merry-making, and told him, that the
appearance of the sacred bull was always celebrated in Egypt with the
greatest rejoicings. Cambyses called them liars, and, as such, sentenced
them to death. He then sent for the priests; received, however, exactly
the same answer from them.

With the bitterest irony he asked to be allowed to make the acquaintance
of this new god, and commanded them to bring him. The bull Apis was
brought and the king told that he was the progeny of a virgin cow and a
moonbeam, that he must be black, with a white triangular spot on the
forehead, the likeness of an eagle on his back, and on his side the
crescent moon. There must be two kinds of hair on his tail, and on his
tongue an excrescence in the form of the sacred beetle Scarabaeus.

When Cambyses saw this deified creature he could discover nothing
remarkable in him, and was so enraged that he plunged his sword into its
side. As the blood streamed from the wound and the animal fell, he broke
out into a piercing laugh, and cried: "Ye fools! so your gods are flesh
and blood; they can be wounded. Such folly is worthy of you. But ye shall
find, that it is not so easy to make a fool of me. Ho, guards! flog these
priests soundly, and kill every one whom you find taking part in this mad
celebration." The command was obeyed and fearfully exasperated the
Egyptians.

   [According to Herod. III. 29. Cambyses' sword slipped and ran into
   the leg of the sacred bull. As the king died also of a wound in the
   thigh, this just suits Herodotus, who always tries to put the
   retribution that comes after presumptuous crime in the strongest
   light; but it is very unlikely that the bull should have died of a
   mere thigh wound.]

Apis died of his wound; the Memphians buried him secretly in the vaults
belonging to the sacred bulls, near the Serapeum, and, led by Psamtik,
attempted an insurrection against the Persians. This was very quickly put
down, however, and cost Psamtik his life,--a life the stains and
severities of which deserve to be forgiven, in consideration of his
unwearied, ceaseless efforts to deliver his people from a foreign yoke,
and his death in the cause of freedom.

Cambyses' madness had meanwhile taken fresh forms. After the failure of
his attempt to restore Bartja, (transformed as he fancied into a bow) to
his original shape, his irritability increased so frightfully that a
single word, or even a look, was sufficient to make him furious. Still
his true friend and counsellor, Croesus, never left him, though the king
had more than once given him over to the guards for execution. But the
guards knew their master; they took good care not to lay hands on the old
man, and felt sure of impunity, as the king would either have forgotten
his command, or repented of it by the next day, Once, however, the
miserable whip bearers paid a fearful penalty for their lenity. Cambyses,
while rejoicing that Croesus was saved, ordered his deliverers to be
executed for disobedience without mercy.

It would be repugnant to us to repeat all the tales of barbarous
cruelties, which are told of Cambyses at this insane period of his life;
but we cannot resist mentioning a few which seem to us especially
characteristic.

While sitting at table one day, already somewhat intoxicated, he asked
Prexaspes what the Persians thought of him. The envoy, who in hopes of
deadening his tormenting conscience by the performance of noble and
dangerous acts, let no opportunity pass of trying to exercise a good
influence over his sovereign, answered that they extolled him on every
point, but thought he was too much addicted to wine.

These words, though spoken half in jest, put the king into a violent
passion, and he almost shrieked: "So the Persians say, that the wine has
taken away my senses, do they? on the contrary, I'll show them that
they've lost their own." And as he spoke he bent his bow, took aim for a
moment at Prexaspes' eldest son, who, as cup-bearer, was standing at the
back of the hall waiting for and watching every look of his sovereign,
and shot him in the breast. He then gave orders that the boy's body
should be opened and examined. The arrow had pierced the centre of his
heart. This delighted the senseless tyrant, and he called out with a
laugh: "Now you see, Prexaspes, it's the Persians who have lost their
judgment, not I. Could any one have hit the mark better?"

Prexaspes stood there, pale and motionless, compelled to watch the horrid
scene, like Niobe when chained to Sipylus. His servile spirit bowed
before the ruler's power, instead of arming his right hand with the
dagger of revenge, and when the frantic king asked him the same question
a second time, he actually answered, pressing his hand on his heart: "A
god could not have hit the mark more exactly."

A few weeks after this, the king went to Sais, and there was shown the
rooms formerly occupied by his bride. This brought back all the old
painful recollections in full force, and at the same time his clouded
memory reminded him, though without any clearness of detail, that Amasis
had deceived both Nitetis and himself. He cursed the dead king and
furiously demanded to be taken to the temple of Neith, where his mummy
was laid. There he tore the embalmed body out of its sarcophagus, caused
it to be scourged, to be stabbed with pins, had the hair torn off and
maltreated it in every possible way. In conclusion, and contrary to the
ancient Persian religious law, which held the pollution of pure fire by
corpses to be a deadly sin, he caused Amasis' dead body to be burnt, and
condemned the mummy of his first wife, which lay in a sarcophagus at
Thebes, her native place, to the same fate.

On his return to Memphis, Cambyses did not shrink from personally
ill-treating his wife and sister, Atossa.

He had ordered a combat of wild beasts to take place, during which,
amongst other entertainments of the same kind, a dog was to fight with a
young lion. The lion had conquered his antagonist, when another dog, the
brother of the conquered one, broke away from his chain, attacked the
lion, and with the help of the wounded dog, vanquished him.

This scene delighted Cambyses, but Kassandane and Atossa, who had been
forced by the king's command to be present, began to weep aloud.

The tyrant was astonished, and on asking the reason for their tears,
received as answer from the impetuous Atossa, that the brave creature who
had risked its own life to save its brother, reminded her of Bartja. She
would not say by whom he had been murdered, but his murder had never been
avenged.

These words so roused the king's anger, and so goaded his conscience,
that in a fit of insane fury he struck the daring woman, and might
possibly have killed her, if his mother had not thrown herself into his
arms and exposed her own body to his mad blows.

Her voice and action checked his rage, for he had not lost reverence for
his mother; but her look of intense anger and contempt, which he clearly
saw and could not forget, begot a fresh delusion in his mind. He believed
from that moment, that the eyes of women had power to poison him; he
started and hid himself behind his companions whenever he saw a woman,
and at last commanded that all the female inhabitants of the palace at
Memphis, his mother not excepted, should be sent back to Ecbatana.
Araspes and Gyges were appointed to be their escort thither.

          ......................

The caravan of queens and princesses had arrived at Sais; they alighted
at the royal palace. Croesus had accompanied them thus far on their way
from Egypt.

Kassandane had altered very much during the last few years. Grief and
suffering had worn deep lines in her once beautiful face, though they had
had no power to bow her stately figure.

Atossa, on the contrary, was more beautiful than ever, notwithstanding
all she had suffered. The refractory and impetuous child, the daring
spirited girl, had developed into a dignified, animated and determined
woman. The serious side of life, and three sad years passed with her
ungovernable husband and brother, had been first-rate masters in the
school of patience, but they had not been able to alienate her heart from
her first love. Sappho's friendship had made up to her in some measure
for the loss of Darius.

The young Greek had become another creature, since the mysterious
departure of her husband. Her rosy color and her lovely smile were both
gone. But she was wonderfully beautiful, in spite of her paleness, her
downcast eyelashes and languid attitude. She looked like Ariadne waiting
for Theseus. Longing and expectation lay in every look, in the low tone
of her voice, in her measured walk. At the sound of approaching steps,
the opening of a door or the unexpected tones of a man's voice, she would
start, get up and listen, and then sink back into the old waiting,
longing attitude, disappointed but not hopeless. She began to dream
again, as she had been so fond of doing in her girlish days.

She was her old self only when playing with her child. Then the color
came back to her cheeks, her eyes sparkled, she seemed once more to live
in the present, and not only in the past or future.

Her child was everything to her. In that little one Bartja seemed to be
still alive, and she could love the child with all her heart and
strength, without taking one iota from her love to him. With this little
creature the gods had mercifully given her an aim in life and a link with
the lower world, the really precious part of which had seemed to vanish
with her vanished husband. Sometimes, as she looked into her baby's blue
eyes, so wonderfully like Bartja's, she thought: Why was not she born a
boy? He would have grown more like his father from day to day, and at
last, if such a thing indeed could ever be, a second Bartja would have
stood before me.

But such thoughts generally ended soon in her pressing the little one
closer than ever to her heart, and blaming herself for ingratitude and
folly.

One day Atossa put the same idea in words, exclaiming: "If Parmys were
only a boy! He would have grown up exactly like his father, and have been
a second Cyrus for Persia." Sappho smiled sadly at her friend, and
covered the little one with kisses, but Kassandane said: "Be thankful to
the gods, my child, for having given you a daughter. If Parmys were a
boy, he would be taken from you as soon as he had reached his sixth year,
to be brought up with the sons of the other Achaemenidae, but your
daughter will remain your own for many years."

Sappho trembled at the mere thought of parting from her child; she
pressed its little fair curly head close to her breast, and never found,
fault with her treasure again for being a girl.

Atossa's friendship was a great comfort to her poor wounded heart. With
her she could speak of Bartja as much and as often as she would, and was
always certain of a kind and sympathizing listener. Atossa had loved her
vanished brother very dearly. And even a stranger would have enjoyed
hearing Sappho tell of her past happiness. Her words rose into real
eloquence in speaking of those bright days; she seemed like an inspired
poetess. Then she would take her lyre, and with her clear, sweet,
plaintive voice sing the love-songs of the elder Sappho, in which all her
own deepest feelings were so truly expressed, and fancy herself once more
with her lover sitting under the sweet-scented acanthus in the quiet
night, and forget the sad reality of her present life. And when, with a
deep sigh, she laid aside the lyre and came back out of this
dream-kingdom, the tears were always to be seen in Kassandane's eyes,
though she did not understand the language in which Sappho had been
singing, and Atossa would bend down and kiss her forehead.

Thus three long years had passed, during which Sappho had seldom seen her
grandmother, for, as the mother of Parmys, she was by the king's command,
forbidden to leave the harem, unless permitted and accompanied either by
Kassandane or the eunuchs.

On the present occasion Croesus, who had always loved, and loved her
still, like a daughter, had sent for Rhodopis to Sais. He, as well as
Kassandane, understood her wish to take leave of this, her dearest and
most faithful friend, before setting out for Persia; besides which
Kassandane had a great wish to see one in whose praise she had heard so
much. When Sappho's tender and sad farewell was over therefore, Rhodopis
was summoned to the queen-mother.

A stranger, who saw these two women together, would have thought both
were queens; it was impossible to decide which of the two had most right
to the title.

Croesus, standing as he did in as close a relation to the one as to the
other, undertook the office of interpreter, and the ready intellect of
Rhodopis helped him to carry on an uninterrupted flow of conversation.

Rhodopis, by her own peculiar attractions, soon won the heart of
Kassandane, and the queen knew no better way of proving this than by
offering, in Persian fashion, to grant her some wish.

Rhodopis hesitated a moment; then raising her hands as if in prayer, she
cried: "Leave me my Sappho, the consolation and beauty of my old age."

Kassandane smiled sadly. "It is not in my power to grant that wish," she
answered. "The laws of Persia command, that the children of the
Achaemenidae shall be brought up at the king's gate. I dare not allow the
little Parmys, Cyrus' only grandchild, to leave me, and, much as Sappho
loves you, you know she would not part from her child. Indeed, she has
become so dear to me now, and to my daughter, that though I well
understand your wish to have her, I could never allow Sappho to leave
us."

Seeing that Rhodopis' eyes were filling with tears, Kassandane went on:
"There is, however, a good way out of our perplexity. Leave Naukratis,
and come with us to Persia. There you can spend your last years with us
and with your granddaughter, and shall be provided with a royal
maintenance."

Rhodopis shook her head, hoary but still so beautiful, and answered in a
suppressed voice: "I thank you, noble queen, for this gracious
invitation, but I feel unable to accept it. Every fibre of my heart is
rooted in Greece, and I should be tearing my life out by leaving it
forever. I am so accustomed to constant activity, perfect freedom, and a
stirring exchange of thought, that I should languish and die in the
confinement of a harem. Croesus had already prepared me for the gracious
proposal you have just made, and I have had a long and difficult battle
to fight, before I could decide on resigning my dearest blessing for my
highest good. It is not easy, but it is glorious, it is more worthy of
the Greek name--to live a good and beautiful life, than a happy one--to
follow duty rather than pleasure. My heart will follow Sappho, but my
intellect and experience belong to the Greeks; and if you should ever
hear that the people of Hellas are ruled by themselves alone, by their
own gods, their own laws, the beautiful and the good, then you will know
that the work on which Rhodopis, in league with the noblest and best of
her countrymen, has staked her life, is accomplished. Be not angry with
the Greek woman, who confesses that she would rather die free as a beggar
than live in bondage as a queen, though envied by the whole world."

Kassandane listened in amazement. She only understood part of what
Rhodopis had said, but felt that she had spoken well and nobly, and at
the conclusion gave her her hand to kiss. After a short pause, Kassandane
said: "Do what you think right, and remember, that as long as I and my
daughter live, your granddaughter will never want for true and faithful
love."

"Your noble countenance and the fame of your great virtue are warrant
enough for that." answered Rhodopis.

"And also," added the queen, "the duty which lies upon me to make good
the wrong, that has been done your Sappho."

She sighed painfully and went on: "The little Parmys shall be carefully
educated. She seems to have much natural talent, and can sing the songs
of her native country already after her mother. I shall do nothing to
check her love of music, though, in Persia the religious services are the
only occasions in which that art is studied by any but the lower
classes."

At these words Rhodopis' face glowed. "Will you permit me to speak
openly, O Queen?" she said. "Speak without fear," was Kassandane's
answer. "When you sighed so painfully just now in speaking of your dear
lost son, I thought: Perhaps that brave young hero might have been still
living, if the Persians had understood better how to educate their sons.
Bartja told me in what that education consisted. To shoot, throw the
spear, ride, hunt, speak the truth, and perhaps also to distinguish
between the healing and noxious properties of certain plants: that is
deemed a sufficient educational provision for a man's life. The Greek
boys are just as carefully kept to the practice of exercises for
hardening and bracing the body; for these exercises are the founders and
preservers of health, the physician is only its repairer and restorer.
If, however, by constant practice a Greek youth were to attain to the
strength of a bull, the truth of the Deity, and the wisdom of the most
learned Egyptian priest, we should still look down upon him were he
wanting in two things which only early example and music, combined with
these bodily exercises, can give: grace and symmetry. You smile because
you do not understand me, but I can prove to you that music, which, from
what Sappho tells me, is not without its moving power for your heart, is
as important an element in education as gymnastics, and, strange as it
may sound, has an equal share in effecting the perfection of both body
and mind. The man who devotes his attention exclusively to music will, if
he be of a violent disposition, lose his savage sternness at first; he
will become gentle and pliable as metal in the fire. But at last his
courage will disappear too; his passionate temper will have changed into
irritability, and he will be of little worth as a warrior, the calling
and character most desired in your country. If, on the other hand, he
confines himself to gymnastics only, he will, like Cambyses, excel in
manliness and strength; but his mind--here my comparison ceases--will
remain obtuse and blind, his perceptions will be confused, He will not
listen to reason, but will endeavor to carry everything by force, and,
lacking grace and proportion, his life will probably become a succession
of rude and violent deeds. On this account we conclude that music is
necessary not only for the mind, and gymnastics not only for the body,
but that both, working together, elevate and soften the mind and
strengthen the body--give manly grace, and graceful manliness."

   [The fundamental ideas of this speech are drawn from
   Plato's ideal "State."]

After a moment's pause Rhodopis went on: "The youth who has not received
such an education, whose roughness has never been checked even in
childhood, who has been allowed to vent his temper on every one,
receiving flattery in return and never hearing reproof; who has been
allowed to command before he has learnt to obey, and who has been brought
up in the belief that splendor, power and riches are the highest good,
can never possibly attain to the perfect manhood, which we beseech the
gods to grant our boys. And if this unfortunate being happens to have
been born with an impetuous disposition, ungovernable and eager passions,
these will be only nourished and increased by bodily exercise
unaccompanied by the softening influence of music, so that at last a
child, who possibly came into the world with good qualities, will, merely
through the defects in his education, degenerate into a destructive
animal, a sensual self-destroyer, and a mad and furious tyrant."

Rhodopis had become animated with her subject. She ceased, saw tears in
the eyes of the queen, and felt that she had gone too far and had wounded
a mother's heart,--a heart full of noble feeling. She touched her robe,
kissed its border, and said softly: "Forgive me."

Kassandane looked her forgiveness, courteously saluted Rhodopis and
prepared to leave the room. On the threshold, however, she stopped and
said: "I am not angry. Your reproaches are just; but you too must
endeavor to forgive, for I can assure you that he who has murdered the
happiness of your child and of mine, though the most powerful, is of all
mortals the most to be pitied. Farewell! Should you ever stand in need of
ought, remember Cyrus' widow, and how she wished to teach you, that the
virtues the Persians desire most in their children are magnanimity and
liberality."

After saying this she left the apartment.

On the same day Rhodopis heard that Phanes was dead. He had retired to
Crotona in the neighborhood of Pythagoras and there passed his time in
reflection, dying with the tranquillity of a philosopher.

When soprano singing, you were stopped, and go there only continue. But
you should be ashamed of themselves. If I do not know, how proud your
passion occupations are revealed ... "" Say nothing of> occupation
<Lisaweta Ivanovna! The literature is not an occupation, but a curse -
that's you know. When he begins to be felt, this curse? Early, awfully
early. At a time when we still cheap in peace and harmony with God and
the world should live.

They are beginning to be drawn up in a puzzling contrast to the other,
the ordinary, the ordinary to feel the abyss of irony, disbelief,
opposition, cognition, emotion, the people from the separating gap deeper
and deeper, you are lonely, and now there are not more understanding.
What a fate! Put that the heart of lively enough, enough remained
_liebevoll_ it as awful to feel ...

Your self-confidence ignites, because you are among thousands in the character
feel your forehead and feel that no one escapes. I knew an actor of
genius, a man with a pathological bias instability and had to struggle.
His overwrought Ichgefühl together with the lack of role of actors
responsible for this effect, the perfect artist and impoverished
people ... an artist, a genuine, not one whose professional bourgeois
art is but a pre-and damn, can be found low-Up View of a crowd.

The feeling of separation and Unzugehörigkeit, of Detected and
Beobachtetseins something both Royal and publisher is in his face. In the
outline of a prince, in a civil proceeding popular quantity, one can
observe something similar. But since no civilian help, Lisaweta! Dressing
up, disguise yourself, pull up like a attaché or a vacation Guard lieutenant
in: you will hardly aufzuschlagen the eyes and speak a word to
need, and everyone will know that you are not man, but something
strange, strange, different ...

But _was ist_ the artist?

Before any question, the convenience and inertia of human cognition is
proved tougher than this. > Likewise dose is <, humbly say the good people
who are under the effect of an artist, and as serene and sublime effects
after her good-natured expression is also very serene and sublime
origins have, so no one suspects that this is perhaps to an extremely
bad conditioned, highly questionable> Gabe <act ...

We know that artists are easily vulnerable - well, you also know that
this is for people with good conscience founded and solid self-esteem
is not declared maintains ... You see, Lisaweta, I have at the bottom
of my soul - to the Mental transferred - against the type of artist
the whole _Verdacht_ that everyone in my firm honor ancestors up there in
the narrow city abenteuernden any jugglers and artists have expressed
that in his house would have.

Listen to the following. I know a banker, a graying businessman who
owns the gift, to write novels. He makes use of this gift in his
leisure use, and his works are sometimes quite excellent. Despite - and
I say> despite <- this sublime predisposition is this man not
entirely integrity he has, on the contrary, already a heavy custodial
sentence had to serve, and for good reasons. Yes, it really only
happened entirely in the prison that his talent was inne, convict
and his experiences form the basic motif in all his productions. One
might, with some pertness, concluded that it was necessary in any kind
of prison to be at home to the poet to be. But pushing is not suspected
that his experiences in prison is less closely with the roots and
origins of its artists have been deformed shank want _das than what it
hineinbrachte_? - A banker who writes novels, this is a rarity, is not
it? But a criminal is not an integrity and solid banker who writes
novels, - _das not vor_ ...

Yes, you laugh now, but I only half joke and half no problem, none in the
world, is excruciating than by the artistry and its human impact. Remove
the wunderartigste formations typical of the artist's most powerful and
therefore, take such a morbid and deeply ambiguous works like "Tristan
and Isolde" and observe the effect that this work on a young, healthy,
highly sensitive persons normally exercised. You're raised,
strengthened, warm, honest enthusiasm, excited to own perhaps> artistic
<creative ... The good dilettante! In our artists it thoroughly different
than he and his> warm the heart <and> honest enthusiasm <likes to dream.
I have artists from women and youths umschwärmt seen and celebrated,
while I have it _wußte_ ... One does what the origin, Miterscheinungen
and conditions of the artistry is concerned, always the strangest
experiences ... "" At another, Tonio Kröger - forgive - or not only to
others? "He was silent. He pulled his oblique brows together and
whistled to himself,.

"I ask for your cup, Tonio. He is not strong. And make a new
cigarette. BTW do you know very well that you see things as they are not
necessary need to be ... "" That is the response of Horatio, dear
Lisaweta. > The things in this way, would it look exactly <, is not it?
"I say that they are exactly the same from another side can Tonio Kröger.
I'm just a stupid woman painting rooms, and if I have anything to say
know if I have your own career a little bit against you in a protective
holder, it is certainly not new, what I argued, but only a reminder of
that what you yourself know very well ... How, then, the cleansing,
holy powers of literature, the destruction of passions by knowledge
and the word, literature as a way to understand, to forgive and to
love, the redeeming power of language, the literary spirit as the
noblest appearance of the human spirit ever, the writer as a perfect
man, as a saint, - things _so_ view, would mean they are not
considered accurate enough?

"" You have a right, so to speak, Lisaweta Ivanovna, in relation
to the works of your poets, the adorable Russian literature, so really
represents the sacred literature of which you speak. But I have listened
to your objections are not ignored, but they belong to what is the
meaning to me today is ...

Look at me. I do not see overly frisky, like? A bit old and tired and
scharfzügig, is not it? Now, in order to> knowledge <back so a person
could think of, from house in good faith, meek, wohlmeinend and a little
sentimental, through the psychological clairvoyance simply aufgerieben
would be addressed and used.

From the sadness of the world can not mannen; observe, remember, insert,
and the victimized, and by the way of good things already in
Vollgefühl of moral superiority over the disgusting invention of
being, - yes, indeed!

However, sometimes you grow things in spite of all pleasures of the
expression a little over his head. Everything would forgive everything?
I know not.

There is something I call Erkenntnisekel, Lisaweta. The state in which it
is sufficient to man, one thing to understand in order to die already
disgusted (and not conciliatory voted) to feel - the case of Hamlet, the
Danes, this typical literati. He knew what it is: the knowledge to be
appointed without having to be born. Hellsberg marriages still
tears through the veil of emotion through it, recognize, remember and
observe the Observed smiling aside even in moments of need, where to
entwine hands, lips to find out where the human eye, blind from
sensation to break - it is ignoble, Lisaweta, it is vile, disgusting
... but what it helps to get outraged?

A different but no less charming side of the matter is the admittedly
jaded, apathy and fatigue ironic truth to all, as it is fact that there
is nowhere in the world, silent and hopeless than approaching in a circle
of witty people who already have all the dogs are rushed. All knowledge
is old and boring. Speak your truth, to their conquest and
possession of you may have a certain youthful joy, and it is your
ordinary enlightenment with a very quick release of air through the nose
to answer ... Ah yes, the literature makes tired Lisaweta! In human
society it may be one, I assure you, done that before and louder skepticism
Meinungsenthaltsamkeit for stupid is kept, while you just arrogant and
is discouraged ...

This is to> knowledge <. But what the> word <, it is perhaps less a
relief than a cold and ice-Asc-Set of sensation? Seriously, it has
an icy outrageous and overbearing with this explanation and prompt
execution of the superficial sense of the literary language. If your
heart is full, do you feel of a sweet or sublime experience too
much is taken: nothing easier!

They go to the writers, and everything is in a very short period regulated.
He will analyze your case and formulate, in name, and also to talk to
bring you the whole time for it all and indifferent and take no thanks
for that. But you will be easier for chilled and clarified to go home and
wonder what in fact you are actually still just as sweet tumult could
disturb. And for those cold and vain charlatan seriously do you want
to happen? What is pronounced, so is his creed, is done. Is the whole
world, then it is discharged, relieved, dismissed ... Very good! But
I'm not a nihilist ... "" You're not - "said Lisaweta ... You just
gave her spoon with tea in the vicinity of the mouth, and froze in that
position. "Well, yes ... oh well ... They come to himself, Lisaweta! I
am not, I tell you, in relation to the lively feel. You see, the writer
does not understand the reason that life may still continue to live,
that there were not ashamed of it but pronounced and> done <is.

But lo and behold, it sins in spite of all salvation through literature
incessantly to go, because all behavior is a sin in the eyes of the mind
... I'm on target, Lisaweta. Listen to me. I love life - this is a
confession.

Take it and keep it - I've never done it yet. It has been said, one has
even written and printed, the life that I hate or despise or fear or
hate. I like this one, it has flattered me, but that it is no less
wrong. I love life ... They smile, Lisaweta and I know what. But I
implore you, do you think it is not literature, because what I say! Think
not to Cesare Borgia, or any drunken philosophy, which it collects on
the plate, he gives me nothing, that Cesare Borgia, I believe not
the least of it, and I will never understand how to use the
extraordinary and Demonic venerate as an ideal mag.

No, the> life <as eternal as opposed to the spirit of art and faces - not
as a vision of bloody size and wild beauty, not as the unusual, it
is unusual to represent us, but the normal, decent and love
Wohlanständige is the kingdom of our desire, is living in his seductive
banality! It is far not an artist, my love, whose last and the deepest
enthusiasm Refined, Eccentric and Satan, who does not know the longing for
the innocent, and simple living, after a little friendship, commitment,
confidentiality and human happiness, -- the stealthy and zehrende
longing, Lisaweta, after the delights of ordinariness ...

A human friend! Would you believe that I am proud and happy to do that,
among people to have a friend? But so far I have only demons, goblins,
deep and insightful fiend silent ghosts, that is: under literary friends
had. Sometimes devices on any platform, I find myself in a Saale people
who came to me to listen. You see, then it happens that I am at a Umschau
in the audience watching, catch me, as I secretly umherspähe in the
auditorium, with the question at the heart of who it is, came to me,
whose applause and thanks to my urges, with whom my art I have
created a perfect union ... I do not know what I'm looking for, Lisaweta.
I think the community, and flock to me is well aware, a gathering of
early Christians like: People with awkward bodies and fine souls, people
who always fall, so to speak, you understand me, and where the poetry
a gentle revenge on life, - Only at the end of suffering and aspirations,
and the poor and never anyone from the other, the blue eyed Lisaweta, the
mind does not need it ... And it would not last an unfortunate lack
of consistency, to rejoice when it otherwise would ? It is absurd, to love
life and yet with all the arts endeavor to be on his side to draw it for
the finesse and melancholy, all the sick nobles to win the literature.
The realm of art is increasing and the health and innocence decreases
on earth. One should, what else is left them, on careful preservation,
and one should not people who much prefer books in horses with
snapshots read poetry to seduce want!

After all, - what would be a pathetic sight than that of the life, if it
is tries in the arts? We artists despise no one more thoroughly than the
dilettantes, the living who believes in the bargain opportunity once
an artist can. I assure you, this kind of contempt is one of my personal
experiences. I find myself in a society in a good home, we eat, drink
and chat, it is the best, and I am glad and thankful for a while under
the genuine and innocent people as their peers to be able to disappear.
Suddenly (this is addressed to me) there is an officer, a lieutenant,
a handsome and Strammer man, whom I never had a dress of his honor
unworthy action would have believed, and with unambiguous words,
asks for permission to tell us some verses which he had prepared .

It gives him, with shocked smiles, this permission, and he leads his
intention, as he slips from one, which he then in his lap skirt has hidden
his work aloud, something to the music and love, in short, deeply felt
as well as ineffective.

          Now I ask anyone but a lieutenant!

A man in the world! He would have it but really not necessary ...!
Well, there is what must be done: long faces, silence, a little
artificial applause and deepest malaise around. The first psychological
fact, which I am aware of is that I feel guilty at disturbing that this
reckless young man brought about the company, and no doubt me too,
in his craft, he has fudged meet and mockingly alienated gaze.

   But the second is that this man, in his Being and beings, I just have
   the respect felt honest, in my eyes, suddenly falling, falling,
   falling ... A compassionate benevolence summarizes me. I am,
   like some other brave and good-natured gentlemen, to get
   up and talk to him. > Congratulations, "I say,> Lord Lieutenant!

What a nice gift! No, that was excellent, <And it is not missing
much, that I have him on the shoulder knock. But kindness is the sensation
that you agree with an attitude towards lieutenant has ... His
fault! As he stood and lost in great embarrassment to the misconception
that one should pick leaves, one of laurel tree of art, with his life
without to pay for it. No, because I believe it with my colleagues, the
criminal banker - --. But can not find it, Lisaweta that I am today by
a talkativeness hamlets am? "" Are you finished now, Tonio Kröger? "No.
But I say nothing more. "" And it is also sufficient. - Are you expecting
an answer? "" Do you have one? "I dächte yet. - I have listened to you,
Tonio, from beginning to end, and I will give you the answer to everything
fits what you have said this afternoon, and the solution to the problem
that you are so very worried has. So! The solution is the fact that you,
as you sit there, just a citizen. "" Am I? "He asked, and declined
a little in together ..." Not true, which makes you hard, and it must be
indeed. And that's why I want the verdict to soften somewhat, because
I can.

You are a citizen of unsuccessful search paths, Tonio Kröger - a lost
people. "- Silence. Then he decided on and grabbed hat and stick. "Thank
you, Lisaweta Ivanovna, now I can safely go home. _Ich Am erledigt._ «V
Against the autumn said Tonio Kröger to Lisaweta Ivanovna," Yes, I am
going now, Lisaweta; I must auslüften me, I'm doing me away, I'm
looking for the distance. "" Well, how, fathers Chen, deign to
return to Italy to drive?

"" God, do me with Italy, Lisaweta! Italy is to me indifferent contempt!
That is long ago that I einbildete, there are. Art, is not it? Sammetblauer
sky, hot wine and sweet sensuality ... In short, I might not. I strongly
reject. The whole beauty makes me nervous. I like all these people terribly
busy down there with the black eye animal not suffer. These novels do
not have a conscience in the eyes ... No, now I go a bit to Denmark. ""
After Denmark? "" Yes. And I promise them good to me. I'm from random
hinaufgelangt never so close to me during my entire youth of the border,
and yet I have always been the land known and loved. I must keep this
northern slope of my father because my mother was really more for the
beauty, if it is not making a whole everything was. But you take the
books that are written up there, these deep, pure and humorous books,
Lisaweta, - there is nothing about me, I love it.
Fresh cries of joy arose in answer
to these words, and when at last the bleeding heads of Oropastes and
Gaumata were shown to the crowd, they rushed with horrid yells through
the streets of the city, murdering every Magian they could lay hold of.
The darkness of night alone was able to stop this awful massacre.

Four days later, Darius, the son of Hystaspes, was chosen as king by the
heads of the Achaemenidae, in consideration of his high birth and noble
character, and received by the Persian nation with enthusiasm. Darius had
killed Gaumata with his own hand, and the highpriest had received his
death-thrust from the hand of Megabyzus, the father of Zopyrus. While
Prexaspes was haranguing the people, the seven conspiring Persian
princes, Otanes, Intaphernes, Gobryas, Megabyzus, Aspatines, Hydarnes and
Darius, (as representative of his aged father Hystaspes), had entered the
palace by a carelessly-guarded gate, sought out the part of the building
occupied by the Magi, and then, assisted by their own knowledge of the
palace, and the fact that most of the guards had been sent to keep watch
over the crowd assembled to hear Prexaspes easily penetrated to the
apartments in which at that moment they were to be found. Here they were
resisted by a few eunuchs, headed by Boges, but these were overpowered
and killed to a man. Darius became furious on seeing Boges, and killed
him at once. Hearing the dying cries of these eunuchs, the Magi rushed to
the spot and prepared to defend themselves. Oropastes snatched a lance
from the fallen Boges, thrust out one of Intaphernes' eyes and wounded
Aspatines in the thigh, but was stabbed by Megabyzus. Gaumata fled into
another apartment and tried to bar the door, but was followed too soon by
Darius and Gobryas; the latter seized, threw him, and kept him down by
the weight of his own body, crying to Darius, who was afraid of making a
false stroke in the half-light, and so wounding his companion instead of
Gaumata, "Strike boldly, even if you should stab us both." Darius obeyed,
and fortunately only hit the Magian.

Thus died Oropastes, the high-priest, and his brother Gaumata, better
known under the name of the "pseudo" or "pretended Smerdis."

A few weeks after Darius' election to the throne, which the people said
had been marvellously influenced by divine miracles and the clever
cunning of a groom, he celebrated his coronation brilliantly at
Pasargadae, and with still more splendor, his marriage with his beloved
Atossa. The trials of her life had ripened her character, and she proved
a faithful, beloved and respected companion to her husband through the
whole of that active and glorious life, which, as Prexaspes had foretold,
made him worthy of the names by which he was afterwards known--Darius the
Great, and a second Cyrus.

   [Atossa is constantly mentioned as the favorite wife of Darius, and
   be appointed her son Xerxes to be his successor, though he had three
   elder sons by the daughter of Gobryas. Herodotus (VII. 3.) speaks
   with emphasis of the respect and consideration in which Atossa was
   held, and Aeschylus, in his Persians, mentions her in her old age,
   as the much-revered and noble matron.]

As a general he was circumspect and brave, and at the same time
understood so thoroughly how to divide his enormous realm, and to
administer its affairs, that he must be classed with the greatest
organizers of all times and countries. That his feeble successors were
able to keep this Asiatic Colossus of different countries together for
two hundred years after his death, was entirely owing to Darius. He was
liberal of his own, but sparing of his subjects' treasures, and made
truly royal gifts without demanding more than was his due. He introduced
a regular system of taxation, in place of the arbitrary exactions
practised under Cyrus and Cambyses, and never allowed himself to be led
astray in the carrying out of what seemed to him right, either by
difficulties or by the ridicule of the Achaemenidae, who nicknamed him
the "shopkeeper," on account of what seemed, to their exclusively
military tastes, his petty financial measures. It is by no means one of
his smallest merits, that he introduced one system of coinage through his
entire empire, and consequently through half the then known world.

Darius respected the religions and customs of other nations. When the
writing of Cyrus, of the existence of which Cambyses had known nothing,
was found in the archives of Ecbatana, he allowed the Jews to carry on
the building of their temple to Jehovah; he also left the Ionian cities
free to govern their own communities independently. Indeed, he would
hardly have sent his army against Greece, if the Athenians had not
insulted him.

In Egypt he had learnt much; among other things, the art of managing the
exchequer of his kingdom wisely; for this reason he held the Egyptians in
high esteem, and granted them many privileges, amongst others a canal to
connect the Nile with the Red Sea, which was greatly to the advantage of
their commerce.

   [Traces of this canal can be found as early as the days of Setos I;
   his son Rameses II. caused the works to be continued. Under Necho
   they were recommenced, and possibly finished by Darius. In the time
   of the Ptolemies, at all events, the canal was already completed.
   Herod. II. 158. Diod. I. 33. The French, in undertaking to
   reconstruct the Suez canal, have had much to encounter from the
   unfriendly commercial policy of the English and their influence over
   the internal affairs of Egypt, but the unwearied energy and great
   talent of Monsr. de Lesseps and the patriotism of the French nation
   have at last succeeded in bringing their great work to a successful
   close. Whether it will pay is another question. See G. Ebers, Der
   Kanal von Suez. Nordische Revue, October 1864. The maritime canal
   connecting the Mediterranean with the Red Sea has also been
   completed since 1869. We were among those, who attended the
   brilliant inauguration ceremonies, and now willingly recall many of
   the doubts expressed in our work 'Durch Gosen zum Sinai'. The
   number of ships passing through the canal is constantly increasing.]

During the whole of his reign, Darius endeavored to make amends for the
severity with which Cambyses had treated the Egyptians; even in the later
years of his life he delighted to study the treasures of their wisdom,
and no one was allowed to attack either their religion or customs, as
long as he lived. The old high-priest Neithotep enjoyed the king's favor
to the last, and Darius often made use of his wise old master's
astrological knowledge.

The goodness and clemency of their new ruler was fully acknowledged by
the Egyptians; they called him a deity, as they had called their own
kings, and yet, in the last years of his reign, their desire for
independence led them to forget gratitude and to try to shake off his
gentle yoke, which was only oppressive because it had originally been
forced on them.

   [The name of Darius occurs very often on the monuments as Ntariusch.
   It is most frequently found in the inscriptions on the temple in the
   Oasis el-Khargah, recently photographed by G. Rohlfs. The Egypto-
   Persian memorial fragments, bearing inscriptions in the hieroglyphic
   and cuneiform characters are very interesting. Darius' name in
   Egyptian was generally "Ra, the beloved of Ammon." Clarification
   about the true nature of our original papyrus, and a probability
   of owning a lot of hypothesis about the origins of employing copy
us, we owe the sharp sense of the French Egyptologist Eugène Revillout
* *. (32) When properly considering the fact that often on a flawless
dissolved example, false solutions of similar examples, which are
then usually a series of connected Uebungsrechnungen, invoices to
a school Pensum highly similar view when considering the Thatsache
also, as one and the same numerical example, and often several times
so treated, that the occurring after the series number as the
calculated values as results appear inevitable with us * * Eugène
Revillout on the conviction that we are dealing with the training
task or folders that a pupil classroom buildings (a SBO) for tuna,
as in their many Papyrus mention occurs, in which students who later
farmers, administrators, field knife or Constructeurs wanted to be,
for their future careers necessary accounting operations were made.

Since this Schulheft obviously not for public consumption could be, it
is also thatsächlich no author's name and no indication of the
year, because what in the introduction regarding the time period
in which the original should be created, made mention, there is
more than likely that by the same copyist Aahmes * * comes from
what the original a few centuries after its creation auffand, and
the same, mathematics certainly quite ignorant, sammt all copying
errors, to those still adding new.

   Aahmes * * After the similarity of font of the mathematical specification
   of the font with other papyri known to him at the age of the first
   one in the whole and not Great incorrect might have concluded, we
   may end, perhaps the middle of the third millennium BC as the
   time G. view in which the original copy to be created. Whether Aahmes
   * * with a copy of the promising and the initiation of both
   practical and God-fearing final rule in which the intention was
to bring them in any simple man to the land of Egypt to be good
money, we question, and repeat only our agreement with the view
that the original papyrus alongside a teacher of mathematics came
examples, which are very often injured a student includes exercises,
a student, moreover, not to its excellent Glass heard liked.

And yet how precious is this ancient Egyptian Schulheft! If we are in
great haste a sketch of its contents should perform, we must first
Columnes to eight of the above Theilung subsequent initiation of
the number 2 by the numbers 3 to 99 mention any fracture occurring
appears in two to four so-called root fractures, breaks with the
one meter, cut, and the denominator of the latter usually even
numbers with a greater Divisorenanzahl.

It now only remains to be told that Zopyrus, the son of Megabyzus,
continued to the last the king's most faithful friend.

A courtier once showed the king a pomegranate, and asked him of what one
gift of fortune he would like so many repetitions, as there were seeds in
that fruit. Without a moment's hesitation Darius answered, "Of my
Zopyrus."--[Plutarch]

The following story will prove that Zopyrus, on his part, well understood
how to return his royal friend's kindness. After the death of Cambyses,
Babylon revolted from the Persian empire. Darius besieged the city nine
months in vain, and was about to raise the siege, when one day Zopyrus
appeared before him bleeding, and deprived of his ears and nose, and
explained that he had mutilated himself thus in order to cheat the
Babylonians, who knew him well, as he had formerly been on intimate terms
with their daughters. He said he wished to tell the haughty citizens,
that Darius had thus disfigured him, and that he had come to them for
help in revenging himself. He thought they would then place troops at his
disposal, with which he intended to impose upon them by making a few
successful sallies at first. His ultimate intention was to get possession
of the keys, and open the Semiramis gate to his friends.

These words, which were spoken in a joking tone, contrasted so sadly with
the mutilated features of his once handsome friend, that Darius wept, and
when at last the almost impregnable fortress was really won by Zopyrus'
stratagem, he exclaimed: "I would give a hundred Babylons, if my Zopyrus
had not thus mutilated himself."

He then appointed his friend lord of the giant city, gave him its entire
revenues, and honored him every year with the rarest presents. In later
days he used to say that, with the exception of Cyrus, who had no equal,
no man had ever performed so generous a deed as Zopyrus.

   [Herod. III. 160. Among other presents Zopyrus received a gold
   hand-mill weighing six talents, the most honorable and distinguished
   gift a Persian monarch could bestow upon a subject. According to
   Ktesias, Megabaezus received this gift from Xerxes.]

Few rulers possessed so many self-sacrificing friends as Darius, because
few understood so well how to be grateful.

When Syloson, the brother of the murdered Polykrates, came to Susa and
reminded the king of his former services, Darius received him as a
friend, placed ships and troops at his service, and helped him to recover
Samos.

The Samians made a desperate resistance, and said, when at last they were
obliged to yield: "Through Syloson we have much room in our land."

Rhodopis lived to hear of the murder of Hipparchus, the tyrant of Athens,
by Harmodius and Aristogiton, and died at last in the arms of her best
friends, Theopompus the Milesian and Kallias the Athenian, firm in her
belief of the high calling of her countrymen.

All Naukratis mourned for her, and Kallias sent a messenger to Susa, to
inform the king and Sappho of her death.

A few months later the satrap of Egypt received the following letter from
the hand of the king:

   "Inasmuch as we ourselves knew and honored Rhodopis, the Greek, who
   has lately died in Naukratis,--inasmuch as her granddaughter, as
   widow of the lawful heir to the Persian throne, enjoys to this day
   the rank and honors of a queen,--and lastly, inasmuch as I have
   lately taken the great-grandchild of the same Rhodopis, Parmys, the
   daughter of Bartja and Sappho, to be my third lawful wife, it seems
   to me just to grant royal honors to the ancestress of two queens. I
   therefore command thee to cause the ashes of Rhodopis, whom we have
   always esteemed as the greatest and rarest among women, to be buried
   in the greatest and rarest of all monuments, namely, in one of the
   Pyramids. The costly urn, which thou wilt receive herewith, is sent
   by Sappho to preserve the ashes of the deceased."

     Given in the new imperial palace at Persepolis.

             DARIUS, son of Hystaspes.

                  King.


     Maman never came in the night - or maybe, once they arrived.

     I had screamed and screamed, and Mademoiselle
     had come and
     Sieversen, the housekeeper, and George, the
     coachman, but that had nothing used. And because
     they finally had the car after the parents
     cleverly based on a large Balle were, I think the crown
     prince. And at once I heard him hereinfahren
     in the yard, and I was silent, sat
     and looked under the door.

     And since it swept a bit in the other rooms, and Maman came in in
great Hofrobe which they never participated in eight, and nearly
ran and left their white fur behind her, and took me into the bare
arms.

     And I touched , surprised and delighted than ever,
     her hair and her small, neat face and
     the cold stones in their ears and the silk
     at the edge of their shoulders, after
     the perfume of
     flowers. And so we stayed and wept and tenderly
     kissed us until we felt that the father was there
     and that we had separated. "He has high fever," I heard Maman
     shy to say, and the father grabbed my hand and
     counted the pulse. He was in uniform with the
     Jägermeister beautiful, broad, watered blue
     band of the elephant. "What a nonsense
     that we call," he said inside the room, without me to be.
     They had promised to return if it would not seriously.
     And seriously it was nothing. On my ceiling
     but I found Maman dance card, and white camellias,
     which I have never seen before and I put on the
     eyes, when I noticed how cool they were. But what was
     long, these were the afternoons in such diseases.
     On morning after the bad night, it was always asleep, and
     when you woke up and said
     that now it would be back soon, so
     it was afternoon and stayed the afternoon and
     heard at night not to be lunch. Since
     we were so tidy in the bed and maybe grew
     a little in the joints and it was much
     too tired to get anything to present. The taste of the
     applesauce stopped long before, and that's all possible if it
     was somehow interpreted, involuntarily,
     and the cleanliness acid in place of thought in itself was around.
     
     touch it seldom
     He who kills a cat is punished (for murder)
     He is the best host, who allows his guests the most freedom
     He who is to govern well must begin by learning to obey
     Human beings hate the man who shows kindness to their enemies
     I cannot . . . Say rather: I will not
     I was not swift to anger, nor a liar, nor a violent ruler
     In war the fathers live to mourn for their slain sons
     In our country it needs more courage to be a coward
     In this immense temple man seemed a dwarf in his own eyes
     In those days men wept, as well as women
     Inn, was to be found about every eighteen miles
     Introduced a regular system of taxation-Darius
     Know how to honor beauty; and prove it by taking many wives
     Lovers delighted in nature then as now
     Lovers are the most unteachable of pupils
     Misfortune too great for tears
     Mosquito-tower with which nearly every house was provided
     Multitude who, like the gnats, fly towards every thing brilliant
     Natural impulse which moves all old women to favor lovers
     Never so clever as when we have to find excuses for our own sins
     No man was allowed to ask anything of the gods for himself
     Nothing is more dangerous to love, than a comfortable assurance
     Nothing is perfectly certain in this world
     Numbers are the only certain things
     Observe a due proportion in all things
     Olympics--The first was fixed 776 B.C.
     One must enjoy the time while it is here
     Only two remedies for heart-sickness:--hope and patience
     Ordered his feet to be washed and his head anointed
     Papyrus Ebers
     Pilgrimage to the grave, and death as the only true life
     Pious axioms to be repeated by the physician, while compounding
     Remember, a lie and your death are one and the same
     Resistance always brings out a man's best powers
     Robes cut as to leave the right breast uncovered
     Romantic love, as we know it, a result of Christianity
     Rules of life given by one man to another are useless
     Scarcely be able to use so large a sum--Then abuse it
     Sent for a second interpreter
     Sing their libels on women (Greek Philosophers)
     So long as we are able to hope and wish
     Take heed lest pride degenerate into vainglory
     The past belongs to the dead; only fools count upon the future
     The priests are my opponents, my masters
     The gods cast envious glances at the happiness of mortals
     The beautiful past is all he has to live upon
     They praise their butchers more than their benefactors
     Those are not my real friends who tell me I am beautiful
     Time is clever in the healing art
     True host puts an end to the banquet
     Unwise to try to make a man happy by force
     War is a perversion of nature
     We live for life, not for death
     We've talked a good deal of love with our eyes already
     Whatever a man would do himself, he thinks others are capable of
     When love has once taken firm hold of a man in riper years
     Whether the historical romance is ever justifiable
     Wise men hold fast by the ever young present
     Ye play with eternity as if it were but a passing moment
     Young Greek girls pass their sad childhood in close rooms
     Zeus pays no heed to lovers' oathThey often fell out dancing, but she came to him in the ladies'
choice, she knew that he writes verses, they had him twice asked
her to show, and often watched him from afar with lowered head. But
what should be his?