The younger man did not remind Mr. Greenfield of the many times the
Company had been urged to make the improvements that would have
prevented the disaster, nor did he suggest that he would have
remained with the Company had not the president himself discharged
him. "Your engineer did all that any man could do after the break
was made," he said warmly. "It was the equipment and organization of
the S. & C. that put the river back in its channel, and no other
power on earth, under the circumstances, could have done it in time
to head off that back-cut."

The older man smiled. "We all know who closed the break, my boy. I
suppose you are planning to stay with the railroad?"

"They have offered me the management of the irrigation work here in
the Basin. They are going to put in permanent structures and
reconstruct the whole system in first-class shape."

"And you accepted?" There was a note of anxiety in the older man's
voice.

"Not yet. I asked for a few days to consider."

James Greenfield did not speak for several minutes, then he said--
hesitating as if searching for words: "Don't do it, Willard. Don't
do it, for my sake. Let's go back home. You know how I hate this
cursed country. I ought never to have gone into this deal after what
I had already suffered in the West. But it looked as if I could
clean up a good thing and get out. Personally, my money losses don't
amount to anything. I have enough left for both of us, and you know,
Willard my boy, that it's all yours when I go. Come back home with
me and leave this damned hole! We don't fit in here; let's go back
where we belong. I'm coming along now to the time when I must begin
to think of getting out of the game; and I need you, my boy, I need
you."

Willard Holmes was strongly moved by the appeal of this man for whom
he had a son's affection. "I wish I could say yes, Uncle Jim," he
answered. "I owe you more than I can ever repay, and if it was only
the work here I would go. But--there's something else--something
that I cannot give up if I would--that I have no right to give up."

"You mean that girl? I thought that was all settled."

"So did I," returned the other grimly. "When I talked with you about
it I thought there was no possible chance for me, and perhaps I was
right. But I can't let it go now without absolute certainty."

"You don't mean, Willard, that you are going to offer yourself to a
woman whose love you have every reason to think belongs to another
man?"

The engineer rose to his feet and walked up and down the room. When
he spoke there was in his voice a suggestion of that which marked
his speech in the days of the river fight. "I mean this: that no man
on earth shall take this woman from me if I can prevent it. I would
deserve to lose her if I gave her up on the mere guess that she
cared for another man. I am going to know from her own words. If
there is still a chance for me I am going to stay and fight for it.
If I have no chance"--he dropped into a chair--"then I'll go back
with you, Uncle Jim."

James Greenfield's face flushed hotly at the younger man's words and
then, in the silence that followed, grew pale and stern while his
fingers gripped his pencil nervously. "Very well, Willard," he said
at last. "You are a man and your own master. If your love for me
cannot influence you--"

"Uncle Jim!" The engineer's cry was a protest and an appeal, but the
other continued as though he had not heard: "I can urge no other
consideration. But you must understand this. I will never receive
this nameless woman of unknown parentage as your wife. If you prefer
her with that illiterate, low, cunning trickster whom she calls
father, you need never expect to come back to me. I have been true
to your mother in my care for you. I have done all in my power to
give you the place in life that you are entitled to fill by your
birth and family. You have been my son in everything but blood. But,
by God, sir! if you, with your breeding and raising--if you can turn
your back upon the memory of your mother and father and upon me and
all that we stand for--if you can turn your back upon us, desert us
for these--these damned cattle, you can herd with them the rest of
your life."

He was on his feet now, pacing the floor angrily. The engineer had
also risen and stood waiting for this storm of wrath to spend
itself.

"Understand me," the older man continued. "If she refuses you, you
can come back. If she accepts you, you need never show your face to
me again, and I shall take good care that your friends at home
understand the reason. Probably if you let these people know what
the result will be if you are accepted it will make a great
difference in the woman's answer."

Willard Holmes dared not speak. Nothing but his life-long love for
the man whose devotion to the engineer's mother had stood the test
of years enabled the younger man to control himself. When he could
speak calmly he said: "I am sorry, sir, that you said that; for you
must see how you have made it impossible for me now ever to go back
with you. If Miss Worth does not care for me, I would have been glad
to go home with you, for next to her, Uncle Jim, you are more to me
than anyone in the world. When you say that my relation to you shall
depend upon her answer you make it impossible for her answer to make
any difference so far as you and I are concerned. Won't you--won't
you reconsider, Uncle Jim? Won't you take back your words?"

"No, sir; I have said exactly what I mean."

"Good-by, sir."

"Good-by."

When the office door had closed behind the engineer, James
Greenfield stood motionless in the center of the room. Once he took
a step toward the door but checked himself. Then turning slowly,
wearily, he sank into the chair before his desk. For a few moments
he fumbled aimlessly over the papers and documents, then from his
pocket took a flat leather case and, opening it, held in his hand a
portrait of the engineer's mother. As he looked at the face of the
woman who had never ceased to hold the first place in his heart, his
lips framed words he could not speak aloud.

Slowly his form drooped, his head bowed. Then, with the picture held
close, he buried his face in his arms among the business papers on
his desk.


CHAPTER XXXVI.

OUT OF THE HOLLOW OF GOD'S HAND.


The first train from Republic to Barba over the new King's Basin
Central arrived in the town by the old Dry River Crossing shortly
after noon. Later in the day Jefferson Worth with his daughter, his
superintendent and the Seer went to the power plant on the bank of
Dry River.

When the plant was built it was placed as low in the old wash as the
depth of the ancient channel would permit, so that the greatest
possible fall from the Company canal above might be secured. As
Jefferson Worth and his companions stood now on the bank of the
river they saw the waste-way from the turbine wheel that ran the
generators nearly thirty feet above the bottom of the channel. In
many instances, the footprints of animals are marked by such lines
passing through them, shewing how the beach had dried and cracked
in the sun after the animals had walked over it. In the quarries
at Stourton, in Cheshire, some years ago, a gentleman named
Cunningham observed slab surfaces mottled in a curious manner with
little circular and oval hollows, and these were finally determined
to be the impressions produced by rain--the rain of the ancient
time, long prior to the existence of human beings, when the strata
were formed!

Since then, many similar markings have been observed on slabs raised
from other quarries, both in Europe and America; and fossil
rain-drops are now among the settled facts of geology.
This
new one is a contract for three hundred inches of water. There's
nothing in it about the amount of power, but it gives me the sole
rights to all the power privileges on the Company property. You see,
when Greenfield tried to change the line of their canal so as to cut
me out, Abe and I had begun to figure that some day the water from
the spillway might cut down the channel and give us a little more
drop. But we never counted on this, of course. I simply figured that
I might just as well make the new contract safe."

The Seer smiled. "You made it safe all right, Jeff. Do you know what
this cut means to you?"

"In a way, yes. That's why I wanted you to look at it."

"It means," said the Seer, "that you have rights here worth a
million dollars at least. By lowering your turbine to the bottom of
this cut you can, with the same amount of water that you are now
using, develop power enough to run every electric light system and
turn every wheel in all The King's Basin for years to come."

"You mean that the river breaking in and doing this has made daddy's
property worth a million dollars?" asked Barbara breathlessly.

The Seer turned toward her. "Yes, Barbara. The same force that
destroyed Kingston and wrecked the Company has increased the value
of your father's holding to fully that amount. A million is very
conservative."

The young woman looked down into the gorge at their feet. Slowly she
said: "The Indians must be right. This must be indeed La Palma de la
Mano de Dios. Such things could happen nowhere else."

She had just finished speaking when the sound of wheels behind
caused them to turn toward the desert and the old San Felipe trail.
It was Texas and Pat in the buckboard with El Capitan leading
behind.

Catching sight of the group on the river bank, the men turned aside
from the road and went to them. "Howdy folks," drawled Tex. "We
'lowed we'd jest about meet up with you-all somewhere about here."

"Sure, 'tis a family reunion we do be havin', wid no empthy chairs
at all," declared the Irishman, looking from face to face with
twinkling eyes. We can see these appearances beneath our feet, as we
walk over the pavement of almost any of our cities. Such slabs
are also occasionally marked by irregular protuberances, being the
casts of hollows or cracks produced in ancient tide-beaches by
shrinkage.Here we are once more altogether, wid Barbara an' Abe
bigger than life. 'Tis the danged owld disert itsilf that's a-lavin'
niver to come back at all." He drew the back of his huge hairy hand
across his eyes.

Barbara's eyes too were wet, and the others turned away their faces.
Pat's words had recalled so vividly the scene at the dry water hole
with the changes that the years had brought both to them and to the
desert.

It was Texas Joe who broke the silence. "Mr. Worth, Pat and I would
like to see you some time this evenin' if you ain't engaged."

"What is it, Tex?" As he spoke Jefferson Worth looked straight into
the eyes of the old plainsman. Texas Joe, gazing steadily into the
face of his employer, drawled easily: "Jest a little matter we
'lowed maybe you'd like to know about, sir. What time shall we
come?"

Something--the memories of the place, perhaps, aroused by the words
of Pat a moment before--caused Jefferson Worth to lift those nervous
fingers and softly caress his chin. "I guess I can go now. We're all
through here." He turned to the others. "I'll go on to the hotel
with Tex and Pat and you folks can come along later when you are
ready."

He stepped into the buckboard and with the two drove away. At a
livery barn where they stopped to leave the horses, Texas took from
under the seat of the buckboard something that was wrapped in a sack
that had held a feed of grain for the team and El Capitan.

When they had reached the privacy of Mr. Worth's room, the old
plainsman and the Irishman stood as if each waited for the other to
begin.

