Sarah was sorry. She picked up a fold of her skirt and crumpled it in her
fingers, and said over and over again, "She oughtn't to have told you."
But she didn't say it wasn't true. Neither did Lizzie, though her tongue
was a whip for Connie.

"Because you can't stand her dirty stories she goes and tells you this. It
shows what Connie is."

It showed her father as he was, too. Not wise. Not wise all the time.
Courageous, always, loving danger, intolerant of security, wild under all
his quietness and gentleness, taking madder and madder risks, playing his
game with an awful, cool recklessness. Then letting other people in;
ruining Mr. Hancock, the little man he used to laugh at. And it had killed
him. He hadn't been sorry for Mamma, because he knew she was glad the mad
game was over; but he had thought and thought about him, the little dirty
man, until he had died of thinking.


XIII


New people had come to the house next door. Harriett saw a pretty girl
going in and out. She had not called; she was not going to call. Their cat
came over the garden wall and bit off the blades of the irises. When he
sat down on the mignonette Harriett sent a note round by Maggie: "Miss
Frean presents her compliments to the lady next door and would be glad if
she would restrain her cat."

Five minutes later the pretty girl appeared with the cat in her arms.

"I've brought Mimi," she said. "I want you to see what a darling he is."

Mimi, a Persian, all orange on the top and snow white underneath, climbed
her breast to hang flattened out against her shoulder, long, the great
plume of his tail fanning her. She swung round to show the innocence of
his amber eyes and the pink arch of his mouth supporting his pink nose.

"I want you to see my mignonette," said Harriett. They stood together by
the crushed ring where Mimi had made his bed.

The pretty girl said she was sorry. "But, you see, we _can't_
restrain him. I don't know what's to be done.... Unless you kept a cat
yourself; then you won't mind."

"But," Harriett said, "I don't like cats."

"Oh, why not?"

Harriett knew why. A cat was a compromise, a substitute, a subterfuge. Her
pride couldn't stoop. She was afraid of Mimi, of his enchanting play, and
the soft white fur of his stomach. Maggie's baby. So she said, "Because
they destroy the beds. And they kill birds."

The pretty girl's chin burrowed in Mimi's neck. "You _won't_ throw
stones at him?" she said.

"No, I wouldn't _hurt_ him.... What did you say his name was?"

"Mimi."

Harriett softened. She remembered. "When I was a little girl I had a cat
called Mimi. White Angora. Very handsome. And your name is----"

"Brailsford. I'm Dorothy."

Next time, when Mimi jumped on the lupins and broke them down, Dorothy
came again and said she was sorry. And she stayed to tea. Harriett
revealed herself.

"My father was Hilton Frean." She had noticed for the last fifteen years
that people showed no interest when she told them that. They even stared
as though she had said something that had no sense in it. Dorothy said,
"How nice."

_"Nice?"_

"I mean it must have been nice to have him for your father.... You don't
mind my coming into your garden last thing to catch Mimi?"

Harriett felt a sudden yearning for Dorothy. She saw a pleasure, a
happiness, in her coming. She wasn't going to call, but she sent little
notes in to Dorothy asking her to come to tea.

Dorothy declined.

But every evening, towards bedtime, she came into the garden to catch
Mimi. Through the window Harriett could hear her calling: "Mimi! Mimi!"
She could see her in her white frock, moving about, hovering, ready to
pounce as Mimi dashed from the bushes. She thought: "She walks into my
garden as if it was her own. But she won't make a friend of me. She's
young, and I'm old."

She had a piece of wire netting put up along the wall to keep Mimi out.

"That's the end of it," she said. She could never think of the young girl
without a pang of sadness and resentment.


Fifty-five. Sixty.

In her sixty-second year Harriett had her first bad illness.

It was so like Sarah Barmby. Sarah got influenza and regarded it as a
common cold and gave it to Harriett who regarded it as a common cold and
got pleurisy.

When the pain was over she enjoyed her illness, the peace and rest of
lying there, supported by the bed, holding out her lean arms to be washed
by Maggie; closing her eyes in bliss while Maggie combed and brushed and
plaited her fine gray hair. She liked having the same food at the same
hours. She would look up, smiling weakly, when Maggie came at bedtime with
the little tray. "What have you brought me _now_, Maggie?"

"Benger's Food, ma'am."

She wanted it to be always Benger's Food at bedtime. She lived by habit,
by the punctual fulfillment of her expectation. She loved the doctor's
visits at twelve o'clock, his air of brooding absorption in her case, his
consultations with Maggie, the seriousness and sanctity he attached to the
humblest details of her existence.

Above all she loved the comfort and protection of Maggie, the sight of
Maggie's broad, tender face as it bent over her, the feeling of Maggie's
strong arms as they supported her, the hovering pressure of the firm,
broad body in the clean white apron and the cap. Her eyes rested on it
with affection; she found shelter in Maggie as she had found it in her
mother.

One day she said, "Why did you come to me, Maggie? Couldn't you have found
a better place?"

"There was many wanted me. But I came to you, ma'am, because you seemed to
sort of need me most. I dearly love looking after people. Old ladies and
children. And gentlemen, if they're ill enough," Maggie said.

"You're a good girl, Maggie."

She had forgotten. The image of Maggie's baby was dead, hidden, buried
deep down in her mind. She closed her eyes. Her head was thrown back,
motionless, ecstatic under Maggie's flickering fingers as they plaited her
thin wisps of hair.

Out of the peace of illness she entered on the misery and long labor of
convalescence. The first time Maggie left her to dress herself she wept.
She didn't want to get well. She could see nothing in recovery but the end
of privilege and prestige, the obligation to return to a task she was
tired of, a difficult and terrifying task.

By summer she was up and (tremulously) about again.


XIV


She was aware of her drowsy, supine dependence on Maggie. At first her
perishing self asserted itself in an increased reserve and arrogance. Thus
she protected herself from her own censure. She had still a feeling of
satisfaction in her exclusiveness, her power not to call on new people.

"I think," Lizzie Pierce said, "you might have called on the Brailsfords."

"Why should I? I should have nothing in common with such people."

"Well, considering that Mr. Brailsford writes in _The Spectator_----"

Harriett called. She put on her gray silk and her soft white mohair shawl,
and her wide black hat tied under her chin, and called. It was on a
Saturday. The Brailsfords' room was full of visitors, men and women,
talking excitedly. Dorothy was not there--Dorothy was married. Mimi was
not there--Mimi was dead.

Harriett made her way between the chairs, dim-eyed, upright, and stiff in
her white shawl. She apologized for having waited seven years before
calling.... "Never go anywhere.... Quite a recluse since my father's
death. He was Hilton Frean."

"Yes?" Mrs. Brailsford's eyes were sweetly interrogative.

"But as we are such near neighbors I felt that I must break my rule."

Mrs. Brailsford smiled in vague benevolence; yet as if she thought that
Miss Frean's feeling and her action were unnecessary. After seven years.
And presently Harriett found herself alone in her corner.

