Transcribed by David Price, email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


The Sea Wolf


CHAPTER I


I scarcely know where to begin, though I sometimes facetiously
place the cause of it all to Charley Furuseth's credit.  He kept a
summer cottage in Mill Valley, under the shadow of Mount Tamalpais,
and never occupied it except when he loafed through the winter
mouths and read Nietzsche and Schopenhauer to rest his brain.  When
summer came on, he elected to sweat out a hot and dusty existence
in the city and to toil incessantly.  Had it not been my custom to
run up to see him every Saturday afternoon and to stop over till
Monday morning, this particular January Monday morning would not
have found me afloat on San Francisco Bay.

Not but that I was afloat in a safe craft, for the Martinez was a
new ferry-steamer, making her fourth or fifth trip on the run
between Sausalito and San Francisco.  The danger lay in the heavy
fog which blanketed the bay, and of which, as a landsman, I had
little apprehension.  In fact, I remember the placid exaltation
with which I took up my position on the forward upper deck,
directly beneath the pilot-house, and allowed the mystery of the
fog to lay hold of my imagination.  A fresh breeze was blowing, and
for a time I was alone in the moist obscurity--yet not alone, for I
was dimly conscious of the presence of the pilot, and of what I
took to be the captain, in the glass house above my head.

I remember thinking how comfortable it was, this division of labour
which made it unnecessary for me to study fogs, winds, tides, and
navigation, in order to visit my friend who lived across an arm of
the sea.  It was good that men should be specialists, I mused.  The
peculiar knowledge of the pilot and captain sufficed for many
thousands of people who knew no more of the sea and navigation than
I knew.  On the other hand, instead of having to devote my energy
to the learning of a multitude of things, I concentrated it upon a
few particular things, such as, for instance, the analysis of Poe's
place in American literature--an essay of mine, by the way, in the
current Atlantic.  Coming aboard, as I passed through the cabin, I
had noticed with greedy eyes a stout gentleman reading the
Atlantic, which was open at my very essay.  And there it was again,
the division of labour, the special knowledge of the pilot and
captain which permitted the stout gentleman to read my special
knowledge on Poe while they carried him safely from Sausalito to
San Francisco.

A red-faced man, slamming the cabin door behind him and stumping
out on the deck, interrupted my reflections, though I made a mental
note of the topic for use in a projected essay which I had thought
of calling "The Necessity for Freedom:  A Plea for the Artist."
The red-faced man shot a glance up at the pilot-house, gazed around
at the fog, stumped across the deck and back (he evidently had
artificial legs), and stood still by my side, legs wide apart, and
with an expression of keen enjoyment on his face.  I was not wrong
when I decided that his days had been spent on the sea.

"It's nasty weather like this here that turns heads grey before
their time," he said, with a nod toward the pilot-house.

"I had not thought there was any particular strain," I answered.
"It seems as simple as A, B, C.  They know the direction by
compass, the distance, and the speed.  I should not call it
anything more than mathematical certainty."

"Strain!" he snorted.  "Simple as A, B, C!  Mathematical
certainty!"

He seemed to brace himself up and lean backward against the air as
he stared at me.  "How about this here tide that's rushin' out
through the Golden Gate?" he demanded, or bellowed, rather.  "How
fast is she ebbin'?  What's the drift, eh?  Listen to that, will
you?  A bell-buoy, and we're a-top of it!  See 'em alterin' the
course!"

From out of the fog came the mournful tolling of a bell, and I
could see the pilot turning the wheel with great rapidity.  The
bell, which had seemed straight ahead, was now sounding from the
side.  Our own whistle was blowing hoarsely, and from time to time
the sound of other whistles came to us from out of the fog.

"That's a ferry-boat of some sort," the new-comer said, indicating
a whistle off to the right.  "And there!  D'ye hear that?  Blown by
mouth.  Some scow schooner, most likely.  Better watch out, Mr.
Schooner-man.  Ah, I thought so.  Now hell's a poppin' for
somebody!"

The unseen ferry-boat was blowing blast after blast, and the mouth-
blown horn was tooting in terror-stricken fashion.

"And now they're payin' their respects to each other and tryin' to
get clear," the red-faced man went on, as the hurried whistling
ceased.

His face was shining, his eyes flashing with excitement as he
translated into articulate language the speech of the horns and
sirens.  "That's a steam-siren a-goin' it over there to the left.
And you hear that fellow with a frog in his throat--a steam
schooner as near as I can judge, crawlin' in from the Heads against
the tide."

A shrill little whistle, piping as if gone mad, came from directly
ahead and from very near at hand.  Gongs sounded on the Martinez.
Our paddle-wheels stopped, their pulsing beat died away, and then
they started again.  The shrill little whistle, like the chirping
of a cricket amid the cries of great beasts, shot through the fog
from more to the side and swiftly grew faint and fainter.  I looked
to my companion for enlightenment.

"One of them dare-devil launches," he said.  "I almost wish we'd
sunk him, the little rip!  They're the cause of more trouble.  And
what good are they?  Any jackass gets aboard one and runs it from
hell to breakfast, blowin' his whistle to beat the band and tellin'
the rest of the world to look out for him, because he's comin' and
can't look out for himself!  Because he's comin'!  And you've got
to look out, too!  Right of way!  Common decency!  They don't know
the meanin' of it!"

I felt quite amused at his unwarranted choler, and while he stumped
indignantly up and down I fell to dwelling upon the romance of the
fog.  And romantic it certainly was--the fog, like the grey shadow
of infinite mystery, brooding over the whirling speck of earth; and
men, mere motes of light and sparkle, cursed with an insane relish
for work, riding their steeds of wood and steel through the heart
of the mystery, groping their way blindly through the Unseen, and
clamouring and clanging in confident speech the while their hearts
are heavy with incertitude and fear.

The voice of my companion brought me back to myself with a laugh.
I too had been groping and floundering, the while I thought I rode
clear-eyed through the mystery.

"Hello! somebody comin' our way," he was saying.  "And d'ye hear
that?  He's comin' fast.  Walking right along.  Guess he don't hear
us yet.  Wind's in wrong direction."

The fresh breeze was blowing right down upon us, and I could hear
the whistle plainly, off to one side and a little ahead.

"Ferry-boat?" I asked.

He nodded, then added, "Or he wouldn't be keepin' up such a clip."
He gave a short chuckle.  "They're gettin' anxious up there."

I glanced up.  The captain had thrust his head and shoulders out of
the pilot-house, and was staring intently into the fog as though by
sheer force of will he could penetrate it.  His face was anxious,
as was the face of my companion, who had stumped over to the rail
and was gazing with a like intentness in the direction of the
invisible danger.

Then everything happened, and with inconceivable rapidity.  The fog
seemed to break away as though split by a wedge, and the bow of a
steamboat emerged, trailing fog-wreaths on either side like seaweed
on the snout of Leviathan.  I could see the pilot-house and a
white-bearded man leaning partly out of it, on his elbows.  He was
clad in a blue uniform, and I remember noting how trim and quiet he
was.  His quietness, under the circumstances, was terrible.  He
accepted Destiny, marched hand in hand with it, and coolly measured
the stroke.  As he leaned there, he ran a calm and speculative eye
over us, as though to determine the precise point of the collision,
and took no notice whatever when our pilot, white with rage,
shouted, "Now you've done it!"

On looking back, I realize that the remark was too obvious to make
rejoinder necessary.

"Grab hold of something and hang on," the red-faced man said to me.
All his bluster had gone, and he seemed to have caught the
contagion of preternatural calm.  "And listen to the women scream,"
he said grimly--almost bitterly, I thought, as though he had been
through the experience before.

The vessels came together before I could follow his advice.  We
must have been struck squarely amidships, for I saw nothing, the
strange steamboat having passed beyond my line of vision.  The
Martinez heeled over, sharply, and there was a crashing and rending
of timber.  I was thrown flat on the wet deck, and before I could
scramble to my feet I heard the scream of the women.  This it was,
I am certain,--the most indescribable of blood-curdling sounds,--
that threw me into a panic.  I remembered the life-preservers
stored in the cabin, but was met at the door and swept backward by
a wild rush of men and women.  What happened in the next few
minutes I do not recollect, though I have a clear remembrance of
pulling down life-preservers from the overhead racks, while the
red-faced man fastened them about the bodies of an hysterical group
of women.  This memory is as distinct and sharp as that of any
picture I have seen.  It is a picture, and I can see it now,--the
jagged edges of the hole in the side of the cabin, through which
the grey fog swirled and eddied; the empty upholstered seats,
littered with all the evidences of sudden flight, such as packages,
hand satchels, umbrellas, and wraps; the stout gentleman who had
been reading my essay, encased in cork and canvas, the magazine
still in his hand, and asking me with monotonous insistence if I
thought there was any danger; the red-faced man, stumping gallantly
around on his artificial legs and buckling life-preservers on all
corners; and finally, the screaming bedlam of women.

This it was, the screaming of the women, that most tried my nerves.
It must have tried, too, the nerves of the red-faced man, for I
have another picture which will never fade from my mind.  The Avon
was like glass, with little wraiths of vapor clinging here and
there to its surface. Two white swans stood on its banks in front
of the church, and, without regarding the mirror that so drew my
eye, preened their plumage; while, farther up, a piebald cow reached
down for some grass under the brink where the frost had not
settled, and a piebald cow in the river reached up for the same
morsel.

Rooks and crows and jackdaws were noisy in the trees overhead and
about the church spire. I stood a long while musing upon the scene.

At the birthplace of the poet, the keeper, an elderly woman, shivered
with cold as she showed me about. The primitive, home-made appearance
of things, the stone floor much worn and broken, the rude oak beams
and doors, the leaden sash with the little window-panes scratched
full of names, among others that of Walter Scott, the great chimneys
where quite a family could literally sit in the chimney corner,
were what I expected to see, and looked very human and good.

It is impossible to associate anything but sterling qualities
and simple, healthful characters with these early English birthplaces.
They are nests built with faithfulness and affection, and through
them one seems to get a glimpse of devouter, sturdier times.

From Stratford I went back to Warwick, thence to Birmingham, thence
to Shrewsbury, thence to Chester, the old Roman camp, thence to
Holyhead, being intent on getting a glimpse of Wales and the
Welsh, and maybe taking a tramp up Snowdon or some of his congeners,
for my legs literally ached for a mountain climb, a certain set of
muscles being so long unused.

In the course of my journeyings, I tried each class or compartment
of the cars, first, second, and third, and found but little choice.
The difference is simply in the upholstering, and, if you are
provided with a good shawl or wrap-up, you need not be
particular about that. In the first, the floor is carpeted and the
seats substantially upholstered, usually in blue woolen cloth; in
the second, the seat alone is cushioned; and in the third, you sit
on a bare bench. But all classes go by the same train, and often
in the same car, or carriage, as they say here. In the first
class travel the real and the shoddy nobility and Americans; in the
second, commercial and professional men; and in the third, the
same, with such of the peasantry and humbler classes as travel
by rail. The only annoyance I experienced in the third class arose
from the freedom with which the smokers, always largely in the
majority, indulged in their favorite pastime.

(I perceive there is one advantage in being a smoker: you are never
at a loss for something to do,--you can smoke.)
At Chester I stopped overnight, selecting my hotel for its
name, the "Green Dragon." It was Sunday night, and the only
street scene my rambles afforded was quite a large gathering of
persons on a corner, listening, apparently with indifference or
curiosity, to an ignorant, hot-headed street preacher. "Now I
am going to tell you something you will not like to hear, something
that will make you angry. I know it will. It is this: I expect to
go to heaven.

I am perfectly confident I shall go there. I know you do not like
that." But why his hearers should not like that did not appear.
For my part, I thought, for the good of all concerned, the sooner
he went the better.

In the morning, I mounted the wall in front of the cathedral, and,
with a very lively feeling of wonder and astonishment, walked
completely around the town on top of it, a distance of about two
miles. The wall, being in places as high as the houses, afforded
some interesting views into attics, chambers, and back yards. I
envied the citizens such a delightful promenade ground, full of
variety and interest. Just the right distance, too, for a brisk
turn to get up an appetite, or for a leisurely stroll to tone down
a dinner; while as a place for chance meetings of happy
lovers, or to get away from one's companions if the flame must
burn in secret and in silence, it is unsurpassed. I occasionally
met or passed other pedestrians, but noticed that it required a
brisk pace to lessen the distance between myself and an attractive
girlish figure a few hundred feet in advance of me.

The railroad cuts across one corner of the town, piercing
the walls with two very carefully constructed archways. Indeed,
the people are very choice of the wall, and one sees posted
notices of the city authorities offering a reward for any one detected
in injuring it. It has stood now some seven or eight centuries, and
from appearances is good for one or two more. There are several
towers on the wall, from one of which some English king, over two
hundred years ago, witnessed the defeat of his army on Rowton Moor.
But when I was there, though the sun was shining, the atmosphere
was so loaded with smoke that I could not catch even a glimpse
of the moor where the battle took place. There is a gateway through
the wall on each of the four sides, and this slender and beautiful
but blackened and worn span, as if to afford a transit from the
chamber windows on one side of the street to those of the other,
is the first glimpse the traveler gets of the wall.

The gates beneath the arches have entirely disappeared. The ancient
and carved oak fronts of the buildings on the main street, and the
inclosed sidewalk that ran through the second stories of the shops
and stores, were not less strange and novel to me. The sidewalk
was like a gentle upheaval in its swervings and undulations,
or like a walk through the woods, the oaken posts and braces on the
outside answering for the trees, and the prospect ahead for the
vista.

The ride along the coast of Wales was crowded with novelty and
interest,--the sea on one side and the mountains on the other,--the
latter bleak and heathery in the foreground, but cloud-capped and
snow-white in the distance. The afternoon was dark and lowering,
and just before entering Conway we had a very striking view.
A turn in the road suddenly brought us to where we looked
through a black framework of heathery hills, and beheld Snowdon
and his chiefs apparently with the full rigors of winter upon them.
It was so satisfying that I lost at once my desire to tramp up
them. I barely had time to turn from the mountains to get a view
of Conway Castle, one of the largest and most impressive ruins
I saw.

The train cuts close to the great round tower, and plunges through
the wall of gray, shelving stone into the bluff beyond, giving
the traveler only time to glance and marvel.

About the only glimpse I got of the Welsh character was on this
route.
At one of the stations, Abergele I think, a fresh, blooming young
woman got into our compartment, occupied by myself and two commercial
travelers (bag-men, or, as we say, "drummers"), and, before she
could take her seat, was complimented by one of them on her good
looks.

Feeling in a measure responsible for the honor and good-breeding
of the compartment, I could hardly conceal my embarrassment; but
the young Abergeless herself did not seem to take it amiss, and
when presently the jolly bag-man addressed his conversation to her,
replied beseemingly and good-naturedly.

As she arose to leave the car at her destination, a few stations
beyond, he said "he thought it a pity that such a sweet, pretty
girl should leave us so soon," and seizing her hand the audacious
rascal actually solicited a kiss. I expected this would be the one
drop too much, and that we should have a scene, and began to
regard myself in the light of an avenger of an insulted Welsh beauty,
when my heroine paused, and I believe actually deliberated whether
or not to comply before two spectators!

Certain it is that she yielded the highwayman her hand, and, bidding
him a gentle good-night in Welsh, smilingly and blushingly left
the car. "Ah," said the villain, "these Welsh girls are capital; I
know them like a book, and have had many a lark with them."
At Holyhead I got another glimpse of the Welsh. I had booked for
Dublin, and having several hours on my hands of a dark, threatening
night before the departure of the steamer, I sallied out in the
old town tilted up against the side of the hill, in the most
adventurous spirit I could summon, threading my way through the
dark, deserted streets, pausing for a moment in front of a small
house with closed doors and closely, shuttered windows, where I
heard suppressed voices, the monotonous scraping of a fiddle, and
a lively shuffling of feet, and passing on finally entered, drawn
by the musical strains, a quaint old place, where a blind harper,
seated in the corner of a rude kind of coffee and sitting
room, was playing on a harp. I liked the atmosphere of the place,
so primitive and wholesome, and was quite willing to have my
attention drawn off from the increasing storm without, and from the
bitter cup which I knew the Irish sea was preparing for me. The
harper presently struck up a livelier strain, when two Welsh girls,
who were chatting before the grate, one of them as dumpy as a bag
of meal and the other slender and tall, stepped into the middle of
the floor and began to dance to the delicious music, a Welsh mechanic
and myself drinking our ale and looking on approvingly.

After a while the pleasant, modest-looking bar-maid, whom I had seen
behind the beer-levers as I entered, came in, and, after looking
on for a moment, was persuaded to lay down her sewing and join in
the dance.

Then there came in a sandy-haired Welshman, who could speak and
understand only his native dialect, and finding his neighbors
affiliating with an Englishman, as he supposed, and trying to speak
the hateful tongue, proceeded to berate them sharply (for it appears
the Welsh are still jealous of the English); but when they explained
to him that I was not an Englishman, but an American, and
had already twice stood the beer all around (at an outlay of sixpence),
he subsided into a sulky silence, and regarded me intently.

About eleven o'clock a policeman paused at the door, and intimated
that it was time the house was shut up and the music stopped, and
to outward appearances his friendly warning was complied with; but
the harp still discoursed in a minor key, and a light tripping and
shuffling of responsive feet might occasionally have been heard for
an hour later.

When I arose to go, it was with a feeling of regret that I could not
see more of this simple and social people, with whom I at once
felt that "touch of nature" which "makes the whole world kin,"
and my leave-taking was warm and hearty accordingly.

Through the wind and the darkness I threaded my way to the
wharf, and in less than two hours afterward was a most penitent
voyager, and fitfully joining in that doleful gastriloquial chorus
that so often goes up from the cabins of those Channel steamers.

I hardly know why I went to Ireland, except it was to indulge the
few drops of Irish blood in my veins, and maybe also with a view
to shorten my sea voyage by a day. I also felt a desire to see one
or two literary men there, and in this sense my journey was
eminently gratifying; but so far from shortening my voyage by a
day, it lengthened it by three days, that being the time it took
me to recover from the effects of it; and as to the tie of blood,
I think it must nearly all have run out, for I felt but few congenital
throbs while in Ireland.

The Englishman at home is a much more lovable animal than the Englishman
abroad, but Pat in Ireland is even more of a pig than in this
country.

Indeed, the squalor and poverty, and cold, skinny wretchedness one
sees in Ireland, and (what freezes our sympathies) the groveling,
swiny shiftlessness that pervades these hovels, no traveler can be
prepared for. It is the bare prose of misery, the unheroic of
tragedy.

There is not one redeeming or mitigating feature.

Railway traveling in Ireland is not so rapid or so cheap as in
England.

Neither are the hotels so good or so clean, nor the fields so well
kept, nor the look of the country so thrifty and peaceful.

The dissatisfaction of the people is in the very air. Ireland looks
sour and sad.

She looks old, too, as do all those countries beyond seas,--old in
a way that the American is a stranger to.

It is not the age of nature, the unshaken permanence of the hills
through long periods of time, but the weight of human years
and human sorrows, as if the earth sympathized with man and took
on his attributes and infirmities.

I did not go much about Dublin, and the most characteristic things I
saw there were those queer, uncomfortable dog-carts,--a sort of Irish
bull on wheels, with the driver on one side balancing the passenger
on the other, and the luggage occupying the seat of safety between.

It comes the nearest to riding on horseback, and on a side-saddle
at that, of any vehicle-traveling I ever did.

I stopped part of a day at Mallow, an old town on the Blackwater,
in one of the most fertile agricultural districts of Ireland. The
situation is fine, and an American naturally expects to see a
charming rural town, planted with trees and filled with clean,
comfortable homes; but he finds instead a wretched place, smitten
with a plague of filth and mud, and offering but one object upon
which the eye can dwell with pleasure, and that is the ruins of an
old castle, "Mallow Castle over Blackwater," which dates back to
the time of Queen Elizabeth.

It stands amid noble trees on the banks of the river, and its walls,
some of them thirty or forty feet high, are completely overrun with
ivy.

The Blackwater, a rapid, ambercolored stream, is spanned at this
point by a superb granite bridge.

And I will say here that anything like a rural town in our sense,--a
town with trees and grass and large spaces about the houses,
gardens, yards, shrubbery, coolness, fragrance,--seems unknown in
England or Ireland.

The towns and villages are all remnants of feudal times, and seem
to have been built with an eye to safety and compactness, or else
men were more social, and loved to get closer together, then than
now.

Perhaps the damp, chilly climate made them draw nearer together.
At any rate, the country towns are little cities; or rather it is
as if another London had been cut up in little and big pieces and
distributed over the land.

In the afternoon, to take the kinks out of my legs, and to quicken,
if possible, my circulation a little, which since the passage
over the Channel had felt as if it was thick and green, I walked
rapidly to the top of the Knockmeledown Mountains, getting a good
view of Irish fields and roads and fences as I went up, and a very
wide and extensive view of the country after I had reached the
summit, and improving the atmosphere of my physical tenement
amazingly.

These mountains have no trees or bushes or other growth than a harsh
prickly heather, about a foot high, which begins exactly at the
foot of the mountain.

You are walking on smooth, fine meadow land, when you leap a
fence and there is the heather.

On the highest point of this mountain, and on the highest point of
all the mountains around, was a low stone mound, which I
was puzzled to know the meaning of. Standing there, the country
rolled away beneath me under a cold, gray November sky, and,
as was the case with the English landscape, looked singularly
desolate,--the desolation of a dearth of human homes, industrial
centres, families, workers, and owners of the soil.

Few roads, scarce ever a vehicle, no barns, no groups of bright,
well-ordered buildings, indeed no farms and neighborhoods and
schoolhouses, but a wide spread of rich, highly cultivated country,
with here and there, visible to close scrutiny, small gray stone
houses with thatched roofs, the abodes of poverty and wretchedness.

A recent English writer says the first thing that struck him in
American landscape-painting was the absence of man and the domestic
animals from the pictures, and the preponderance of rude, wild
nature; and his first view of this country seems to have made the
same impression. But it is certainly true that the traveler through
any of our older States will see ten houses, rural habitations,
to one in England or Ireland, though, as a matter of course, nature
here looks much less domesticated, and much less expressive of human
occupancy and contact.

The Old World people have clung to the soil closer and more lovingly
than we do. The ground has been more precious. They have had none
to waste, and have made the most of every inch of it. Wherever
they have touched they have taken root and thriven as best they
could.
Then the American is more cosmopolitan and less domestic. He is not
so local in his feelings and attachments. He does not bestow
himself upon the earth or upon his home as his ancestors did.

He feathers his nest very little. Why should he? He may migrate
tomorrow and build another.
He is like the passenger pigeon that lays its eggs and rears its
young upon a little platform of bare twigs.

Our poverty and nakedness is in this respect, I think, beyond dispute.
There is nothing nest-like about our homes, either in their
interiors or exteriors. Even wealth and taste and foreign aids rarely
attain that cozy, mellowing atmosphere that pervades not only the
lowly birthplaces but the halls and manor houses of older
lands.

And what do our farms represent but so much real estate, so much
cash value?

Only where man loves the soil, and nestles to it closely and long,
will it take on this beneficent and human look which foreign travelers
miss in our landscape; and only where homes are built with fondness
and emotion, and in obedience to the social, paternal, and domestic
instincts, will they hold the charm and radiate and be warm with
the feeling I have described.

And, while I am upon the subject, I will add that European cities
differ from ours in this same particular. They have a homelier
character,--more the air of dwelling-places, the abodes of men
drawn together for other purposes than traffic.

People actually live in them, and find life sweet and festal.

But what does our greatest city, New York, express besides commerce
or politics, or what other reason has it for its existence? This is,
of course, in a measure the result of the modern worldly and
practical business spirit which more and more animates all
nations, and which led Carlyle to say of his own countrymen that
they were becoming daily more "flat, stupid, and mammonish."
Yet I am persuaded that in our case it is traceable also to the
leanness and depletion of our social and convivial instincts, and
to the fact that the material cares of life are more serious and
engrossing with us than with any other people.

I spent part of a day at Cork, wandering about the town, threading
my way through the back streets and alleys, and seeing life reduced
to fewer makeshifts than I had ever before dreamed of. I
went through, or rather skirted, a kind of secondhand market, where
the most sorry and dilapidated articles of clothing and household
utensils were offered for sale, and where the cobblers were cobbling
up old shoes that would hardly hold together.

Then the wretched old women one sees, without any sprinkling of
young ones,--youth and age alike bloomless and unlovely.

In a meadow on the hills that encompass the city, I found the
American dandelion in bloom, and some large red clover, and started
up some skylarks as I might start up the field sparrows in our own
uplying fields.

Is the magpie a Celt and a Catholic? I saw not one in England,
but plenty of them in France, and again when I reached Ireland.

At Queenstown I awaited the steamer from Liverpool, and about nine
o'clock in the morning was delighted to see her long black form
moving up the bay. She came to anchor about a mile or two out,
and a little tug was in readiness to take us off. A score or
more of emigrants, each with a bag and a box, had been waiting all
the morning at the wharf.
When the time of embarkation arrived, the agent stepped aboard
the tug and called out their names one by one, when Bridget and
Catherine and Patrick and Michael, and the rest, came aboard,
received their tickets, and passed "forward," with a
half-frightened, half-bewildered look.

But not much emotion was displayed until the boat began to move
off, when the tears fell freely, and they continued to fall
faster and faster, and the sobs to come thicker and thicker,
until, as the faces of friends began to fade on the wharf, both men
and women burst out into a loud, unrestrained bawl. This sudden
demonstration of grief seemed to frighten the children and smaller
fry, who up to this time had been very jovial; but now, suspecting
something was wrong, they all broke out in a most pitiful chorus,
forming an anti-climax to the wail of their parents that was quite
amusing, and that seemed to have its effect upon the "children
of a larger growth," for they instantly hushed their lamentations
and turned their attention toward the great steamer. There was a
rugged but bewildered old granny among them, on her way to join
her daughter somewhere in the interior of New York, who seemed to
regard me with a kindred eye, and toward whom, I confess, I felt
some family affinity.
The captain broke loose
upon the dead man like a thunderclap.  Oaths rolled from his lips
in a continuous stream.  And they were not namby-pamby oaths, or
mere expressions of indecency.  Each word was a blasphemy, and
there were many words.  They crisped and crackled like electric
sparks.  I had never heard anything like it in my life, nor could I
have conceived it possible.  With a turn for literary expression
myself, and a penchant for forcible figures and phrases, I
appreciated, as no other listener, I dare say, the peculiar
vividness and strength and absolute blasphemy of his metaphors.
The cause of it all, as near as I could make out, was that the man,
who was mate, had gone on a debauch before leaving San Francisco,
and then had the poor taste to die at the beginning of the voyage
and leave Wolf Larsen short-handed.

It should be unnecessary to state, at least to my friends, that I
was shocked.  Oaths and vile language of any sort had always been
repellent to me.  I felt a wilting sensation, a sinking at the
heart, and, I might just as well say, a giddiness.  To me, death
had always been invested with solemnity and dignity.  It had been
peaceful in its occurrence, sacred in its ceremonial.  But death in
its more sordid and terrible aspects was a thing with which I had
been unacquainted till now.  As I say, while I appreciated the
power of the terrific denunciation that swept out of Wolf Larsen's
mouth, I was inexpressibly shocked.  The scorching torrent was
enough to wither the face of the corpse.  I should not have been
surprised if the wet black beard had frizzled and curled and flared
up in smoke and flame.  But the dead man was unconcerned.  He
continued to grin with a sardonic humour, with a cynical mockery
and defiance.  He was master of the situation.


CHAPTER III


Wolf Larsen ceased swearing as suddenly as he had begun.  He
relighted his cigar and glanced around.  His eyes chanced upon the
cook.

"Well, Cooky?" he began, with a suaveness that was cold and of the
temper of steel.

"Yes, sir," the cook eagerly interpolated, with appeasing and
apologetic servility.

"Don't you think you've stretched that neck of yours just about
enough?  It's unhealthy, you know.  The mate's gone, so I can't
afford to lose you too.  You must be very, very careful of your
health, Cooky.  Understand?"

His last word, in striking contrast with the smoothness of his
previous utterance, snapped like the lash of a whip.  The cook
quailed under it.

"Yes, sir," was the meek reply, as the offending head disappeared
into the galley.

At this sweeping rebuke, which the cook had only pointed, the rest
of the crew became uninterested and fell to work at one task or
another.  A number of men, however, who were lounging about a
companion-way between the galley and hatch, and who did not seem to
be sailors, continued talking in low tones with one another.
These, I afterward learned, were the hunters, the men who shot the
seals, and a very superior breed to common sailor-folk.

"Johansen!" Wolf Larsen called out.  A sailor stepped forward
obediently.  "Get your palm and needle and sew the beggar up.
You'll find some old canvas in the sail-locker.  Make it do."

"What'll I put on his feet, sir?" the man asked, after the
customary "Ay, ay, sir."

"We'll see to that," Wolf Larsen answered, and elevated his voice
in a call of "Cooky!"

Thomas Mugridge popped out of his galley like a jack-in-the-box.

"Go below and fill a sack with coal."

"Any of you fellows got a Bible or Prayer-book?" was the captain's
next demand, this time of the hunters lounging about the companion-
way.

They shook their heads, and some one made a jocular remark which I
did not catch, but which raised a general laugh.

Wolf Larsen made the same demand of the sailors.  Bibles and
Prayer-books seemed scarce articles, but one of the men volunteered
to pursue the quest amongst the watch below, returning in a minute
with the information that there was none.

The captain shrugged his shoulders.  "Then we'll drop him over
without any palavering, unless our clerical-looking castaway has
the burial service at sea by heart."

By this time he had swung fully around and was facing me.  "You're
a preacher, aren't you?" he asked.

The hunters,--there were six of them,--to a man, turned and
regarded me.  I was painfully aware of my likeness to a scarecrow.
A laugh went up at my appearance,--a laugh that was not lessened or
softened by the dead man stretched and grinning on the deck before
us; a laugh that was as rough and harsh and frank as the sea
itself; that arose out of coarse feelings and blunted
sensibilities, from natures that knew neither courtesy nor
gentleness.

Wolf Larsen did not laugh, though his grey eyes lighted with a
slight glint of amusement; and in that moment, having stepped
forward quite close to him, I received my first impression of the
man himself, of the man as apart from his body, and from the
torrent of blasphemy I had heard him spew forth.  The face, with
large features and strong lines, of the square order, yet well
filled out, was apparently massive at first sight; but again, as
with the body, the massiveness seemed to vanish, and a conviction
to grow of a tremendous and excessive mental or spiritual strength
that lay behind, sleeping in the deeps of his being.  The jaw, the
chin, the brow rising to a goodly height and swelling heavily above
the eyes,--these, while strong in themselves, unusually strong,
seemed to speak an immense vigour or virility of spirit that lay
behind and beyond and out of sight.  There was no sounding such a
spirit, no measuring, no determining of metes and bounds, nor
neatly classifying in some pigeon-hole with others of similar type.

The eyes--and it was my destiny to know them well--were large and
handsome, wide apart as the true artist's are wide, sheltering
under a heavy brow and arched over by thick black eyebrows.  The
eyes themselves were of that baffling protean grey which is never
twice the same; which runs through many shades and colourings like
intershot silk in sunshine; which is grey, dark and light, and
greenish-grey, and sometimes of the clear azure of the deep sea.
They were eyes that masked the soul with a thousand guises, and
that sometimes opened, at rare moments, and allowed it to rush up
as though it were about to fare forth nakedly into the world on
some wonderful adventure,--eyes that could brood with the hopeless
sombreness of leaden skies; that could snap and crackle points of
fire like those which sparkle from a whirling sword; that could
grow chill as an arctic landscape, and yet again, that could warm
and soften and be all a-dance with love-lights, intense and
masculine, luring and compelling, which at the same time fascinate
and dominate women till they surrender in a gladness of joy and of
relief and sacrifice.

But to return.  I told him that, unhappily for the burial service,
I was not a preacher, when he sharply demanded:

"What do you do for a living?"

I confess I had never had such a question asked me before, nor had
I ever canvassed it.  I was quite taken aback, and before I could
find myself had sillily stammered, "I--I am a gentleman."

His lip curled in a swift sneer.

"I have worked, I do work," I cried impetuously, as though he were
my judge and I required vindication, and at the same time very much
aware of my arrant idiocy in discussing the subject at all.

"For your living?"

There was something so imperative and masterful about him that I
was quite beside myself--"rattled," as Furuseth would have termed
it, like a quaking child before a stern school-master.

"Who feeds you?" was his next question.

"I have an income," I answered stoutly, and could have bitten my
tongue the next instant.  "All of which, you will pardon my
observing, has nothing whatsoever to do with what I wish to see you
about."

But he disregarded my protest.

"Who earned it?  Eh?  I thought so.  Your father.  You stand on
dead men's legs.  You've never had any of your own.  You couldn't
walk alone between two sunrises and hustle the meat for your belly
for three meals.  Let me see your hand."

His tremendous, dormant strength must have stirred, swiftly and
accurately, or I must have slept a moment, for before I knew it he
had stepped two paces forward, gripped my right hand in his, and
held it up for inspection.  I tried to withdraw it, but his fingers
tightened, without visible effort, till I thought mine would be
crushed.  It is hard to maintain one's dignity under such
circumstances.  I could not squirm or struggle like a schoolboy.
Nor could I attack such a creature who had but to twist my arm to
break it.  Nothing remained but to stand still and accept the
indignity.  I had time to notice that the pockets of the dead man
had been emptied on the deck, and that his body and his grin had
been wrapped from view in canvas, the folds of which the sailor,
Johansen, was sewing together with coarse white twine, shoving the
needle through with a leather contrivance fitted on the palm of his
hand.

Wolf Larsen dropped my hand with a flirt of disdain.

"Dead men's hands have kept it soft.  Good for little else than
dish-washing and scullion work."

"I wish to be put ashore," I said firmly, for I now had myself in
control.  "I shall pay you whatever you judge your delay and
trouble to be worth."

He looked at me curiously.  Mockery shone in his eyes.

"I have a counter proposition to make, and for the good of your
soul.  My mate's gone, and there'll be a lot of promotion.  A
sailor comes aft to take mate's place, cabin-boy goes for'ard to
take sailor's place, and you take the cabin-boy's place, sign the
articles for the cruise, twenty dollars per month and found.  Now
what do you say?  And mind you, it's for your own soul's sake.  It
will be the making of you.  You might learn in time to stand on
your own legs, and perhaps to toddle along a bit."

But I took no notice.  The sails of the vessel I had seen off to
the south-west had grown larger and plainer.  They were of the same
schooner-rig as the Ghost, though the hull itself, I could see, was
smaller.  She was a pretty sight, leaping and flying toward us, and
evidently bound to pass at close range.  The wind had been
momentarily increasing, and the sun, after a few angry gleams, had
disappeared.  The sea had turned a dull leaden grey and grown
rougher, and was now tossing foaming whitecaps to the sky.  We were
travelling faster, and heeled farther over.  Once, in a gust, the
rail dipped under the sea, and the decks on that side were for the
moment awash with water that made a couple of the hunters hastily
lift their feet.

"That vessel will soon be passing us," I said, after a moment's
pause.  "As she is going in the opposite direction, she is very
probably bound for San Francisco."

"Very probably," was Wolf Larsen's answer, as he turned partly away
from me and cried out, "Cooky!  Oh, Cooky!"

The Cockney popped out of the galley.

"Where's that boy?  Tell him I want him."

"Yes, sir;" and Thomas Mugridge fled swiftly aft and disappeared
down another companion-way near the wheel.  A moment later he
emerged, a heavy-set young fellow of eighteen or nineteen, with a
glowering, villainous countenance, trailing at his heels.

"'Ere 'e is, sir," the cook said.

But Wolf Larsen ignored that worthy, turning at once to the cabin-
boy.

"What's your name, boy?

"George Leach, sir," came the sullen answer, and the boy's bearing
showed clearly that he divined the reason for which he had been
summoned.

"Not an Irish name," the captain snapped sharply.  "O'Toole or
McCarthy would suit your mug a damn sight better.  Unless, very
likely, there's an Irishman in your mother's woodpile."

I saw the young fellow's hands clench at the insult, and the blood
crawl scarlet up his neck.

"But let that go," Wolf Larsen continued.  "You may have very good
reasons for forgetting your name, and I'll like you none the worse
for it as long as you toe the mark.  Telegraph Hill, of course, is
your port of entry.  It sticks out all over your mug.  Tough as
they make them and twice as nasty.  I know the kind.  Well, you can
make up your mind to have it taken out of you on this craft.
Understand?  Who shipped you, anyway?"

"McCready and Swanson."

"Sir!" Wolf Larsen thundered.

"McCready and Swanson, sir," the boy corrected, his eyes burning
with a bitter light.

"Who got the advance money?"

"They did, sir."

"I thought as much.  And damned glad you were to let them have it.
Couldn't make yourself scarce too quick, with several gentlemen you
may have heard of looking for you."

The boy metamorphosed into a savage on the instant.  His body
bunched together as though for a spring, and his face became as an
infuriated beast's as he snarled, "It's a--"

"A what?" Wolf Larsen asked, a peculiar softness in his voice, as
though he were overwhelmingly curious to hear the unspoken word.

The boy hesitated, then mastered his temper.  "Nothin', sir.  I
take it back."

"And you have shown me I was right."  This with a gratified smile.
"How old are you?"

"Just turned sixteen, sir,"

"A lie.  You'll never see eighteen again.  Big for your age at
that, with muscles like a horse.  Pack up your kit and go for'ard
into the fo'c'sle.  You're a boat-puller now.  You're promoted;
see?"

Without waiting for the boy's acceptance, the captain turned to the
sailor who had just finished the gruesome task of sewing up the
corpse.  "Johansen, do you know anything about navigation?"

"No, sir,"

"Well, never mind; you're mate just the same.  Get your traps aft
into the mate's berth."

"Ay, ay, sir," was the cheery response, as Johansen started
forward.

In the meantime the erstwhile cabin-boy had not moved.  "What are
you waiting for?" Wolf Larsen demanded.

"I didn't sign for boat-puller, sir," was the reply.  "I signed for
cabin-boy.  An' I don't want no boat-pullin' in mine."

"Pack up and go for'ard."

This time Wolf Larsen's command was thrillingly imperative.  The
boy glowered sullenly, but refused to move.

Then came another stirring of Wolf Larsen's tremendous strength.
It was utterly unexpected, and it was over and done with between
the ticks of two seconds.  He had sprung fully six feet across the
deck and driven his fist into the other's stomach.  At the same
moment, as though I had been struck myself, I felt a sickening
shock in the pit of my stomach.  I instance this to show the
sensitiveness of my nervous organization at the time, and how
unused I was to spectacles of brutality.  The cabin-boy--and he
weighed one hundred and sixty-five at the very least--crumpled up.
His body wrapped limply about the fist like a wet rag about a
stick.  He lifted into the air, described a short curve, and struck
the deck alongside the corpse on his head and shoulders, where he
lay and writhed about in agony.

"Well?" Larsen asked of me.  "Have you made up your mind?"

I had glanced occasionally at the approaching schooner, and it was
now almost abreast of us and not more than a couple of hundred
yards away.  It was a very trim and neat little craft.  I could see
a large, black number on one of its sails, and I had seen pictures
of pilot-boats.

"What vessel is that?" I asked.

"The pilot-boat Lady Mine," Wolf Larsen answered grimly.  "Got rid
of her pilots and running into San Francisco.  She'll be there in
five or six hours with this wind."

"Will you please signal it, then, so that I may be put ashore."

"Sorry, but I've lost the signal book overboard," he remarked, and
the group of hunters grinned.

I debated a moment, looking him squarely in the eyes.  I had seen
the frightful treatment of the cabin-boy, and knew that I should
very probably receive the same, if not worse.  As I say, I debated
with myself, and then I did what I consider the bravest act of my
life.  I ran to the side, waving my arms and shouting:

"Lady Mine ahoy!  Take me ashore!  A thousand dollars if you take
me ashore!"

I waited, watching two men who stood by the wheel, one of them
steering.  The other was lifting a megaphone to his lips.  I did
not turn my head, though I expected every moment a killing blow
from the human brute behind me.  At last, after what seemed
centuries, unable longer to stand the strain, I looked around.  He
had not moved.  He was standing in the same position, swaying
easily to the roll of the ship and lighting a fresh cigar.

"What is the matter?  Anything wrong?"

This was the cry from the Lady Mine.

"Yes!" I shouted, at the top of my lungs.  "Life or death!  One
thousand dollars if you take me ashore!"

"Too much 'Frisco tanglefoot for the health of my crew!" Wolf
Larsen shouted after.  "This one"--indicating me with his thumb--
"fancies sea-serpents and monkeys just now!"

The man on the Lady Mine laughed back through the megaphone.  The
pilot-boat plunged past.

"Give him hell for me!" came a final cry, and the two men waved
their arms in farewell.

I leaned despairingly over the rail, watching the trim little
schooner swiftly increasing the bleak sweep of ocean between us.
And she would probably be in San Francisco in five or six hours!
My head seemed bursting.  There was an ache in my throat as though
my heart were up in it.  A curling wave struck the side and
splashed salt spray on my lips.  The wind puffed strongly, and the
Ghost heeled far over, burying her lee rail.  I could hear the
water rushing down upon the deck.

When I turned around, a moment later, I saw the cabin-boy
staggering to his feet.  His face was ghastly white, twitching with
suppressed pain.  He looked very sick.

"Well, Leach, are you going for'ard?" Wolf Larsen asked.

"Yes, sir," came the answer of a spirit cowed.

"And you?" I was asked.

"I'll give you a thousand--" I began, but was interrupted.

"Stow that!  Are you going to take up your duties as cabin-boy?  Or
do I have to take you in hand?"

What was I to do?  To be brutally beaten, to be killed perhaps,
would not help my case.  I looked steadily into the cruel grey
eyes.  They might have been granite for all the light and warmth of
a human soul they contained.  One may see the soul stir in some
men's eyes, but his were bleak, and cold, and grey as the sea
itself.

"Well?"

"Yes," I said.

"Say 'yes, sir.'"

"Yes, sir," I corrected.

"What is your name?"

"Van Weyden, sir."

"First name?"

"Humphrey, sir; Humphrey Van Weyden."

"Age?"

"Thirty-five, sir."

"That'll do.  Go to the cook and learn your duties."

And thus it was that I passed into a state of involuntary servitude
to Wolf Larsen.  He was stronger than I, that was all.  But it was
very unreal at the time.  It is no less unreal now that I look back
upon it.  It will always be to me a monstrous, inconceivable thing,
a horrible nightmare.

"Hold on, don't go yet."

I stopped obediently in my walk toward the galley.

"Johansen, call all hands.  Now that we've everything cleaned up,
we'll have the funeral and get the decks cleared of useless
lumber."

While Johansen was summoning the watch below, a couple of sailors,
under the captain's direction, laid the canvas-swathed corpse upon
a hatch-cover.  On either side the deck, against the rail and
bottoms up, were lashed a number of small boats.  Several men
picked up the hatch-cover with its ghastly freight, carried it to
the lee side, and rested it on the boats, the feet pointing
overboard.  To the feet was attached the sack of coal which the
cook had fetched.

I had always conceived a burial at sea to be a very solemn and awe-
inspiring event, but I was quickly disillusioned, by this burial at
any rate.  One of the hunters, a little dark-eyed man whom his
mates called "Smoke," was telling stories, liberally intersprinkled
with oaths and obscenities; and every minute or so the group of
hunters gave mouth to a laughter that sounded to me like a wolf-
chorus or the barking of hell-hounds.  The sailors trooped noisily
aft, some of the watch below rubbing the sleep from their eyes, and
talked in low tones together.  There was an ominous and worried
expression on their faces.  It was evident that they did not like
the outlook of a voyage under such a captain and begun so
inauspiciously.  From time to time they stole glances at Wolf
Larsen, and I could see that they were apprehensive of the man.

He stepped up to the hatch-cover, and all caps came off.  I ran my
eyes over them--twenty men all told; twenty-two including the man
at the wheel and myself.  I was pardonably curious in my survey,
for it appeared my fate to be pent up with them on this miniature
floating world for I knew not how many weeks or months.  The
sailors, in the main, were English and Scandinavian, and their
faces seemed of the heavy, stolid order.  The hunters, on the other
hand, had stronger and more diversified faces, with hard lines and
the marks of the free play of passions.  Strange to say, and I
noted it all once, Wolf Larsen's features showed no such evil
stamp.  There seemed nothing vicious in them.  True, there were
lines, but they were the lines of decision and firmness.  It
seemed, rather, a frank and open countenance, which frankness or
openness was enhanced by the fact that he was smooth-shaven.  I
could hardly believe--until the next incident occurred--that it was
the face of a man who could behave as he had behaved to the cabin-
boy.

At this moment, as he opened his mouth to speak, puff after puff
struck the schooner and pressed her side under.  The wind shrieked
a wild song through the rigging.  Some of the hunters glanced
anxiously aloft.  The lee rail, where the dead man lay, was buried
in the sea, and as the schooner lifted and righted the water swept
across the deck wetting us above our shoe-tops.  A shower of rain
drove down upon us, each drop stinging like a hailstone.  As it
passed, Wolf Larsen began to speak, the bare-headed men swaying in
unison, to the heave and lunge of the deck.

"I only remember one part of the service," he said, "and that is,
'And the body shall be cast into the sea.'  So cast it in."

He ceased speaking.  The men holding the hatch-cover seemed
perplexed, puzzled no doubt by the briefness of the ceremony.  He
burst upon them in a fury.

"Lift up that end there, damn you!  What the hell's the matter with
you?"

They elevated the end of the hatch-cover with pitiful haste, and,
like a dog flung overside, the dead man slid feet first into the
sea.  The coal at his feet dragged him down.  He was gone.

"Johansen," Wolf Larsen said briskly to the new mate, "keep all
hands on deck now they're here.  Get in the topsails and jibs and
make a good job of it.  We're in for a sou'-easter.  Better reef
the jib and mainsail too, while you're about it."

In a moment the decks were in commotion, Johansen bellowing orders
and the men pulling or letting go ropes of various sorts--all
naturally confusing to a landsman such as myself.  But it was the
heartlessness of it that especially struck me.  The dead man was an
episode that was past, an incident that was dropped, in a canvas
covering with a sack of coal, while the ship sped along and her
work went on.  Nobody had been affected.  The hunters were laughing
at a fresh story of Smoke's; the men pulling and hauling, and two
of them climbing aloft; Wolf Larsen was studying the clouding sky
to windward; and the dead man, dying obscenely, buried sordidly,
and sinking down, down--

Then it was that the cruelty of the sea, its relentlessness and
awfulness, rushed upon me.  Life had become cheap and tawdry, a
beastly and inarticulate thing, a soulless stirring of the ooze and
slime.  I held on to the weather rail, close by the shrouds, and
gazed out across the desolate foaming waves to the low-lying fog-
banks that hid San Francisco and the California coast.  Rain-
squalls were driving in between, and I could scarcely see the fog.
And this strange vessel, with its terrible men, pressed under by
wind and sea and ever leaping up and out, was heading away into the
south-west, into the great and lonely Pacific expanse.


CHAPTER IV


What happened to me next on the sealing-schooner Ghost, as I strove
to fit into my new environment, are matters of humiliation and
pain.  The cook, who was called "the doctor" by the crew, "Tommy"
by the hunters, and "Cooky" by Wolf Larsen, was a changed person.
The difference worked in my status brought about a corresponding
difference in treatment from him.  Servile and fawning as he had
been before, he was now as domineering and bellicose.  In truth, I
was no longer the fine gentleman with a skin soft as a "lydy's,"
but only an ordinary and very worthless cabin-boy.

He absurdly insisted upon my addressing him as Mr. Mugridge, and
his behaviour and carriage were insufferable as he showed me my
duties.  Besides my work in the cabin, with its four small state-
rooms, I was supposed to be his assistant in the galley, and my
colossal ignorance concerning such things as peeling potatoes or
washing greasy pots was a source of unending and sarcastic wonder
to him.  He refused to take into consideration what I was, or,
rather, what my life and the things I was accustomed to had been.
This was part of the attitude he chose to adopt toward me; and I
confess, ere the day was done, that I hated him with more lively
feelings than I had ever hated any one in my life before.

This first day was made more difficult for me from the fact that
the Ghost, under close reefs (terms such as these I did not learn
till later), was plunging through what Mr. Mugridge called an
"'owlin' sou'-easter."  At half-past five, under his directions, I
set the table in the cabin, with rough-weather trays in place, and
then carried the tea and cooked food down from the galley.  In this
connection I cannot forbear relating my first experience with a
boarding sea.

"Look sharp or you'll get doused," was Mr. Mugridge's parting
injunction, as I left the galley with a big tea-pot in one hand,
and in the hollow of the other arm several loaves of fresh-baked
bread.  One of the hunters, a tall, loose-jointed chap named
Henderson, was going aft at the time from the steerage (the name
the hunters facetiously gave their midships sleeping quarters) to
the cabin.  Wolf Larsen was on the poop, smoking his everlasting
cigar.

"'Ere she comes.  Sling yer 'ook!" the cook cried.

I stopped, for I did not know what was coming, and saw the galley
door slide shut with a bang.  Then I saw Henderson leaping like a
madman for the main rigging, up which he shot, on the inside, till
he was many feet higher than my head.  Also I saw a great wave,
curling and foaming, poised far above the rail.  I was directly
under it.  My mind did not work quickly, everything was so new and
strange.  I grasped that I was in danger, but that was all.  I
stood still, in trepidation.  Then Wolf Larsen shouted from the
poop:

"Grab hold something, you--you Hump!"

But it was too late.  I sprang toward the rigging, to which I might
have clung, and was met by the descending wall of water.  What
happened after that was very confusing.  I was beneath the water,
suffocating and drowning.  My feet were out from under me, and I
was turning over and over and being swept along I knew not where.
Several times I collided against hard objects, once striking my
right knee a terrible blow.  Then the flood seemed suddenly to
subside and I was breathing the good air again.  I had been swept
against the galley and around the steerage companion-way from the
weather side into the lee scuppers.  The pain from my hurt knee was
agonizing.  I could not put my weight on it, or, at least, I
thought I could not put my weight on it; and I felt sure the leg
was broken.  But the cook was after me, shouting through the lee
galley door:

"'Ere, you!  Don't tyke all night about it!  Where's the pot?  Lost
overboard?  Serve you bloody well right if yer neck was broke!"

I managed to struggle to my feet.  The great tea-pot was still in
my hand.  I limped to the galley and handed it to him.  But he was
consumed with indignation, real or feigned.

"Gawd blime me if you ayn't a slob.  Wot 're you good for anyw'y,
I'd like to know?  Eh?  Wot 're you good for any'wy?  Cawn't even
carry a bit of tea aft without losin' it.  Now I'll 'ave to boil
some more.

"An' wot 're you snifflin' about?" he burst out at me, with renewed
rage.  "'Cos you've 'urt yer pore little leg, pore little mamma's
darlin'."

I was not sniffling, though my face might well have been drawn and
twitching from the pain.  But I called up all my resolution, set my
teeth, and hobbled back and forth from galley to cabin and cabin to
galley without further mishap.  Two things I had acquired by my
accident:  an injured knee-cap that went undressed and from which I
suffered for weary months, and the name of "Hump," which Wolf
Larsen had called me from the poop.  Thereafter, fore and aft, I
was known by no other name, until the term became a part of my
thought-processes and I identified it with myself, thought of
myself as Hump, as though Hump were I and had always been I.

It was no easy task, waiting on the cabin table, where sat Wolf
Larsen, Johansen, and the six hunters.  The cabin was small, to
begin with, and to move around, as I was compelled to, was not made
easier by the schooner's violent pitching and wallowing.  But what
struck me most forcibly was the total lack of sympathy on the part
of the men whom I served.  I could feel my knee through my clothes,
swelling, and swelling, and I was sick and faint from the pain of
it.  I could catch glimpses of my face, white and ghastly,
distorted with pain, in the cabin mirror.  All the men must have
seen my condition, but not one spoke or took notice of me, till I
was almost grateful to Wolf Larsen, later on (I was washing the
dishes), when he said:

"Don't let a little thing like that bother you.  You'll get used to
such things in time.  It may cripple you some, but all the same
you'll be learning to walk.

"That's what you call a paradox, isn't it?" he added.

He seemed pleased when I nodded my head with the customary "Yes,
sir."

"I suppose you know a bit about literary things?  Eh?  Good.  I'll
have some talks with you some time."

And then, taking no further account of me, he turned his back and
went up on deck.

That night, when I had finished an endless amount of work, I was
sent to sleep in the steerage, where I made up a spare bunk.  I was
glad to get out of the detestable presence of the cook and to be
off my feet.  To my surprise, my clothes had dried on me and there
seemed no indications of catching cold, either from the last
soaking or from the prolonged soaking from the foundering of the
Martinez.  Under ordinary circumstances, after all that I had
undergone, I should have been fit for bed and a trained nurse.

But my knee was bothering me terribly.  As well as I could make
out, the kneecap seemed turned up on edge in the midst of the
swelling.  As I sat in my bunk examining it (the six hunters were
all in the steerage, smoking and talking in loud voices), Henderson
took a passing glance at it.

"Looks nasty," he commented.  "Tie a rag around it, and it'll be
all right."

That was all; and on the land I would have been lying on the broad
of my back, with a surgeon attending on me, and with strict
injunctions to do nothing but rest.  But I must do these men
justice.  Callous as they were to my suffering, they were equally
callous to their own when anything befell them.  And this was due,
I believe, first, to habit; and second, to the fact that they were
less sensitively organized.  I really believe that a finely-
organized, high-strung man would suffer twice and thrice as much as
they from a like injury.

Tired as I was,--exhausted, in fact,--I was prevented from sleeping
by the pain in my knee.  It was all I could do to keep from
groaning aloud.  At home I should undoubtedly have given vent to my
anguish; but this new and elemental environment seemed to call for
a savage repression.  Like the savage, the attitude of these men
was stoical in great things, childish in little things.  I
remember, later in the voyage, seeing Kerfoot, another of the
hunters, lose a finger by having it smashed to a jelly; and he did
not even murmur or change the expression on his face.  Yet I have
seen the same man, time and again, fly into the most outrageous
passion over a trifle.

He was doing it now, vociferating, bellowing, waving his arms, and
cursing like a fiend, and all because of a disagreement with
another hunter as to whether a seal pup knew instinctively how to
swim.  He held that it did, that it could swim the moment it was
born.  The other hunter, Latimer, a lean, Yankee-looking fellow
with shrewd, narrow-slitted eyes, held otherwise, held that the
seal pup was born on the land for no other reason than that it
could not swim, that its mother was compelled to teach it to swim
as birds were compelled to teach their nestlings how to fly.

For the most part, the remaining four hunters leaned on the table
or lay in their bunks and left the discussion to the two
antagonists.  But they were supremely interested, for every little
while they ardently took sides, and sometimes all were talking at
once, till their voices surged back and forth in waves of sound
like mimic thunder-rolls in the confined space.  Childish and
immaterial as the topic was, the quality of their reasoning was
still more childish and immaterial.  In truth, there was very
little reasoning or none at all.  Their method was one of
assertion, assumption, and denunciation.  They proved that a seal
pup could swim or not swim at birth by stating the proposition very
bellicosely and then following it up with an attack on the opposing
man's judgment, common sense, nationality, or past history.
Rebuttal was precisely similar.  I have related this in order to
show the mental calibre of the men with whom I was thrown in
contact.  Intellectually they were children, inhabiting the
physical forms of men.

And they smoked, incessantly smoked, using a coarse, cheap, and
offensive-smelling tobacco.  The air was thick and murky with the
smoke of it; and this, combined with the violent movement of the
ship as she struggled through the storm, would surely have made me
sea-sick had I been a victim to that malady.  As it was, it made me
quite squeamish, though this nausea might have been due to the pain
of my leg and exhaustion.

As I lay there thinking, I naturally dwelt upon myself and my
situation.  It was unparalleled, undreamed-of, that I, Humphrey Van
Weyden, a scholar and a dilettante, if you please, in things
artistic and literary, should be lying here on a Bering Sea seal-
hunting schooner.  Cabin-boy!  I had never done any hard manual
labour, or scullion labour, in my life.  I had lived a placid,
uneventful, sedentary existence all my days--the life of a scholar
and a recluse on an assured and comfortable income.  Violent life
and athletic sports had never appealed to me.  I had always been a
book-worm; so my sisters and father had called me during my
childhood.  I had gone camping but once in my life, and then I left
the party almost at its start and returned to the comforts and
conveniences of a roof.  And here I was, with dreary and endless
vistas before me of table-setting, potato-peeling, and dish-
washing.  And I was not strong.  The doctors had always said that I
had a remarkable constitution, but I had never developed it or my
body through exercise.  My muscles were small and soft, like a
woman's, or so the doctors had said time and again in the course of
their attempts to persuade me to go in for physical-culture fads.
But I had preferred to use my head rather than my body; and here I
was, in no fit condition for the rough life in prospect.

These are merely a few of the things that went through my mind, and
are related for the sake of vindicating myself in advance in the
weak and helpless role I was destined to play.  But I thought,
also, of my mother and sisters, and pictured their grief.  I was
among the missing dead of the Martinez disaster, an unrecovered
body.  I could see the head-lines in the papers; the fellows at the
University Club and the Bibelot shaking their heads and saying,
"Poor chap!"  And I could see Charley Furuseth, as I had said good-
bye to him that morning, lounging in a dressing-gown on the be-
pillowed window couch and delivering himself of oracular and
pessimistic epigrams.

And all the while, rolling, plunging, climbing the moving mountains
and falling and wallowing in the foaming valleys, the schooner
Ghost was fighting her way farther and farther into the heart of
the Pacific--and I was on her.  I could hear the wind above.  It
came to my ears as a muffled roar.  Now and again feet stamped
overhead.  An endless creaking was going on all about me, the
woodwork and the fittings groaning and squeaking and complaining in
a thousand keys.  The hunters were still arguing and roaring like
some semi-human amphibious breed.  The air was filled with oaths
and indecent expressions.  I could see their faces, flushed and
angry, the brutality distorted and emphasized by the sickly yellow
of the sea-lamps which rocked back and forth with the ship.
Through the dim smoke-haze the bunks looked like the sleeping dens
of animals in a menagerie.  Oilskins and sea-boots were hanging
from the walls, and here and there rifles and shotguns rested
securely in the racks.  It was a sea-fitting for the buccaneers and
pirates of by-gone years.  My imagination ran riot, and still I
could not sleep.  And it was a long, long night, weary and dreary
and long.


CHAPTER V


But my first night in the hunters' steerage was also my last.  Next
day Johansen, the new mate, was routed from the cabin by Wolf
Larsen, and sent into the steerage to sleep thereafter, while I
took possession of the tiny cabin state-room, which, on the first
day of the voyage, had already had two occupants.  The reason for
this change was quickly learned by the hunters, and became the
cause of a deal of grumbling on their part.  It seemed that
Johansen, in his sleep, lived over each night the events of the
day.  His incessant talking and shouting and bellowing of orders
had been too much for Wolf Larsen, who had accordingly foisted the
nuisance upon his hunters.

After a sleepless night, I arose weak and in agony, to hobble
through my second day on the Ghost.  Thomas Mugridge routed me out
at half-past five, much in the fashion that Bill Sykes must have
routed out his dog; but Mr. Mugridge's brutality to me was paid
back in kind and with interest.  The unnecessary noise he made (I
had lain wide-eyed the whole night) must have awakened one of the
hunters; for a heavy shoe whizzed through the semi-darkness, and
Mr. Mugridge, with a sharp howl of pain, humbly begged everybody's
pardon.  Later on, in the galley, I noticed that his ear was
bruised and swollen.  It never went entirely back to its normal
shape, and was called a "cauliflower ear" by the sailors.

The day was filled with miserable variety.  I had taken my dried
clothes down from the galley the night before, and the first thing
I did was to exchange the cook's garments for them.  I looked for
my purse.  In addition to some small change (and I have a good
memory for such things), it had contained one hundred and eighty-
five dollars in gold and paper.  The purse I found, but its
contents, with the exception of the small silver, had been
abstracted.  I spoke to the cook about it, when I went on deck to
take up my duties in the galley, and though I had looked forward to
a surly answer, I had not expected the belligerent harangue that I
received.

"Look 'ere, 'Ump," he began, a malicious light in his eyes and a
snarl in his throat; "d'ye want yer nose punched?  If you think I'm
a thief, just keep it to yerself, or you'll find 'ow bloody well
mistyken you are.  Strike me blind if this ayn't gratitude for yer!
'Ere you come, a pore mis'rable specimen of 'uman scum, an' I tykes
yer into my galley an' treats yer 'ansom, an' this is wot I get for
it.  Nex' time you can go to 'ell, say I, an' I've a good mind to
give you what-for anyw'y."

So saying, he put up his fists and started for me.  To my shame be
it, I cowered away from the blow and ran out the galley door.  What
else was I to do?  Force, nothing but force, obtained on this
brute-ship.  Moral suasion was a thing unknown.  Picture it to
yourself:  a man of ordinary stature, slender of build, and with
weak, undeveloped muscles, who has lived a peaceful, placid life,
and is unused to violence of any sort--what could such a man
possibly do?  There was no more reason that I should stand and face
these human beasts than that I should stand and face an infuriated
bull.

So I thought it out at the time, feeling the need for vindication
and desiring to be at peace with my conscience.  But this
vindication did not satisfy.  Nor, to this day can I permit my
manhood to look back upon those events and feel entirely
exonerated.  The situation was something that really exceeded
rational formulas for conduct and demanded more than the cold
conclusions of reason.  When viewed in the light of formal logic,
there is not one thing of which to be ashamed; but nevertheless a
shame rises within me at the recollection, and in the pride of my
manhood I feel that my manhood has in unaccountable ways been
smirched and sullied.

All of which is neither here nor there.  The speed with which I ran
from the galley caused excruciating pain in my knee, and I sank
down helplessly at the break of the poop.  But the Cockney had not
pursued me.

"Look at 'im run!  Look at 'im run!" I could hear him crying.  "An'
with a gyme leg at that!  Come on back, you pore little mamma's
darling.  I won't 'it yer; no, I won't."

I came back and went on with my work; and here the episode ended
for the time, though further developments were yet to take place.
I set the breakfast-table in the cabin, and at seven o'clock waited
on the hunters and officers.  The storm had evidently broken during
the night, though a huge sea was still running and a stiff wind
blowing.  Sail had been made in the early watches, so that the
Ghost was racing along under everything except the two topsails and
the flying jib.  These three sails, I gathered from the
conversation, were to be set immediately after breakfast.  I
learned, also, that Wolf Larsen was anxious to make the most of the
storm, which was driving him to the south-west into that portion of
the sea where he expected to pick up with the north-east trades.
It was before this steady wind that he hoped to make the major
portion of the run to Japan, curving south into the tropics and
north again as he approached the coast of Asia.

After breakfast I had another unenviable experience.  When I had
finished washing the dishes, I cleaned the cabin stove and carried
the ashes up on deck to empty them.  Wolf Larsen and Henderson were
standing near the wheel, deep in conversation.  The sailor,
Johnson, was steering.  As I started toward the weather side I saw
him make a sudden motion with his head, which I mistook for a token
of recognition and good-morning.  In reality, he was attempting to
warn me to throw my ashes over the lee side.  Unconscious of my
blunder, I passed by Wolf Larsen and the hunter and flung the ashes
over the side to windward.  The wind drove them back, and not only
over me, but over Henderson and Wolf Larsen.  The next instant the
latter kicked me, violently, as a cur is kicked.  I had not
realized there could be so much pain in a kick.  I reeled away from
him and leaned against the cabin in a half-fainting condition.
Everything was swimming before my eyes, and I turned sick.  The
nausea overpowered me, and I managed to crawl to the side of the
vessel.  But Wolf Larsen did not follow me up.  Brushing the ashes
from his clothes, he had resumed his conversation with Henderson.
Johansen, who had seen the affair from the break of the poop, sent
a couple of sailors aft to clean up the mess.

Later in the morning I received a surprise of a totally different
sort.  Following the cook's instructions, I had gone into Wolf
Larsen's state-room to put it to rights and make the bed.  Against
the wall, near the head of the bunk, was a rack filled with books.
I glanced over them, noting with astonishment such names as
Shakespeare, Tennyson, Poe, and De Quincey.  There were scientific
works, too, among which were represented men such as Tyndall,
Proctor, and Darwin.  Astronomy and physics were represented, and I
remarked Bulfinch's Age of Fable, Shaw's History of English and
American Literature, and Johnson's Natural History in two large
volumes.  Then there were a number of grammars, such as Metcalf's,
and Reed and Kellogg's; and I smiled as I saw a copy of The Dean's
English.

I could not reconcile these books with the man from what I had seen
of him, and I wondered if he could possibly read them.  But when I
came to make the bed I found, between the blankets, dropped
apparently as he had sunk off to sleep, a complete Browning, the
Cambridge Edition.  It was open at "In a Balcony," and I noticed,
here and there, passages underlined in pencil.  Further, letting
drop the volume during a lurch of the ship, a sheet of paper fell
out.  It was scrawled over with geometrical diagrams and
calculations of some sort.

It was patent that this terrible man was no ignorant clod, such as
one would inevitably suppose him to be from his exhibitions of
brutality.  At once he became an enigma.  One side or the other of
his nature was perfectly comprehensible; but both sides together
were bewildering.  I had already remarked that his language was
excellent, marred with an occasional slight inaccuracy.  Of course,
in common speech with the sailors and hunters, it sometimes fairly
bristled with errors, which was due to the vernacular itself; but
in the few words he had held with me it had been clear and correct.

This glimpse I had caught of his other side must have emboldened
me, for I resolved to speak to him about the money I had lost.

"I have been robbed," I said to him, a little later, when I found
him pacing up and down the poop alone.

"Sir," he corrected, not harshly, but sternly.

"I have been robbed, sir," I amended.

"How did it happen?" he asked.

Then I told him the whole circumstance, how my clothes had been
left to dry in the galley, and how, later, I was nearly beaten by
the cook when I mentioned the matter.

He smiled at my recital.  "Pickings," he concluded; "Cooky's
pickings.  And don't you think your miserable life worth the price?
Besides, consider it a lesson.  You'll learn in time how to take
care of your money for yourself.  I suppose, up to now, your lawyer
has done it for you, or your business agent."

I could feel the quiet sneer through his words, but demanded, "How
can I get it back again?"

"That's your look-out.  You haven't any lawyer or business agent
now, so you'll have to depend on yourself.  When you get a dollar,
hang on to it.  A man who leaves his money lying around, the way
you did, deserves to lose it.  Besides, you have sinned.  You have
no right to put temptation in the way of your fellow-creatures.
You tempted Cooky, and he fell.  You have placed his immortal soul
in jeopardy.  By the way, do you believe in the immortal soul?"

His lids lifted lazily as he asked the question, and it seemed that
the deeps were opening to me and that I was gazing into his soul.
But it was an illusion.  Far as it might have seemed, no man has
ever seen very far into Wolf Larsen's soul, or seen it at all,--of
this I am convinced.  It was a very lonely soul, I was to learn,
that never unmasked, though at rare moments it played at doing so.

"I read immortality in your eyes," I answered, dropping the "sir,"-
-an experiment, for I thought the intimacy of the conversation
warranted it.

He took no notice.  "By that, I take it, you see something that is
alive, but that necessarily does not have to live for ever."

"I read more than that," I continued boldly.

"Then you read consciousness.  You read the consciousness of life
that it is alive; but still no further away, no endlessness of
life."

How clearly he thought, and how well he expressed what he thought!
From regarding me curiously, he turned his head and glanced out
over the leaden sea to windward.  A bleakness came into his eyes,
and the lines of his mouth grew severe and harsh.  He was evidently
in a pessimistic mood.

"Then to what end?" he demanded abruptly, turning back to me.  "If
I am immortal--why?"

I halted.  How could I explain my idealism to this man?  How could
I put into speech a something felt, a something like the strains of
music heard in sleep, a something that convinced yet transcended
utterance?

"What do you believe, then?" I countered.

"I believe that life is a mess," he answered promptly.  "It is like
yeast, a ferment, a thing that moves and may move for a minute, an
hour, a year, or a hundred years, but that in the end will cease to
move.  The big eat the little that they may continue to move, the
strong eat the weak that they may retain their strength.  The lucky
eat the most and move the longest, that is all.  What do you make
of those things?"

He swept his am in an impatient gesture toward a number of the
sailors who were working on some kind of rope stuff amidships.

"They move, so does the jelly-fish move.  They move in order to eat
in order that they may keep moving.  There you have it.  They live
for their belly's sake, and the belly is for their sake.  It's a
circle; you get nowhere.  Neither do they.  In the end they come to
a standstill.  They move no more.  They are dead."

"They have dreams," I interrupted, "radiant, flashing dreams--"

"Of grub," he concluded sententiously.

"And of more--"

"Grub.  Of a larger appetite and more luck in satisfying it."  His
voice sounded harsh.  There was no levity in it.  "For, look you,
they dream of making lucky voyages which will bring them more
money, of becoming the mates of ships, of finding fortunes--in
short, of being in a better position for preying on their fellows,
of having all night in, good grub and somebody else to do the dirty
work.  You and I are just like them.  There is no difference,
except that we have eaten more and better.  I am eating them now,
and you too.  But in the past you have eaten more than I have.  You
have slept in soft beds, and worn fine clothes, and eaten good
meals.  Who made those beds? and those clothes? and those meals?
Not you.  You never made anything in your own sweat.  You live on
an income which your father earned.  You are like a frigate bird
swooping down upon the boobies and robbing them of the fish they
have caught.  You are one with a crowd of men who have made what
they call a government, who are masters of all the other men, and
who eat the food the other men get and would like to eat
themselves.  You wear the warm clothes.  They made the clothes, but
they shiver in rags and ask you, the lawyer, or business agent who
handles your money, for a job."

"But that is beside the matter," I cried.

"Not at all."  He was speaking rapidly now, and his eyes were
flashing.  "It is piggishness, and it is life.  Of what use or
sense is an immortality of piggishness?  What is the end?  What is
it all about?  You have made no food.  Yet the food you have eaten
or wasted might have saved the lives of a score of wretches who
made the food but did not eat it.  What immortal end did you serve?
or did they?  Consider yourself and me.  What does your boasted
immortality amount to when your life runs foul of mine?  You would
like to go back to the land, which is a favourable place for your
kind of piggishness.  It is a whim of mine to keep you aboard this
ship, where my piggishness flourishes.  And keep you I will.  I may
make or break you.  You may die to-day, this week, or next month.
I could kill you now, with a blow of my fist, for you are a
miserable weakling.  But if we are immortal, what is the reason for
this?  To be piggish as you and I have been all our lives does not
seem to be just the thing for immortals to be doing.  Again, what's
it all about?  Why have I kept you here?--"

"Because you are stronger," I managed to blurt out.

"But why stronger?" he went on at once with his perpetual queries.
"Because I am a bigger bit of the ferment than you?  Don't you see?
Don't you see?"

"But the hopelessness of it," I protested.

"I agree with you," he answered.  "Then why move at all, since
moving is living?  Without moving and being part of the yeast there
would be no hopelessness.  But,--and there it is,--we want to live
and move, though we have no reason to, because it happens that it
is the nature of life to live and move, to want to live and move.
If it were not for this, life would be dead.  It is because of this
life that is in you that you dream of your immortality.  The life
that is in you is alive and wants to go on being alive for ever.
Bah!  An eternity of piggishness!"

He abruptly turned on his heel and started forward.  He stopped at
the break of the poop and called me to him.

"By the way, how much was it that Cooky got away with?" he asked.

"One hundred and eighty-five dollars, sir," I answered.

He nodded his head.  A moment later, as I started down the
companion stairs to lay the table for dinner, I heard him loudly
curing some men amidships.


CHAPTER VI


By the following morning the storm had blown itself quite out and
the Ghost was rolling slightly on a calm sea without a breath of
wind.  Occasional light airs were felt, however, and Wolf Larsen
patrolled the poop constantly, his eyes ever searching the sea to
the north-eastward, from which direction the great trade-wind must
blow.

The men were all on deck and busy preparing their various boats for
the season's hunting.  There are seven boats aboard, the captain's
dingey, and the six which the hunters will use.  Three, a hunter, a
boat-puller, and a boat-steerer, compose a boat's crew.  On board
the schooner the boat-pullers and steerers are the crew.  The
hunters, too, are supposed to be in command of the watches,
subject, always, to the orders of Wolf Larsen.

All this, and more, I have learned.  The Ghost is considered the
fastest schooner in both the San Francisco and Victoria fleets.  In
fact, she was once a private yacht, and was built for speed.  Her
lines and fittings--though I know nothing about such things--speak
for themselves.  Johnson was telling me about her in a short chat I
had with him during yesterday's second dog-watch.  He spoke
enthusiastically, with the love for a fine craft such as some men
feel for horses.  He is greatly disgusted with the outlook, and I
am given to understand that Wolf Larsen bears a very unsavoury
reputation among the sealing captains.  It was the Ghost herself
that lured Johnson into signing for the voyage, but he is already
beginning to repent.

As he told me, the Ghost is an eighty-ton schooner of a remarkably
fine model.  Her beam, or width, is twenty-three feet, and her
length a little over ninety feet.  A lead keel of fabulous but
unknown weight makes her very stable, while she carries an immense
spread of canvas.  From the deck to the truck of the maintopmast is
something over a hundred feet, while the foremast with its topmast
is eight or ten feet shorter.  I am giving these details so that
the size of this little floating world which holds twenty-two men
may be appreciated.  It is a very little world, a mote, a speck,
and I marvel that men should dare to venture the sea on a
contrivance so small and fragile.

Wolf Larsen has, also, a reputation for reckless carrying on of
sail.  I overheard Henderson and another of the hunters, Standish,
a Californian, talking about it.  Two years ago he dismasted the
Ghost in a gale on Bering Sea, whereupon the present masts were put
in, which are stronger and heavier in every way.  He is said to
have remarked, when he put them in, that he preferred turning her
over to losing the sticks.

Every man aboard, with the exception of Johansen, who is rather
overcome by his promotion, seems to have an excuse for having
sailed on the Ghost.  Half the men forward are deep-water sailors,
and their excuse is that they did not know anything about her or
her captain.  And those who do know, whisper that the hunters,
while excellent shots, were so notorious for their quarrelsome and
rascally proclivities that they could not sign on any decent
schooner.

I have made the acquaintance of another one of the crew,--Louis he
is called, a rotund and jovial-faced Nova Scotia Irishman, and a
very sociable fellow, prone to talk as long as he can find a
listener.  In the afternoon, while the cook was below asleep and I
was peeling the everlasting potatoes, Louis dropped into the galley
for a "yarn."  His excuse for being aboard was that he was drunk
when he signed.  He assured me again and again that it was the last
thing in the world he would dream of doing in a sober moment.  It
seems that he has been seal-hunting regularly each season for a
dozen years, and is accounted one of the two or three very best
boat-steerers in both fleets.

"Ah, my boy," he shook his head ominously at me, "'tis the worst
schooner ye could iv selected, nor were ye drunk at the time as was
I.  'Tis sealin' is the sailor's paradise--on other ships than
this.  The mate was the first, but mark me words, there'll be more
dead men before the trip is done with.  Hist, now, between you an'
meself and the stanchion there, this Wolf Larsen is a regular
devil, an' the Ghost'll be a hell-ship like she's always ben since
he had hold iv her.  Don't I know?  Don't I know?  Don't I remember
him in Hakodate two years gone, when he had a row an' shot four iv
his men?  Wasn't I a-layin' on the Emma L., not three hundred yards
away?  An' there was a man the same year he killed with a blow iv
his fist.  Yes, sir, killed 'im dead-oh.  His head must iv smashed
like an eggshell.  An' wasn't there the Governor of Kura Island,
an' the Chief iv Police, Japanese gentlemen, sir, an' didn't they
come aboard the Ghost as his guests, a-bringin' their wives along--
wee an' pretty little bits of things like you see 'em painted on
fans.  An' as he was a-gettin' under way, didn't the fond husbands
get left astern-like in their sampan, as it might be by accident?
An' wasn't it a week later that the poor little ladies was put
ashore on the other side of the island, with nothin' before 'em but
to walk home acrost the mountains on their weeny-teeny little straw
sandals which wouldn't hang together a mile?  Don't I know?  'Tis
the beast he is, this Wolf Larsen--the great big beast mentioned iv
in Revelation; an' no good end will he ever come to.  But I've said
nothin' to ye, mind ye.  I've whispered never a word; for old fat
Louis'll live the voyage out if the last mother's son of yez go to
the fishes."

"Wolf Larsen!" he snorted a moment later.  "Listen to the word,
will ye!  Wolf--'tis what he is.  He's not black-hearted like some
men.  'Tis no heart he has at all.  Wolf, just wolf, 'tis what he
is.  D'ye wonder he's well named?"

"But if he is so well-known for what he is," I queried, "how is it
that he can get men to ship with him?"

"An' how is it ye can get men to do anything on God's earth an'
sea?" Louis demanded with Celtic fire.  "How d'ye find me aboard if
'twasn't that I was drunk as a pig when I put me name down?
There's them that can't sail with better men, like the hunters, and
them that don't know, like the poor devils of wind-jammers for'ard
there.  But they'll come to it, they'll come to it, an' be sorry
the day they was born.  I could weep for the poor creatures, did I
but forget poor old fat Louis and the troubles before him.  But
'tis not a whisper I've dropped, mind ye, not a whisper."

"Them hunters is the wicked boys," he broke forth again, for he
suffered from a constitutional plethora of speech.  "But wait till
they get to cutting up iv jinks and rowin' 'round.  He's the boy'll
fix 'em.  'Tis him that'll put the fear of God in their rotten
black hearts.  Look at that hunter iv mine, Horner.  'Jock' Horner
they call him, so quiet-like an' easy-goin', soft-spoken as a girl,
till ye'd think butter wouldn't melt in the mouth iv him.  Didn't
he kill his boat-steerer last year?  'Twas called a sad accident,
but I met the boat-puller in Yokohama an' the straight iv it was
given me.  An' there's Smoke, the black little devil--didn't the
Roosians have him for three years in the salt mines of Siberia, for
poachin' on Copper Island, which is a Roosian preserve?  Shackled
he was, hand an' foot, with his mate.  An' didn't they have words
or a ruction of some kind?--for 'twas the other fellow Smoke sent
up in the buckets to the top of the mine; an' a piece at a time he
went up, a leg to-day, an' to-morrow an arm, the next day the head,
an' so on."

"But you can't mean it!" I cried out, overcome with the horror of
it.

"Mean what!" he demanded, quick as a flash.  "'Tis nothin' I've
said.  Deef I am, and dumb, as ye should be for the sake iv your
mother; an' never once have I opened me lips but to say fine things
iv them an' him, God curse his soul, an' may he rot in purgatory
ten thousand years, and then go down to the last an' deepest hell
iv all!"

Johnson, the man who had chafed me raw when I first came aboard,
seemed the least equivocal of the men forward or aft.  In fact,
there was nothing equivocal about him.  One was struck at once by
his straightforwardness and manliness, which, in turn, were
tempered by a modesty which might be mistaken for timidity.  But
timid he was not.  He seemed, rather, to have the courage of his
convictions, the certainty of his manhood.  It was this that made
him protest, at the commencement of our acquaintance, against being
called Yonson.  And upon this, and him, Louis passed judgment and
prophecy.

"'Tis a fine chap, that squarehead Johnson we've for'ard with us,"
he said.  "The best sailorman in the fo'c'sle.  He's my boat-
puller.  But it's to trouble he'll come with Wolf Larsen, as the
sparks fly upward.  It's meself that knows.  I can see it brewin'
an' comin' up like a storm in the sky.  I've talked to him like a
brother, but it's little he sees in takin' in his lights or flyin'
false signals.  He grumbles out when things don't go to suit him,
and there'll be always some tell-tale carryin' word iv it aft to
the Wolf.  The Wolf is strong, and it's the way of a wolf to hate
strength, an' strength it is he'll see in Johnson--no knucklin'
under, and a 'Yes, sir, thank ye kindly, sir,' for a curse or a
blow.  Oh, she's a-comin'!  She's a-comin'!  An' God knows where
I'll get another boat-puller!  What does the fool up an' say, when
the old man calls him Yonson, but 'Me name is Johnson, sir,' an'
then spells it out, letter for letter.  Ye should iv seen the old
man's face!  I thought he'd let drive at him on the spot.  He
didn't, but he will, an' he'll break that squarehead's heart, or
it's little I know iv the ways iv men on the ships iv the sea."

Thomas Mugridge is becoming unendurable.  I am compelled to Mister
him and to Sir him with every speech.  One reason for this is that
Wolf Larsen seems to have taken a fancy to him.  It is an
unprecedented thing, I take it, for a captain to be chummy with the
cook; but this is certainly what Wolf Larsen is doing.  Two or
three times he put his head into the galley and chaffed Mugridge
good-naturedly, and once, this afternoon, he stood by the break of
the poop and chatted with him for fully fifteen minutes.  When it
was over, and Mugridge was back in the galley, he became greasily
radiant, and went about his work, humming coster songs in a nerve-
racking and discordant falsetto.

"I always get along with the officers," he remarked to me in a
confidential tone.  "I know the w'y, I do, to myke myself uppreci-
yted.  There was my last skipper--w'y I thought nothin' of droppin'
down in the cabin for a little chat and a friendly glass.
'Mugridge,' sez 'e to me, 'Mugridge,' sez 'e, 'you've missed yer
vokytion.'  'An' 'ow's that?' sez I.  'Yer should 'a been born a
gentleman, an' never 'ad to work for yer livin'.'  God strike me
dead, 'Ump, if that ayn't wot 'e sez, an' me a-sittin' there in 'is
own cabin, jolly-like an' comfortable, a-smokin' 'is cigars an'
drinkin' 'is rum."

This chitter-chatter drove me to distraction.  I never heard a
voice I hated so.  His oily, insinuating tones, his greasy smile
and his monstrous self-conceit grated on my nerves till sometimes I
was all in a tremble.  Positively, he was the most disgusting and
loathsome person I have ever met.  The filth of his cooking was
indescribable; and, as he cooked everything that was eaten aboard,
I was compelled to select what I ate with great circumspection,
choosing from the least dirty of his concoctions.

My hands bothered me a great deal, unused as they were to work.
The nails were discoloured and black, while the skin was already
grained with dirt which even a scrubbing-brush could not remove.
Then blisters came, in a painful and never-ending procession, and I
had a great burn on my forearm, acquired by losing my balance in a
roll of the ship and pitching against the galley stove.  Nor was my
knee any better.  The swelling had not gone down, and the cap was
still up on edge.  Hobbling about on it from morning till night was
not helping it any.  What I needed was rest, if it were ever to get
well.

Rest!  I never before knew the meaning of the word.  I had been
resting all my life and did not know it.  But now, could I sit
still for one half-hour and do nothing, not even think, it would be
the most pleasurable thing in the world.  But it is a revelation,
on the other hand.  I shall be able to appreciate the lives of the
working people hereafter.  I did not dream that work was so
terrible a thing.  From half-past five in the morning till ten
o'clock at night I am everybody's slave, with not one moment to
myself, except such as I can steal near the end of the second dog-
watch.  Let me pause for a minute to look out over the sea
sparkling in the sun, or to gaze at a sailor going aloft to the
gaff-topsails, or running out the bowsprit, and I am sure to hear
the hateful voice, "'Ere, you, 'Ump, no sodgerin'.  I've got my
peepers on yer."

There are signs of rampant bad temper in the steerage, and the
gossip is going around that Smoke and Henderson have had a fight.
Henderson seems the best of the hunters, a slow-going fellow, and
hard to rouse; but roused he must have been, for Smoke had a
bruised and discoloured eye, and looked particularly vicious when
he came into the cabin for supper.

A cruel thing happened just before supper, indicative of the
callousness and brutishness of these men.  There is one green hand
in the crew, Harrison by name, a clumsy-looking country boy,
mastered, I imagine, by the spirit of adventure, and making his
first voyage.  In the light baffling airs the schooner had been
tacking about a great deal, at which times the sails pass from one
side to the other and a man is sent aloft to shift over the fore-
gaff-topsail.  In some way, when Harrison was aloft, the sheet
jammed in the block through which it runs at the end of the gaff.
As I understood it, there were two ways of getting it cleared,--
first, by lowering the foresail, which was comparatively easy and
without danger; and second, by climbing out the peak-halyards to
the end of the gaff itself, an exceedingly hazardous performance.

Johansen called out to Harrison to go out the halyards.  It was
patent to everybody that the boy was afraid.  And well he might be,
eighty feet above the deck, to trust himself on those thin and
jerking ropes.  Had there been a steady breeze it would not have
been so bad, but the Ghost was rolling emptily in a long sea, and
with each roll the canvas flapped and boomed and the halyards
slacked and jerked taut.  They were capable of snapping a man off
like a fly from a whip-lash.

Harrison heard the order and understood what was demanded of him,
but hesitated.  It was probably the first time he had been aloft in
his life.  Johansen, who had caught the contagion of Wolf Larsen's
masterfulness, burst out with a volley of abuse and curses.

"That'll do, Johansen," Wolf Larsen said brusquely.  "I'll have you
know that I do the swearing on this ship.  If I need your
assistance, I'll call you in."

"Yes, sir," the mate acknowledged submissively.

In the meantime Harrison had started out on the halyards.  I was
looking up from the galley door, and I could see him trembling, as
if with ague, in every limb.  He proceeded very slowly and
cautiously, an inch at a time.  Outlined against the clear blue of
the sky, he had the appearance of an enormous spider crawling along
the tracery of its web.

It was a slight uphill climb, for the foresail peaked high; and the
halyards, running through various blocks on the gaff and mast, gave
him separate holds for hands and feet.  But the trouble lay in that
the wind was not strong enough nor steady enough to keep the sail
full.  When he was half-way out, the Ghost took a long roll to
windward and back again into the hollow between two seas.  Harrison
ceased his progress and held on tightly.  Eighty feet beneath, I
could see the agonized strain of his muscles as he gripped for very
life.  The sail emptied and the gaff swung amid-ships.  The
halyards slackened, and, though it all happened very quickly, I
could see them sag beneath the weight of his body.  Then the gag
swung to the side with an abrupt swiftness, the great sail boomed
like a cannon, and the three rows of reef-points slatted against
the canvas like a volley of rifles.  Harrison, clinging on, made
the giddy rush through the air.  This rush ceased abruptly.  The
halyards became instantly taut.  It was the snap of the whip.  His
clutch was broken.  One hand was torn loose from its hold.  The
other lingered desperately for a moment, and followed.  His body
pitched out and down, but in some way he managed to save himself
with his legs.  He was hanging by them, head downward.  A quick
effort brought his hands up to the halyards again; but he was a
long time regaining his former position, where he hung, a pitiable
object.

"I'll bet he has no appetite for supper," I heard Wolf Larsen's
voice, which came to me from around the corner of the galley.
"Stand from under, you, Johansen!  Watch out!  Here she comes!"

In truth, Harrison was very sick, as a person is sea-sick; and for
a long time he clung to his precarious perch without attempting to
move.  Johansen, however, continued violently to urge him on to the
completion of his task.

"It is a shame," I heard Johnson growling in painfully slow and
correct English.  He was standing by the main rigging, a few feet
away from me.  "The boy is willing enough.  He will learn if he has
a chance.  But this is--"  He paused awhile, for the word "murder"
was his final judgment.

"Hist, will ye!" Louis whispered to him, "For the love iv your
mother hold your mouth!"

But Johnson, looking on, still continued his grumbling.

"Look here," the hunter Standish spoke to Wolf Larsen, "that's my
boat-puller, and I don't want to lose him."

"That's all right, Standish," was the reply.  "He's your boat-
puller when you've got him in the boat; but he's my sailor when I
have him aboard, and I'll do what I damn well please with him."

"But that's no reason--" Standish began in a torrent of speech.

"That'll do, easy as she goes," Wolf Larsen counselled back.  "I've
told you what's what, and let it stop at that.  The man's mine, and
I'll make soup of him and eat it if I want to."

There was an angry gleam in the hunter's eye, but he turned on his
heel and entered the steerage companion-way, where he remained,
looking upward.  All hands were on deck now, and all eyes were
aloft, where a human life was at grapples with death.  The
callousness of these men, to whom industrial organization gave
control of the lives of other men, was appalling.  I, who had lived
out of the whirl of the world, had never dreamed that its work was
carried on in such fashion.  Life had always seemed a peculiarly
sacred thing, but here it counted for nothing, was a cipher in the
arithmetic of commerce.  I must say, however, that the sailors
themselves were sympathetic, as instance the case of Johnson; but
the masters (the hunters and the captain) were heartlessly
indifferent.  Even the protest of Standish arose out of the fact
that he did not wish to lose his boat-puller.  Had it been some
other hunter's boat-puller, he, like them, would have been no more
than amused.

But to return to Harrison.  It took Johansen, insulting and
reviling the poor wretch, fully ten minutes to get him started
again.  A little later he made the end of the gaff, where, astride
the spar itself, he had a better chance for holding on.  He cleared
the sheet, and was free to return, slightly downhill now, along the
halyards to the mast.  But he had lost his nerve.  Unsafe as was
his present position, he was loath to forsake it for the more
unsafe position on the halyards.

He looked along the airy path he must traverse, and then down to
the deck.  His eyes were wide and staring, and he was trembling
violently.  I had never seen fear so strongly stamped upon a human
face.  Johansen called vainly for him to come down.  At any moment
he was liable to be snapped off the gaff, but he was helpless with
fright.  Wolf Larsen, walking up and down with Smoke and in
conversation, took no more notice of him, though he cried sharply,
once, to the man at the wheel:

"You're off your course, my man!  Be careful, unless you're looking
for trouble!"

"Ay, ay, sir," the helmsman responded, putting a couple of spokes
down.

He had been guilty of running the Ghost several points off her
course in order that what little wind there was should fill the
foresail and hold it steady.  He had striven to help the
unfortunate Harrison at the risk of incurring Wolf Larsen's anger.

The time went by, and the suspense, to me, was terrible.  Thomas
Mugridge, on the other hand, considered it a laughable affair, and
was continually bobbing his head out the galley door to make jocose
remarks.  How I hated him!  And how my hatred for him grew and
grew, during that fearful time, to cyclopean dimensions.  For the
first time in my life I experienced the desire to murder--"saw
red," as some of our picturesque writers phrase it.  Life in
general might still be sacred, but life in the particular case of
Thomas Mugridge had become very profane indeed.  I was frightened
when I became conscious that I was seeing red, and the thought
flashed through my mind:  was I, too, becoming tainted by the
brutality of my environment?--I, who even in the most flagrant
crimes had denied the justice and righteousness of capital
punishment?

Fully half-an-hour went by, and then I saw Johnson and Louis in
some sort of altercation.  It ended with Johnson flinging off
Louis's detaining arm and starting forward.  He crossed the deck,
sprang into the fore rigging, and began to climb.  But the quick
eye of Wolf Larsen caught him.

"Here, you, what are you up to?" he cried.

Johnson's ascent was arrested.  He looked his captain in the eyes
and replied slowly:

"I am going to get that boy down."

"You'll get down out of that rigging, and damn lively about it!
D'ye hear?  Get down!"

Johnson hesitated, but the long years of obedience to the masters
of ships overpowered him, and he dropped sullenly to the deck and
went on forward.

At half after five I went below to set the cabin table, but I
hardly knew what I did, for my eyes and my brain were filled with
the vision of a man, white-faced and trembling, comically like a
bug, clinging to the thrashing gaff.  At six o'clock, when I served
supper, going on deck to get the food from the galley, I saw
Harrison, still in the same position.  The conversation at the
table was of other things.  Nobody seemed interested in the
wantonly imperilled life.  But making an extra trip to the galley a
little later, I was gladdened by the sight of Harrison staggering
weakly from the rigging to the forecastle scuttle.  He had finally
summoned the courage to descend.

Before closing this incident, I must give a scrap of conversation I
had with Wolf Larsen in the cabin, while I was washing the dishes.

"You were looking squeamish this afternoon," he began.  "What was
the matter?"

I could see that he knew what had made me possibly as sick as
Harrison, that he was trying to draw me, and I answered, "It was
because of the brutal treatment of that boy."

He gave a short laugh.  "Like sea-sickness, I suppose.  Some men
are subject to it, and others are not."

"Not so," I objected.

"Just so," he went on.  "The earth is as full of brutality as the
sea is full of motion.  And some men are made sick by the one, and
some by the other.  That's the only reason."

"But you, who make a mock of human life, don't you place any value
upon it whatever?" I demanded.

"Value?  What value?"  He looked at me, and though his eyes were
steady and motionless, there seemed a cynical smile in them.  "What
kind of value?  How do you measure it?  Who values it?"

"I do," I made answer.

"Then what is it worth to you?  Another man's life, I mean.  Come
now, what is it worth?"

The value of life?  How could I put a tangible value upon it?
Somehow, I, who have always had expression, lacked expression when
with Wolf Larsen.  I have since determined that a part of it was
due to the man's personality, but that the greater part was due to
his totally different outlook.  Unlike other materialists I had met
and with whom I had something in common to start on, I had nothing
in common with him.  Perhaps, also, it was the elemental simplicity
of his mind that baffled me.  He drove so directly to the core of
the matter, divesting a question always of all superfluous details,
and with such an air of finality, that I seemed to find myself
struggling in deep water, with no footing under me.  Value of life?
How could I answer the question on the spur of the moment?  The
sacredness of life I had accepted as axiomatic.  That it was
intrinsically valuable was a truism I had never questioned.  But
when he challenged the truism I was speechless.

"We were talking about this yesterday," he said.  "I held that life
was a ferment, a yeasty something which devoured life that it might
live, and that living was merely successful piggishness.  Why, if
there is anything in supply and demand, life is the cheapest thing
in the world.  There is only so much water, so much earth, so much
air; but the life that is demanding to be born is limitless.
Nature is a spendthrift.  Look at the fish and their millions of
eggs.  For that matter, look at you and me.  In our loins are the
possibilities of millions of lives.  Could we but find time and
opportunity and utilize the last bit and every bit of the unborn
life that is in us, we could become the fathers of nations and
populate continents.  Life?  Bah!  It has no value.  Of cheap
things it is the cheapest.  Everywhere it goes begging.  Nature
spills it out with a lavish hand.  Where there is room for one
life, she sows a thousand lives, and it's life eats life till the
strongest and most piggish life is left."

"You have read Darwin," I said.  "But you read him
misunderstandingly when you conclude that the struggle for
existence sanctions your wanton destruction of life."

He shrugged his shoulders.  "You know you only mean that in
relation to human life, for of the flesh and the fowl and the fish
you destroy as much as I or any other man.  And human life is in no
wise different, though you feel it is and think that you reason why
it is.  Why should I be parsimonious with this life which is cheap
and without value?  There are more sailors than there are ships on
the sea for them, more workers than there are factories or machines
for them.  Why, you who live on the land know that you house your
poor people in the slums of cities and loose famine and pestilence
upon them, and that there still remain more poor people, dying for
want of a crust of bread and a bit of meat (which is life
destroyed), than you know what to do with.  Have you ever seen the
London dockers fighting like wild beasts for a chance to work?"

He started for the companion stairs, but turned his head for a
final word.  "Do you know the only value life has is what life puts
upon itself?  And it is of course over-estimated since it is of
necessity prejudiced in its own favour.  Take that man I had aloft.
He held on as if he were a precious thing, a treasure beyond
diamonds or rubies.  To you?  No.  To me?  Not at all.  To himself?
Yes.  But I do not accept his estimate.  He sadly overrates
himself.  There is plenty more life demanding to be born.  Had he
fallen and dripped his brains upon the deck like honey from the
comb, there would have been no loss to the world.  He was worth
nothing to the world.  The supply is too large.  To himself only
was he of value, and to show how fictitious even this value was,
being dead he is unconscious that he has lost himself.  He alone
rated himself beyond diamonds and rubies.  Diamonds and rubies are
gone, spread out on the deck to be washed away by a bucket of sea-
water, and he does not even know that the diamonds and rubies are
gone.  He does not lose anything, for with the loss of himself he
loses the knowledge of loss.  Don't you see?  And what have you to
say?"

"That you are at least consistent," was all I could say, and I went
on washing the dishes.


CHAPTER VII


At last, after three days of variable winds, we have caught the
north-east trades.  I came on deck, after a good night's rest in
spite of my poor knee, to find the Ghost foaming along, wing-and-
wing, and every sail drawing except the jibs, with a fresh breeze
astern.  Oh, the wonder of the great trade-wind!  All day we
sailed, and all night, and the next day, and the next, day after
day, the wind always astern and blowing steadily and strong.  The
schooner sailed herself.  There was no pulling and hauling on
sheets and tackles, no shifting of topsails, no work at all for the
sailors to do except to steer.  At night when the sun went down,
the sheets were slackened; in the morning, when they yielded up the
damp of the dew and relaxed, they were pulled tight again--and that
was all.

Ten knots, twelve knots, eleven knots, varying from time to time,
is the speed we are making.  While the corn is yet green they
pull the ears down like hogs, and, tearing open the sheathing of
husks, eat the tender, succulent kernels, bruising and destroying
much more than they devour. Sometimes their ravages are a matter
of serious concern to the farmer. But every such neighborhood
has its coon-dog, and the boys and young men dearly love
the sport. The party sets out about eight or nine o'clock
of a dark, moonless night, and stealthily approaches the cornfield.
The dog knows his business, and when he is put into a patch of
corn and told to "hunt them up" he makes a thorough search,
and will not be misled by any other scent. You hear him rattling
through the corn, hither and yon, with great speed.
The coons prick up their ears, and leave on the opposite side of
the field.

In the stillness you may sometimes hear a single stone rattle on
the wall as they hurry toward the woods. If the dog finds nothing,
he comes back to his master in a short time, and says in his dumb
way, "No coon there." But if he strikes a trail, you presently
hear a louder rattling on the stone wall, and then a hurried
bark as he enters the woods, followed in a few minutes by loud and
repeated barking as he reaches the foot of the tree in which the
coon has taken refuge.

Then follows a pellmell rush of the cooning party up the hill,
into the woods, through the brush and the darkness, falling over
prostrate trees, pitching into gullies and hollows, losing hats and
tearing clothes, till finally, guided by the baying of the faithful
dog, the tree is reached. The first thing now in order is to
kindle a fire, and, if its light reveals the coon, to shoot him; if
not, to fell the tree with an axe. If this happens to be too
great a sacrifice of timber and of strength, to sit down at the
foot of the tree till morning.

But with March our interest in these phases of animal life, which
winter has so emphasized and brought out, begins to decline. Vague
rumors are afloat in the air of a great and coming change. We
are eager for Winter to be gone, since he, too, is fugitive and
cannot keep his place. Invisible hands deface his icy statuary;
his chisel has lost its cunning. The drifts, so pure and exquisite,
are now earth-stained and weather-worn,--the flutes and scallops,
and fine, firm lines, all gone; and what was a grace and an
ornament to the hills is now a disfiguration. Like worn and unwashed
linen appear the remains of that spotless robe with which he clothed
the world as his bride.

But he will not abdicate without a struggle. Day after day he
rallies his scattered forces,
and night after night pitches his white tents on the hills, and
would fain regain his lost ground; but
the young prince in every encounter prevails.
Slowly and reluctantly the gray old
hero retreats up the mountain, till finally the south rain comes
in
earnest, and in a night he is dead.

IV. THE FOX

I have already spoken of the fox at some length, but it will
take a chapter by itself to do half justice to his portrait.

He furnishes, perhaps, the only instance that can be cited of a
fur-bearing animal that not only holds its own, but that actually
increases in the face of the means that are used for its
extermination.

The beaver, for instance, was gone before the earliest settlers
could get a sight of him; and even the mink and marten are now only
rarely seen, or not seen at all, in places where they were once
abundant.

But the fox has survived civilization, and in some localities is
no doubt more abundant now than in the time of the Revolution.

For half a century at least he has been almost the only prize, in
the way of fur, that was to be found on our mountains, and he has
been hunted and trapped and waylaid, sought for as game and pursued
in enmity, taken by fair means and by foul, and yet there seems not
the slightest danger of the species becoming extinct.

One would think that a single hound in a neighborhood, filling
the mountains with his bayings, and leaving no nook or byway
of them unexplored, was enough to drive and scare every fox
from the country.
But not so. Indeed, I am almost tempted to say, the more hounds, the
more foxes.

I recently spent a summer month in a mountainous district in the
State of New York, where, from its earliest settlement, the red fox
has been the standing prize for skill in the use of the trap and gun.

At the house where I was staying were two foxhounds, and a neighbor
half a mile distant had a third. There were many others in the
township, and in season they were well employed, too; but the three
spoken of, attended by their owners, held high carnival on the
mountains in the immediate vicinity. And many were the foxes
that, winter after winter, fell before them, twenty-five
having been shot, the season before my visit, on one small range
alone. And yet the foxes were apparently never more abundant than
they were that summer, and never bolder, coming at night within a
few rods of the house, and of the unchained alert hounds, and making
havoc among the poultry.

One morning a large, fat goose was found minus her head and otherwise
mangled. Both hounds had disappeared, and, as they did not come
back till near night, it was inferred that they had cut short
Reynard's repast, and given him a good chase into the bargain. But
next night he was back again, and this time got safely off with the
goose. A couple of nights after he must have come with recruits,
for next morning three large goslings were reported missing. The
silly geese now got it through their noddles that there was
danger about, and every night thereafter came close up to the house
to roost.

A brood of turkeys, the old one tied to a tree a few rods to the rear
of the house, were the next objects of attack. The predaceous
rascal came, as usual, in the latter half of the night. I happened
to be awake, and heard the helpless turkey cry "quit," "quit," with
great emphasis. Another sleeper, on the floor above me, who, it
seems, had been sleeping with one ear awake for several nights in
apprehension for the safety of his turkeys, heard the sound also,
and instantly divined its cause.

I heard the window open and a voice
summon the dogs. A loud bellow was
the response, which caused Reynard to take
himself off in a hurry.

A moment more, and the mother turkey would have shared the fate of
the geese.

There she lay at the end of her tether, with
extended wings, bitten and rumpled.
The young ones, roosting in a row on the
fence near by, had taken flight on the first alarm.

Turkeys, retaining many of their wild instincts, are less easily
captured by the fox than any other of our domestic fowls.

On the slightest show of danger they take to wing, and it is not
unusual, in the locality of which I speak, to find them in the
morning perched in the most unwonted places, as on the peak of
the barn or hay-shed, or on the tops of the apple-trees, their tails
spread and their manners showing much excitement. Perchance one
turkey is minus her tail, the fox having succeeded in
getting only a mouthful of quills.

As the brood grows and their wings develop, they wander far
from the house in quest of grasshoppers. At such times they are all
watchfulness and suspicion. Crossing the fields one day, attended
by a dog that much resembled a fox, I came suddenly upon a brood
about one third grown, which were feeding in a pasture just
beyond a wood. It so happened that they caught sight of the dog
without seeing me, when instantly, with the celerity of wild game,
they launched into the air, and, while the old one perched upon a
treetop, as if to keep an eye on the supposed enemy, the young went
sailing over the trees toward home.

The two hounds above referred to, accompanied by a cur-dog, whose
business it was to mind the farm, but who took as much delight
in running away from prosy duty as if he had been a schoolboy, would
frequently steal off and have a good hunt all by themselves,
just for the fun of the thing, I suppose. I more than half suspect
that it was as a kind of taunt or retaliation, that Reynard came and
took the geese from under their very noses. One morning they went
off and stayed till the afternoon of the next day; they ran the fox
all day and all night, the hounds baying at every jump, the cur-dog
silent and tenacious. When the trio returned, they came dragging
themselves along, stiff, footsore, gaunt, and hungry.

For a day or two afterward they lay about the kennels, seeming to
dread nothing so much as the having to move.
The stolen hunt was their "spree," their "bender," and of
course they must take time to get over it.

Some old hunters think the fox enjoys the chase as much as the hound,
especially when the latter runs slow, as the best hounds do. The
fox will wait for the hound, will sit down and listen, or play
about, crossing and recrossing and doubling upon his track, as if
enjoying a mischievous consciousness of the perplexity he would
presently cause his pursuer.

It is evident, however, that the fox does not always have his
share of the fun: before a swift dog, or in a deep snow, or on a
wet day, when his tail gets heavy, he must put his best foot
forward.

As a last resort he "holes up." Sometimes he resorts to numerous
devices to mislead and escape the dog altogether. He will walk in
the bed of a small creek, or on a rail-fence. I heard of an instance
of a fox, hard and long pressed, that took to a rail-fence, and,
after walking some distance, made a leap to one side to a hollow
stump, in the cavity of which he snugly stowed himself. The ruse
succeeded, and the dogs lost the trail; but the hunter,
coming up, passed by chance near the stump, when out bounded the
fox, his cunning availing him less than he deserved.

On another occasion the fox took to the public road, and stepped
with great care and precision into a sleigh-track. The hard, polished
snow took no imprint of the light foot, and the scent was no doubt
less than it would have been on a rougher surface.

Maybe, also, the rogue had considered the chances of another sleigh
coming along, before the hound, and obliterating the trail
entirely.

Audubon tells us of a certain fox, which, when started by the hounds,
always managed to elude them at a certain point.

Finally the hunter concealed himself in the locality, to
discover, if possible, the trick.
Presently along came the fox, and, making a leap to one side, ran up
the trunk of a fallen tree which had lodged some feet from the
ground, and concealed himself in the top. In a few minutes
the hounds came up, and in their eagerness passed some distance
beyond the point, and then went still farther, looking for the lost
trail.

Then the fox hastened down, and, taking his back-track, fooled
the dogs completely.

I was told of a silver-gray fox in northern New York, which, when
pursued by the hounds, would run till it had hunted up another
fox, or the fresh trail of one, when it would so manoeuvre that the
hound would invariably be switched off on the second track.

In cold, dry weather the fox will sometimes elude the hound,
at least delay him much, by taking to a bare, plowed field. The hard
dry earth seems not to retain a particle of the scent, and the
hound gives a loud, long, peculiar bark, to signify he has trouble.

It is now his turn to show his wit, which he often does by passing
completely around the field, and resuming the trail again where
it crosses the fence or a strip of snow.

The fact that any dry, hard surface is unfavorable to the hound
suggests, in a measure, the explanation of the wonderful faculty
that all dogs in a degree possess to track an animal by the scent
of the foot alone. Did you ever think why a dog's nose is always
wet? Examine the nose of a foxhound, for instance; how very moist
and sensitive!

Cause this moisture to dry up, and the dog would be as powerless
to track an animal as you are! The nose of the cat, you may
observe, is but a little moist, and, as you know, her sense of
smell is far inferior to that of the dog.

Moisten your own nostrils and lips, and this sense is plainly
sharpened.

The sweat of a dog's nose, therefore, is no doubt a vital element
in its power, and, without taking a very long logical stride, we
may infer how much a damp, rough surface aids him in tracking
game.

A fox hunt in this country is, of course, quite a different thing
from what it is in England, where all the squires and noblemen of
a borough, superbly mounted, go riding over the country, guided by
the yelling hounds, till the fox is literally run down and murdered.

Here the hunter prefers a rough, mountainous country, and, as
probably most persons know, takes advantage of the disposition of
the fox, when pursued by the hound, to play or circle around a ridge
or bold point, and, taking his stand near the run-way, shoots him
down.

I recently had the pleasure of a turn with some experienced hunters.

As we ascended the ridge toward the mountain, keeping in our ears
the uncertain baying of the hounds as they slowly unraveled an
old trail, my companions pointed out to me the different run-ways,--a
gap in the fence here, a rock just below the brow of the hill there,
that tree yonder near the corner of the woods, or the end of that
stone wall looking down the side-hill, or commanding a cow-path,
or the outlet of a wood-road.

A half-wild apple orchard near a cross-road was pointed out as an
invariable run-way, where the fox turned toward the mountain again,
after having been driven down the ridge.

There appeared to be no reason why the foxes should habitually pass
any particular point, yet the hunters told me that year after year
they took about the same turns, each generation of foxes running
through the upper corner of that field, or crossing the valley near
yonder stone wall, when pursued by the dog.

It seems the fox when he finds himself followed is perpetually tempted
to turn in his course, to deflect from a right line, as a person
would undoubtedly be under similar circumstances. If he is on this
side of the ridge, when he hears the dog break around on his trail
he speedily crosses to the other side; if he is in the fields, he
takes again to the woods; if in the valley, he hastens to the high
land, and evidently enjoys running along the ridge and listening
to the dogs, slowly tracing out his course in the fields below.

At such times he appears to have but one sense, hearing, and that
seems to be reverted toward his pursuers. He is constantly pausing,
looking back and listening, and will almost run over the hunter
if he stands still, even though not at all concealed.

Animals of this class depend far less upon their sight than upon
their hearing and sense of smell. Neither the fox nor the dog is
capable of much discrimination with the eye; they seem to see
things only in the mass; but with the nose they can analyze and
define, and get at the most subtle shades of difference.

The fox will not read a man from a stump or a rock, unless he gets
his scent, and the dog does not know his master in a crowd until
he has smelled him.

On the occasion to which I refer, it was not many minutes after the
dogs entered the woods on the side of the mountain before they
gave out sharp and eager, and we knew at once that the fox was
started.

We were then near a point that had been designated as a sure run-way,
and hastened to get into position with all speed.

For my part I was so taken with the music of the hounds, as it
swelled up over the ridge, that I quite forgot the game.

I saw one of my companions leveling his gun, and, looking a few
rods to the right, saw the fox coming right on to us. I had barely
time to note the silly and abashed expression that came over him as
he saw us in his path, when he was cut down as by a flash of
lightning. The rogue did not appear frightened, but ashamed and
out of countenance, as one does when some trick has been played
upon him, or when detected in some mischief.

Late in the afternoon, as we were passing through a piece of woods
in the valley below, another fox, the third that day, broke from
his cover in an old treetop, under our very noses, and drew the
fire of three of our party, myself among the number, but, thanks
to the interposing trees and limbs, escaped unhurt.

Then the dogs took up the trail and there was lively music again.

The fox steered through the fields direct for the ridge where we had
passed up in the morning. We knew he would take a turn here
and then point for the mountain, and two of us, with the hope of
cutting him off by the old orchard, through which we were again
assured he would surely pass, made a precipitous rush for that
point.

It was nearly half a mile distant, most of the way up a steep
side-hill, and if the fox took the circuit indicated he would
probably be there in twelve or fifteen minutes.

Running up an angle of 45 degrees seems quite easy work for a
four-footed beast like a dog or a fox, but for a two-legged animal
like a man it is very heavy and awkward.

Before I got halfway up there seemed to be a vacuum all about
me, so labored was my breathing, and when I reached the summit my
head swam and my knees were about giving out; but pressing on,
I had barely time to reach a point in the road abreast of the orchard,
when I heard the hounds, and, looking under the trees, saw the
fox, leaping high above the weeds and grass, coming straight
toward me. He evidently had not got over the first scare,
which our haphazard fusillade had given him, and was making unusually
quick time.

I was armed with a rifle, and said to myself that now was the time
to win the laurels I had coveted.

For half a day previous I had been practicing on a pumpkin which a
patient youth had rolled down a hill for me, and had improved my
shot considerably.

Now a yellow pumpkin was coming which was not a pumpkin, and for
the first time during the day opportunity favored me. I expected
the fox to cross the road a few yards below me, but just then I
heard him whisk through the grass, and he bounded upon the
fence a few yards above. He seemed to cringe as he saw his old
enemy, and to depress his fur to half his former dimensions. Three
bounds and he had cleared the road, when my bullet tore up the
sod beside him, but to this hour I do not know whether I looked
at the fox without seeing my gun, or whether I did sight him
across its barrel.

I only know that I did not distinguish myself in the use of the rifle
on that occasion, and went home to wreak my revenge upon another
pumpkin; but without much improvement of my skill, for, a few days
after, another fox ran under my very nose with perfect impunity.
There is something so fascinating in the sudden appearance of the
fox that the eye is quite mastered, and, unless the instinct of the
sportsman is very strong and quick, the prey will slip through his
grasp.

A still hunt rarely brings you in sight of a fox, as his ears are
much sharper than yours, and his tread much lighter.

But if the fox is mousing in the fields, and you discover him
before he does you, you may, the wind favoring, call him within
a few paces of you. Secrete yourself behind the fence, or some other
object, and squeak as nearly like a mouse as possible. Reynard
will hear the sound at an incredible distance. Pricking up his ears,
he gets the direction, and comes trotting along as unsuspiciously
as can be.

I have never had an opportunity to try the experiment, but I know
perfectly reliable persons who have. One man, in the pasture getting
his cows, called a fox which was too busy mousing to get the first
sight, till it jumped upon the wall just over where he sat secreted.

Giving a loud whoop and jumping up at the same time, the fox came
as near being frightened out of his skin as I suspect a fox ever
was.

In trapping for a fox, you get perhaps about as much "fun" and as
little fur as in any trapping amusement you can engage in. The one
feeling that ever seems present to the mind of Reynard is suspicion.
He does not need experience to teach him, but seems to know from
the jump that there is such a thing as a trap, and that a trap has
a way of grasping a fox's paw that is more frank than friendly.
Cornered in a hole or a den, a trap can be set so that the poor
creature has the desperate alternative of being caught or starving.
He is generally caught, though not till he has braved hunger for a
good many days.

But to know all his cunning and shrewdness, bait him in the field,
or set your trap by some carcass where he is wont to come. In some
cases he will uncover the trap, and leave the marks of his contempt
for it in a way you cannot mistake, or else he will not approach
within a rod of it.

Occasionally, however, he finds in a trapper more than his match,
and is fairly caught.

When this happens, the trap, which must be of the finest make, is
never touched with the bare hand, but, after being thoroughly smoked
and greased, is set in a bed of dry ashes or chaff in a remote
field, where the fox has been emboldened to dig for several successive
nights for morsels of toasted cheese.

A light fall of snow aids the trapper's art and conspires to Reynard's
ruin. But how lightly he is caught, when caught at all! barely the
end of his toes, or at most a spike through the middle of his foot.

I once saw a large painting of a fox struggling with a trap which
held him by the hind leg, above the gambrel-joint!

A painting alongside of it represented a peasant driving an ox-team
from the offside!

A fox would be as likely to be caught above the gambrel-joint as a
farmer would to drive his team from the off-side.

I knew one that was caught by the tip of the lower jaw.

He came nightly, and took the morsel of cheese from the pan of the
trap without springing it.

A piece was then secured to the pan by a thread, with the result
as above stated.

I have never been able to see clearly why the mother fox generally
selects a burrow or hole in the open field in which to have her
young, except it be, as some hunters maintain, for better security.

The young foxes are wont to come out on a warm day, and play like
puppies in front of the den. The view being unobstructed on all
sides by trees or bushes, in the cover of which danger might
approach, they are less liable to surprise and capture.

On the slightest sound they disappear in the hole. Those who have
watched the gambols of young foxes speak of them as very amusing,
even more arch and playful than those of kittens, while a spirit
profoundly wise and cunning seems to look out of their young eyes.

The parent fox can never be caught in the den with them, but is
hovering near the woods, which are always at hand, and by her
warning cry or bark tells them when to be on their guard.

She usually has at least three, dens, at no great distance apart,
and moves stealthily in the night with her charge from one to the
other, so as to mislead her enemies. Many a party of boys,
and of men, too, discovering the whereabouts of a litter, have gone
with shovels and picks, and, after digging away vigorously for
several hours, have found only an empty hole for their pains. The
old fox, finding her secret had been found out, had waited for
darkness, in the cover of which to transfer her household to new
quarters; or else some old fox-hunter, jealous of the preservation
of his game, and getting word of the intended destruction of
the litter, had gone at dusk the night before, and made some
disturbance about the den, perhaps flashed some powder in its
mouth,--a hint which the shrewd animal knew how to
interpret.

The more scientific aspects of the question may not be without
interest to some of my readers. The fox belongs to the great
order of flesh-eating animals called Carnivora, and of the
family called Canidae, or dogs.

The wolf is a kind of wild dog, and the fox is a kind of wolf.
Foxes, unlike wolves, however, never go in packs or companies, but
hunt singly.

The fox has a kind of bark which suggests the dog, as have all the
members of this family. The kinship is further shown by the
fact that during certain periods, for the most part in the summer,
the dog cannot be made to attack or even to pursue the female
fox, but will run from her in the most shamefaced manner, which
he will not do in the case of any other animal except a wolf.

Many of the ways and manners of the fox, when tamed, are also like
the dog's.

I once saw a young red fox exposed for sale in the market in Washington.
A colored man had him, and said he had caught him out in
Virginia. He led him by a small chain, as he would a puppy,
and the innocent young rascal would lie on his side and bask and
sleep in the sunshine, amid all the noise and chaffering around
him, precisely like a dog.

He was about the size of a full-grown cat, and there was a
bewitching beauty about him that I could hardly resist. On another
occasion, I saw a gray fox, about two thirds grown, playing with
a dog of about the same size, and by nothing in the manners of
either could you tell which was the dog and which the fox.

A pair of beasts is what we were, penned together and
showing our teeth.  He was a coward, afraid to strike me because I
had not quailed sufficiently in advance; so he chose a new way to
intimidate me.  There was only one galley knife that, as a knife,
amounted to anything.  This, through many years of service and
wear, had acquired a long, lean blade.  It was unusually cruel-
looking, and at first I had shuddered every time I used it.  The
cook borrowed a stone from Johansen and proceeded to sharpen the
knife.  He did it with great ostentation, glancing significantly at
me the while.  He whetted it up and down all day long.  Every odd
moment he could find he had the knife and stone out and was
whetting away.  The steel acquired a razor edge.  He tried it with
the ball of his thumb or across the nail.  He shaved hairs from the
back of his hand, glanced along the edge with microscopic
acuteness, and found, or feigned that he found, always, a slight
inequality in its edge somewhere.  Then he would put it on the
stone again and whet, whet, whet, till I could have laughed aloud,
it was so very ludicrous.

It was also serious, for I learned that he was capable of using it,
that under all his cowardice there was a courage of cowardice, like
mine, that would impel him to do the very thing his whole nature
protested against doing and was afraid of doing.  "Cooky's
sharpening his knife for Hump," was being whispered about among the
sailors, and some of them twitted him about it.  This he took in
good part, and was really pleased, nodding his head with direful
foreknowledge and mystery, until George Leach, the erstwhile cabin-
boy, ventured some rough pleasantry on the subject.

Now it happened that Leach was one of the sailors told off to douse
Mugridge after his game of cards with the captain.  Leach had
evidently done his task with a thoroughness that Mugridge had not
forgiven, for words followed and evil names involving smirched
ancestries.  Mugridge menaced with the knife he was sharpening for
me.  Leach laughed and hurled more of his Telegraph Hill
Billingsgate, and before either he or I knew what had happened, his
right arm had been ripped open from elbow to wrist by a quick slash
of the knife.  The cook backed away, a fiendish expression on his
face, the knife held before him in a position of defence.  But
Leach took it quite calmly, though blood was spouting upon the deck
as generously as water from a fountain.

"I'm goin' to get you, Cooky," he said, "and I'll get you hard.
And I won't be in no hurry about it.  You'll be without that knife
when I come for you."

So saying, he turned and walked quietly forward.  Mugridge's face
was livid with fear at what he had done and at what he might expect
sooner or later from the man he had stabbed.  But his demeanour
toward me was more ferocious than ever.  In spite of his fear at
the reckoning he must expect to pay for what he had done, he could
see that it had been an object-lesson to me, and he became more
domineering and exultant.  Also there was a lust in him, akin to
madness, which had come with sight of the blood he had drawn.  He
was beginning to see red in whatever direction he looked.  The
psychology of it is sadly tangled, and yet I could read the
workings of his mind as clearly as though it were a printed book.

Several days went by, the Ghost still foaming down the trades, and
I could swear I saw madness growing in Thomas Mugridge's eyes.  And
I confess that I became afraid, very much afraid.  Whet, whet,
whet, it went all day long.  The look in his eyes as he felt the
keen edge and glared at me was positively carnivorous.  I was
afraid to turn my shoulder to him, and when I left the galley I
went out backwards--to the amusement of the sailors and hunters,
who made a point of gathering in groups to witness my exit.  The
strain was too great.  I sometimes thought my mind would give way
under it--a meet thing on this ship of madmen and brutes.  Every
hour, every minute of my existence was in jeopardy.  I was a human
soul in distress, and yet no soul, fore or aft, betrayed sufficient
sympathy to come to my aid.  At times I thought of throwing myself
on the mercy of Wolf Larsen, but the vision of the mocking devil in
his eyes that questioned life and sneered at it would come strong
upon me and compel me to refrain.  At other times I seriously
contemplated suicide, and the whole force of my hopeful philosophy
was required to keep me from going over the side in the darkness of
night.

Several times Wolf Larsen tried to inveigle me into discussion, but
I gave him short answers and eluded him.  Finally, he commanded me
to resume my seat at the cabin table for a time and let the cook do
my work.  Then I spoke frankly, telling him what I was enduring
from Thomas Mugridge because of the three days of favouritism which
had been shown me.  Wolf Larsen regarded me with smiling eyes.

"So you're afraid, eh?" he sneered.

"Yes," I said defiantly and honestly, "I am afraid."

"That's the way with you fellows," he cried, half angrily,
"sentimentalizing about your immortal souls and afraid to die.  At
sight of a sharp knife and a cowardly Cockney the clinging of life
to life overcomes all your fond foolishness.  Why, my dear fellow,
you will live for ever.  You are a god, and God cannot be killed.
Cooky cannot hurt you.  You are sure of your resurrection.  What's
there to be afraid of?

"You have eternal life before you.  You are a millionaire in
immortality, and a millionaire whose fortune cannot be lost, whose
fortune is less perishable than the stars and as lasting as space
or time.  It is impossible for you to diminish your principal.
Immortality is a thing without beginning or end.  Eternity is
eternity, and though you die here and now you will go on living
somewhere else and hereafter.  And it is all very beautiful, this
shaking off of the flesh and soaring of the imprisoned spirit.
Cooky cannot hurt you.  He can only give you a boost on the path
you eternally must tread.

"Or, if you do not wish to be boosted just yet, why not boost
Cooky?  According to your ideas, he, too, must be an immortal
millionaire.  You cannot bankrupt him.  His paper will always
circulate at par.  You cannot diminish the length of his living by
killing him, for he is without beginning or end.  He's bound to go
on living, somewhere, somehow.  Then boost him.  Stick a knife in
him and let his spirit free.  As it is, it's in a nasty prison, and
you'll do him only a kindness by breaking down the door.  And who
knows?--it may be a very beautiful spirit that will go soaring up
into the blue from that ugly carcass.  Boost him along, and I'll
promote you to his place, and he's getting forty-five dollars a
month."

It was plain that I could look for no help or mercy from Wolf
Larsen.  Whatever was to be done I must do for myself; and out of
the courage of fear I evolved the plan of fighting Thomas Mugridge
with his own weapons.  I borrowed a whetstone from Johansen.
Louis, the boat-steerer, had already begged me for condensed milk
and sugar.  The lazarette, where such delicacies were stored, was
situated beneath the cabin floor.  Watching my chance, I stole five
cans of the milk, and that night, when it was Louis's watch on
deck, I traded them with him for a dirk as lean and cruel-looking
as Thomas Mugridge's vegetable knife.  It was rusty and dull, but I
turned the grindstone while Louis gave it an edge.  I slept more
soundly than usual that night.

Next morning, after breakfast, Thomas Mugridge began his whet,
whet, whet.  I glanced warily at him, for I was on my knees taking
the ashes from the stove.  When I returned from throwing them
overside, he was talking to Harrison, whose honest yokel's face was
filled with fascination and wonder.

"Yes," Mugridge was saying, "an' wot does 'is worship do but give
me two years in Reading.  But blimey if I cared.  The other mug was
fixed plenty.  Should 'a seen 'im.  Knife just like this.  I stuck
it in, like into soft butter, an' the w'y 'e squealed was better'n
a tu-penny gaff."  He shot a glance in my direction to see if I was
taking it in, and went on.  "'I didn't mean it Tommy,' 'e was
snifflin'; 'so 'elp me Gawd, I didn't mean it!'  "'I'll fix yer
bloody well right,' I sez, an' kept right after 'im.  I cut 'im in
ribbons, that's wot I did, an' 'e a-squealin' all the time.  Once
'e got 'is 'and on the knife an' tried to 'old it.  'Ad 'is fingers
around it, but I pulled it through, cuttin' to the bone.  O, 'e was
a sight, I can tell yer."

A call from the mate interrupted the gory narrative, and Harrison
went aft.  Mugridge sat down on the raised threshold to the galley
and went on with his knife-sharpening.  I put the shovel away and
calmly sat down on the coal-box facing him.  He favoured me with a
vicious stare.  Still calmly, though my heart was going pitapat, I
pulled out Louis's dirk and began to whet it on the stone.  I had
looked for almost any sort of explosion on the Cockney's part, but
to my surprise he did not appear aware of what I was doing.  He
went on whetting his knife.  So did I.  And for two hours we sat
there, face to face, whet, whet, whet, till the news of it spread
abroad and half the ship's company was crowding the galley doors to
see the sight.

Encouragement and advice were freely tendered, and Jock Horner, the
quiet, self-spoken hunter who looked as though he would not harm a
mouse, advised me to leave the ribs alone and to thrust upward for
the abdomen, at the same time giving what he called the "Spanish
twist" to the blade.  Leach, his bandaged arm prominently to the
fore, begged me to leave a few remnants of the cook for him; and
Wolf Larsen paused once or twice at the break of the poop to glance
curiously at what must have been to him a stirring and crawling of
the yeasty thing he knew as life.

And I make free to say that for the time being life assumed the
same sordid values to me.  There was nothing pretty about it,
nothing divine--only two cowardly moving things that sat whetting
steel upon stone, and a group of other moving things, cowardly and
otherwise, that looked on.  Half of them, I am sure, were anxious
to see us shedding each other's blood.  It would have been
entertainment.  And I do not think there was one who would have
interfered had we closed in a death-struggle.

On the other hand, the whole thing was laughable and childish.
Whet, whet, whet,--Humphrey Van Weyden sharpening his knife in a
ship's galley and trying its edge with his thumb!  Of all
situations this was the most inconceivable.  I know that my own
kind could not have believed it possible.  I had not been called
"Sissy" Van Weyden all my days without reason, and that "Sissy" Van
Weyden should be capable of doing this thing was a revelation to
Humphrey Van Weyden, who knew not whether to be exultant or
ashamed.

But nothing happened.  At the end of two hours Thomas Mugridge put
away knife and stone and held out his hand.

"Wot's the good of mykin' a 'oly show of ourselves for them mugs?"
he demanded.  "They don't love us, an' bloody well glad they'd be
a-seein' us cuttin' our throats.  Yer not 'arf bad, 'Ump!  You've
got spunk, as you Yanks s'y, an' I like yer in a w'y.  So come on
an' shyke."

Coward that I might be, I was less a coward than he.  It was a
distinct victory I had gained, and I refused to forego any of it by
shaking his detestable hand.

"All right," he said pridelessly, "tyke it or leave it, I'll like
yer none the less for it."  And to save his face he turned fiercely
upon the onlookers.  "Get outa my galley-doors, you bloomin'
swabs!"

This command was reinforced by a steaming kettle of water, and at
sight of it the sailors scrambled out of the way.  This was a sort
of victory for Thomas Mugridge, and enabled him to accept more
gracefully the defeat I had given him, though, of course, he was
too discreet to attempt to drive the hunters away.

"I see Cooky's finish," I heard Smoke say to Horner.

"You bet," was the reply.  "Hump runs the galley from now on, and
Cooky pulls in his horns."

Mugridge heard and shot a swift glance at me, but I gave no sign
that the conversation had reached me.  I had not thought my victory
was so far-reaching and complete, but I resolved to let go nothing
I had gained.  As the days went by, Smoke's prophecy was verified.
The Cockney became more humble and slavish to me than even to Wolf
Larsen.  I mistered him and sirred him no longer, washed no more
greasy pots, and peeled no more potatoes.  I did my own work, and
my own work only, and when and in what fashion I saw fit.  Also I
carried the dirk in a sheath at my hip, sailor-fashion, and
maintained toward Thomas Mugridge a constant attitude which was
composed of equal parts of domineering, insult, and contempt.


CHAPTER X


My intimacy with Wolf Larsen increases--if by intimacy may be
denoted those relations which exist between master and man, or,
better yet, between king and jester.  I am to him no more than a
toy, and he values me no more than a child values a toy.  My
function is to amuse, and so long as I amuse all goes well; but let
him become bored, or let him have one of his black moods come upon
him, and at once I am relegated from cabin table to galley, while,
at the same time, I am fortunate to escape with my life and a whole
body.

The loneliness of the man is slowly being borne in upon me.  There
is not a man aboard but hates or fears him, nor is there a man whom
he does not despise.  He seems consuming with the tremendous power
that is in him and that seems never to have found adequate
expression in works.  He is as Lucifer would be, were that proud
spirit banished to a society of soulless, Tomlinsonian ghosts.

This loneliness is bad enough in itself, but, to make it worse, he
is oppressed by the primal melancholy of the race.  Knowing him, I
review the old Scandinavian myths with clearer understanding.  The
white-skinned, fair-haired savages who created that terrible
pantheon were of the same fibre as he.  The frivolity of the
laughter-loving Latins is no part of him.  When he laughs it is
from a humour that is nothing else than ferocious.  But he laughs
rarely; he is too often sad.  And it is a sadness as deep-reaching
as the roots of the race.  It is the race heritage, the sadness
which has made the race sober-minded, clean-lived and fanatically
moral, and which, in this latter connection, has culminated among
the English in the Reformed Church and Mrs. Grundy.

In point of fact, the chief vent to this primal melancholy has been
religion in its more agonizing forms.  But the compensations of
such religion are denied Wolf Larsen.  His brutal materialism will
not permit it.  So, when his blue moods come on, nothing remains
for him, but to be devilish.  Were he not so terrible a man, I
could sometimes feel sorry for him, as instance three mornings ago,
when I went into his stateroom to fill his water-bottle and came
unexpectedly upon him.  He did not see me.  His head was buried in
his hands, and his shoulders were heaving convulsively as with
sobs.  He seemed torn by some mighty grief.  As I softly withdrew I
could hear him groaning, "God!  God!  God!"  Not that he was
calling upon God; it was a mere expletive, but it came from his
soul.

At dinner he asked the hunters for a remedy for headache, and by
evening, strong man that he was, he was half-blind and reeling
about the cabin.

"I've never been sick in my life, Hump," he said, as I guided him
to his room.  "Nor did I ever have a headache except the time my
head was healing after having been laid open for six inches by a
capstan-bar."

For three days this blinding headache lasted, and he suffered as
wild animals suffer, as it seemed the way on ship to suffer,
without plaint, without sympathy, utterly alone.

This morning, however, on entering his state-room to make the bed
and put things in order, I found him well and hard at work.  Table
and bunk were littered with designs and calculations.  On a large
transparent sheet, compass and square in hand, he was copying what
appeared to be a scale of some sort or other.

"Hello, Hump," he greeted me genially.  "I'm just finishing the
finishing touches.  Want to see it work?"

"But what is it?" I asked.

"A labour-saving device for mariners, navigation reduced to
kindergarten simplicity," he answered gaily.  Instead of "Lodging,"
"Lodging," as with us, one sees "Beds," "Beds," which has a very
homely sound; and in place of "gentlemen's" this, that, or
the other, about public places, the word "men's" is used.

I suppose, if it were not for the bond of a written language and
perpetual intercourse, the two nations would not be able to
understand each other in the course of a hundred years, the inflection
and accentuation are so different.

I recently heard an English lady say, referring to the American
speech, that she could hardly believe her own language could be
spoken so strangely.

ARCHITECTURE
One sees right away that the English are a home people, a domestic
people; and he does not need to go into their houses or homes to
find this out.

"I had
to dig it out for myself."

"And why do you think I have made this thing?" he demanded,
abruptly.  "Dreaming to leave footprints on the sands of time?"  He
laughed one of his horrible mocking laughs.  "Not at all.  To get
it patented, to make money from it, to revel in piggishness with
all night in while other men do the work.  That's my purpose.
Also, I have enjoyed working it out."

"The creative joy," I murmured.

"I guess that's what it ought to be called.  Which is another way
of expressing the joy of life in that it is alive, the triumph of
movement over matter, of the quick over the dead, the pride of the
yeast because it is yeast and crawls."

I threw up my hands with helpless disapproval of his inveterate
materialism and went about making the bed.  He continued copying
lines and figures upon the transparent scale.  It was a task
requiring the utmost nicety and precision, and I could not but
admire the way he tempered his strength to the fineness and
delicacy of the need.

When I had finished the bed, I caught myself looking at him in a
fascinated sort of way.  He was certainly a handsome man--beautiful
in the masculine sense.  And again, with never-failing wonder, I
remarked the total lack of viciousness, or wickedness, or
sinfulness in his face.  It was the face, I am convinced, of a man
who did no wrong.  And by this I do not wish to be misunderstood.
What I mean is that it was the face of a man who either did nothing
contrary to the dictates of his conscience, or who had no
conscience.  I am inclined to the latter way of accounting for it.
He was a magnificent atavism, a man so purely primitive that he was
of the type that came into the world before the development of the
moral nature.  He was not immoral, but merely unmoral.

As I have said, in the masculine sense his was a beautiful face.
Smooth-shaven, every line was distinct, and it was cut as clear and
sharp as a cameo; while sea and sun had tanned the naturally fair
skin to a dark bronze which bespoke struggle and battle and added
both to his savagery and his beauty.  The lips were full, yet
possessed of the firmness, almost harshness, which is
characteristic of thin lips.  The set of his mouth, his chin, his
jaw, was likewise firm or harsh, with all the fierceness and
indomitableness of the male--the nose also.  It was the nose of a
being born to conquer and command.  It just hinted of the eagle
beak.  It might have been Grecian, it might have been Roman, only
it was a shade too massive for the one, a shade too delicate for
the other.  And while the whole face was the incarnation of
fierceness and strength, the primal melancholy from which he
suffered seemed to greaten the lines of mouth and eye and brow,
seemed to give a largeness and completeness which otherwise the
face would have lacked.

And so I caught myself standing idly and studying him.  I cannot
say how greatly the man had come to interest me.  Who was he?  What
was he?  How had he happened to be?  All powers seemed his, all
potentialities--why, then, was he no more than the obscure master
of a seal-hunting schooner with a reputation for frightful
brutality amongst the men who hunted seals?

My curiosity burst from me in a flood of speech.

"Why is it that you have not done great things in this world?  With
the power that is yours you might have risen to any height.
Unpossessed of conscience or moral instinct, you might have
mastered the world, broken it to your hand.  And yet here you are,
at the top of your life, where diminishing and dying begin, living
an obscure and sordid existence, hunting sea animals for the
satisfaction of woman's vanity and love of decoration, revelling in
a piggishness, to use your own words, which is anything and
everything except splendid.  Why, with all that wonderful strength,
have you not done something?  There was nothing to stop you,
nothing that could stop you.  What was wrong?  Did you lack
ambition?  Did you fall under temptation?  What was the matter?
What was the matter?"

He had lifted his eyes to me at the commencement of my outburst,
and followed me complacently until I had done and stood before him
breathless and dismayed.  He waited a moment, as though seeking
where to begin, and then said:

"Hump, do you know the parable of the sower who went forth to sow?
If you will remember, some of the seed fell upon stony places,
where there was not much earth, and forthwith they sprung up
because they had no deepness of earth.  And when the sun was up
they were scorched, and because they had no root they withered
away.  And some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung up and
choked them."

"Well?" I said.

"Well?" he queried, half petulantly.  "It was not well.  I was one
of those seeds."

He dropped his head to the scale and resumed the copying.  I
finished my work and had opened the door to leave, when he spoke to
me.

"Hump, if you will look on the west coast of the map of Norway you
will see an indentation called Romsdal Fiord.  I was born within a
hundred miles of that stretch of water.  But I was not born
Norwegian.  I am a Dane.  My father and mother were Danes, and how
they ever came to that bleak bight of land on the west coast I do
not know.  I never heard.  Outside of that there is nothing
mysterious.  They were poor people and unlettered.  They came of
generations of poor unlettered people--peasants of the sea who
sowed their sons on the waves as has been their custom since time
began.  There is no more to tell."

"But there is," I objected.  "It is still obscure to me."

"What can I tell you?" he demanded, with a recrudescence of
fierceness.  "Of the meagreness of a child's life? of fish diet and
coarse living? of going out with the boats from the time I could
crawl? of my brothers, who went away one by one to the deep-sea
farming and never came back? of myself, unable to read or write,
cabin-boy at the mature age of ten on the coastwise, old-country
ships? of the rough fare and rougher usage, where kicks and blows
were bed and breakfast and took the place of speech, and fear and
hatred and pain were my only soul-experiences?  I do not care to
remember.  A madness comes up in my brain even now as I think of
it.  But there were coastwise skippers I would have returned and
killed when a man's strength came to me, only the lines of my life
were cast at the time in other places.  I did return, not long ago,
but unfortunately the skippers were dead, all but one, a mate in
the old days, a skipper when I met him, and when I left him a
cripple who would never walk again."

"But you who read Spencer and Darwin and have never seen the inside
of a school, how did you learn to read and write?" I queried.

"In the English merchant service.  Cabin-boy at twelve, ship's boy
at fourteen, ordinary seamen at sixteen, able seaman at seventeen,
and cock of the fo'c'sle, infinite ambition and infinite
loneliness, receiving neither help nor sympathy, I did it all for
myself--navigation, mathematics, science, literature, and what not.
And of what use has it been?  Master and owner of a ship at the top
of my life, as you say, when I am beginning to diminish and die.
Paltry, isn't it?  And when the sun was up I was scorched, and
because I had no root I withered away."

"But history tells of slaves who rose to the purple," I chided.

"And history tells of opportunities that came to the slaves who
rose to the purple," he answered grimly.  "No man makes
opportunity.  All the great men ever did was to know it when it
came to them.  The Corsican knew.  I have dreamed as greatly as the
Corsican.  I should have known the opportunity, but it never came.
The thorns sprung up and choked me.  And, Hump, I can tell you that
you know more about me than any living man, except my own brother."

"And what is he?  And where is he?"

"Master of the steamship Macedonia, seal-hunter," was the answer.
"We will meet him most probably on the Japan coast.  Men call him
'Death' Larsen."

"Death Larsen!" I involuntarily cried.  "Is he like you?"

"Hardly.  He is a lump of an animal without any head.  He has all
my--my--"

"Brutishness," I suggested.

"Yes,--thank you for the word,--all my brutishness, but he can
scarcely read or write."

"And he has never philosophized on life," I added.

"No," Wolf Larsen answered, with an indescribable air of sadness.
"And he is all the happier for leaving life alone.  He is too busy
living it to think about it.  My mistake was in ever opening the
books."


CHAPTER XI


The Ghost has attained the southernmost point of the arc she is
describing across the Pacific, and is already beginning to edge
away to the west and north toward some lone island, it is rumoured,
where she will fill her water-casks before proceeding to the
season's hunt along the coast of Japan.  The hunters have
experimented and practised with their rifles and shotguns till they
are satisfied, and the boat-pullers and steerers have made their
spritsails, bound the oars and rowlocks in leather and sennit so
that they will make no noise when creeping on the seals, and put
their boats in apple-pie order--to use Leach's homely phrase.

His arm, by the way, has healed nicely, though the scar will remain
all his life.  Thomas Mugridge lives in mortal fear of him, and is
afraid to venture on deck after dark.  There are two or three
standing quarrels in the forecastle.  Louis tells me that the
gossip of the sailors finds its way aft, and that two of the
telltales have been badly beaten by their mates.  He shakes his
head dubiously over the outlook for the man Johnson, who is boat-
puller in the same boat with him.  Johnson has been guilty of
speaking his mind too freely, and has collided two or three times
with Wolf Larsen over the pronunciation of his name.  Johansen he
thrashed on the amidships deck the other night, since which time
the mate has called him by his proper name.  But of course it is
out of the question that Johnson should thrash Wolf Larsen.

Louis has also given me additional information about Death Larsen,
which tallies with the captain's brief description.  We may expect
to meet Death Larsen on the Japan coast.  "And look out for
squalls," is Louis's prophecy, "for they hate one another like the
wolf whelps they are."  Death Larsen is in command of the only
sealing steamer in the fleet, the Macedonia, which carries fourteen
boats, whereas the rest of the schooners carry only six.  There is
wild talk of cannon aboard, and of strange raids and expeditions
she may make, ranging from opium smuggling into the States and arms
smuggling into China, to blackbirding and open piracy.  Yet I
cannot but believe for I have never yet caught him in a lie, while
he has a cyclopaedic knowledge of sealing and the men of the
sealing fleets.

As it is forward and in the galley, so it is in the steerage and
aft, on this veritable hell-ship.  Men fight and struggle
ferociously for one another's lives.  The hunters are looking for a
shooting scrape at any moment between Smoke and Henderson, whose
old quarrel has not healed, while Wolf Larsen says positively that
he will kill the survivor of the affair, if such affair comes off.
He frankly states that the position he takes is based on no moral
grounds, that all the hunters could kill and eat one another so far
as he is concerned, were it not that he needs them alive for the
hunting.  If they will only hold their hands until the season is
over, he promises them a royal carnival, when all grudges can he
settled and the survivors may toss the non-survivors overboard and
arrange a story as to how the missing men were lost at sea.  I
think even the hunters are appalled at his cold-bloodedness.
Wicked men though they be, they are certainly very much afraid of
him.

Thomas Mugridge is cur-like in his subjection to me, while I go
about in secret dread of him.  His is the courage of fear,--a
strange thing I know well of myself,--and at any moment it may
master the fear and impel him to the taking of my life.  My knee is
much better, though it often aches for long periods, and the
stiffness is gradually leaving the arm which Wolf Larsen squeezed.
Otherwise I am in splendid condition, feel that I am in splendid
condition.  My muscles are growing harder and increasing in size.
My hands, however, are a spectacle for grief.  They have a
parboiled appearance, are afflicted with hang-nails, while the
nails are broken and discoloured, and the edges of the quick seem
to be assuming a fungoid sort of growth.  Also, I am suffering from
boils, due to the diet, most likely, for I was never afflicted in
this manner before.

I was amused, a couple of evenings back, by seeing Wolf Larsen
reading the Bible, a copy of which, after the futile search for one
at the beginning of the voyage, had been found in the dead mate's
sea-chest.  I wondered what Wolf Larsen could get from it, and he
read aloud to me from Ecclesiastes.  I could imagine he was
speaking the thoughts of his own mind as he read to me, and his
voice, reverberating deeply and mournfully in the confined cabin,
charmed and held me.  He may be uneducated, but he certainly knows
how to express the significance of the written word.  I can hear
him now, as I shall always hear him, the primal melancholy vibrant
in his voice as he read:


"I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of
kings and of the provinces; I gat me men singers and women singers,
and the delights of the sons of men, as musical instruments, and
that of all sorts.

"So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in
Jerusalem; also my wisdom returned with me.

"Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought and on
the labour that I had laboured to do; and behold, all was vanity
and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun.

"All things come alike to all; there is one event to the righteous
and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the
unclean; to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not;
as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that
feareth an oath.

"This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that
there is one event unto all; yea, also the heart of the sons of men
is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and
after that they go to the dead.

"For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope; for a
living dog is better than a dead lion.

"For the living know that they shall die; but the dead know not
anything, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of
them is forgotten.

"Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, is now
perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in anything
that is done under the sun."


"There you have it, Hump," he said, closing the book upon his
finger and looking up at me.  "The Preacher who was king over
Israel in Jerusalem thought as I think.  You call me a pessimist.
Is not this pessimism of the blackest?--'All is vanity and vexation
of spirit,' 'There is no profit under the sun,' 'There is one event
unto all,' to the fool and the wise, the clean and the unclean, the
sinner and the saint, and that event is death, and an evil thing,
he says.  For the Preacher loved life, and did not want to die,
saying, 'For a living dog is better than a dead lion.'  He
preferred the vanity and vexation to the silence and unmovableness
of the grave.  And so I.  To crawl is piggish; but to not crawl, to
be as the clod and rock, is loathsome to contemplate.  It is
loathsome to the life that is in me, the very essence of which is
movement, the power of movement, and the consciousness of the power
of movement.  Life itself is unsatisfaction, but to look ahead to
death is greater unsatisfaction."

"You are worse off than Omar," I said.  "He, at least, after the
customary agonizing of youth, found content and made of his
materialism a joyous thing."

"Who was Omar?" Wolf Larsen asked, and I did no more work that day,
nor the next, nor the next.

In his random reading he had never chanced upon the Rubaiyat, and
it was to him like a great find of treasure.  Much I remembered,
possibly two-thirds of the quatrains, and I managed to piece out
the remainder without difficulty.  We talked for hours over single
stanzas, and I found him reading into them a wail of regret and a
rebellion which, for the life of me, I could not discover myself.
Possibly I recited with a certain joyous lilt which was my own,
for--his memory was good, and at a second rendering, very often the
first, he made a quatrain his own--he recited the same lines and
invested them with an unrest and passionate revolt that was well-
nigh convincing.

I was interested as to which quatrain he would like best, and was
not surprised when he hit upon the one born of an instant's
irritability, and quite at variance with the Persian's complacent
philosophy and genial code of life:


"What, without asking, hither hurried Whence?
And, without asking, Whither hurried hence!
Oh, many a Cup of this forbidden Wine
Must drown the memory of that insolence!"


"Great!" Wolf Larsen cried.  "Great!  That's the keynote.
Insolence!  He could not have used a better word."

In vain I objected and denied.  He deluged me, overwhelmed me with
argument.

"It's not the nature of life to be otherwise.  Life, when it knows
that it must cease living, will always rebel.  It cannot help
itself.  The Preacher found life and the works of life all a vanity
and vexation, an evil thing; but death, the ceasing to be able to
be vain and vexed, he found an eviler thing.  Through chapter after
chapter he is worried by the one event that cometh to all alike.
So Omar, so I, so you, even you, for you rebelled against dying
when Cooky sharpened a knife for you.  You were afraid to die; the
life that was in you, that composes you, that is greater than you,
did not want to die.  You have talked of the instinct of
immortality.  I talk of the instinct of life, which is to live, and
which, when death looms near and large, masters the instinct, so
called, of immortality.  It mastered it in you (you cannot deny
it), because a crazy Cockney cook sharpened a knife.

"You are afraid of him now.  You are afraid of me.  You cannot deny
it.  If I should catch you by the throat, thus,"--his hand was
about my throat and my breath was shut off,--"and began to press
the life out of you thus, and thus, your instinct of immortality
will go glimmering, and your instinct of life, which is longing for
life, will flutter up, and you will struggle to save yourself.  Eh?
I see the fear of death in your eyes.  You beat the air with your
arms.  You exert all your puny strength to struggle to live.  Your
hand is clutching my arm, lightly it feels as a butterfly resting
there.  Your chest is heaving, your tongue protruding, your skin
turning dark, your eyes swimming.  'To live!  To live!  To live!'
you are crying; and you are crying to live here and now, not
hereafter.  You doubt your immortality, eh?  Ha! ha!  You are not
sure of it.  You won't chance it.  This life only you are certain
is real.  Ah, it is growing dark and darker.  It is the darkness of
death, the ceasing to be, the ceasing to feel, the ceasing to move,
that is gathering about you, descending upon you, rising around
you.  Your eyes are becoming set.  They are glazing.  My voice
sounds faint and far.  You cannot see my face.  And still you
struggle in my grip.  You kick with your legs.  Your body draws
itself up in knots like a snake's.  Your chest heaves and strains.
To live!  To live!  To live--"

I heard no more.  Consciousness was blotted out by the darkness he
had so graphically described, and when I came to myself I was lying
on the floor and he was smoking a cigar and regarding me
thoughtfully with that old familiar light of curiosity in his eyes.

"Well, have I convinced you?" he demanded.  "Here take a drink of
this.  I want to ask you some questions."

I rolled my head negatively on the floor.  "Your arguments are too-
-er--forcible," I managed to articulate, at cost of great pain to
my aching throat.

"You'll be all right in half-an-hour," he assured me.  "And I
promise I won't use any more physical demonstrations.  Get up now.
You can sit on a chair."

And, toy that I was of this monster, the discussion of Omar and the
Preacher was resumed.  And half the night we sat up over it.


CHAPTER XII


The last twenty-four hours have witnessed a carnival of brutality.
From cabin to forecastle it seems to have broken out like a
contagion.  I scarcely know where to begin.  Wolf Larsen was really
the cause of it.  The relations among the men, strained and made
tense by feuds, quarrels and grudges, were in a state of unstable
equilibrium, and evil passions flared up in flame like prairie-
grass.

Thomas Mugridge is a sneak, a spy, an informer.  He has been
attempting to curry favour and reinstate himself in the good graces
of the captain by carrying tales of the men forward.  He it was, I
know, that carried some of Johnson's hasty talk to Wolf Larsen.
Johnson, it seems, bought a suit of oilskins from the slop-chest
and found them to be of greatly inferior quality.  Nor was he slow
in advertising the fact.  The slop-chest is a sort of miniature
dry-goods store which is carried by all sealing schooners and which
is stocked with articles peculiar to the needs of the sailors.
Whatever a sailor purchases is taken from his subsequent earnings
on the sealing grounds; for, as it is with the hunters so it is
with the boat-pullers and steerers--in the place of wages they
receive a "lay," a rate of so much per skin for every skin captured
in their particular boat.

But of Johnson's grumbling at the slop-chest I knew nothing, so
that what I witnessed came with a shock of sudden surprise.  I had
just finished sweeping the cabin, and had been inveigled by Wolf
Larsen into a discussion of Hamlet, his favourite Shakespearian
character, when Johansen descended the companion stairs followed by
Johnson.  The latter's cap came off after the custom of the sea,
and he stood respectfully in the centre of the cabin, swaying
heavily and uneasily to the roll of the schooner and facing the
captain.

"Shut the doors and draw the slide," Wolf Larsen said to me.

As I obeyed I noticed an anxious light come into Johnson's eyes,
but I did not dream of its cause.  I did not dream of what was to
occur until it did occur, but he knew from the very first what was
coming and awaited it bravely.  And in his action I found complete
refutation of all Wolf Larsen's materialism.  The sailor Johnson
was swayed by idea, by principle, and truth, and sincerity.  He was
right, he knew he was right, and he was unafraid.  He would die for
the right if needs be, he would be true to himself, sincere with
his soul.  HAROLD CRAWFORD STEARNS

COUNTRY ROAD
I CAN'T forget a gaunt grey barn Like a face without an eye That
kept recurring by field and tarn Under a Cape Cod sky.

I can't forget a woman's hand, Roughened and scarred by toil That
beckoned clear-eyed children tanned By sun and wind and soil.

Beauty and hardship, bent and bound Under the selfsame yoke:
Babies with bare knees plump and round And stooping women folk.

MARIE LOUISE HERSEY

WREATHS

RED wreaths Hang in my neighbor's window, Green wreaths in my own.

On this day I lost my husband.
On this day you lost your boy.
On this day Christ was born.

Red wreaths, Green wreaths Hang in Our Windows Red for a bleeding
heart, Green for grave grass.

Mary, mother of Jesus, Look down and comfort us.
You too knew passion; You too knew pain.
Comfort us, Who are not brides of God, Nor bore God.

On Christmas day Hang wreaths, Red for new pain.

Green for spent passion.

CAROLYN HILLMAN

MEMPHIS
WHY should I sing of my present?

It is noth- ing to me or you,
Rather I'd dream of Dixie and tie ships on the old bayou!
Rather I'd dream of my packets and the lazy river days, Rather I'd
dream of my levee and the crimson sunset haze,
Rather I'd dream of my triumphs, of the days that are long gone by,
Rather I'd dream of flame-tipped stacks against a saffron sky, Of
level lawns of topaz, of level fields of jade, Of the rambling
pillared mansions that my fathers' fathers made!

Why should I sing of my present? It is nothing to you or me, But the
river road, the great road, the high road to the sea!
Aye, that is worth the dreaming, aye, that was worth the pain.

Send me back my river, and I shall wake again!

GORDON MALHERBE HILLMAN

SAINT COLUMBKILLE
COLUMBKILLE! Saint Columbkille!

You naughty man, Saint Columbkille!
Why did you Finnian's Psalter take And secretly a copy
make?
You know 'twas such a naughty thing For one descended from a
king To lock himself into a cell, 'Twas far from right,-you
knew it well,- And copy Finnian's Psalter through, Against his
will as well you knew.
And then to think a common bird Should feel such shame, that when
he heard The breathing spy outside your door, And felt your sainthood
was no more, Should through the crack attack the spy, And in a rage
pluck out his eye, As if that saintly Irish crane Would hide from
all your Saintship's stain.

I grieve to think that you did add Sin unto sin; it is too bad.
For Finnian could not you persuade To yield the copy that you made,
Until the King in his behalf Ruled-"To each cow belongs her calf":
And then you grew so mad you swore On Erin's face you'd look no more.

And crossed the sea the Picts to save, Because you so did misbehave
To dear Saint Finnian: faith, 'twas ill For you to act so,
Columbkille!

A saint you were no doubt, no doubt!

What pity 'twas you were found out!

We know an angel (snob or fool?)

To Kiaran showed a common rule, An axe, an auger, and a saw, And
told that saint it was the law Of Heaven that Columbkille should
be Far, far above such saints as he; For Columbkille contemned
a crown, While he these homely tools laid down, To serve the Lord,
and that the Lord To each would give his due reward.

I wonder if that angel knew That Christ these tools had laid
down too.
O Columbkille! O Columbkille!
A saint like you must have his will, But for myself I'd rather
be The common sinner that you see Than make a crane ashamed of
me, And angels talk such idiocy.

E. J. V. HUIGINN

MISS DOANE
MISS Doane was sixty, probably; She rented third floor room That
opened on an airshaft full Of cooking smells and gloom.

She worked in philanthropic man's Well-known department store; Cashiered
in basement, hot and close, For forty years or more.

Each night when she came home she'd stand A moment in the hall,
Before she went into her room With low and tender call.

And often I would hear her voice Repeat a childish prayer; Or read
some old, old fairy tale Of Princess, grand and fair.

One night I went to visit her And spied, in little chair A great
wax doll, in dainty dress, And curls of flaxen hair.

I praised the doll; its prettiness; Miss Doane said, "I'm alone.
She comforts me. I wanted so A child to call my own."

Each night I heard her softly sing A childish lullaby; But once, and
just before she died, I heard her cry and cry!

WINIFRED VIRGINIA JACKSON

FALLEN FENCES
THE woods grew dark; black shadows rocked And I could scarcely
see My way along the old tote road, That long had seemed to me
To wind on aimlessly; but now Came full to life; the rain Would soon
strike down; ahead I saw A clearing, and a lane
Between gray, fallen fences and Wide, grayer, grim stone walls; So
grim and gray I shrank from thought Of weary, aching spalles.

On stony knoll great aspens swayed And swung in browsing teeth Of
wind; slim, silvered yearlings shook And shivered underneath.
Beyond, some ancient oak trees bent And wrangled over roof Of
weatherbeaten house, and barn Whose sag bespoke no hoof.

And ivy crawled up either end Of house, to chimney, where It lashed
in futile anger at The wind wolves of the air.

I thought the house abandoned, and I ran to get inside, When suddenly
the old front door was opened and flung wide
And she stood there, with hand on knob, As I went swiftly in, Then
closed the door most softly on The storm and shrieking din.

A space I stood and looked at her, So young; 'twas passing strange
That fifty years or more had gone And brought no new style's
change.

The sweetness, daintiness of her In starched and dotted gown Of
creamy whiteness, over hoops, With ruffles winding down!

We had not much to say, and yet Of words I felt no lack; Her smiles
slipped into dimples, stopped A moment, then dropped back.

I felt her pride of race; her taste In silken rug and chair, And
quaintly fashioned furniture Of patterns old and rare.

On window sill a rose bush stood; 'Twas bringing rose to bud; One
full bloomed there but yesterday, Dropped petals, red as blood.

Quite soon, she asked to be excused For just a moment, and Went out,
returning with a tray In either slender hand.

My glance could not but linger on Each thin and lovely cup; "This
came, dear thing, from home!"

she sighed The while she raised it up.

And when the storm was done and I Arose, reluctantly To go, she
too was loath to have Me go, it seemed to me.

When I reached old Joe Webber's place, Upon the Corner Road, I
went into the Upper Field Where Joe, round-shouldered, hoed

Potatoes, culling them with hoe And practised, calloused hand, In
rounded piles that brownly glowed Upon the fresh-turned land.

"Say, Joe," I said, "who is that girl With beauty's smiling charm,
That lives beyond that hemlock growth, On that old grown-up farm?"

Joe listened, while I told him where I'd been that afternoon,
Then straightened from his hoe, and hummed, Before he spoke, a tune
"They cum ter thet old place ter live Some sixty years ago;
Jest where they cum from, who they ware, Wy, no one got to know.

"An' then, one day, he hired Hen's Red racker an' the gig; We never
heard from him nor could We track the hoss or rig.

"Hen waited 'bout a week, an' then He went ter see the Wife; He
found her in thet settin' room:
She'd taken of her life.

"An' no one's lived in thet house sence; Some say 'tis haunted,-but
I ain't no use fer foolishness, So all I say's tut! tut!"
WINIFRED VIRGINIA JACKSON

CROSS-CURRENTS
THEY wrapped my soul in eiderdown; They placed me warm and snug In
carved chair; set me with care Upon an old prayer rug.

They cased my feet in golden shoes That hurt at toe and heel; My
restless feet, with youth all fleet, Nor asked how they might
feel.

And now they wonder where I am, And search with shrill, cold cry;
But I crouch low where tall reeds grow, And smile as they pass
by!

WINIFRED VIRGINIA JACKSON
THE FAREWELL

WHAT is more beautiful Than thought, soul-fed, That I may be the
crimson of a rose When dead?

My soul, so light a joy And grief will be, That it will gently press
the brown earth down On me.

WINIFRED VIRGINIA JACKSON

SONG
LET me be great, as stars are great, Singing of love, not of hate.

Love for sweet and simple things, Like clouds and sea-shell
whisperings,
Cool autumn winds, pale dew-kissed flowers, Thin coils of smoke
and granite towers,
Snow-capped mountain peaks that flash High above a river's crash,

Shrill songs of birds and children's laughter, Soft grey shadows
trailing after
Sunbeam sprites that seek the woods And lose themselves in
solitudes.

All these I'll love, never hate, And loving them, I will be
great.

OLIVER JENKINS

LOVE AUTUMNAL
MY love will come in autumn-time When leaves go spinning to the
ground And wistful stars in heaven chime With the leaves' sound.

Then, we shall walk through dusty lanes And pause beneath low-hanging
boughs, And there, while soft-hued beauty reigns We'll make our
vows.

Let others seek in spring for sighs When love flames forth from
every seed; But love that blooms when nature dies Is love indeed!

OLIVER JENKINS

ECHOS

TRAVELING at dusk the noisy city street, I listened to the newsboys'
strident cries Of "Extra," as with flying feet, They strove to gain
this man or that-their prize.

But one there was with neither shout nor stride, And, having
bought from him, I stood nearby, Pondering the cruel crutches at his
side, Blaming the crowd's neglect, and wondering why-
When suddenly I heard a gruff voice greet The cripple with "On time
to-night?"

Then, as he handed out the sheet, The Youngster's answer-"You're
all right.
My other reg'lars are a little late.
They'll find I'm short one paper when they come; You see, a strange
guy bought one in the wait, I tho't 'twould cheer him up-he looked
so glum!"
So, sheepishly I laughed, and went my way For I had found a city's
heart that day.

RUTH LAMBERT JONES

WAR PICTURES
"GERMAN Retreat From Arras" "Official Films"-they came After
"Corinne and Her Minstrels" Had ministered to fame.

After "Corinne and Her Minstrels" Had pigeon-toed away, We saw where
bits of churches And bits of horses lay.

We saw bleak desolation; We saw no unscathed tree.
We shivered in our comfort And murmured: "Can it be!"

But later, walking homeward, Repeating: "Is it true?" We brushed a
khaki shoulder And asked no more. We knew!

RUTH LAMBERT JONES

AN OLD SONG
WHEN I was but a young lad, And that is long ago, I thought that
luck loved every man, And time his only foe, And love was like a
hawthorn bush That blossomed every May, And had but to choose his
flower, For that's the young lad's way.

Oh, youth's a thriftless squanderer, It's easy come and spent, And
heavy is the going now Where once the light foot went.

The hawthorn bush puts on its white, The throstle whistles clear,
But Spring comes once for every man Just once in all the year.

ARTHUR KETCHUM

ROADSIDE REST
SUCH quiet sleep has come to them!
The Springs and Autumns pass, Nor do they know if it be snow Or
daisies in the grass.

All day the birches bend to hear The river's undertone; Across the
hush a fluting thrush Sings even-song alone.

But down their dream there drifts no sound, The winds may sob and
stir:
On the still breast of Peace they rest And they are glad of her.

They ask not any gift--they mind Nor any foot that fares,
Unheededly life passes by- Such quiet sleep is theirs.

ARTHUR KETCHUM

OLD LIZETTE ON SLEEP
BED is the boon for me!
It's well to bake and sweep, But hear the word of old Lizette:
It's better than all to sleep.

Summer and flowers are gay, And morning light and dew; But aged
eyelids love the dark Where never a light peeps through.

What!--open-eyed, my dears?
Thinking your hearts will break.
There's nothing, nothing, nothing, I say, That's worth the lying
awake!

I learned it in my youth- Love I was dreaming of!

I learned it from the needle-work That took the place of love.
I learned it from the years And what they brought about; From
song, and from the hills of joy Where sorrow sought me out.

It's good to dream and turn, And turn and dream, or fall To
comfort with my pack of bones, And know of nothing at all!

Yes, never know at all!
If prowlers mew or bark, Nor wonder if it's three o'clock Or four
o'clock of the dark.

When the longer shades have fallen And the last weariness Has brought
the sweetest gift of life, The last forgetfulness.

If a sound as of old leaves Stir the last bed I keep, Then
say, my dears: "It's old Lizette- She's turning in her sleep!"

AGNES LEE

MOTHERHOOD
MARY, the Christ long slain, passed silently.
Following the children joyously astir Under the cedrus and the
olive tree, Pausing to let their laughter float to her.
Each voice an echo of a voice more dear, She saw a little Christ
in every face; When lo, another woman, gliding near, Yearned o'er
the tender life that filled the place.
And Mary sought the woman's hand, and spoke:
"I know thee not, yet know thy memory tossed With all a thousand
dreams their eyes evoke Who bring to thee a child beloved and lost.

"I, too, have rocked my little one, O, He was fair!
Yea, fairer than the fairest sun, And like its rays through amber
spun His sun-bright hair.
Still I can see it shine and shine." "Even so," the woman said,"was
mine."
"His ways were ever darling ways,"- And Mary smiled,-- "So soft,
so clinging! Glad relays Of love were all His precious days.
My little child!
My infinite star! My music fled!" "Even so was mine," the woman
said.

Then whispered Mary: "Tell me, thou, Of thine."

And she:

"O, mine was rosy as a boug
Blooming with roses, sent, somehow, To bloom for me!
His balmy fingers left a thrill Within my breast that warms me
still."

Then gazed she down some wilder, darker hour, And said, when Mary
questioned, knowing not, "Who art thou, mother of so sweet a
flower?" "I am the mother of Iscariot."
AGNES LEE

ESSEX

I

THY hills are kneeling in the tardy spring, And wait, in supplication's
gentleness, The certain resurrection that shall bring A robe of
verdure for their nakedness.

Thy perfumed valleys where the twilights dwell, Thy fields within
the sunlight's living coil
Now promise, while the veins of nature swell, Eternal recompense
to human toil.
And when the sunset's final shades depart The aspiration to completed
birth Is sweet and silent; as the soft tears start, We know how
wanton and how little worth Are all the passions of our bleeding
heart That vex the awful patience of the earth.

II
Thine are the large winds and the splendid sun Glutting the spread
of heaven to the floor Of waters rhythmic from far shore to shore,
And thine the stars, revealing one by one, Thine the grave, lucent
night's oblivion, The tawny moon that waits below the skies,--
Strange as the dawn that smote their blistered eyes Who watched
from Calvary when the Deed was done.

And thine the good brown earth that bares its breast To thy benign
October, thine the trees Lusty with fruitage in the late year's
rest;

And thine the men whos@ blood has glorified Thy name with Liberty
Is divine decrees- The men who loved thy soil and fought and
died.

III
Toward thine Eastern window when the morn Steals through the silver
mesh of silent stars, I come unlaurelled from the strenuous wars
Where men have fought and wept and died Forlorn.

But here, across the early fields of corn, The living silence
dwelleth, and the gray Sweet earth-mist, while afar the lisp of
spray Breathes from the ocean like a Triton's horn.

Open thy lattice, for the gage is won For which this earth has
journeyed though the dust Of shattered systems, cold about the sun;
And proved by sin, by mighty lives impearled, A voice cries through
the sunrise: "Time is Just!"

-- And falls like dew God's pity on the world
GEORGE CABOT LODGE
THE SONG OF THE WAVE This is the song of the wave! The mighty
one!
Child of the soul of silence, beating the air to sound:
White as a live terror, as a drawn sword, This is the wave.

II
This is the song of the wave, the white-maned steed of the Tempest
Whose veins are swollen with life, In whose flanks abide the four
winds.
This is the wave.

III
This is the song of the wave! The dawn leaped out of the sea And
the waters lay smooth as a silver shield, And the sun-rays smote
on the waters like a golden sword.

Then a wind blew out of the morning And the waters rustled
And the wave was born!

IV This is the song of the wave!

The wind blew out of the noon
And the white sea-birds like driven foam Winged in from the ocean
that lay beyond the sky And the face of the waters was barred with
white, For the wave had many brothers, And the wave was strong!

V
This is the song of the wave! The wind blew out of the sunset And
the west was lurid as Hell.

The black clouds closed like a tomb, for the sun was dead.
Then the wind smote full as the breath of God, And the wave called
to its brothers, "This is the crest of life!"
VI
This is the song of the wave, that rises to fall, Rises a sheer green
wall like a barrier of glass That has caught the soul of the
moonlight.
Caught and prisoned the moon-beams; Its edge is frittered to
foam.
This is the wave!
VII
This is the song of the wave, of the wave that falls- Wild as a
burst of day-gold blown through the colours of morning It shivers
to infinite atoms up the rumbling steep of sand.
This is the wave.

VIII
This is the song of the wave that died in the fullness of life.
The prodigal this, that lavished its largess of strength In the
lust of attainment.
Aiming at things for Heaven too high, Sure in the pride of life,
in the richness of strength.
So tried it the impossible height, till the end was found:
Where ends the soul that yearns for the fillet of morning stars,
The soul in the toils of the journeying worlds, Whose eye is filled
with the Image of God, And the end is Death!
GEORGE CABOT LODGE 

FRIMAIRE
DEAREST, we are like two flowers Blooming in the garden, A purple
aster flower and a red one Standing alone in a withered desolation.
The garden plants are shattered and seeded, One brittle leaf scrapes
against another, Fiddling echoes of a rush of petals.
Now only you and I nodding together.
Many were with us; they have all faded.
Only we are purple and crimson, Only we in the dew-clear mornings,
Smarten into color as the sun rises.
When I scarcely see you in the flat moonlight, And later when my
cold roots tighten, I am anxious for morning, I cannot rest in fear
of what may happen.

You or I-and I am a coward.
Surely frost should take the crimson.
Purple is a finer color,
Very splendid in isolation.
So we nod above the broken Stems of flowers almost rotted.
Many mornings there cannot be now For us both. Ah, Dear, I love
you!

AMY LOWELL 

PATTERNS
I WALK down the garden paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing,
and the bright blue squills.
I walk down the patterned garden paths In my stiff, brocaded
gown.
With my powdered hair and jewelled fan, I too am a rare Pattern.
As I wander down The garden paths.
My dress is richly figured, And the train Makes a pink and silver
stain On the gravel, and the thrift Of the borders.
Just a plate of current fashion, Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned
shoes.
Not a softness anywhere about me, Only a whale-bone and brocade.
And I sink on a seat in the shade Of a lime tree. For my passion
Wars against the stiff brocade.
The daffodils and squills Flutter in the breeze As they please.
And I weep; For the lime tree is in blossom And one small flower
has dropped upon my bosom.
And the splashing of waterdrops In the marble fountain Comes down
the garden paths.
The dripping never stops.
Underneath my stiffened gown Is the softness of a woman bathing in
a marble basin, A basin in the midst of hedges grown So thick, she
cannot see her lover hiding, But she guesses he is near, And the
sliding of the water Seems the stroking of a dear Hand upon her.
What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown!
I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground.
All the pink and silver crumpled up upon the ground.This tirade against destiny went on for an hour or more, and then
he buckled to his work, limping and groaning, and in his eyes a
great hatred for all created things.  His diagnosis was correct,
however, for he was seized with occasional sicknesses, during which
he vomited blood and suffered great pain.  And as he said, it
seemed God hated him too much to let him die, for he ultimately
grew better and waxed more malignant than ever.

Several days more passed before Johnson crawled on deck and went
about his work in a half-hearted way.  He was still a sick man, and
I more than once observed him creeping painfully aloft to a
topsail, or drooping wearily as he stood at the wheel.  But, still
worse, it seemed that his spirit was broken.  He was abject before
Wolf Larsen and almost grovelled to Johansen.  Not so was the
conduct of Leach.  He went about the deck like a tiger cub, glaring
his hatred openly at Wolf Larsen and Johansen.

"I'll do for you yet, you slab-footed Swede," I heard him say to
Johansen one night on deck.

The mate cursed him in the darkness, and the next moment some
missile struck the galley a sharp rap.  There was more cursing, and
a mocking laugh, and when all was quiet I stole outside and found a
heavy knife imbedded over an inch in the solid wood.  A few minutes
later the mate came fumbling about in search of it, but I returned
it privily to Leach next day.  He grinned when I handed it over,
yet it was a grin that contained more sincere thanks than a
multitude of the verbosities of speech common to the members of my
own class.

Unlike any one else in the ship's company, I now found myself with
no quarrels on my hands and in the good graces of all.  The hunters
possibly no more than tolerated me, though none of them disliked
me; while Smoke and Henderson, convalescent under a deck awning and
swinging day and night in their hammocks, assured me that I was
better than any hospital nurse, and that they would not forget me
at the end of the voyage when they were paid off.  (As though I
stood in need of their money!  I, who could have bought them out,
bag and baggage, and the schooner and its equipment, a score of
times over!)  But upon me had devolved the task of tending their
wounds, and pulling them through, and I did my best by them.

Wolf Larsen underwent another bad attack of headache which lasted
two days.  He must have suffered severely, for he called me in and
obeyed my commands like a sick child.  But nothing I could do
seemed to relieve him.  At my suggestion, however, he gave up
smoking and drinking; though why such a magnificent animal as he
should have headaches at all puzzles me.

"'Tis the hand of God, I'm tellin' you," is the way Louis sees it.
"'Tis a visitation for his black-hearted deeds, and there's more
behind and comin', or else--"

"Or else," I prompted.

"God is noddin' and not doin' his duty, though it's me as shouldn't
say it."

I was mistaken when I said that I was in the good graces of all.
Not only does Thomas Mugridge continue to hate me, but he has
discovered a new reason for hating me.  It took me no little while
to puzzle it out, but I finally discovered that it was because I
was more luckily born than he--"gentleman born," he put it.

"And still no more dead men," I twitted Louis, when Smoke and
Henderson, side by side, in friendly conversation, took their first
exercise on deck.

Louis surveyed me with his shrewd grey eyes, and shook his head
portentously.  "She's a-comin', I tell you, and it'll be sheets and
halyards, stand by all hands, when she begins to howl.  I've had
the feel iv it this long time, and I can feel it now as plainly as
I feel the rigging iv a dark night.  She's close, she's close."

"Who goes first?" I queried.

"Not fat old Louis, I promise you," he laughed.  "For 'tis in the
bones iv me I know that come this time next year I'll be gazin' in
the old mother's eyes, weary with watchin' iv the sea for the five
sons she gave to it."

"Wot's 'e been s'yin' to yer?" Thomas Mugridge demanded a moment
later.

"That he's going home some day to see his mother," I answered
diplomatically.

"I never 'ad none," was the Cockney's comment, as he gazed with
lustreless, hopeless eyes into mine.


CHAPTER XIV


It has dawned upon me that I have never placed a proper valuation
upon womankind.  For that matter, though not amative to any
considerable degree so far as I have discovered, I was never
outside the atmosphere of women until now.  My mother and sisters
were always about me, and I was always trying to escape them; for
they worried me to distraction with their solicitude for my health
and with their periodic inroads on my den, when my orderly
confusion, upon which I prided myself, was turned into worse
confusion and less order, though it looked neat enough to the eye.
I never could find anything when they had departed.  But now, alas,
how welcome would have been the feel of their presence, the frou-
frou and swish-swish of their skirts which I had so cordially
detested!  I am sure, if I ever get home, that I shall never be
irritable with them again.  They may dose me and doctor me morning,
noon, and night, and dust and sweep and put my den to rights every
minute of the day, and I shall only lean back and survey it all and
be thankful in that I am possessed of a mother and some several
sisters.

All of which has set me wondering.  Where are the mothers of these
twenty and odd men on the Ghost?  It strikes me as unnatural and
unhealthful that men should be totally separated from women and
herd through the world by themselves.  Coarseness and savagery are
the inevitable results.  These men about me should have wives, and
sisters, and daughters; then would they be capable of softness, and
tenderness, and sympathy.  As it is, not one of them is married.
In years and years not one of them has been in contact with a good
woman, or within the influence, or redemption, which irresistibly
radiates from such a creature.  There is no balance in their lives.
Their masculinity, which in itself is of the brute, has been over-
developed.  The other and spiritual side of their natures has been
dwarfed--atrophied, in fact.

They are a company of celibates, grinding harshly against one
another and growing daily more calloused from the grinding.  It
seems to me impossible sometimes that they ever had mothers.  It
would appear that they are a half-brute, half-human species, a race
apart, wherein there is no such thing as sex; that they are hatched
out by the sun like turtle eggs, or receive life in some similar
and sordid fashion; and that all their days they fester in
brutality and viciousness, and in the end die as unlovely as they
have lived.

Rendered curious by this new direction of ideas, I talked with
Johansen last night--the first superfluous words with which he has
favoured me since the voyage began.  He left Sweden when he was
eighteen, is now thirty-eight, and in all the intervening time has
not been home once.  He had met a townsman, a couple of years
before, in some sailor boarding-house in Chile, so that he knew his
mother to be still alive.

"She must be a pretty old woman now," he said, staring meditatively
into the binnacle and then jerking a sharp glance at Harrison, who
was steering a point off the course.

"When did you last write to her?"

He performed his mental arithmetic aloud.  "Eighty-one; no--eighty-
two, eh? no--eighty-three?  Yes, eighty-three.  Ten years ago.
From some little port in Madagascar.  I was trading.

"You see," he went on, as though addressing his neglected mother
across half the girth of the earth, "each year I was going home.
So what was the good to write?  It was only a year.  And each year
something happened, and I did not go.  But I am mate, now, and when
I pay off at 'Frisco, maybe with five hundred dollars, I will ship
myself on a windjammer round the Horn to Liverpool, which will give
me more money; and then I will pay my passage from there home.
Then she will not do any more work."

"But does she work? now?  How old is she?"

"About seventy," he answered.  And then, boastingly, "We work from
the time we are born until we die, in my country.  That's why we
live so long.  I will live to a hundred."

I shall never forget this conversation.  The words were the last I
ever heard him utter.  Perhaps they were the last he did utter,
too.  For, going down into the cabin to turn in, I decided that it
was too stuffy to sleep below.  It was a calm night.  We were out
of the Trades, and the Ghost was forging ahead barely a knot an
hour.  So I tucked a blanket and pillow under my arm and went up on
deck.

As I passed between Harrison and the binnacle, which was built into
the top of the cabin, I noticed that he was this time fully three
points off.  Thinking that he was asleep, and wishing him to escape
reprimand or worse, I spoke to him.  But he was not asleep.  His
eyes were wide and staring.  He seemed greatly perturbed, unable to
reply to me.

"What's the matter?" I asked.  "Are you sick?"

He shook his head, and with a deep sign as of awakening, caught his
breath.

"You'd better get on your course, then," I chided.

He put a few spokes over, and I watched the compass-card swing
slowly to N.N.W. and steady itself with slight oscillations.

I took a fresh hold on my bedclothes and was preparing to start on,
when some movement caught my eye and I looked astern to the rail.
A sinewy hand, dripping with water, was clutching the rail.  A
second hand took form in the darkness beside it.  I watched,
fascinated.  What visitant from the gloom of the deep was I to
behold?  Whatever it was, I knew that it was climbing aboard by the
log-line.  I saw a head, the hair wet and straight, shape itself,
and then the unmistakable eyes and face of Wolf Larsen.  His right
cheek was red with blood, which flowed from some wound in the head.

He drew himself inboard with a quick effort, and arose to his feet,
glancing swiftly, as he did so, at the man at the wheel, as though
to assure himself of his identity and that there was nothing to
fear from him.  The sea-water was streaming from him.  It made
little audible gurgles which distracted me.  As he stepped toward
me I shrank back instinctively, for I saw that in his eyes which
spelled death.

"All right, Hump," he said in a low voice.  "Where's the mate?"

I shook my head.

"Johansen!" he called softly.  "Johansen!"

"Where is he?" he demanded of Harrison.

The young fellow seemed to have recovered his composure, for he
answered steadily enough, "I don't know, sir.  I saw him go for'ard
a little while ago."

"So did I go for'ard.  But you will observe that I didn't come back
the way I went.  Can you explain it?"

"You must have been overboard, sir."

"Shall I look for him in the steerage, sir?" I asked.

Wolf Larsen shook his head.  "You wouldn't find him, Hump.  But
you'll do.  Come on.  Never mind your bedding.  Leave it where it
is."

I followed at his heels.  There was nothing stirring amidships.

"Those cursed hunters," was his comment.  "Too damned fat and lazy
to stand a four-hour watch."

But on the forecastle-head we found three sailors asleep.  He
turned them over and looked at their faces.  They composed the
watch on deck, and it was the ship's custom, in good weather, to
let the watch sleep with the exception of the officer, the
helmsman, and the look-out.

"Who's look-out?" he demanded.

"Me, sir," answered Holyoak, one of the deep-water sailors, a
slight tremor in his voice.  "I winked off just this very minute,
sir.  I'm sorry, sir.  It won't happen again."

"Did you hear or see anything on deck?"

"No, sir, I--"

But Wolf Larsen had turned away with a snort of disgust, leaving
the sailor rubbing his eyes with surprise at having been let of so
easily.

"Softly, now," Wolf Larsen warned me in a whisper, as he doubled
his body into the forecastle scuttle and prepared to descend.

I followed with a quaking heart.  What was to happen I knew no more
than did I know what had happened.  But blood had been shed, and it
was through no whim of Wolf Larsen that he had gone over the side
with his scalp laid open.  Besides, Johansen was missing.

It was my first descent into the forecastle, and I shall not soon
forget my impression of it, caught as I stood on my feet at the
bottom of the ladder.  Built directly in the eyes of the schooner,
it was of the shape of a triangle, along the three sides of which
stood the bunks, in double-tier, twelve of them.  It was no larger
than a hall bedroom in Grub Street, and yet twelve men were herded
into it to eat and sleep and carry on all the functions of living.
My bedroom at home was not large, yet it could have contained a
dozen similar forecastles, and taking into consideration the height
of the ceiling, a score at least.

It smelled sour and musty, and by the dim light of the swinging
sea-lamp I saw every bit of available wall-space hung deep with
sea-boots, oilskins, and garments, clean and dirty, of various
sorts.  These swung back and forth with every roll of the vessel,
giving rise to a brushing sound, as of trees against a roof or
wall.  Somewhere a boot thumped loudly and at irregular intervals
against the wall; and, though it was a mild night on the sea, there
was a continual chorus of the creaking timbers and bulkheads and of
abysmal noises beneath the flooring.

The sleepers did not mind.  There were eight of them,--the two
watches below,--and the air was thick with the warmth and odour of
their breathing, and the ear was filled with the noise of their
snoring and of their sighs and half-groans, tokens plain of the
rest of the animal-man.  But were they sleeping? all of them?  Or
had they been sleeping?  This was evidently Wolf Larsen's quest--to
find the men who appeared to be asleep and who were not asleep or
who had not been asleep very recently.  And he went about it in a
way that reminded me of a story out of Boccaccio.

He took the sea-lamp from its swinging frame and handed it to me.
He began at the first bunks forward on the star-board side.  In the
top one lay Oofty-Oofty, a Kanaka and splendid seaman, so named by
his mates.  He was asleep on his back and breathing as placidly as
a woman.  One arm was under his head, the other lay on top of the
blankets.  Wolf Larsen put thumb and forefinger to the wrist and
counted the pulse.  In the midst of it the Kanaka roused.  He awoke
as gently as he slept.  There was no movement of the body whatever.
The eyes, only, moved.  They flashed wide open, big and black, and
stared, unblinking, into our faces.  Wolf Larsen put his finger to
his lips as a sign for silence, and the eyes closed again.

In the lower bunk lay Louis, grossly fat and warm and sweaty,
asleep unfeignedly and sleeping laboriously.  While Wolf Larsen
held his wrist he stirred uneasily, bowing his body so that for a
moment it rested on shoulders and heels.  His lips moved, and he
gave voice to this enigmatic utterance:

"A shilling's worth a quarter; but keep your lamps out for
thruppenny-bits, or the publicans 'll shove 'em on you for
sixpence."

Then he rolled over on his side with a heavy, sobbing sigh, saying:

"A sixpence is a tanner, and a shilling a bob; but what a pony is I
don't know."

Satisfied with the honesty of his and the Kanaka's sleep, Wolf
Larsen passed on to the next two bunks on the starboard side,
occupied top and bottom, as we saw in the light of the sea-lamp, by
Leach and Johnson.

As Wolf Larsen bent down to the lower bunk to take Johnson's pulse,
I, standing erect and holding the lamp, saw Leach's head rise
stealthily as he peered over the side of his bunk to see what was
going on.  He must have divined Wolf Larsen's trick and the
sureness of detection, for the light was at once dashed from my
hand and the forecastle was left in darkness.  He must have leaped,
also, at the same instant, straight down on Wolf Larsen.

The first sounds were those of a conflict between a bull and a
wolf.  I heard a great infuriated bellow go up from Wolf Larsen,
and from Leach a snarling that was desperate and blood-curdling.
Johnson must have joined him immediately, so that his abject and
grovelling conduct on deck for the past few days had been no more
than planned deception.

I was so terror-stricken by this fight in the dark that I leaned
against the ladder, trembling and unable to ascend.  And upon me
was that old sickness at the pit of the stomach, caused always by
the spectacle of physical violence.  In this instance I could not
see, but I could hear the impact of the blows--the soft crushing
sound made by flesh striking forcibly against flesh.  Then there
was the crashing about of the entwined bodies, the laboured
breathing, the short quick gasps of sudden pain.

There must have been more men in the conspiracy to murder the
captain and mate, for by the sounds I knew that Leach and Johnson
had been quickly reinforced by some of their mates.

"Get a knife somebody!" Leach was shouting.

"Pound him on the head!  Mash his brains out!" was Johnson's cry.

But after his first bellow, Wolf Larsen made no noise.  He was
fighting grimly and silently for life.  He was sore beset.  Down at
the very first, he had been unable to gain his feet, and for all of
his tremendous strength I felt that there was no hope for him.

The force with which they struggled was vividly impressed on me;
for I was knocked down by their surging bodies and badly bruised.
But in the confusion I managed to crawl into an empty lower bunk
out of the way.

"All hands!  We've got him!  We've got him!" I could hear Leach
crying.

"Who?" demanded those who had been really asleep, and who had
wakened to they knew not what.

"It's the bloody mate!" was Leach's crafty answer, strained from
him in a smothered sort of way.

This was greeted with whoops of joy, and from then on Wolf Larsen
had seven strong men on top of him, Louis, I believe, taking no
part in it.  The forecastle was like an angry hive of bees aroused
by some marauder.

"What ho! below there!" I heard Latimer shout down the scuttle, too
cautious to descend into the inferno of passion he could hear
raging beneath him in the darkness.

"Won't somebody get a knife?  Oh, won't somebody get a knife?"
Leach pleaded in the first interval of comparative silence.

The number of the assailants was a cause of confusion.  They
blocked their own efforts, while Wolf Larsen, with but a single
purpose, achieved his.  This was to fight his way across the floor
to the ladder.  Though in total darkness, I followed his progress
by its sound.  No man less than a giant could have done what he
did, once he had gained the foot of the ladder.  Step by step, by
the might of his arms, the whole pack of men striving to drag him
back and down, he drew his body up from the floor till he stood
erect.  And then, step by step, hand and foot, he slowly struggled
up the ladder.

The very last of all, I saw.  For Latimer, having finally gone for
a lantern, held it so that its light shone down the scuttle.  Wolf
Larsen was nearly to the top, though I could not see him.  All that
was visible was the mass of men fastened upon him.  It squirmed
about, like some huge many-legged spider, and swayed back and forth
to the regular roll of the vessel.  And still, step by step with
long intervals between, the mass ascended.  Once it tottered, about
to fall back, but the broken hold was regained and it still went
up.

"Who is it?" Latimer cried.

In the rays of the lantern I could see his perplexed face peering
down.

"Larsen," I heard a muffled voice from within the mass.

Latimer reached down with his free hand.  I saw a hand shoot up to
clasp his.  Latimer pulled, and the next couple of steps were made
with a rush.  Then Wolf Larsen's other hand reached up and clutched
the edge of the scuttle.  The mass swung clear of the ladder, the
men still clinging to their escaping foe.  They began to drop of,
to be brushed off against the sharp edge of the scuttle, to be
knocked off by the legs which were now kicking powerfully.  Leach
was the last to go, falling sheer back from the top of the scuttle
and striking on head and shoulders upon his sprawling mates
beneath.  Wolf Larsen and the lantern disappeared, and we were left
in darkness.


CHAPTER XV


There was a deal of cursing and groaning as the men at the bottom
of the ladder crawled to their feet.

"Somebody strike a light, my thumb's out of joint," said one of the
men, Parsons, a swarthy, saturnine man, boat-steerer in Standish's
boat, in which Harrison was puller.

"You'll find it knockin' about by the bitts," Leach said, sitting
down on the edge of the bunk in which I was concealed.

There was a fumbling and a scratching of matches, and the sea-lamp
flared up, dim and smoky, and in its weird light bare-legged men
moved about nursing their bruises and caring for their hurts.
Oofty-Oofty laid hold of Parsons's thumb, pulling it out stoutly
and snapping it back into place.  I noticed at the same time that
the Kanaka's knuckles were laid open clear across and to the bone.
He exhibited them, exposing beautiful white teeth in a grin as he
did so, and explaining that the wounds had come from striking Wolf
Larsen in the mouth.

"So it was you, was it, you black beggar?" belligerently demanded
one Kelly, an Irish-American and a longshoreman, making his first
trip to sea, and boat-puller for Kerfoot.

As he made the demand he spat out a mouthful of blood and teeth and
shoved his pugnacious face close to Oofty-Oofty.  The Kanaka leaped
backward to his bunk, to return with a second leap, flourishing a
long knife.

"Aw, go lay down, you make me tired," Leach interfered.  He was
evidently, for all of his youth and inexperience, cock of the
forecastle.  "G'wan, you Kelly.  You leave Oofty alone.  How in
hell did he know it was you in the dark?"

Kelly subsided with some muttering, and the Kanaka flashed his
white teeth in a grateful smile.  He was a beautiful creature,
almost feminine in the pleasing lines of his figure, and there was
a softness and dreaminess in his large eyes which seemed to
contradict his well-earned reputation for strife and action.

"How did he get away?" Johnson asked.

He was sitting on the side of his bunk, the whole pose of his
figure indicating utter dejection and hopelessness.  He was still
breathing heavily from the exertion he had made.  His shirt had
been ripped entirely from him in the struggle, and blood from a
gash in the cheek was flowing down his naked chest, marking a red
path across his white thigh and dripping to the floor.

"Because he is the devil, as I told you before," was Leach's
answer; and thereat he was on his feet and raging his
disappointment with tears in his eyes.

"And not one of you to get a knife!" was his unceasing lament.

But the rest of the hands had a lively fear of consequences to come
and gave no heed to him.

"How'll he know which was which?" Kelly asked, and as he went on he
looked murderously about him--"unless one of us peaches."

"He'll know as soon as ever he claps eyes on us," Parsons replied.
"One look at you'd be enough."

"Tell him the deck flopped up and gouged yer teeth out iv yer jaw,"
Louis grinned.  He was the only man who was not out of his bunk,
and he was jubilant in that he possessed no bruises to advertise
that he had had a hand in the night's work.  "Just wait till he
gets a glimpse iv yer mugs to-morrow, the gang iv ye," he chuckled.

"We'll say we thought it was the mate," said one.  And another, "I
know what I'll say--that I heered a row, jumped out of my bunk, got
a jolly good crack on the jaw for my pains, and sailed in myself.
Couldn't tell who or what it was in the dark and just hit out."

"An' 'twas me you hit, of course," Kelly seconded, his face
brightening for the moment.

Leach and Johnson took no part in the discussion, and it was plain
to see that their mates looked upon them as men for whom the worst
was inevitable, who were beyond hope and already dead.  Leach stood
their fears and reproaches for some time.  Then he broke out:

"You make me tired!  A nice lot of gazabas you are!  If you talked
less with yer mouth and did something with yer hands, he'd a-ben
done with by now.  Why couldn't one of you, just one of you, get me
a knife when I sung out?  You make me sick!  A-beefin' and
bellerin' 'round, as though he'd kill you when he gets you!  You
know damn well he wont.  Can't afford to.  No shipping masters or
beach-combers over here, and he wants yer in his business, and he
wants yer bad.  Who's to pull or steer or sail ship if he loses
yer?  It's me and Johnson have to face the music.  Get into yer
bunks, now, and shut yer faces; I want to get some sleep."

"That's all right all right," Parsons spoke up.  "Mebbe he won't do
for us, but mark my words, hell 'll be an ice-box to this ship from
now on."

All the while I had been apprehensive concerning my own
predicament.  What would happen to me when these men discovered my
presence?  I could never fight my way out as Wolf Larsen had done.
And at this moment Latimer called down the scuttles:

"Hump!  The old man wants you!"

"He ain't down here!" Parsons called back.

"Yes, he is," I said, sliding out of the bunk and striving my
hardest to keep my voice steady and bold.

The sailors looked at me in consternation.  Fear was strong in
their faces, and the devilishness which comes of fear.

"I'm coming!" I shouted up to Latimer.

"No you don't!" Kelly cried, stepping between me and the ladder,
his right hand shaped into a veritable strangler's clutch.  "You
damn little sneak!  I'll shut yer mouth!"

"Let him go," Leach commanded.

"Not on yer life," was the angry retort.

Leach never changed his position on the edge of the bunk.  "Let him
go, I say," he repeated; but this time his voice was gritty and
metallic.

The Irishman wavered.  I made to step by him, and he stood aside.
When I had gained the ladder, I turned to the circle of brutal and
malignant faces peering at me through the semi-darkness.  A sudden
and deep sympathy welled up in me.  I remembered the Cockney's way
of putting it.  How God must have hated them that they should be
tortured so!

"I have seen and heard nothing, believe me," I said quietly.

"I tell yer, he's all right," I could hear Leach saying as I went
up the ladder.  "He don't like the old man no more nor you or me."

I found Wolf Larsen in the cabin, stripped and bloody, waiting for
me.  He greeted me with one of his whimsical smiles.

"Come, get to work, Doctor.  The signs are favourable for an
extensive practice this voyage.  I don't know what the Ghost would
have been without you, and if I could only cherish such noble
sentiments I would tell you her master is deeply grateful."

I knew the run of the simple medicine-chest the Ghost carried, and
while I was heating water on the cabin stove and getting the things
ready for dressing his wounds, he moved about, laughing and
chatting, and examining his hurts with a calculating eye.  I had
never before seen him stripped, and the sight of his body quite
took my breath away.  It has never been my weakness to exalt the
flesh--far from it; but there is enough of the artist in me to
appreciate its wonder.

I must say that I was fascinated by the perfect lines of Wolf
Larsen's figure, and by what I may term the terrible beauty of it.
I had noted the men in the forecastle.  Powerfully muscled though
some of them were, there had been something wrong with all of them,
an insufficient development here, an undue development there, a
twist or a crook that destroyed symmetry, legs too short or too
long, or too much sinew or bone exposed, or too little.  Oofty-
Oofty had been the only one whose lines were at all pleasing,
while, in so far as they pleased, that far had they been what I
should call feminine.

But Wolf Larsen was the man-type, the masculine, and almost a god
in his perfectness.  As he moved about or raised his arms the great
muscles leapt and moved under the satiny skin.  I have forgotten to
say that the bronze ended with his face.  His body, thanks to his
Scandinavian stock, was fair as the fairest woman's.  I remember
his putting his hand up to feel of the wound on his head, and my
watching the biceps move like a living thing under its white
sheath.  It was the biceps that had nearly crushed out my life
once, that I had seen strike so many killing blows.  I could not
take my eyes from him.  I stood motionless, a roll of antiseptic
cotton in my hand unwinding and spilling itself down to the floor.

He noticed me, and I became conscious that I was staring at him.

"God made you well," I said.

"Did he?" he answered.  "I have often thought so myself, and
wondered why."

"Purpose--" I began.

"Utility," he interrupted.  "This body was made for use.  These
muscles were made to grip, and tear, and destroy living things that
get between me and life.  But have you thought of the other living
things?  They, too, have muscles, of one kind and another, made to
grip, and tear, and destroy; and when they come between me and
life, I out-grip them, out-tear them, out-destroy them.  Purpose
does not explain that.  Utility does."

"It is not beautiful," I protested.

"Life isn't, you mean," he smiled.  "Yet you say I was made well.
Do you see this?"

He braced his legs and feet, pressing the cabin floor with his toes
in a clutching sort of way.  Knots and ridges and mounds of muscles
writhed and bunched under the skin.

"Feel them," he commanded.

They were hard as iron.  And I observed, also, that his whole body
had unconsciously drawn itself together, tense and alert; that
muscles were softly crawling and shaping about the hips, along the
back, and across the shoulders; that the arms were slightly lifted,
their muscles contracting, the fingers crooking till the hands were
like talons; and that even the eyes had changed expression and into
them were coming watchfulness and measurement and a light none
other than of battle.

"Stability, equilibrium," he said, relaxing on the instant and
sinking his body back into repose.  "Feet with which to clutch the
ground, legs to stand on and to help withstand, while with arms and
hands, teeth and nails, I struggle to kill and to be not killed.
Purpose?  Utility is the better word."

I did not argue.  I had seen the mechanism of the primitive
fighting beast, and I was as strongly impressed as if I had seen
the engines of a great battleship or Atlantic liner.

I seemed to symperthise wiv them there pups; I felt so stiff an'
brittle-like meself.

Clobber? Me trosso, 'ead to foot, wus noo-- Got up regardless, fer
this interview.
Stiff shirt, a Yankee soot split up the back, A tie wiv yeller spots
an' stripes o' blue.

Me cuffs kep' playin' wiv me nervis fears Me patent leathers
nearly brought the tears An' there I sits wiv, "Yes, mum. Thanks.
Indeed?" Me stand-up collar sorin' orf me ears.

"Life's 'ard," she sez, an' then she brightens up.
"Still, we 'ave alwus 'ad our bite and sup.
Doreen's been SICH a help; she 'as indeed.
Some more tea, Willy? 'Ave another cup."
Willy!

O 'ell! 'Ere wus a flamin' pill!

A moniker that alwus makes me ill.

"If it's the same to you, mum," I replies "I answer quicker to the
name of Bill."
Up goes 'er 'ands an' eyes, "That vulgar name!"

No, Willy, but it isn't all the same, My fucher son must be
respectable."

"Orright," I sez, "I s'pose it's in the game."

"Me fucher son," she sez, "right on frum this Must not take anythink
I say amiss.

I know me jooty be me son-in-lor; So, Willy, come an' give yer Mar
a kiss."

I done it. Tho' l dunno 'ow I did.

"Dear boy," she sez, "to do as you are bid.

Be kind to 'er," she sobs, "my little girl!" An' then I kiss
Doreen. Sez she "Ah Kid!"
Doreen! Ar 'ow 'er pretty eyes did shine.
No sight on earth or 'Eaving's 'arf so fine, An' as they looked at
me she seemed to say "I'm proud of 'im, I am, an' 'e is mine."
There wus a sorter glimmer in 'er eye, An 'appy, nervis look,
'arf proud, 'arf shy; I seen 'er in me mind be'ind the cups In our
own little kipsie, bye an' bye.

An' then when Mar-in-lor an' me began To tork of 'ouse'old things an'
scheme an' plan, A sudden thort fair jolts me where I live:
"These is my wimmin folk! An' I'm a man!"
It's wot they calls responsibility.
All of a 'eap that feelin' come to me; An' somew'ere in me 'ead
I seemed to feel A sneakin' sort o' wish that I was free.

'Ere's me 'oo never took no 'eed o' life, Investin' in a mar-in-lor
an' wife:
Someone to battle fer besides meself, Somethink to love an' shield
frum care and strife.

It makes yeh solim when yeh come to think Wot love and marridge
means. Ar, strike me pink!
It ain't all sighs and kisses. It's yer life.
An' 'ere's me tremblin' on the bloomin' brink.
"'Er pore dead Par," she sez, an' gulps a sob.
An' then I tells 'er 'ow I got a job, As storeman down at Jones'
printin' joint, A decent sorter cop at fifty bob.
Then things get 'ome-like; an' we torks till late, An' tries to
tease Doreen to fix the date, An' she gits suddin soft and tender-like,
An' cries a bit, when we parts at the gate.
An' as I'm moochin' 'omeward frum the car A suddin notion stops me
wiv a jar-- Wot if Doreen, I thinks, should grow to be, A fat ole
weepin' willer like 'er Mar!
O, 'struth! It won't bear thinkin' of! It's crook!
An' I'm a mean, unfeelin' dawg to look At things like that. Doreen's
Doreen to me, The sweetest peach on w'ich a man wus shook.Then, a few minutes later, having digested his instructions
and thoroughly mastered the manoeuvre, I would proceed to issue my
orders.  I remember an early instance of this kind, when Wolf
Larsen appeared on the scene just as I had begun to give orders.
He smoked his cigar and looked on quietly till the thing was
accomplished, and then paced aft by my side along the weather poop.

"Hump," he said, "I beg pardon, Mr. Van Weyden, I congratulate you.
I think you can now fire your father's legs back into the grave to
him.  You've discovered your own and learned to stand on them.  A
little rope-work, sail-making, and experience with storms and such
things, and by the end of the voyage you could ship on any coasting
schooner."

It was during this period, between the death of Johansen and the
arrival on the sealing grounds, that I passed my pleasantest hours
on the Ghost.  Wolf Larsen was quite considerate, the sailors
helped me, and I was no longer in irritating contact with Thomas
Mugridge.  And I make free to say, as the days went by, that I
found I was taking a certain secret pride in myself.  Fantastic as
the situation was,--a land-lubber second in command,--I was,
nevertheless, carrying it off well; and during that brief time I
was proud of myself, and I grew to love the heave and roll of the
Ghost under my feet as she wallowed north and west through the
tropic sea to the islet where we filled our water-casks.

But my happiness was not unalloyed.  It was comparative, a period
of less misery slipped in between a past of great miseries and a
future of great miseries.  For the Ghost, so far as the seamen were
concerned, was a hell-ship of the worst description.  They never
had a moment's rest or peace.  Wolf Larsen treasured against them
the attempt on his life and the drubbing he had received in the
forecastle; and morning, noon, and night, and all night as well, he
devoted himself to making life unlivable for them.

He knew well the psychology of the little thing, and it was the
little things by which he kept the crew worked up to the verge of
madness.  I have seen Harrison called from his bunk to put properly
away a misplaced paintbrush, and the two watches below haled from
their tired sleep to accompany him and see him do it.  A little
thing, truly, but when multiplied by the thousand ingenious devices
of such a mind, the mental state of the men in the forecastle may
be slightly comprehended.

Of course much grumbling went on, and little outbursts were
continually occurring.  Blows were struck, and there were always
two or three men nursing injuries at the hands of the human beast
who was their master.  Concerted action was impossible in face of
the heavy arsenal of weapons carried in the steerage and cabin.
Leach and Johnson were the two particular victims of Wolf Larsen's
diabolic temper, and the look of profound melancholy which had
settled on Johnson's face and in his eyes made my heart bleed.

With Leach it was different.  There was too much of the fighting
beast in him.  He seemed possessed by an insatiable fury which gave
no time for grief.  His lips had become distorted into a permanent
snarl, which at mere sight of Wolf Larsen broke out in sound,
horrible and menacing and, I do believe, unconsciously.  I have
seen him follow Wolf Larsen about with his eyes, like an animal its
keeper, the while the animal-like snarl sounded deep in his throat
and vibrated forth between his teeth.

I remember once, on deck, in bright day, touching him on the
shoulder as preliminary to giving an order.  His back was toward
me, and at the first feel of my hand he leaped upright in the air
and away from me, snarling and turning his head as he leaped.  He
had for the moment mistaken me for the man he hated.

Both he and Johnson would have killed Wolf Larsen at the slightest
opportunity, but the opportunity never came.  Wolf Larsen was too
wise for that, and, besides, they had no adequate weapons.  With
their fists alone they had no chance whatever.  Time and again he
fought it out with Leach who fought back always, like a wildcat,
tooth and nail and fist, until stretched, exhausted or unconscious,
on the deck.  And he was never averse to another encounter.  All
the devil that was in him challenged the devil in Wolf Larsen.
They had but to appear on deck at the same time, when they would be
at it, cursing, snarling, striking; and I have seen Leach fling
himself upon Wolf Larsen without warning or provocation.  Once he
threw his heavy sheath-knife, missing Wolf Larsen's throat by an
inch.  Another time he dropped a steel marlinspike from the mizzen
crosstree.  It was a difficult cast to make on a rolling ship, but
the sharp point of the spike, whistling seventy-five feet through
the air, barely missed Wolf Larsen's head as he emerged from the
cabin companion-way and drove its length two inches and over into
the solid deck-planking.  Still another time, he stole into the
steerage, possessed himself of a loaded shot-gun, and was making a
rush for the deck with it when caught by Kerfoot and disarmed.

I often wondered why Wolf Larsen did not kill him and make an end
of it.  But he only laughed and seemed to enjoy it.  There seemed a
certain spice about it, such as men must feel who take delight in
making pets of ferocious animals.

"It gives a thrill to life," he explained to me, "when life is
carried in one's hand.  Man is a natural gambler, and life is the
biggest stake he can lay.  The greater the odds, the greater the
thrill.  Why should I deny myself the joy of exciting Leach's soul
to fever-pitch?  For that matter, I do him a kindness.  The
greatness of sensation is mutual.  He is living more royally than
any man for'ard, though he does not know it.  For he has what they
have not--purpose, something to do and be done, an all-absorbing
end to strive to attain, the desire to kill me, the hope that he
may kill me.  Really, Hump, he is living deep and high.  I doubt
that he has ever lived so swiftly and keenly before, and I honestly
envy him, sometimes, when I see him raging at the summit of passion
and sensibility."

"Ah, but it is cowardly, cowardly!" I cried.  "You have all the
advantage."

"Of the two of us, you and I, who is the greater coward?" he asked
seriously.  "If the situation is unpleasing, you compromise with
your conscience when you make yourself a party to it.  If you were
really great, really true to yourself, you would join forces with
Leach and Johnson.  But you are afraid, you are afraid.  You want
to live.  The life that is in you cries out that it must live, no
matter what the cost; so you live ignominiously, untrue to the best
you dream of, sinning against your whole pitiful little code, and,
if there were a hell, heading your soul straight for it.  Bah!  I
play the braver part.  I do no sin, for I am true to the promptings
of the life that is in me.  I am sincere with my soul at least, and
that is what you are not."

There was a sting in what he said.  Perhaps, after all, I was
playing a cowardly part.  And the more I thought about it the more
it appeared that my duty to myself lay in doing what he had
advised, lay in joining forces with Johnson and Leach and working
for his death.  Right here, I think, entered the austere conscience
of my Puritan ancestry, impelling me toward lurid deeds and
sanctioning even murder as right conduct.  I dwelt upon the idea.
It would be a most moral act to rid the world of such a monster.
Humanity would be better and happier for it, life fairer and
sweeter.

I pondered it long, lying sleepless in my bunk and reviewing in
endless procession the facts of the situation.  I talked with
Johnson and Leach, during the night watches when Wolf Larsen was
below.  Both men had lost hope--Johnson, because of temperamental
despondency; Leach, because he had beaten himself out in the vain
struggle and was exhausted.  But he caught my hand in a passionate
grip one night, saying:

"I think yer square, Mr. Van Weyden.  But stay where you are and
keep yer mouth shut.  Say nothin' but saw wood.  We're dead men, I
know it; but all the same you might be able to do us a favour some
time when we need it damn bad."

It was only next day, when Wainwright Island loomed to windward,
close abeam, that Wolf Larsen opened his mouth in prophecy.  He had
attacked Johnson, been attacked by Leach, and had just finished
whipping the pair of them.

"Leach," he said, "you know I'm going to kill you some time or
other, don't you?"

A snarl was the answer.

"And as for you, Johnson, you'll get so tired of life before I'm
through with you that you'll fling yourself over the side.  See if
you don't."

"That's a suggestion," he added, in an aside to me.  "I'll bet you
a month's pay he acts upon it."

I had cherished a hope that his victims would find an opportunity
to escape while filling our water-barrels, but Wolf Larsen had
selected his spot well.  The Ghost lay half-a-mile beyond the surf-
line of a lonely beach.  Here debauched a deep gorge, with
precipitous, volcanic walls which no man could scale.  And here,
under his direct supervision--for he went ashore himself--Leach and
Johnson filled the small casks and rolled them down to the beach.
They had no chance to make a break for liberty in one of the boats.

Harrison and Kelly, however, made such an attempt.  They composed
one of the boats' crews, and their task was to ply between the
schooner and the shore, carrying a single cask each trip.  Just
before dinner, starting for the beach with an empty barrel, they
altered their course and bore away to the left to round the
promontory which jutted into the sea between them and liberty.
Beyond its foaming base lay the pretty villages of the Japanese
colonists and smiling valleys which penetrated deep into the
interior.  Once in the fastnesses they promised, and the two men
could defy Wolf Larsen.

I had observed Henderson and Smoke loitering about the deck all
morning, and I now learned why they were there.  Procuring their
rifles, they opened fire in a leisurely manner, upon the deserters.
It was a cold-blooded exhibition of marksmanship.  At first their
bullets zipped harmlessly along the surface of the water on either
side the boat; but, as the men continued to pull lustily, they
struck closer and closer.

"Now, watch me take Kelly's right oar," Smoke said, drawing a more
careful aim.

I was looking through the glasses, and I saw the oar-blade shatter
as he shot.  Henderson duplicated it, selecting Harrison's right
oar.  The boat slewed around.  The two remaining oars were quickly
broken.  The men tried to row with the splinters, and had them shot
out of their hands.  Kelly ripped up a bottom board and began
paddling, but dropped it with a cry of pain as its splinters drove
into his hands.  Then they gave up, letting the boat drift till a
second boat, sent from the shore by Wolf Larsen, took them in tow
and brought them aboard.

Late that afternoon we hove up anchor and got away.  Nothing was
before us but the three or four months' hunting on the sealing
grounds.  The outlook was black indeed, and I went about my work
with a heavy heart.  An almost funereal gloom seemed to have
descended upon the Ghost.  Wolf Larsen had taken to his bunk with
one of his strange, splitting headaches.  Harrison stood listlessly
at the wheel, half supporting himself by it, as though wearied by
the weight of his flesh.  And then this beautiful masquerade
of the elements,--the novel disguises our nearest friends put on!
Here is another rain and another dew, water that will not flow,
nor spill, nor receive the taint of an unclean vessel.

And if we see truly, the same old beneficence and willingness to
serve lurk beneath all.

Look up at the miracle of the falling snow,--the air a dizzy maze of
whirling, eddying flakes, noiselessly transforming the world, the
exquisite crystals dropping in ditch and gutter, and disguising in
the same suit of spotless livery all objects upon which they fall.

How novel and fine the first drifts!

The old, dilapidated fence is suddenly set off with the most
fantastic ruffles, scalloped and fluted after an unheard-of
fashion! Looking down a long line of decrepit stone wall, in
the trimming of which the wind had fairly run riot, I saw, as for
the first time, what a severe yet master artist old Winter is.
Ah, a severe artist! How stern the woods look, dark and cold and as
rigid against the horizon as iron!

All life and action upon the snow have an added emphasis and
significance. Every expression is underscored.

Summer has few finer pictures than this winter one of the farmer
foddering his cattle from a stack upon the clean snow,--the
movement, the sharply defined figures, the great green flakes of
hay, the long file of patient cows, the advance just arriving and
pressing eagerly for the choicest morsels,--and the bounty and
providence it suggests.

Or the chopper in the woods,--the prostrate tree, the white new
chips scattered about, his easy triumph over the cold, his coat
hanging to a limb, and the clear, sharp ring of his axe.
The woods are rigid and tense, keyed up by the frost, and
resound like a stringed instrument. Or the road-breakers, sallying
forth with oxen and sleds in the still, white world, the day after
the storm, to restore the lost track and demolish the beleaguering
drifts.

All sounds are sharper in winter; the air transmits better. At night
I hear more distinctly the steady roar of the North Mountain.

In summer it is a sort of complacent purr, as the breezes stroke
down its sides; but in winter always the same low, sullen growl.

A severe artist! No longer the canvas and the pigments, but the
marble and the chisel. When the nights are calm and the moon full,
I go out to gaze upon the wonderful purity of the moonlight and the
snow. The air is full of latent fire, and the cold warms
me--after a different fashion from that of the kitchen stove.
The world lies about me in a "trance of snow." The clouds are pearly
and iridescent, and seem the farthest possible remove from the
condition of a storm,--the ghosts of clouds, the indwelling
beauty freed from all dross.

I see the hills, bulging with great drifts, lift themselves up cold
and white against the sky, the black lines of fences here and there
obliterated by the depth of the snow. Presently a fox barks
away up next the mountain, and I imagine I can almost see him sitting
there, in his furs, upon the illuminated surface, and looking down
in my direction. As I listen, one answers him from behind the woods
in the valley. What a wild winter sound, wild and weird, up among
the ghostly hills!

Since the wolf has ceased to howl upon these mountains, and the
panther to scream, there is nothing to be compared with it. So
wild! I get up in the middle of the night to hear it. It is
refreshing to the ear, and one delights to know that such wild
creatures are among us. At this season Nature makes the most
of every throb of life that can withstand her severity. How
heartily she indorses this fox! In what bold relief stand out the
lives of all walkers of the snow!

The snow is a great tell-tale, and blabs as effectually as it
obliterates. I go into the woods, and know all that has happened. I
cross the fields, and if only a mouse has visited his neighbor,
the fact is chronicled.

The red fox is the only species that abounds in my locality; the
little gray fox seems to prefer a more rocky and precipitous country,
and a less rigorous climate; the cross fox is occasionally seen,
and there are traditions of the silver gray among the oldest
hunters.

But the red fox is the sportsman's prize, and the only fur-bearer
worthy of note in these mountains.
[Footnote: A spur of the catskills.]
I go out in the morning, after a fresh fall of snow, and see at
all points where he has crossed the road. Here he has leisurely
passed within rifle-range of the house, evidently reconnoitring
the premises with an eye to the hen-roost. That clear, sharp
track,--there is no mistaking it for the clumsy footprint of a
little dog. All his wildness and agility are photographed in it.
Here he has taken fright, or suddenly recollected an engagement,
and in long, graceful leaps, barely touching the fence, has gone
careering up the hill as fleet as the wind.

The wild, buoyant creature, how beautiful he is! I had often seen
his dead carcass, and at a distance had witnessed the hounds drive
him across the upper fields; but the thrill and excitement
of meeting him in his wild freedom in the woods were unknown to me
till, one cold winter day, drawn thither by the baying of a hound,
I stood near the summit of the mountain, waiting a renewal
of the sound, that I might determine the course of the dog and choose
my position,--stimulated by the ambition of all young Nimrods to
bag some notable game. Long I waited, and patiently, till, chilled
and benumbed, I was about to turn back, when, hearing a slight
noise, I looked up and beheld a most superb fox, loping along
with inimitable grace and ease, evidently disturbed, but not pursued
by the hound, and so absorbed in his private meditations that he
failed to see me, though I stood transfixed with amazement and
admiration, not ten yards distant.

I took his measure at a glance,--a large male, with dark legs,
and massive tail tipped with white,--a most magnificent creature;
but so astonished and fascinated was I by this sudden appearance
and matchless beauty, that not till I had caught the last glimpse
of him, as he disappeared over a knoll, did I awake to my duty
as a sportsman, and realize what an opportunity to distinguish
myself I had unconsciously let slip. I clutched my gun, half angrily,
as if it was to blame, and went home out, of humor with myself
and all fox-kind. But I have since thought better of the experience,
and concluded that I bagged the game after all, the best
part of it, and fleeced Reynard of something more valuable than
his fur, without his knowledge.

This is thoroughly a winter sound,--this voice of the hound upon the
mountain,--and one that is music to many ears. The long trumpet-like
bay, heard for a mile or more,--now faintly back in the deep
recesses of the mountain,--now distinct, but still faint, as the
hound comes over some prominent point and the wind favors,--anon
entirely lost in the gully,--then breaking out again much nearer,
and growing more and more pronounced as the dog approaches, till,
when he comes around the brow of the mountain, directly above you,
the barking is loud and sharp.

On he goes along the northern spur, his voice rising and sinking
as the wind and the lay of the ground modify it, till lost to
hearing.

The fox usually keeps half a mile ahead, regulating his speed by
that of the hound, occasionally pausing a moment to divert himself
with a mouse, or to contemplate the landscape, or to listen for his
pursuer.
If the hound press him too closely, he leads off from mountain to
mountain, and so generally escapes the hunter; but if the pursuit
be slow, he plays about some ridge or peak, and falls a prey,
though not an easy one, to the experienced sportsman.

A most spirited and exciting chase occurs when the farm-dog gets
close upon one in the open field, as sometimes happens in the early
morning.
The fox relies so confidently upon his superior speed, that I imagine
he half tempts the dog to the race.

But if the dog be a smart one, and their course lie downhill,
over smooth ground, Reynard must put his best foot forward, and
then sometimes suffer the ignominy of being run over by his pursuer,
who, however, is quite unable to pick him up, owing to the speed.

But when they mount the hill, or enter the woods, the superior
nimbleness and agility of the fox tell at once, and he easily
leaves the dog far in his rear. For a cur less than his own size
he manifests little fear, especially if the two meet alone, remote
from the house.

In such cases, I have seen first one turn tail, then the other.

A novel spectacle often occurs in summer, when the female has
young.
You are rambling on the mountain, accompanied by your dog, when you
are startled by that wild, half-threatening squall, and in a
moment perceive your dog, with inverted tail, and shame and confusion
in his looks, sneaking toward you, the old fox but a few rods
in his rear. You speak to him sharply, when he bristles up, turns
about, and, barking, starts off vigorously, as if to wipe out the
dishonor; but in a moment comes sneaking back more abashed than ever,
and owns himself unworthy to be called a dog. The fox fairly
shames him out of the woods.

The secret of the matter is her sex, though her conduct, for the honor
of the fox be it said, seems to be prompted only by solicitude
for the safety of her young.

One of the most notable features of the fox is his large and massive
tail.

Seen running on the snow at a distance, his tail is quite as conspicuous
as his body; and, so far from appearing a burden, seems to contribute
to his lightness and buoyancy.

It softens the outline of his movements, and repeats or continues
to the eye the ease and poise of his carriage. But, pursued by
the hound on a wet, thawy day, it often becomes so heavy and
bedraggled as to prove a serious inconvenience, and compels him to
take refuge in his den.

He is very loath to do this; both his pride and the traditions of
his race stimulate him to run it out, and win by fair superiority
of wind and speed; and only a wound or a heavy and moppish tail
will drive him to avoid the issue in this manner.

To learn his surpassing shrewdness and cunning, attempt to take him
with a trap. Rogue that he is, he always suspects some trick, and
one must be more of a fox than he is himself to overreach
him. At first sight it would appear easy enough. With apparent
indifference he crosses your path, or walks in your footsteps in
the field, or travels along the beaten highway, or lingers in the
vicinity of stacks and remote barns.

Carry the carcass of a pig, or a fowl, or a dog, to a distant field
in midwinter, and in a few nights his tracks cover the snow about
it.

The inexperienced country youth, misled by this seeming carelessness
of Reynard, suddenly conceives a project to enrich himself with
fur, and wonders that the idea has not occurred to him before,
and to others. I knew a youthful yeoman of this kind, who imagined
he had found a mine of wealth on discovering on a remote side-hill,
between two woods, a dead porker, upon which it appeared all the
foxes of the neighborhood had nightly banqueted.

The clouds were burdened with snow; and as the first flakes commenced
to eddy down, he set out, trap and broom in hand, already
counting over in imagination the silver quarters he would receive
for his first fox-skin.

With the utmost care, and with a palpitating heart, he removed
enough of the trodden snow to allow the trap to sink below the
surface.

Then, carefully sifting the light element over it and sweeping his
tracks full, he quickly withdrew, laughing exultingly over
the little surprise he had prepared for the cunning rogue.

The elements conspired to aid him, and the falling snow rapidly
obliterated all vestiges of his work. The next morning at dawn he
was on his way to bring in his fur.

The snow had done its work effectually, and, he believed, had kept
his secret well.

Arrived in sight of the locality, he strained his vision to make out
his prize lodged against the fence at the foot of the hill.
Approaching nearer, the surface was unbroken, and doubt usurped
the place of certainty in his mind. A slight mound marked the site
of the porker, but there was no footprint near it. Looking up the
hill, he saw where Reynard had walked leisurely down toward his
wonted bacon till within a few yards of it, when he had wheeled,
and with prodigious strides disappeared in the woods. The young
trapper saw at a glance what a comment this was upon his skill in
the art, and, indignantly exhuming the iron, he walked home with
it, the stream of silver quarters suddenly setting in another
direction.

The successful trapper commences in the fall, or before the first
deep snow. In a field not too remote, with an old axe he cuts a small
place, say ten inches by fourteen, in the frozen ground, and removes
the earth to the depth of three or four inches, then fills the
cavity with dry ashes, in which are placed bits of roasted cheese.

Reynard is very suspicious at first, and gives the place a wide
berth. It looks like design, and he will see how the thing behaves
before he approaches too near. But the cheese is savory and
the cold severe. He ventures a little closer every night, until
he can reach and pick a piece from the surface.

Emboldened by success, like other mortals, he presently digs freely
among the ashes, and, finding a fresh supply of the delectable
morsels every night, is soon thrown off his guard and his suspicions
quite lulled.

After a week of baiting in this manner, and on the eve of a light
fall of snow, the trapper carefully conceals his trap in the bed,
first smoking it thoroughly with hemlock boughs to kill or
neutralize the smell of the iron. If the weather favors and
the proper precautions have been taken, he may succeed, though
the chances are still greatly against him.

Reynard is usually caught very lightly, seldom more than the ends
of his toes being between the jaws. He sometimes works so cautiously
as to spring the trap without injury even to his toes, or may
remove the cheese night after night without even springing it.
I knew an old trapper who, on finding himself outwitted in this
manner, tied a bit of cheese to the pan, and next morning had poor
Reynard by the jaw. The trap is not fastened, but only encumbered
with a clog, and is all the more sure in its hold by yielding
to every effort of the animal to extricate himself.

When Reynard sees his captor approaching, he would fain drop into
a mouse-hole to render himself invisible. He crouches to the ground
and remains perfectly motionless until he perceives himself
discovered, when he makes one desperate and final effort to escape,
but ceases all struggling as you come up, and behaves in a manner
that stamps him a very timid warrior,--cowering to the earth with
a mingled look of shame, guilt, and abject fear.

A young farmer told me of tracing one with his trap to the border
of a wood, where he discovered the cunning rogue trying to hide
by embracing a small tree. Most animals, when taken in a trap,
show fight; but Reynard has more faith in the nimbleness of
his feet than in the terror of his teeth.

Entering the woods, the number and variety of the tracks contrast
strongly with the rigid, frozen aspect of things. Warm
jets of life still shoot and I play amid this snowy desolation.
Fox-tracks are far less numerous than in the fields; but those of
hares, skunks, partridges, squirrels, and mice abound.

The mice tracks are very pretty, and look like a sort of fantastic
stitching on the coverlid of the snow. One is curious to know what
brings these tiny creatures from their retreats; they do not
seem to be in quest of food, but rather to be traveling about for
pleasure or sociability, though always going post-haste, and linking
stump with stump and tree with tree by fine, hurried strides.

That is when they travel openly; but they have hidden passages and
winding galleries under the snow, which undoubtedly are their
main avenues of communication.

Here and there these passages rise so near the surface as to be
covered by only a frail arch of snow, and a slight ridge betrays
their course to the eye. I know him well. He is known to the
farmer as the "deer mouse," to the naturalist as the white-footed
mouse,--a very beautiful creature, nocturnal in his habits, with
large ears, and large, fine eyes full of a wild, harmless look.
He is daintily marked, with white feet and a white belly. When
disturbed by day he is very easily captured, having none of the
cunning or viciousness of the common Old World mouse.

It is he who, high in the hollow trunk of some tree, lays by a
store of beechnuts for winter use. Every nut is carefully shelled,
and the cavity that serves as storehouse lined with grass and
leaves. The wood-chopper frequently squanders this precious
store. I have seen half a peck taken from one tree, as clean and
white as if put up by the most delicate hands,--as they were.
I turned aside,
caught my breath, and looked again.  The wave over-topped the
Ghost, and I gazed sheer up and into it.  A shaft of sunlight smote
the over-curl, and I caught a glimpse of translucent, rushing
green, backed by a milky smother of foam.

Then it descended, pandemonium broke loose, everything happened at
once.  I was struck a crushing, stunning blow, nowhere in
particular and yet everywhere.  My hold had been broken loose, I
was under water, and the thought passed through my mind that this
was the terrible thing of which I had heard, the being swept in the
trough of the sea.  My body struck and pounded as it was dashed
helplessly along and turned over and over, and when I could hold my
breath no longer, I breathed the stinging salt water into my lungs.
But through it all I clung to the one idea--I MUST GET THE JIB
BACKED OVER TO WINDWARD.  I had no fear of death.  I had no doubt
but that I should come through somehow.  And as this idea of
fulfilling Wolf Larsen's order persisted in my dazed consciousness,
I seemed to see him standing at the wheel in the midst of the wild
welter, pitting his will against the will of the storm and defying
it.

I brought up violently against what I took to be the rail,
breathed, and breathed the sweet air again.  I tried to rise, but
struck my head and was knocked back on hands and knees.  By some
freak of the waters I had been swept clear under the forecastle-
head and into the eyes.  As I scrambled out on all fours, I passed
over the body of Thomas Mugridge, who lay in a groaning heap.
There was no time to investigate.  I must get the jib backed over.

When I emerged on deck it seemed that the end of everything had
come.  On all sides there was a rending and crashing of wood and
steel and canvas.  The Ghost was being wrenched and torn to
fragments.  The foresail and fore-topsail, emptied of the wind by
the manoeuvre, and with no one to bring in the sheet in time, were
thundering into ribbons, the heavy boom threshing and splintering
from rail to rail.  The air was thick with flying wreckage,
detached ropes and stays were hissing and coiling like snakes, and
down through it all crashed the gaff of the foresail.

The spar could not have missed me by many inches, while it spurred
me to action.  Perhaps the situation was not hopeless.  I
remembered Wolf Larsen's caution.  He had expected all hell to
break loose, and here it was.  And where was he?  I caught sight of
him toiling at the main-sheet, heaving it in and flat with his
tremendous muscles, the stern of the schooner lifted high in the
air and his body outlined against a white surge of sea sweeping
past.  All this, and more,--a whole world of chaos and wreck,--in
possibly fifteen seconds I had seen and heard and grasped.

I did not stop to see what had become of the small boat, but sprang
to the jib-sheet.  The jib itself was beginning to slap, partially
filling and emptying with sharp reports; but with a turn of the
sheet and the application of my whole strength each time it
slapped, I slowly backed it.  This I know:  I did my best.  I
pulled till I burst open the ends of all my fingers; and while I
pulled, the flying-jib and staysail split their cloths apart and
thundered into nothingness.

Still I pulled, holding what I gained each time with a double turn
until the next slap gave me more.  Then the sheet gave with greater
ease, and Wolf Larsen was beside me, heaving in alone while I was
busied taking up the slack.

"Make fast!" he shouted.  "And come on!"

As I followed him, I noted that in spite of rack and ruin a rough
order obtained.  The Ghost was hove to.  She was still in working
order, and she was still working.  Though the rest of her sails
were gone, the jib, backed to windward, and the mainsail hauled
down flat, were themselves holding, and holding her bow to the
furious sea as well.

I looked for the boat, and, while Wolf Larsen cleared the boat-
tackles, saw it lift to leeward on a big sea an not a score of feet
away.  And, so nicely had he made his calculation, we drifted
fairly down upon it, so that nothing remained to do but hook the
tackles to either end and hoist it aboard.  But this was not done
so easily as it is written.

In the bow was Kerfoot, Oofty-Oofty in the stern, and Kelly
amidships.  As we drifted closer the boat would rise on a wave
while we sank in the trough, till almost straight above me I could
see the heads of the three men craned overside and looking down.
Then, the next moment, we would lift and soar upward while they
sank far down beneath us.  It seemed incredible that the next surge
should not crush the Ghost down upon the tiny eggshell.

But, at the right moment, I passed the tackle to the Kanaka, while
Wolf Larsen did the same thing forward to Kerfoot.  Both tackles
were hooked in a trice, and the three men, deftly timing the roll,
made a simultaneous leap aboard the schooner.  As the Ghost rolled
her side out of water, the boat was lifted snugly against her, and
before the return roll came, we had heaved it in over the side and
turned it bottom up on the deck.  I noticed blood spouting from
Kerfoot's left hand.  In some way the third finger had been crushed
to a pulp.  But he gave no sign of pain, and with his single right
hand helped us lash the boat in its place.

"Stand by to let that jib over, you Oofty!" Wolf Larsen commanded,
the very second we had finished with the boat.  "Kelly, come aft
and slack off the main-sheet!  You, Kerfoot, go for'ard and see
what's become of Cooky!  Mr. Van Weyden, run aloft again, and cut
away any stray stuff on your way!"

And having commanded, he went aft with his peculiar tigerish leaps
to the wheel.  While I toiled up the fore-shrouds the Ghost slowly
paid off.  This time, as we went into the trough of the sea and
were swept, there were no sails to carry away.  And, halfway to the
crosstrees and flattened against the rigging by the full force of
the wind so that it would have been impossible for me to have
fallen, the Ghost almost on her beam-ends and the masts parallel
with the water, I looked, not down, but at almost right angles from
the perpendicular, to the deck of the Ghost.  But I saw, not the
deck, but where the deck should have been, for it was buried
beneath a wild tumbling of water.  Out of this water I could see
the two masts rising, and that was all.  The Ghost, for the moment,
was buried beneath the sea.  As she squared off more and more,
escaping from the side pressure, she righted herself and broke her
deck, like a whale's back, through the ocean surface.

Then we raced, and wildly, across the wild sea, the while I hung
like a fly in the crosstrees and searched for the other boats.  In
half-an-hour I sighted the second one, swamped and bottom up, to
which were desperately clinging Jock Horner, fat Louis, and
Johnson.  This time I remained aloft, and Wolf Larsen succeeded in
heaving to without being swept.  As before, we drifted down upon
it.  Tackles were made fast and lines flung to the men, who
scrambled aboard like monkeys.  The boat itself was crushed and
splintered against the schooner's side as it came inboard; but the
wreck was securely lashed, for it could be patched and made whole
again.

Once more the Ghost bore away before the storm, this time so
submerging herself that for some seconds I thought she would never
reappear.  Even the wheel, quite a deal higher than the waist, was
covered and swept again and again.  At such moments I felt
strangely alone with God, alone with him and watching the chaos of
his wrath.  And then the wheel would reappear, and Wolf Larsen's
broad shoulders, his hands gripping the spokes and holding the
schooner to the course of his will, himself an earth-god,
dominating the storm, flinging its descending waters from him and
riding it to his own ends.  And oh, the marvel of it! the marvel of
it!  That tiny men should live and breathe and work, and drive so
frail a contrivance of wood and cloth through so tremendous an
elemental strife.

As before, the Ghost swung out of the trough, lifting her deck
again out of the sea, and dashed before the howling blast.  It was
now half-past five, and half-an-hour later, when the last of the
day lost itself in a dim and furious twilight, I sighted a third
boat.  It was bottom up, and there was no sign of its crew.  Wolf
Larsen repeated his manoeuvre, holding off and then rounding up to
windward and drifting down upon it.  But this time he missed by
forty feet, the boat passing astern.

"Number four boat!" Oofty-Oofty cried, his keen eyes reading its
number in the one second when it lifted clear of the foam, and
upside down.

It was Henderson's boat and with him had been lost Holyoak and
Williams, another of the deep-water crowd.  Lost they indubitably
were; but the boat remained, and Wolf Larsen made one more reckless
effort to recover it.  I had come down to the deck, and I saw
Horner and Kerfoot vainly protest against the attempt.

"By God, I'll not be robbed of my boat by any storm that ever blew
out of hell!" he shouted, and though we four stood with our heads
together that we might hear, his voice seemed faint and far, as
though removed from us an immense distance.

"Mr. Van Weyden!" he cried, and I heard through the tumult as one
might hear a whisper.  "Stand by that jib with Johnson and Oofty!
The rest of you tail aft to the mainsheet!  Lively now! or I'll
sail you all into Kingdom Come!  Understand?"

And when he put the wheel hard over and the Ghost's bow swung off,
there was nothing for the hunters to do but obey and make the best
of a risky chance.  How great the risk I realized when I was once
more buried beneath the pounding seas and clinging for life to the
pinrail at the foot of the foremast.  My fingers were torn loose,
and I swept across to the side and over the side into the sea.  I
could not swim, but before I could sink I was swept back again.  A
strong hand gripped me, and when the Ghost finally emerged, I found
that I owed my life to Johnson.  I saw him looking anxiously about
him, and noted that Kelly, who had come forward at the last moment,
was missing.

This time, having missed the boat, and not being in the same
position as in the previous instances, Wolf Larsen was compelled to
resort to a different manoeuvre.  Running off before the wind with
everything to starboard, he came about, and returned close-hauled
on the port tack.

"Grand!" Johnson shouted in my ear, as we successfully came through
the attendant deluge, and I knew he referred, not to Wolf Larsen's
seamanship, but to the performance of the Ghost herself.

It was now so dark that there was no sign of the boat; but Wolf
Larsen held back through the frightful turmoil as if guided by
unerring instinct.  This time, though we were continually half-
buried, there was no trough in which to be swept, and we drifted
squarely down upon the upturned boat, badly smashing it as it was
heaved inboard.

Two hours of terrible work followed, in which all hands of us--two
hunters, three sailors, Wolf Larsen and I--reefed, first one and
then the other, the jib and mainsail.  Hove to under this short
canvas, our decks were comparatively free of water, while the Ghost
bobbed and ducked amongst the combers like a cork.

I had burst open the ends of my fingers at the very first, and
during the reefing I had worked with tears of pain running down my
cheeks.  And when all was done, I gave up like a woman and rolled
upon the deck in the agony of exhaustion.

In the meantime Thomas Mugridge, like a drowned rat, was being
dragged out from under the forecastle head where he had cravenly
ensconced himself.  I saw him pulled aft to the cabin, and noted
with a shock of surprise that the galley had disappeared.  A clean
space of deck showed where it had stood.

In the cabin I found all hands assembled, sailors as well, and
while coffee was being cooked over the small stove we drank whisky
and crunched hard-tack.  Never in my life had food been so welcome.
And never had hot coffee tasted so good.  So violently did the
Ghost, pitch and toss and tumble that it was impossible for even
the sailors to move about without holding on, and several times,
after a cry of "Now she takes it!" we were heaped upon the wall of
the port cabins as though it had been the deck.

"To hell with a look-out," I heard Wolf Larsen say when we had
eaten and drunk our fill.  "There's nothing can be done on deck.
If anything's going to run us down we couldn't get out of its way.
Turn in, all hands, and get some sleep."

The sailors slipped forward, setting the side-lights as they went,
while the two hunters remained to sleep in the cabin, it not being
deemed advisable to open the slide to the steerage companion-way.
Wolf Larsen and I, between us, cut off Kerfoot's crushed finger and
sewed up the stump.  Mugridge, who, during all the time he had been
compelled to cook and serve coffee and keep the fire going, had
complained of internal pains, now swore that he had a broken rib or
two.  On examination we found that he had three.  But his case was
deferred to next day, principally for the reason that I did not
know anything about broken ribs and would first have to read it up.

"I don't think it was worth it," I said to Wolf Larsen, "a broken
boat for Kelly's life."

"But Kelly didn't amount to much," was the reply.  "Good-night."

After all that had passed, suffering intolerable anguish in my
finger-ends, and with three boats missing, to say nothing of the
wild capers the Ghost was cutting, I should have thought it
impossible to sleep.  But my eyes must have closed the instant my
head touched the pillow, and in utter exhaustion I slept throughout
the night, the while the Ghost, lonely and undirected, fought her
way through the storm.


CHAPTER XVIII


The next day, while the storm was blowing itself out, Wolf Larsen
and I crammed anatomy and surgery and set Mugridge's ribs.  Then,
when the storm broke, Wolf Larsen cruised back and forth over that
portion of the ocean where we had encountered it, and somewhat more
to the westward, while the boats were being repaired and new sails
made and bent.  Sealing schooner after sealing schooner we sighted
and boarded, most of which were in search of lost boats, and most
of which were carrying boats and crews they had picked up and which
did not belong to them.  For the thick of the fleet had been to the
westward of us, and the boats, scattered far and wide, had headed
in mad flight for the nearest refuge.

Two of our boats, with men all safe, we took off the Cisco, and, to
Wolf Larsen's huge delight and my own grief, he culled Smoke, with
Nilson and Leach, from the San Diego.  So that, at the end of five
days, we found ourselves short but four men--Henderson, Holyoak,
Williams, and Kelly,--and were once more hunting on the flanks of
the herd.

As we followed it north we began to encounter the dreaded sea-fogs.
Day after day the boats lowered and were swallowed up almost ere
they touched the water, while we on board pumped the horn at
regular intervals and every fifteen minutes fired the bomb gun.
Boats were continually being lost and found, it being the custom
for a boat to hunt, on lay, with whatever schooner picked it up,
until such time it was recovered by its own schooner.  But Wolf
Larsen, as was to be expected, being a boat short, took possession
of the first stray one and compelled its men to hunt with the
Ghost, not permitting them to return to their own schooner when we
sighted it.  I remember how he forced the hunter and his two men
below, a riffle at their breasts, when their captain passed by at
biscuit-toss and hailed us for information.

Thomas Mugridge, so strangely and pertinaciously clinging to life,
was soon limping about again and performing his double duties of
cook and cabin-boy.  Johnson and Leach were bullied and beaten as
much as ever, and they looked for their lives to end with the end
of the hunting season; while the rest of the crew lived the lives
of dogs and were worked like dogs by their pitiless master.  As for
Wolf Larsen and myself, we got along fairly well; though I could
not quite rid myself of the idea that right conduct, for me, lay in
killing him.  He fascinated me immeasurably, and I feared him
immeasurably.  And yet, I could not imagine him lying prone in
death.  There was an endurance, as of perpetual youth, about him,
which rose up and forbade the picture.  I could see him only as
living always, and dominating always, fighting and destroying,
himself surviving.

One diversion of his, when we were in the midst of the herd and the
sea was too rough to lower the boats, was to lower with two boat-
pullers and a steerer and go out himself.  He was a good shot, too,
and brought many a skin aboard under what the hunters termed
impossible hunting conditions.  It seemed the breath of his
nostrils, this carrying his life in his hands and struggling for it
against tremendous odds.

I was learning more and more seamanship; and one clear day--a thing
we rarely encountered now--I had the satisfaction of running and
handling the Ghost and picking up the boats myself.  Wolf Larsen
had been smitten with one of his headaches, and I stood at the
wheel from morning until evening, sailing across the ocean after
the last lee boat, and heaving to and picking it and the other five
up without command or suggestion from him.

Gales we encountered now and again, for it was a raw and stormy
region, and, in the middle of June, a typhoon most memorable to me
and most important because of the changes wrought through it upon
my future.  We must have been caught nearly at the centre of this
circular storm, and Wolf Larsen ran out of it and to the southward,
first under a double-reefed jib, and finally under bare poles.
Never had I imagined so great a sea.  The seas previously
encountered were as ripples compared with these, which ran a half-
mile from crest to crest and which upreared, I am confident, above
our masthead.  So great was it that Wolf Larsen himself did not
dare heave to, though he was being driven far to the southward and
out of the seal herd.

We must have been well in the path of the trans-Pacific steamships
when the typhoon moderated, and here, to the surprise of the
hunters, we found ourselves in the midst of seals--a second herd,
or sort of rear-guard, they declared, and a most unusual thing.
But it was "Boats over!" the boom-boom of guns, and the pitiful
slaughter through the long day.

It was at this time that I was approached by Leach.  I had just
finished tallying the skins of the last boat aboard, when he came
to my side, in the darkness, and said in a low tone:

"Can you tell me, Mr. Van Weyden, how far we are off the coast, and
what the bearings of Yokohama are?"

My heart leaped with gladness, for I knew what he had in mind, and
I gave him the bearings--west-north-west, and five hundred miles
away.

"Thank you, sir," was all he said as he slipped back into the
darkness.

Next morning No. 3 boat and Johnson and Leach were missing.  The
water-breakers and grub-boxes from all the other boats were
likewise missing, as were the beds and sea bags of the two men.
Wolf Larsen was furious.  He set sail and bore away into the west-
north-west, two hunters constantly at the mastheads and sweeping
the sea with glasses, himself pacing the deck like an angry lion.
He knew too well my sympathy for the runaways to send me aloft as
look-out.

The wind was fair but fitful, and it was like looking for a needle
in a haystack to raise that tiny boat out of the blue immensity.
But he put the Ghost through her best paces so as to get between
the deserters and the land.  This accomplished, he cruised back and
forth across what he knew must be their course.

On the morning of the third day, shortly after eight bells, a cry
that the boat was sighted came down from Smoke at the masthead.
All hands lined the rail.  A snappy breeze was blowing from the
west with the promise of more wind behind it; and there, to
leeward, in the troubled silver of the rising sun, appeared and
disappeared a black speck.

We squared away and ran for it.  My heart was as lead.  I felt
myself turning sick in anticipation; and as I looked at the gleam
of triumph in Wolf Larsen's eyes, his form swam before me, and I
felt almost irresistibly impelled to fling myself upon him.  So
unnerved was I by the thought of impending violence to Leach and
Johnson that my reason must have left me.  I know that I slipped
down into the steerage in a daze, and that I was just beginning the
ascent to the deck, a loaded shot-gun in my hands, when I heard the
startled cry:

"There's five men in that boat!"

I supported myself in the companion-way, weak and trembling, while
the observation was being verified by the remarks of the rest of
the men.  Then my knees gave from under me and I sank down, myself
again, but overcome by shock at knowledge of what I had so nearly
done.  Also, I was very thankful as I put the gun away and slipped
back on deck.

No one had remarked my absence.  The boat was near enough for us to
make out that it was larger than any sealing boat and built on
different lines.  As we drew closer, the sail was taken in and the
mast unstepped.  Oars were shipped, and its occupants waited for us
to heave to and take them aboard.

Smoke, who had descended to the deck and was now standing by my
side, began to chuckle in a significant way.  I looked at him
inquiringly.

"Talk of a mess!" he giggled.

"What's wrong?" I demanded.

Again he chuckled.  "Don't you see there, in the stern-sheets, on
the bottom?  May I never shoot a seal again if that ain't a woman!"

I looked closely, but was not sure until exclamations broke out on
all sides.  The boat contained four men, and its fifth occupant was
certainly a woman.  We were agog with excitement, all except Wolf
Larsen, who was too evidently disappointed in that it was not his
own boat with the two victims of his malice.

We ran down the flying jib, hauled the jib-sheets to wind-ward and
the main-sheet flat, and came up into the wind.  The oars struck
the water, and with a few strokes the boat was alongside.  I now
caught my first fair glimpse of the woman.  She was wrapped in a
long ulster, for the morning was raw; and I could see nothing but
her face and a mass of light brown hair escaping from under the
seaman's cap on her head.  The eyes were large and brown and
lustrous, the mouth sweet and sensitive, and the face itself a
delicate oval, though sun and exposure to briny wind had burnt the
face scarlet.

She seemed to me like a being from another world.  I was aware of a
hungry out-reaching for her, as of a starving man for bread.  But
then, I had not seen a woman for a very long time.  I know that I
was lost in a great wonder, almost a stupor,--this, then, was a
woman?--so that I forgot myself and my mate's duties, and took no
part in helping the new-comers aboard.  For when one of the sailors
lifted her into Wolf Larsen's downstretched arms, she looked up
into our curious faces and smiled amusedly and sweetly, as only a
woman can smile, and as I had seen no one smile for so long that I
had forgotten such smiles existed.

"Mr. Van Weyden!"

Wolf Larsen's voice brought me sharply back to myself.

"Will you take the lady below and see to her comfort?  Make up that
spare port cabin.  Put Cooky to work on it.  And see what you can
do for that face.  It's burned badly."

He turned brusquely away from us and began to question the new men.
The boat was cast adrift, though one of them called it a "bloody
shame" with Yokohama so near.

I found myself strangely afraid of this woman I was escorting aft.
Also I was awkward.  It seemed to me that I was realizing for the
first time what a delicate, fragile creature a woman is; and as I
caught her arm to help her down the companion stairs, I was
startled by its smallness and softness.  Indeed, she was a slender,
delicate woman as women go, but to me she was so ethereally slender
and delicate that I was quite prepared for her arm to crumble in my
grasp.  All this, in frankness, to show my first impression, after
long denial of women in general and of Maud Brewster in particular.

"No need to go to any great trouble for me," she protested, when I
had seated her in Wolf Larsen's arm-chair, which I had dragged
hastily from his cabin.  "The men were looking for land at any
moment this morning, and the vessel should be in by night; don't
you think so?"

Her simple faith in the immediate future took me aback.  How could
I explain to her the situation, the strange man who stalked the sea
like Destiny, all that it had taken me months to learn?  But I
answered honestly:

"If it were any other captain except ours, I should say you would
be ashore in Yokohama to-morrow.  But our captain is a strange man,
and I beg of you to be prepared for anything--understand?--for
anything."

"I--I confess I hardly do understand," she hesitated, a perturbed
but not frightened expression in her eyes.  "Or is it a
misconception of mine that shipwrecked people are always shown
every consideration?  This is such a little thing, you know.  We
are so close to land."

"Candidly, I do not know," I strove to reassure her.  "I wished
merely to prepare you for the worst, if the worst is to come.  This
man, this captain, is a brute, a demon, and one can never tell what
will be his next fantastic act."

I was growing excited, but she interrupted me with an "Oh, I see,"
and her voice sounded weary.  To think was patently an effort.  She
was clearly on the verge of physical collapse.

She asked no further questions, and I vouchsafed no remark,
devoting myself to Wolf Larsen's command, which was to make her
comfortable.  I bustled about in quite housewifely fashion,
procuring soothing lotions for her sunburn, raiding Wolf Larsen's
private stores for a bottle of port I knew to be there, and
directing Thomas Mugridge in the preparation of the spare state-
room.

The wind was freshening rapidly, the Ghost heeling over more and
more, and by the time the state-room was ready she was dashing
through the water at a lively clip.  I had quite forgotten the
existence of Leach and Johnson, when suddenly, like a thunderclap,
"Boat ho!" came down the open companion-way.  It was Smoke's
unmistakable voice, crying from the masthead.  I shot a glance at
the woman, but she was leaning back in the arm-chair, her eyes
closed, unutterably tired.  I doubted that she had heard, and I
resolved to prevent her seeing the brutality I knew would follow
the capture of the deserters.  She was tired.  Very good.  She
should sleep.

There were swift commands on deck, a stamping of feet and a
slapping of reef-points as the Ghost shot into the wind and about
on the other tack.  As she filled away and heeled, the arm-chair
began to slide across the cabin floor, and I sprang for it just in
time to prevent the rescued woman from being spilled out.

Her eyes were too heavy to suggest more than a hint of the sleepy
surprise that perplexed her as she looked up at me, and she half
stumbled, half tottered, as I led her to her cabin.  Mugridge
grinned insinuatingly in my face as I shoved him out and ordered
him back to his galley work; and he won his revenge by spreading
glowing reports among the hunters as to what an excellent "lydy's-
myde" I was proving myself to be.

She leaned heavily against me, and I do believe that she had fallen
asleep again between the arm-chair and the state-room.  This I
discovered when she nearly fell into the bunk during a sudden lurch
of the schooner.  She aroused, smiled drowsily, and was off to
sleep again; and asleep I left her, under a heavy pair of sailor's
blankets, her head resting on a pillow I had appropriated from Wolf
Larsen's bunk.


CHAPTER XIX


I came on deck to find the Ghost heading up close on the port tack
and cutting in to windward of a familiar spritsail close-hauled on
the same tack ahead of us.  All hands were on deck, for they knew
that something was to happen when Leach and Johnson were dragged
aboard.

It was four bells.  Louis came aft to relieve the wheel.  There was
a dampness in the air, and I noticed he had on his oilskins.

"What are we going to have?" I asked him.

"A healthy young slip of a gale from the breath iv it, sir," he
answered, "with a splatter iv rain just to wet our gills an' no
more."

"Too bad we sighted them," I said, as the Ghost's bow was flung off
a point by a large sea and the boat leaped for a moment past the
jibs and into our line of vision.

Louis gave a spoke and temporized.  "They'd never iv made the land,
sir, I'm thinkin'."

"Think not?" I queried.

"No, sir.  Did you feel that?"  (A puff had caught the schooner,
and he was forced to put the wheel up rapidly to keep her out of
the wind.)  "'Tis no egg-shell'll float on this sea an hour come,
an' it's a stroke iv luck for them we're here to pick 'em up."

Wolf Larsen strode aft from amidships, where he had been talking
with the rescued men.  The cat-like springiness in his tread was a
little more pronounced than usual, and his eyes were bright and
snappy.

"Three oilers and a fourth engineer," was his greeting.  "But we'll
make sailors out of them, or boat-pullers at any rate.  Now, what
of the lady?"

I know not why, but I was aware of a twinge or pang like the cut of
a knife when he mentioned her.  I thought it a certain silly
fastidiousness on my part, but it persisted in spite of me, and I
merely shrugged my shoulders in answer.

Wolf Larsen pursed his lips in a long, quizzical whistle.

"What's her name, then?" he demanded.

"I don't know," I replied.  "She is asleep.  She was very tired.
In fact, I am waiting to hear the news from you.  What vessel was
it?"

"Mail steamer," he answered shortly.  "The City of Tokio, from
'Frisco, bound for Yokohama.  Disabled in that typhoon.  Old tub.
Opened up top and bottom like a sieve.  They were adrift four days.
And you don't know who or what she is, eh?--maid, wife, or widow?
Well, well."

He shook his head in a bantering way, and regarded me with laughing
eyes.

"Are you--" I began.  It was on the verge of my tongue to ask if he
were going to take the castaways into Yokohama.

"Am I what?" he asked.

"What do you intend doing with Leach and Johnson?"

He shook his head.  "Really, Hump, I don't know.  You see, with
these additions I've about all the crew I want."

"And they've about all the escaping they want," I said.  "Why not
give them a change of treatment?  Take them aboard, and deal gently
with them.  Whatever they have done they have been hounded into
doing."

"By me?"

"By you," I answered steadily.  "And I give you warning, Wolf
Larsen, that I may forget love of my own life in the desire to kill
you if you go too far in maltreating those poor wretches."

"Bravo!" he cried.  "You do me proud, Hump!  You've found your legs
with a vengeance.  You're quite an individual.  You were
unfortunate in having your life cast in easy places, but you're
developing, and I like you the better for it."

His voice and expression changed.  His face was serious.  "Do you
believe in promises?" he asked.  "Are they sacred things?"

"Of course," I answered.

"Then here's a compact," he went on, consummate actor.  "If I
promise not to lay my hands upon Leach will you promise, in turn,
not to attempt to kill me?"

"Oh, not that I'm afraid of you, not that I'm afraid of you," he
hastened to add.

I could hardly believe my ears.  What was coming over the man?

"Is it a go?" he asked impatiently.

"A go," I answered.

His hand went out to mine, and as I shook it heartily I could have
sworn I saw the mocking devil shine up for a moment in his eyes.

We strolled across the poop to the lee side.  The boat was close at
hand now, and in desperate plight.  Johnson was steering, Leach
bailing.  We overhauled them about two feet to their one.  Wolf
Larsen motioned Louis to keep off slightly, and we dashed abreast
of the boat, not a score of feet to windward.  The Ghost blanketed
it.  The spritsail flapped emptily and the boat righted to an even
keel, causing the two men swiftly to change position.  The boat
lost headway, and, as we lifted on a huge surge, toppled and fell
into the trough.

It was at this moment that Leach and Johnson looked up into the
faces of their shipmates, who lined the rail amidships.  There was
no greeting.  They were as dead men in their comrades' eyes, and
between them was the gulf that parts the living and the dead.

The next instant they were opposite the poop, where stood Wolf
Larsen and I.  We were falling in the trough, they were rising on
the surge.  Johnson looked at me, and I could see that his face was
worn and haggard.  I waved my hand to him, and he answered the
greeting, but with a wave that was hopeless and despairing.  It was
as if he were saying farewell.  I did not see into the eyes of
Leach, for he was looking at Wolf Larsen, the old and implacable
snarl of hatred strong as ever on his face.

Then they were gone astern.  The spritsail filled with the wind,
suddenly, careening the frail open craft till it seemed it would
surely capsize.  A whitecap foamed above it and broke across in a
snow-white smother.  Then the boat emerged, half swamped, Leach
flinging the water out and Johnson clinging to the steering-oar,
his face white and anxious.

Wolf Larsen barked a short laugh in my ear and strode away to the
weather side of the poop.  I expected him to give orders for the
Ghost to heave to, but she kept on her course and he made no sign.
Louis stood imperturbably at the wheel, but I noticed the grouped
sailors forward turning troubled faces in our direction.  Still the
Ghost tore along, till the boat dwindled to a speck, when Wolf
Larsen's voice rang out in command and he went about on the
starboard tack.

Back we held, two miles and more to windward of the struggling
cockle-shell, when the flying jib was run down and the schooner
hove to.  The sealing boats are not made for windward work.  Their
hope lies in keeping a weather position so that they may run before
the wind for the schooner when it breezes up.  But in all that wild
waste there was no refuge for Leach and Johnson save on the Ghost,
and they resolutely began the windward beat.  It was slow work in
the heavy sea that was running.  At any moment they were liable to
be overwhelmed by the hissing combers.  Time and again and
countless times we watched the boat luff into the big whitecaps,
lose headway, and be flung back like a cork.

Johnson was a splendid seaman, and he knew as much about small
boats as he did about ships.  At the end of an hour and a half he
was nearly alongside, standing past our stern on the last leg out,
aiming to fetch us on the next leg back.

"So you've changed your mind?" I heard Wolf Larsen mutter, half to
himself, half to them as though they could hear.  "You want to come
aboard, eh?  Well, then, just keep a-coming."

"Hard up with that helm!" he commanded Oofty-Oofty, the Kanaka, who
had in the meantime relieved Louis at the wheel.

Command followed command.  As the schooner paid off, the fore- and
main-sheets were slacked away for fair wind.  And before the wind
we were, and leaping, when Johnson, easing his sheet at imminent
peril, cut across our wake a hundred feet away.  Again Wolf Larsen
laughed, at the same time beckoning them with his arm to follow.
It was evidently his intention to play with them,--a lesson, I took
it, in lieu of a beating, though a dangerous lesson, for the frail
craft stood in momentary danger of being overwhelmed.

Johnson squared away promptly and ran after us.  There was nothing
else for him to do.  Death stalked everywhere, and it was only a
matter of time when some one of those many huge seas would fall
upon the boat, roll over it, and pass on.

"'Tis the fear iv death at the hearts iv them," Louis muttered in
my ear, as I passed forward to see to taking in the flying jib and
staysail.

"Oh, he'll heave to in a little while and pick them up," I answered
cheerfully.  "He's bent upon giving them a lesson, that's all."

Louis looked at me shrewdly.  "Think so?" he asked.

"Surely," I answered.  "Don't you?"

"I think nothing but iv my own skin, these days," was his answer.
"An' 'tis with wonder I'm filled as to the workin' out iv things.
A pretty mess that 'Frisco whisky got me into, an' a prettier mess
that woman's got you into aft there.  Ah, it's myself that knows ye
for a blitherin' fool."

"What do you mean?" I demanded; for, having sped his shaft, he was
turning away.

"What do I mean?" he cried.  "And it's you that asks me!  'Tis not
what I mean, but what the Wolf 'll mean.  The Wolf, I said, the
Wolf!"

"If trouble comes, will you stand by?" I asked impulsively, for he
had voiced my own fear.

"Stand by?  'Tis old fat Louis I stand by, an' trouble enough it'll
be.  We're at the beginnin' iv things, I'm tellin' ye, the bare
beginnin' iv things."

"I had not thought you so great a coward," I sneered.

He favoured me with a contemptuous stare.  "If I raised never a
hand for that poor fool,"--pointing astern to the tiny sail,--"d'ye
think I'm hungerin' for a broken head for a woman I never laid me
eyes upon before this day?"

I turned scornfully away and went aft.

"Better get in those topsails, Mr. Van Weyden," Wolf Larsen said,
as I came on the poop.

I felt relief, at least as far as the two men were concerned.  It
was clear he did not wish to run too far away from them.  I picked
up hope at the thought and put the order swiftly into execution.  I
had scarcely opened my mouth to issue the necessary commands, when
eager men were springing to halyards and downhauls, and others were
racing aloft.  This eagerness on their part was noted by Wolf
Larsen with a grim smile.

Still we increased our lead, and when the boat had dropped astern
several miles we hove to and waited.  All eyes watched it coming,
even Wolf Larsen's; but he was the only unperturbed man aboard.
Louis, gazing fixedly, betrayed a trouble in his face he was not
quite able to hide.

The boat drew closer and closer, hurling along through the seething
green like a thing alive, lifting and sending and uptossing across
the huge-backed breakers, or disappearing behind them only to rush
into sight again and shoot skyward.  It seemed impossible that it
could continue to live, yet with each dizzying sweep it did achieve
the impossible.  A rain-squall drove past, and out of the flying
wet the boat emerged, almost upon us.

"Hard up, there!" Wolf Larsen shouted, himself springing to the
wheel and whirling it over.

Again the Ghost sprang away and raced before the wind, and for two
hours Johnson and Leach pursued us.  We hove to and ran away, hove
to and ran away, and ever astern the struggling patch of sail
tossed skyward and fell into the rushing valleys.  It was a quarter
of a mile away when a thick squall of rain veiled it from view.  It
never emerged.  The wind blew the air clear again, but no patch of
sail broke the troubled surface.  I thought I saw, for an instant,
the boat's bottom show black in a breaking crest.  At the best,
that was all.  For Johnson and Leach the travail of existence had
ceased.

The men remained grouped amidships.  No one had gone below, and no
one was speaking.  Nor were any looks being exchanged.  Each man
seemed stunned--deeply contemplative, as it were, and, not quite
sure, trying to realize just what had taken place.  Wolf Larsen
gave them little time for thought.  He at once put the Ghost upon
her course--a course which meant the seal herd and not Yokohama
harbour.  But the men were no longer eager as they pulled and
hauled, and I heard curses amongst them, which left their lips
smothered and as heavy and lifeless as were they.  Not so was it
with the hunters.  Smoke the irrepressible related a story, and
they descended into the steerage, bellowing with laughter.

As I passed to leeward of the galley on my way aft I was approached
by the engineer we had rescued.  His face was white, his lips were
trembling.

"Good God! sir, what kind of a craft is this?" he cried.

"You have eyes, you have seen," I answered, almost brutally, what
of the pain and fear at my own heart.

"Your promise?" I said to Wolf Larsen.

"I was not thinking of taking them aboard when I made that
promise," he answered.  "And anyway, you'll agree I've not laid my
hands upon them."

"Far from it, far from it," he laughed a moment later.

I made no reply.  I was incapable of speaking, my mind was too
confused.  I must have time to think, I knew.  This woman, sleeping
even now in the spare cabin, was a responsibility, which I must
consider, and the only rational thought that flickered through my
mind was that I must do nothing hastily if I were to be any help to
her at all.


CHAPTER XX


The remainder of the day passed uneventfully.  The young slip of a
gale, having wetted our gills, proceeded to moderate.  The fourth
engineer and the three oilers, after a warm interview with Wolf
Larsen, were furnished with outfits from the slop-chests, assigned
places under the hunters in the various boats and watches on the
vessel, and bundled forward into the forecastle.  They went
protestingly, but their voices were not loud.  They were awed by
what they had already seen of Wolf Larsen's character, while the
tale of woe they speedily heard in the forecastle took the last bit
of rebellion out of them.

Miss Brewster--we had learned her name from the engineer--slept on
and on.  At supper I requested the hunters to lower their voices,
so she was not disturbed; and it was not till next morning that she
made her appearance.  It had been my intention to have her meals
served apart, but Wolf Larsen put down his foot.  Who was she that
she should be too good for cabin table and cabin society? had been
his demand.

But her coming to the table had something amusing in it.  The
hunters fell silent as clams.  Jock Horner and Smoke alone were
unabashed, stealing stealthy glances at her now and again, and even
taking part in the conversation.  The other four men glued their
eyes on their plates and chewed steadily and with thoughtful
precision, their ears moving and wobbling, in time with their jaws,
like the ears of so many animals.

Wolf Larsen had little to say at first, doing no more than reply
when he was addressed.  Not that he was abashed.  Far from it.
This woman was a new type to him, a different breed from any he had
ever known, and he was curious.  He studied her, his eyes rarely
leaving her face unless to follow the movements of her hands or
shoulders.  I studied her myself, and though it was I who
maintained the conversation, I know that I was a bit shy, not quite
self-possessed.  His was the perfect poise, the supreme confidence
in self, which nothing could shake; and he was no more timid of a
woman than he was of storm and battle.

"And when shall we arrive at Yokohama?" she asked, turning to him
and looking him squarely in the eyes.

There it was, the question flat.  The jaws stopped working, the
ears ceased wobbling, and though eyes remained glued on plates,
each man listened greedily for the answer.

"In four months, possibly three if the season closes early," Wolf
Larsen said.

She caught her breath and stammered, "I--I thought--I was given to
understand that Yokohama was only a day's sail away.  It--"  Here
she paused and looked about the table at the circle of
unsympathetic faces staring hard at the plates.  "It is not right,"
she concluded.

"That is a question you must settle with Mr. Van Weyden there," he
replied, nodding to me with a mischievous twinkle.  "Mr. Van Weyden
is what you may call an authority on such things as rights.  Now I,
who am only a sailor, would look upon the situation somewhat
differently.  It may possibly be your misfortune that you have to
remain with us, but it is certainly our good fortune."

He regarded her smilingly.  Her eyes fell before his gaze, but she
lifted them again, and defiantly, to mine.  I read the unspoken
question there:  was it right?  But I had decided that the part I
was to play must be a neutral one, so I did not answer.

"What do you think?" she demanded.

"That it is unfortunate, especially if you have any engagements
falling due in the course of the next several months.  But, since
you say that you were voyaging to Japan for your health, I can
assure you that it will improve no better anywhere than aboard the
Ghost."

I saw her eyes flash with indignation, and this time it was I who
dropped mine, while I felt my face flushing under her gaze.  It was
cowardly, but what else could I do?

"Mr. Van Weyden speaks with the voice of authority," Wolf Larsen
laughed.

I nodded my head, and she, having recovered herself, waited
expectantly.

"Not that he is much to speak of now," Wolf Larsen went on, "but he
has improved wonderfully.  You should have seen him when he came on
board.  A more scrawny, pitiful specimen of humanity one could
hardly conceive.  Isn't that so, Kerfoot?"

Kerfoot, thus directly addressed, was startled into dropping his
knife on the floor, though he managed to grunt affirmation.

"Developed himself by peeling potatoes and washing dishes.  Eh,
Kerfoot?"

Again that worthy grunted.

"Look at him now.  True, he is not what you would term muscular,
but still he has muscles, which is more than he had when he came
aboard.  Also, he has legs to stand on.  You would not think so to
look at him, but he was quite unable to stand alone at first."

The hunters were snickering, but she looked at me with a sympathy
in her eyes which more than compensated for Wolf Larsen's
nastiness.  In truth, it had been so long since I had received
sympathy that I was softened, and I became then, and gladly, her
willing slave.  But I was angry with Wolf Larsen.  He was
challenging my manhood with his slurs, challenging the very legs he
claimed to be instrumental in getting for me.

"I may have learned to stand on my own legs," I retorted.  "But I
have yet to stamp upon others with them."

He looked at me insolently.  "Your education is only half
completed, then," he said dryly, and turned to her.

"We are very hospitable upon the Ghost.  Mr. Van Weyden has
discovered that.  We do everything to make our guests feel at home,
eh, Mr. Van Weyden?"

"Even to the peeling of potatoes and the washing of dishes," I
answered, "to say nothing to wringing their necks out of very
fellowship."

"I beg of you not to receive false impressions of us from Mr. Van
Weyden," he interposed with mock anxiety.  "You will observe, Miss
Brewster, that he carries a dirk in his belt, a--ahem--a most
unusual thing for a ship's officer to do.  While really very
estimable, Mr. Van Weyden is sometimes--how shall I say?--er--
quarrelsome, and harsh measures are necessary.  He is quite
reasonable and fair in his calm moments, and as he is calm now he
will not deny that only yesterday he threatened my life."

I was well-nigh choking, and my eyes were certainly fiery.  He drew
attention to me.

"Look at him now.  He can scarcely control himself in your
presence.  He is not accustomed to the presence of ladies anyway.
I shall have to arm myself before I dare go on deck with him."

He shook his head sadly, murmuring, "Too bad, too bad," while the
hunters burst into guffaws of laughter.

The deep-sea voices of these men, rumbling and bellowing in the
confined space, produced a wild effect.  The whole setting was
wild, and for the first time, regarding this strange woman and
realizing how incongruous she was in it, I was aware of how much a
part of it I was myself.  I knew these men and their mental
processes, was one of them myself, living the seal-hunting life,
eating the seal-hunting fare, thinking, largely, the seal-hunting
thoughts.  There was for me no strangeness to it, to the rough
clothes, the coarse faces, the wild laughter, and the lurching
cabin walls and swaying sea-lamps.

As I buttered a piece of bread my eyes chanced to rest upon my
hand.  The knuckles were skinned and inflamed clear across, the
fingers swollen, the nails rimmed with black.  I felt the mattress-
like growth of beard on my neck, knew that the sleeve of my coat
was ripped, that a button was missing from the throat of the blue
shirt I wore.  The dirk mentioned by Wolf Larsen rested in its
sheath on my hip.  It was very natural that it should be there,--
how natural I had not imagined until now, when I looked upon it
with her eyes and knew how strange it and all that went with it
must appear to her.

But she divined the mockery in Wolf Larsen's words, and again
favoured me with a sympathetic glance.  But there was a look of
bewilderment also in her eyes.  That it was mockery made the
situation more puzzling to her.

"I may be taken off by some passing vessel, perhaps," she
suggested.

"There will be no passing vessels, except other sealing-schooners,"
Wolf Larsen made answer.

"I have no clothes, nothing," she objected.  "You hardly realize,
sir, that I am not a man, or that I am unaccustomed to the vagrant,
careless life which you and your men seem to lead."

"The sooner you get accustomed to it, the better," he said.

"I'll furnish you with cloth, needles, and thread," he added.  "I
hope it will not be too dreadful a hardship for you to make
yourself a dress or two."

She made a wry pucker with her mouth, as though to advertise her
ignorance of dressmaking.  That she was frightened and bewildered,
and that she was bravely striving to hide it, was quite plain to
me.

"I suppose you're like Mr. Van Weyden there, accustomed to having
things done for you.  Well, I think doing a few things for yourself
will hardly dislocate any joints.  By the way, what do you do for a
living?"

She regarded him with amazement unconcealed.

"I mean no offence, believe me.  People eat, therefore they must
procure the wherewithal.  These men here shoot seals in order to
live; for the same reason I sail this schooner; and Mr. Van Weyden,
for the present at any rate, earns his salty grub by assisting me.
Now what do you do?"

She shrugged her shoulders.

"Do you feed yourself?  Or does some one else feed you?"

"I'm afraid some one else has fed me most of my life," she laughed,
trying bravely to enter into the spirit of his quizzing, though I
could see a terror dawning and growing in her eyes as she watched
Wolf Larsen.

"And I suppose some one else makes your bed for you?"

"I HAVE made beds," she replied.

"Very often?"

She shook her head with mock ruefulness.

"Do you know what they do to poor men in the States, who, like you,
do not work for their living?"

"I am very ignorant," she pleaded.  "What do they do to the poor
men who are like me?"

"They send them to jail.  The crime of not earning a living, in
their case, is called vagrancy.  If I were Mr. Van Weyden, who
harps eternally on questions of right and wrong, I'd ask, by what
right do you live when you do nothing to deserve living?"

"But as you are not Mr. Van Weyden, I don't have to answer, do I?"

She beamed upon him through her terror-filled eyes, and the pathos
of it cut me to the heart.  I must in some way break in and lead
the conversation into other channels.

"Have you ever earned a dollar by your own labour?" he demanded,
certain of her answer, a triumphant vindictiveness in his voice.

"Yes, I have," she answered slowly, and I could have laughed aloud
at his crestfallen visage.  "I remember my father giving me a
dollar once, when I was a little girl, for remaining absolutely
quiet for five minutes."

He smiled indulgently.

"But that was long ago," she continued.  "And you would scarcely
demand a little girl of nine to earn her own living."

"At present, however," she said, after another slight pause, "I
earn about eighteen hundred dollars a year."

With one accord, all eyes left the plates and settled on her.  A
woman who earned eighteen hundred dollars a year was worth looking
at.  Wolf Larsen was undisguised in his admiration.

"Salary, or piece-work?" he asked.

"Piece-work," she answered promptly.

"Eighteen hundred," he calculated.  "That's a hundred and fifty
dollars a month.  Well, Miss Brewster, there is nothing small about
the Ghost.  Consider yourself on salary during the time you remain
with us."

She made no acknowledgment.  She was too unused as yet to the whims
of the man to accept them with equanimity.

"I forgot to inquire," he went on suavely, "as to the nature of
your occupation.  What commodities do you turn out?  What tools and
materials do you require?"

"Paper and ink," she laughed.  "And, oh! also a typewriter."

"You are Maud Brewster," I said slowly and with certainty, almost
as though I were charging her with a crime.

Her eyes lifted curiously to mine.  "How do you know?"

"Aren't you?" I demanded.

She acknowledged her identity with a nod.  It was Wolf Larsen's
turn to be puzzled.  The name and its magic signified nothing to
him.  The bonzer peach!

Now, as the poit sez, the days drag by On ledding feet.

I wish't they'd do a guy.
I dunno'ow I 'ad the nerve ter speak, An' make that meet wiv 'er
fer Sundee week!

But strike!

It's funny wot a bloke'll do When 'e's all out...She's gorn, when
I come-to.

I'm yappin' to me cobber uv me mash....

I've done me dash!

'Er name's Doreen....An' me-that thort I knoo The ways uv tarts,
an' all that smoogin' game!

An' so I ort; fer ain't I known a few?
Yet some'ow...I dunno. It ain't the same.

I carn't tell WOT it is; but, all I know, I've dropped me bundle--an'
I'm glad it's so.
Fer when I come ter think uv wot I been....
'Er name's Doreen.

III. The Stoush o' Day

Ar, these is 'appy days! An' 'ow they've flown-- Flown like the smoke
of some inchanted fag; Since dear Doreen, the sweetest tart
I've known, Passed me the jolt that made me sky the rag.
An' ev'ry golding day floats o'er a chap Like a glad dream of some
celeschil scrap.

Refreshed wiv sleep Day to the mornin' mill Comes jauntily to out
the nigger, Night.

Trained to the minute, confident in skill, 'E swaggers in
the East, chock-full o' skite; Then spars a bit, an' plugs
Night on the point.
Out go the stars; an' Day 'as jumped the joint.

The sun looks up, an' wiv a cautious stare, Like some crook keekin'
o'er a winder sill To make dead cert'in everythink is square, 'E
shoves 'is boko o'er an Eastern 'ill, Then rises, wiv 'is dial all
a-grin, An' sez, "'Ooray!

I knoo that we could win!"
Sure of 'is title then, the champeen Day Begins to put on dawg
among 'is push, An', as he mooches on 'is gaudy way, Drors tribute
from each tree an' flow'r an' bush.

An', w'ile 'e swigs the dew in sylvan bars, The sun shouts insults
at the sneakin' stars.

Then, lo! the push o' Day rise to applaud; An' all 'is creatures
clamour at 'is feet Until 'e thinks'imself a little gawd, An'
swaggers on an' kids 'imself a treat.

The w'ile the lurkin' barrackers o' Night Sneak in retreat an'
plan another fight.

On thro' the hours, triumphant, proud an' fit, The champeen
marches on 'is up'ard way, Till, at the zenith, bli'me!
'E-is-IT!
And all the world bows to the Boshter Day.
The jealous Night speeds ethergrams thro' space 'Otly demandin'
terms, an' time, an' place.

A wile the champeen scorns to make reply; 'E's taken tickets on 'is
own 'igh worth; Puffed up wiv pride, an' livin' mighty 'igh, 'E
don't admit that Night is on the earth.
But as the hours creep on 'e deigns to state 'E'll fight for all
the earth an' 'arf the gate.

Late afternoon...Day feels 'is flabby arms, An' tells 'imself 'e
don't seem quite the thing.

The 'omin' birds shriek clamorous alarms; An' Night creeps stealthily
to gain the ring.

But see! The champeen backs an' fills, becos 'E doesn't feel the
Boshter Bloke 'e was.

Time does a bunk as us-u-al, nor stays A single instant, e'en at
Day's be'est.
Alas, the 'eavy-weight's 'igh-livin' ways 'As made 'im soft, an'
large around the vest.
'E sez 'e's fat inside; 'e starts to whine; 'E sez 'e wants to dror
the colour line.

Relentless nigger Night crawls thro' the ropes, Advancin' grimly on
the quakin' Day, Whose noisy push, shorn of their 'igh-noon 'opes,
Wait, 'ushed an' anxious, fer the comin' fray.

And many lusty barrackers of noon Desert 'im one by one--traitors
so soon!

'E's out er form! 'E 'asn't trained enough!
They mark their sickly champeen on the stage, An' narked, the sun,
'is backer, in a huff, Sneaks outer sight, red in the face wiv
rage.
W'ile gloomy roosters, they 'oo made the morn Ring wiv 'is praises,
creep to bed forlorn.

All faint an' groggy grows the beaten Day; 'E staggers drunkenly
about the ring; An owl 'oots jeerin'ly across the way, An' bats
come out to mock the fallin' King.
Now, wiv a jolt, Night spreads 'im on the floor, An' all the west
grows ruddy wiv 'is gore.

A single, vulgar star leers from the sky An' in derision, rudely
mutters, "Yah!" The moon, Night's conkerbine, comes glidin' by
An' laughs a 'eartless, silvery "Ha-ha!" Scorned, beaten, Day
gives up the 'opeless fight, An' drops 'is bundle in the lap o'
Night.

* * * * * * * *
So goes each day, like some celeschil mill, E'er since I met that
shyin' little peach.

'Er bonzer voice! I 'ear its music still, As when she guv that
promise fer the beach.
An', square an' all, no matter 'ow yeh start, The commin end of
most of us is--Tart.

IV. Doreen

"I wish't yeh menat it, Bill." Oh, 'ow me 'eart Went out to 'er that
evnin' on the beach.

I knew she weren't no ordinary tart, My little peach!

To 'ear 'er voice! Its gentle sorter tone, Like soft dream-music
of some Dago band.
An' me all out; an' 'oldin' in me own 'Er little 'and.
An' 'ow she blushed! O, strike! it was divine The way she raised
'er shinin' eyes to mine.

'Er eyes! Soft in the moon; such BOSHTER eyes!
An' when they sight a bloke...O, spare me days!
'E goes all loose inside; such glamour lies In 'er sweet gaze.
It makes 'im all ashamed uv wot 'e's been To look inter the eyes
of my Doreen

.

* * * *
The wet sands glistened, an' the gleamin' moon Shone yeller on
the sea, all streakin' down.
A band was playin' some soft, dreamy choon; An' up the town We 'eard
the distant tram-cars whir an' clash.
An' there I told Per 'ow I'd done me dash.

"I wish't yeh meant it." 'Struth! And did I, fair?
A bloke 'ud be a dawg to kid a skirt Like her. An' me well knowin'
she was square.
It 'ud be dirt!
'E'd be no man to point wiv her, an' kid.
I meant it honest; an' she knoo I did.

She knoo. I've done me block in on her, straight.
A cove 'as got to think some time in life An' get some decent tart,
ere it's too late, To be 'is wife.
But, Gawd! 'Oo would 'a' thort it could 'a' been My luck to strike
the likes of Per?...Doreen!

Aw, I can stand their chuckin' off, I can.

It's 'ard; an' I'd delight to take 'em on.
The dawgs! But it gets that way wiv a man When 'e's fair
gone.
She'll sight no stoush; an' so I have to take Their mag, an' do a
duck fer her sweet sake.

Fer 'er sweet sake I've gone and chucked it clean:
The pubs an' schools an' all that leery game.

Fer when a bloke 'as come to know Doreen, It ain't the same.
There's 'igher things, she sez, for blokes to do.
An' I am 'arf believin' that it's true.

Yes, 'igher things--that wus the way she spoke; An' when she looked
at me I sorter felt That bosker feelin' that comes o'er a bloke,
An' makes 'im melt; Makes 'im all 'ot to maul 'er, an' to shove
'Is arms about'er...Bli'me?

but it's love!

That's wot it is.

An' when a man 'as grown Like that 'e gets a sorter yearn inside
To be a little 'ero on 'is own; An' see the pride Glow in the eyes
of 'er 'e calls 'is queen; An' 'ear 'er say 'e is a shine champeen.

"I wish't yeh meant it," I can 'ear 'er yet, My bit o' fluff!
The moon was shinin' bright, Turnin' the waves all yeller where
it set-- A bonzer night!

The sparklin' sea all sorter gold an' green; An' on the pier
the band--O, 'Ell!... Doreen!

V. The Play

"Wots in a name?" she sez...An' then she sighs, An' clasps 'er
little 'ands, an' rolls 'er eyes.
"A rose," she sez, "be any other name Would smell the same.
Oh, w'erefore art you Romeo, young sir?
Chuck yer ole pot, an' change yer moniker!"
Doreen an' me, we bin to see a show-- The swell two-dollar touch.
Bong tong, yeh know.
A chair apiece wiv velvit on the seat; A slap-up treat.
The drarmer's writ be Shakespeare, years ago, About a barmy goat
called Romeo.

"Lady, be yonder moon I swear!" sez 'e.
An' then 'e climbs up on the balkiney; An' there they smooge a treat,
wiv pretty words Like two love-birds.
I nudge Doreen. She whispers, "Ain't it grand!" 'Er eyes is shinin';
an' I squeeze 'er 'and.

"Wot's in a name?" she sez. 'Struth, I dunno.
Billo is just as good as Romeo.

She may be Juli-er or Juli-et-- 'E loves 'er yet.
If she's the tart 'e wants, then she's 'is queen, Names never count...But
ar, I like "Doreen!"
A sweeter, dearer sound I never 'eard; Ther's music 'angs around
that little word, Doreen!...But wot was this I starts to
say About the play?

I'm off me beat. But when a bloke's in love 'Is thorts turns
'er way, like a 'omin' dove.

This Romeo 'e's lurkin' wiv a crew-- A dead tough crowd o'
crooks--called Montague.
'Is cliner's push--wot's nicknamed Capulet-- They 'as 'em set.
Fair narks they are, jist like them back-street clicks, Ixcep' they
fights wiv skewers 'stid o' bricks.

Wot's in a name? Wot's in a string o' words?
They scraps in ole Verona with the'r swords, An' never give a bloke
a stray dog's chance, An' that's Romance.

But when they deals it out wiv bricks an' boots In Little Lon.,
they're low, degraded broots.

Wot's jist plain stoush wiv us, right 'ere to-day, Is "valler" if
yer fur enough away.

Some time, some writer bloke will do the trick Wiv Ginger Mick, Of
Spadger's Lane. 'E'LL be a Romeo, When 'e's bin dead five 'undred
years or so.

Fair Juli-et, she gives 'er boy the tip.
Sez she: "Don't sling that crowd o' mine no lip; An' if you run
agin a Capulet, Jist do a get." 'E swears 'e's done wiv lash; 'e'll
chuck it clean.
(Same as I done when I first met Doreen.)
They smooge some more at that. Ar, strike me blue!
It gimme Joes to sit an' watch them two!
'E'd break away an' start to say good-bye, An' then she'd sigh "Ow,
Ro-me-o!" an' git a strangle-holt, An' 'ang around 'im like she
feared 'e'd bolt.

Nex' day 'e words a gorspil cove about A secret wedding; 'an they
plan it out.

'E spouts a piece about 'ow 'e's bewitched:
Then they git 'itched.

Now, 'ere's the place where I fair git the pip!
She's 'is ofr keeps, an' yet 'e lets 'er slip!

Ar! but'e makes me sick! A fair gazob!
'E's jist the glarsey on the soulful sob, 'E'll sigh and spruik, an'
'owl a love-sick vow-- (The silly cow!) But when 'e's got 'er,
spliced an' on the straight 'E crools the pitch, an' tries to kid
it's Fate.

Aw! Fate me foot!

Instid of slopin' soon As 'e was wed, off on 'is 'oneymoon, 'Im an'
'is cobber, called Mick Curio, They 'ave to go An' mix it wiv that
push o' Capulets.

They look fer trouble; an' it's wot they gets.

A tug named Tyball (cousin to the skirt) Sprags 'em an' makes a
start to sling off dirt.

Nex' minnit there's a reel ole ding-dong go-- 'Arf round or
so.

Mick Curio, 'e gets it in the neck, "Ar rats!" 'e sez, an' passes
in 'is check.

Quite natchril, Romeo gits wet as 'ell.

"It's me or you!" 'e 'owls, an' wiv a yell, Plunks Tyball through
the gizzard wiv 'is sword, 'Ow I ongcored!

"Put in the boot!" I sez. "Put in the boot!" "'Ush!" sez
Doreen..."Shame!" sez some silly coot.

Then Romeo, 'e dunno wot to do.

The cops gits busy, like they allwiz do, An' nose around until 'e
gits blue funk An' does a bunk.
They wants 'is tart to wed some other guy.
"Ah, strike!" she sez. "I wish that I could die!"
Now, this 'ere gorspil bloke's a fair shrewd 'ead.
Sez 'e "I'll dope yeh, so they'll THINK yer dead."

(I tips 'e was a cunnin' sort, wot knoo A thing or two.)

She takes 'is knock-out drops, up in 'er room:
They think she's snuffed, an' plant 'er in 'er tomb.

Then things gits mixed a treat an' starts to whirl.

'Ere's Romeo comes back an' finds 'is girl Tucked in 'er little
coffing, cold an' stiff, An' in a jiff, 'E swallows lysol, throws
a fancy fit, 'Ead over turkey, an' 'is soul 'as flit.

Then Juli-et wakes up an' sees 'im there, Turns on the water-works
an' tears 'er 'air, "Dear love," she sez, "I cannot live alone!"

An' wiv a moan, She grabs 'is pockit knife, an' ends 'er cares...
_"Peanuts or lollies!_" sez a boy upstairs.

VI. The Stror 'at Coot

Ar, wimmin! Wot a blinded fool I've been!
I arsts meself, wot else could I ixpeck?
I done me block complete on this Doreen, An' now me 'eart is
broke, me life's a wreck!
The dreams I dreamed, the dilly thorts I thunk Is up the pole, an'
joy 'as done a bunk.

Wimmin! O strike! I orter known the game!
Their tricks is crook, their arts is all dead snide.
The 'ole world over tarts is all the same; All soft an' smilin' wiv
no 'eart inside.
But she fair doped me wiv 'er winnin' ways, Then crooled me
pitch fer all me mortal days.

They're all the same! A man 'as got to be Stric' master if 'e wants
to snare 'em sure.

'E 'as to take a stand an' let 'em see That triflin' is a thing'e
won't indure.

'E wants to show 'em that 'e 'olds command, So they will smooge an'
feed out of 'is 'and.

'E needs to make 'em feel 'e is the boss, An' kid 'e's careless uv
the joys they give.
'E 'as to make 'em think 'e'll feel no loss To part wiv any tart 'e's
trackin' wiv.
That all their pretty ways is crook pretence Is plain to any
bloke wiv common-sense.

But when the birds is nestin' in the spring, An' when the soft
green leaves is in the bud, 'E drops 'is bundle to some fluffy
thing.

'E pays 'er 'omage--an' 'is name is Mud.
She plays wiv'im an' kids 'im on a treat, Until she 'as 'im crawlin'
at 'er feet.

An' then, when 'e's fair orf 'is top wiv love, When she 'as got
'im good an' 'ad 'er fun, She slings 'im over like a carst-orf
glove, To let the other tarts see wot she's done.
All vanity, deceit an' 'eartless kid!

I orter known; an', spare me days, I did!

I knoo.

But when I looked into 'er eyes-- Them shinin' eyes o' blue all
soft wiv love Wiv MIMIC love--they seemed to 'ipnertize.
I wus content to place 'er 'igh above.
I wus content to make of 'er a queen; An' so she seemed them days...O,
'struth!...Doreen!

I knoo.

But when I stroked 'er glossy 'air Wiv rev'rint 'ands, 'er cheek
pressed close to mine, Me lonely life seemed robbed of all its
care; I dreams me dreams, an' 'ope begun to shine.

An' when she 'eld 'er lips fer me to kiss...
Ar, wot's the use?

I'm done wiv all o' this!

Wimmin!...Oh, I ain't jealous! Spare me days!
Me? Jealous uv a knock-kneed coot like that!
'Im! Wiv 'is cute stror 'at an' pretty ways!
I'd be a mug to squeal or whip the cat.
I'm glad, I am--glad 'cos I know I'm free!
There ain't no call to tork o' jealousy.

I tells meself I'm well out o' the game; Fer look, I mighter
married 'er-an' then....
Ar strike! 'Er voice wus music when my name Wus on 'er lips on them
glad ev'nin's when We useter meet. An' then to think she'd go...

No, I ain't jealous--but--Ar, I dunno!

I took a derry on this stror 'at coot First time I seen 'im dodgin'
round Doreen.

'Im, wiv 'is giddy tie an' Yankee soot, Ferever yappin' like a
tork-machine About "The Hoffis" where 'e 'ad a grip....

The way 'e smiled at 'er give me the pip!

She sez I stoushed 'im, when I promised fair To chuck it,
even to a friendly spar.

Stoushed 'im! I never roughed 'is pretty 'air!
I only spanked 'im gentle, fer 'is mar.
If I'd 'a' jabbed 'im once, there would 'a' been An inquest; an' I
sez so to Doreen.

I mighter took an' cracked 'im in the street, When she was wiv 'im
there lars' Fridee night.

But don't I keep me temper when we met?

An' don't I raise me lid an' act perlite?
I only jerks me elbow in 'is ribs, To give the gentle office
to 'is nibs.

Stoushed 'im! I owns I met 'im on the quiet, An' worded 'im about a
small affair; An' when 'e won't put up 'is 'ands to fight-- ('E
sez, "Fer public brawls 'e didn't care")-- I lays 'im 'cross me knee,
the mother's joy, An' smacks 'im 'earty, like a naughty boy.

An' now Doreen she sez I've broke me vow, An' mags about this
coot's pore, "wounded pride." An' then, o' course, we 'as a ding-dong
row, Wiv 'ot an' stormy words on either side.
She sez I done it outer jealousy, An' so, we parts fer ever--'er
an' me.

Me jealous? Jealous of that cross-eyed cow!
I set 'im 'cos I couldn't sight 'is face.
'Is yappin' fair got on me nerves, some'ow.
I couldn't stand 'im 'angin' round 'er place.

A coot like that!...But it don't matter much, She's welkim
to 'im if she fancies such.

I swear I'll never track wiv 'er no more; I'll never look on 'er
side o' the street-- Unless she comes an' begs me pardin for Them
things she said to me in angry 'eat.
She can't ixpeck fer me to smooge an' crawl.
I ain't at ANY woman's beck an' call.

Wimmin! I've took a tumble to their game.
I've got the 'ole bang tribe o' cliners set!
The 'ole world over they are all the same:
Crook to the core the bunch of 'em--an' yet We could 'a' been that
'appy, 'er an' me...
But, wot's it matter? Ain't I glad I'm free?

A bloke wiv commin-sense 'as got to own There's little 'appiness
in married life.
The smoogin' game is better left alone, Fer tarts is few that makes
the ideel wife.
An' them's the sort that loves wivout disguise, An' thinks the
sun shines in their 'usban's' eyes.

But when the birds is matin' in the spring, An' when the
tender leaves begin to bud, A feelin' comes--a dilly sorter thing
That seems to sorter swamp 'im like a flood.
An' when the fever 'ere inside 'im burns, Then freedom ain't the
thing fer wot 'e yearns.

But I 'ave chucked it all. An' yet--I own I dreams me dreams when
soft Spring breezes stirs; An' often, when I'm moonin' 'ere alone,
A lispin' maid, wiv 'air an' eyes like 'ers, 'Oo calls me "dad,"
she climbs upon me knee, An' yaps 'er pretty baby tork to me.
I sorter see a little 'ouse, it seems, Wiv someone waitin' for me
at the gate...
Ar, where's the sense in dreamin' barmy dreams, I've dreamed before,
and nearly woke too late.
Sich 'appiness could never last fer long, We're strangers--'less
she owns that she was wrong.
To call 'er back I'll never lift a 'and; She'll never 'ear frum me
by word or sign.
Per'aps, some day, she'll come to understand The mess she's made
o' this 'ere life o' mine.
Oh, I ain't much to look at, I admit.
But'im! The knock-kneed, swivel-eyed misfit?...
VII. The Siren
She sung a song; an' I sat silent there, Wiv bofe 'ands grippin'
'ard on me chair; Me 'eart, that yesterdee I thort wus broke Wiv
'umpin sich a 'eavy load o' care, Come swelling in me throat like
I would choke.
I felt 'ot blushes climbin' to me 'air.
'Twas like that feelin' when the Spring wind breaves Sad music in
the sof'ly rustlin' leaves.
An' when a bloke sits down an' starts to chew Crook thorts, wivout
quite knowin' why 'e grieves Fer things 'e's done 'e didn't ort to
do-- Fair winded wiv the 'eavy sighs 'e 'eaves.
She sung a song; an' orl at once I seen The kind o' crool an'
'eartless broot I been.
In ev'ry word I read it like a book-- The slanter game I'd played
wiv my Doreen-- I 'eard it in 'er song; an' in 'er look I seen wot
made me feel fair rotten mean.
Poor, 'urt Doreen! My tender bit o' fluff!
Ar, men don't understand; they're fur too rough; Their ways is fur
too coarse wiv lovin' tarts; They never gives 'em symperthy
enough.
They treats 'em 'arsh; they tramples on their 'earts, Becos their
own crool 'earts is leather-tough.
She sung a song; an' orl them bitter things That chewin' over lovers'
quarrils brings Guv place to thorts of sorrer an' remorse.
Like when some dilly punter goes an' slings 'Is larst, lone deener
on some stiffened 'orse, An' learns them vain regrets wot 'urts an'
stings.
'Twas at a beano where I lobs along To drown them memories o' fancied
wrong.
I swears I never knoo that she'd be there.
But when I met 'er eye--O, 'struth, 'twas strong!
'Twas bitter strong, that jolt o' dull despair!
'Er look o' scorn!...An' then, she sung a song.
The choon was one o' them sad, mournful things That ketch yeh in
the bellers 'ere, and brings Tears to yer eyes. The words was uv a
tart 'Oo's trackin' wiv a silly coot 'oo slings 'Er love aside, an'
breaks 'er tender 'eart....
But 'twasn't that; it was the way she sings.
To 'ear 'er voice!...A bloke 'ud be a log 'Oo kep' 'is block. Me
mind wus in a fog Of sorrer for to think 'ow I wus wrong; Ar, I
'ave been a fair ungrateful 'og!
The feelin' that she put into that song 'Ud melt the 'eart-strings
of a chiner dog.
I listens wiv me 'eart up in me throat; I drunk in ev'ry word an'
ev'ry note.
Tears trembles in 'er voice when she tells 'ow That tart snuffed
out becos 'e never wrote.
An' then I seen 'ow I wus like that cow.
Wiv suddin shame me guilty soul wus smote.
Doreen she never looked my way; but stood 'Arf turned away, an'
beefed it out reel good, Until she sang that bit about the grave;
"Too late 'e learned 'e 'ad misunderstood!" An' then--Gorstrooth!
The pleadin' look she gave Fair in me face 'ud melt a'eart o'
wood.

I dunno 'ow I seen that evenin' thro'.
They muster thort I was 'arf shick, I knoo.
But I 'ad 'urt Doreen wivout no call; I seen me dooty, wot I 'ad
to do.
O, strike! I could 'a' blubbed before 'em all!
But I sat tight, an' never cracked a boo.
An' when at larst the tarts they makes a rise, A lop-eared coot wiv
'air down to 'is eyes 'E 'ooks on to Doreen, an' starts to roam Fer
'ome an' muvver. I lines up an' cries, "'An's orf! I'm seein' this
'ere cliner 'ome!" An' there we left 'im, gapin' wiv surprise.
She never spoke; she never said no word; But walked beside me like
she never 'eard.
I swallers 'ard, an' starts to coax an' plead, I sez I'm dead ashamed
o' wot's occurred.
She don't reply; she never takes no 'eed; Jist stares before 'er
like a startled bird.
I tells 'er, never can no uvver tart Be 'arf wot she is, if we 'ave
to part.
I tells 'er that me life will be a wreck.
It ain't no go. But when I makes a start To walk away, 'er arms is
roun' me neck.
"Ah, Kid!" she sobs. "Yeh nearly broke me 'eart!"
I dunno wot I done or wot I said.
But 'struth! I'll not forgit it till I'm dead-- That night when
'ope back in me brisket lobs:
'Ow my Doreen she lays 'er little 'ead Down on me shoulder 'ere,
an' sobs an' sobs; An' orl the lights goes sorter blurred an'
red.
Say, square an' all--It don't seem right, some'ow, To say such
things; but wot I'm feelin' now 'As come at times, I s'pose, to
uvver men When you 'ave 'ad a reel ole ding-dong row, Say, ain't
it bonzer makin' up agen?
Straight wire, it's almost worth...Ar, I'm a cow!
To think I'd ever seek to 'arm a 'air Of 'er dear 'ead agen! My
oath, I swear No more I'll roust on 'er in angry 'eat!
But still, she never seemed to me so fair; She never wus so tender
or so sweet As when she smooged beneath the lamplight there.
She's never been so lovin' wiv 'er gaze; So gentle wiv 'er pretty
wimmin's ways.
I tells 'er she's me queen, me angel, too.
"Ah, no, I ain't no angel, Kid," she says.
"I'm jist a woman, an' I loves yeh true!
An' so I'll love yeh all me mortal days!"
She sung a song....'Ere, in me barmy style, I sets orl tarts; for
in me hour o' trile Me soul was withered be a woman's frown, An'
broodin' care come roostin' on me dile.
She sung a song....Me 'eart, wiv woe carst down, Wus raised to
'Eaven be a woman's smile.

VIII. Mar
"'Er pore dear par," she sez, "'e kept a store"; An' then she weeps
an' stares 'ard at the floor.It
seemed to partake of her soul, to have analogous attributes, and to
link it to life with the slenderest of chains.  Indeed, she trod
the earth lightly, and in her constitution there was little of the
robust clay.

She was in striking contrast to Wolf Larsen.  Each was nothing that
the other was, everything that the other was not.  I noted them
walking the deck together one morning, and I likened them to the
extreme ends of the human ladder of evolution--the one the
culmination of all savagery, the other the finished product of the
finest civilization.  True, Wolf Larsen possessed intellect to an
unusual degree, but it was directed solely to the exercise of his
savage instincts and made him but the more formidable a savage.  He
was splendidly muscled, a heavy man, and though he strode with the
certitude and directness of the physical man, there was nothing
heavy about his stride.  The jungle and the wilderness lurked in
the uplift and downput of his feet.  He was cat-footed, and lithe,
and strong, always strong.  I likened him to some great tiger, a
beast of prowess and prey.  He looked it, and the piercing glitter
that arose at times in his eyes was the same piercing glitter I had
observed in the eyes of caged leopards and other preying creatures
of the wild.

But this day, as I noted them pacing up and down, I saw that it was
she who terminated the walk.  They came up to where I was standing
by the entrance to the companion-way.  Though she betrayed it by no
outward sign, I felt, somehow, that she was greatly perturbed.  She
made some idle remark, looking at me, and laughed lightly enough;
but I saw her eyes return to his, involuntarily, as though
fascinated; then they fell, but not swiftly enough to veil the rush
of terror that filled them.

It was in his eyes that I saw the cause of her perturbation.
Ordinarily grey and cold and harsh, they were now warm and soft and
golden, and all a-dance with tiny lights that dimmed and faded, or
welled up till the full orbs were flooded with a glowing radiance.
Perhaps it was to this that the golden colour was due; but golden
his eyes were, enticing and masterful, at the same time luring and
compelling, and speaking a demand and clamour of the blood which no
woman, much less Maud Brewster, could misunderstand.

Her own terror rushed upon me, and in that moment of fear--the most
terrible fear a man can experience--I knew that in inexpressible
ways she was dear to me.  The knowledge that I loved her rushed
upon me with the terror, and with both emotions gripping at my
heart and causing my blood at the same time to chill and to leap
riotously, I felt myself drawn by a power without me and beyond me,
and found my eyes returning against my will to gaze into the eyes
of Wolf Larsen.  But he had recovered himself.  The golden colour
and the dancing lights were gone.  Cold and grey and glittering
they were as he bowed brusquely and turned away.

"I am afraid," she whispered, with a shiver.  "I am so afraid."

I, too, was afraid, and what of my discovery of how much she meant
to me my mind was in a turmoil; but, I succeeded in answering quite
calmly:

"All will come right, Miss Brewster.  Trust me, it will come
right."

She answered with a grateful little smile that sent my heart
pounding, and started to descend the companion-stairs.

For a long while I remained standing where she had left me.  There
was imperative need to adjust myself, to consider the significance
of the changed aspect of things.  It had come, at last, love had
come, when I least expected it and under the most forbidding
conditions.  Of course, my philosophy had always recognized the
inevitableness of the love-call sooner or later; but long years of
bookish silence had made me inattentive and unprepared.

And now it had come!  Maud Brewster!  My memory flashed back to
that first thin little volume on my desk, and I saw before me, as
though in the concrete, the row of thin little volumes on my
library shelf.  How I had welcomed each of them!  Each year one had
come from the press, and to me each was the advent of the year.
They had voiced a kindred intellect and spirit, and as such I had
received them into a camaraderie of the mind; but now their place
was in my heart.

My heart?  A revulsion of feeling came over me.  I seemed to stand
outside myself and to look at myself incredulously.  Maud Brewster!
Humphrey Van Weyden, "the cold-blooded fish," the "emotionless
monster," the "analytical demon," of Charley Furuseth's
christening, in love!  And then, without rhyme or reason, all
sceptical, my mind flew back to a small biographical note in the
red-bound Who's Who, and I said to myself, "She was born in
Cambridge, and she is twenty-seven years old."  And then I said,
"Twenty-seven years old and still free and fancy free?"  But how
did I know she was fancy free?  And the pang of new-born jealousy
put all incredulity to flight.  There was no doubt about it.  I was
jealous; therefore I loved.  And the woman I loved was Maud
Brewster.

I, Humphrey Van Weyden, was in love!  And again the doubt assailed
me.  Not that I was afraid of it, however, or reluctant to meet it.
On the contrary, idealist that I was to the most pronounced degree,
my philosophy had always recognized and guerdoned love as the
greatest thing in the world, the aim and the summit of being, the
most exquisite pitch of joy and happiness to which life could
thrill, the thing of all things to be hailed and welcomed and taken
into the heart.  But now that it had come I could not believe.  I
could not be so fortunate.  It was too good, too good to be true.
Symons's lines came into my head:


"I wandered all these years among
A world of women, seeking you."


And then I had ceased seeking.  It was not for me, this greatest
thing in the world, I had decided.  Furuseth was right; I was
abnormal, an "emotionless monster," a strange bookish creature,
capable of pleasuring in sensations only of the mind.  And though I
had been surrounded by women all my days, my appreciation of them
had been aesthetic and nothing more.  I had actually, at times,
considered myself outside the pale, a monkish fellow denied the
eternal or the passing passions I saw and understood so well in
others.  And now it had come!  Undreamed of and unheralded, it had
come.  In what could have been no less than an ecstasy, I left my
post at the head of the companion-way and started along the deck,
murmuring to myself those beautiful lines of Mrs. Browning:


"I lived with visions for my company
Instead of men and women years ago,
And found them gentle mates, nor thought to know
A sweeter music than they played to me."


But the sweeter music was playing in my ears, and I was blind and
oblivious to all about me.  The sharp voice of Wolf Larsen aroused
me.

"What the hell are you up to?" he was demanding.

I had strayed forward where the sailors were painting, and I came
to myself to find my advancing foot on the verge of overturning a
paint-pot.

"Sleep-walking, sunstroke,--what?" he barked.

"No; indigestion," I retorted, and continued my walk as if nothing
untoward had occurred.


CHAPTER XXIV


Among the most vivid memories of my life are those of the events on
the Ghost which occurred during the forty hours succeeding the
discovery of my love for Maud Brewster.  I, who had lived my life
in quiet places, only to enter at the age of thirty-five upon a
course of the most irrational adventure I could have imagined,
never had more incident and excitement crammed into any forty hours
of my experience.  Nor can I quite close my ears to a small voice
of pride which tells me I did not do so badly, all things
considered.

To begin with, at the midday dinner, Wolf Larsen informed the
hunters that they were to eat thenceforth in the steerage.  It was
an unprecedented thing on sealing-schooners, where it is the custom
for the hunters to rank, unofficially as officers.  He gave no
reason, but his motive was obvious enough.  Horner and Smoke had
been displaying a gallantry toward Maud Brewster, ludicrous in
itself and inoffensive to her, but to him evidently distasteful.

The announcement was received with black silence, though the other
four hunters glanced significantly at the two who had been the
cause of their banishment.  Jock Horner, quiet as was his way, gave
no sign; but the blood surged darkly across Smoke's forehead, and
he half opened his mouth to speak.  Wolf Larsen was watching him,
waiting for him, the steely glitter in his eyes; but Smoke closed
his mouth again without having said anything.

"Anything to say?" the other demanded aggressively.

It was a challenge, but Smoke refused to accept it.

"About what?" he asked, so innocently that Wolf Larsen was
disconcerted, while the others smiled.

"Oh, nothing," Wolf Larsen said lamely.  "I just thought you might
want to register a kick."

"About what?" asked the imperturbable Smoke.

Smoke's mates were now smiling broadly.  His captain could have
killed him, and I doubt not that blood would have flowed had not
Maud Brewster been present.  For that matter, it was her presence
which enabled.  Smoke to act as he did.  He was too discreet and
cautious a man to incur Wolf Larsen's anger at a time when that
anger could be expressed in terms stronger than words.  I was in
fear that a struggle might take place, but a cry from the helmsman
made it easy for the situation to save itself.

"Smoke ho!" the cry came down the open companion-way.

"How's it bear?" Wolf Larsen called up.

"Dead astern, sir."

"Maybe it's a Russian," suggested Latimer.

His words brought anxiety into the faces of the other hunters.  A
Russian could mean but one thing--a cruiser.  The hunters, never
more than roughly aware of the position of the ship, nevertheless
knew that we were close to the boundaries of the forbidden sea,
while Wolf Larsen's record as a poacher was notorious.  All eyes
centred upon him.

"We're dead safe," he assured them with a laugh.  "No salt mines
this time, Smoke.  But I'll tell you what--I'll lay odds of five to
one it's the Macedonia."

No one accepted his offer, and he went on:  "In which event, I'll
lay ten to one there's trouble breezing up."

"No, thank you," Latimer spoke up.  "I don't object to losing my
money, but I like to get a run for it anyway.  There never was a
time when there wasn't trouble when you and that brother of yours
got together, and I'll lay twenty to one on that."

A general smile followed, in which Wolf Larsen joined, and the
dinner went on smoothly, thanks to me, for he treated me abominably
the rest of the meal, sneering at me and patronizing me till I was
all a-tremble with suppressed rage.  Yet I knew I must control
myself for Maud Brewster's sake, and I received my reward when her
eyes caught mine for a fleeting second, and they said, as
distinctly as if she spoke, "Be brave, be brave."

We left the table to go on deck, for a steamer was a welcome break
in the monotony of the sea on which we floated, while the
conviction that it was Death Larsen and the Macedonia added to the
excitement.  The stiff breeze and heavy sea which had sprung up the
previous afternoon had been moderating all morning, so that it was
now possible to lower the boats for an afternoon's hunt.  The
hunting promised to be profitable.  We had sailed since daylight
across a sea barren of seals, and were now running into the herd.

The smoke was still miles astern, but overhauling us rapidly, when
we lowered our boats.  They spread out and struck a northerly
course across the ocean.  Now and again we saw a sail lower, heard
the reports of the shot-guns, and saw the sail go up again.  The
seals were thick, the wind was dying away; everything favoured a
big catch.  As we ran off to get our leeward position of the last
lee boat, we found the ocean fairly carpeted with sleeping seals.
They were all about us, thicker than I had ever seen them before,
in twos and threes and bunches, stretched full length on the
surface and sleeping for all the world like so many lazy young
dogs.

Under the approaching smoke the hull and upper-works of a steamer
were growing larger.  It was the Macedonia.  I read her name
through the glasses as she passed by scarcely a mile to starboard.
Wolf Larsen looked savagely at the vessel, while Maud Brewster was
curious.

"Where is the trouble you were so sure was breezing up, Captain
Larsen?" she asked gaily.

He glanced at her, a moment's amusement softening his features.

"What did you expect?  That they'd come aboard and cut our
throats?"

"Something like that," she confessed.  "You understand, seal-
hunters are so new and strange to me that I am quite ready to
expect anything."

He nodded his head.  "Quite right, quite right.  Your error is that
you failed to expect the worst."

"Why, what can be worse than cutting our throats?" she asked, with
pretty naive surprise.

"Cutting our purses," he answered.  "Man is so made these days that
his capacity for living is determined by the money he possesses."

"'Who steals my purse steals trash,'" she quoted.

"Who steals my purse steals my right to live," was the reply, "old
saws to the contrary.  For he steals my bread and meat and bed, and
in so doing imperils my life.  There are not enough soup-kitchens
and bread-lines to go around, you know, and when men have nothing
in their purses they usually die, and die miserably--unless they
are able to fill their purses pretty speedily."

"But I fail to see that this steamer has any designs on your
purse."

"Wait and you will see," he answered grimly.

We did not have long to wait.  Having passed several miles beyond
our line of boats, the Macedonia proceeded to lower her own.  We
knew she carried fourteen boats to our five (we were one short
through the desertion of Wainwright), and she began dropping them
far to leeward of our last boat, continued dropping them athwart
our course, and finished dropping them far to windward of our first
weather boat.  The hunting, for us, was spoiled.  There were no
seals behind us, and ahead of us the line of fourteen boats, like a
huge broom, swept the herd before it.

Our boats hunted across the two or three miles of water between
them and the point where the Macedonia's had been dropped, and then
headed for home.  The wind had fallen to a whisper, the ocean was
growing calmer and calmer, and this, coupled with the presence of
the great herd, made a perfect hunting day--one of the two or three
days to be encountered in the whole of a lucky season.  An angry
lot of men, boat-pullers and steerers as well as hunters, swarmed
over our side.  Each man felt that he had been robbed; and the
boats were hoisted in amid curses, which, if curses had power,
would have settled Death Larsen for all eternity--"Dead and damned
for a dozen iv eternities," commented Louis, his eyes twinkling up
at me as he rested from hauling taut the lashings of his boat.

"Listen to them, and find if it is hard to discover the most vital
thing in their souls," said Wolf Larsen.  "Faith? and love? and
high ideals?  The good? the beautiful? the true?"

"Their innate sense of right has been violated," Maud Brewster
said, joining the conversation.

She was standing a dozen feet away, one hand resting on the main-
shrouds and her body swaying gently to the slight roll of the ship.
She had not raised her voice, and yet I was struck by its clear and
bell-like tone.  Ah, it was sweet in my ears!  I scarcely dared
look at her just then, for the fear of betraying myself.  A boy's
cap was perched on her head, and her hair, light brown and arranged
in a loose and fluffy order that caught the sun, seemed an aureole
about the delicate oval of her face.  She was positively
bewitching, and, withal, sweetly spirituelle, if not saintly.  All
my old-time marvel at life returned to me at sight of this splendid
incarnation of it, and Wolf Larsen's cold explanation of life and
its meaning was truly ridiculous and laughable.

"A sentimentalist," he sneered, "like Mr. Van Weyden.  Those men
are cursing because their desires have been outraged.  That is all.
What desires?  The desires for the good grub and soft beds ashore
which a handsome pay-day brings them--the women and the drink, the
gorging and the beastliness which so truly expresses them, the best
that is in them, their highest aspirations, their ideals, if you
please.  The exhibition they make of their feelings is not a
touching sight, yet it shows how deeply they have been touched, how
deeply their purses have been touched, for to lay hands on their
purses is to lay hands on their souls."

"'You hardly behave as if your purse had been touched," she said,
smilingly.

"Then it so happens that I am behaving differently, for my purse
and my soul have both been touched.  At the current price of skins
in the London market, and based on a fair estimate of what the
afternoon's catch would have been had not the Macedonia hogged it,
the Ghost has lost about fifteen hundred dollars' worth of skins."

"You speak so calmly--" she began.

"But I do not feel calm; I could kill the man who robbed me," he
interrupted.  "Yes, yes, I know, and that man my brother--more
sentiment!  Bah!"

His face underwent a sudden change.  His voice was less harsh and
wholly sincere as he said:

"You must be happy, you sentimentalists, really and truly happy at
dreaming and finding things good, and, because you find some of
them good, feeling good yourself.  Now, tell me, you two, do you
find me good?"

"You are good to look upon--in a way," I qualified.

"There are in you all powers for good," was Maud Brewster's answer.

"There you are!" he cried at her, half angrily.  "Your words are
empty to me.  There is nothing clear and sharp and definite about
the thought you have expressed.  You cannot pick it up in your two
hands and look at it.  In point of fact, it is not a thought.  It
is a feeling, a sentiment, a something based upon illusion and not
a product of the intellect at all."

As he went on his voice again grew soft, and a confiding note came
into it.  "Do you know, I sometimes catch myself wishing that I,
too, were blind to the facts of life and only knew its fancies and
illusions.  They're wrong, all wrong, of course, and contrary to
reason; but in the face of them my reason tells me, wrong and most
wrong, that to dream and live illusions gives greater delight.  And
after all, delight is the wage for living.  Without delight, living
is a worthless act.  To labour at living and be unpaid is worse
than to be dead.  He who delights the most lives the most, and your
dreams and unrealities are less disturbing to you and more
gratifying than are my facts to me."

He shook his head slowly, pondering.

"I often doubt, I often doubt, the worthwhileness of reason.
Dreams must be more substantial and satisfying.  Emotional delight
is more filling and lasting than intellectual delight; and,
besides, you pay for your moments of intellectual delight by having
the blues.  Emotional delight is followed by no more than jaded
senses which speedily recuperate.  I envy you, I envy you."

He stopped abruptly, and then on his lips formed one of his strange
quizzical smiles, as he added:

"It's from my brain I envy you, take notice, and not from my heart.
My reason dictates it.  The envy is an intellectual product.  I am
like a sober man looking upon drunken men, and, greatly weary,
wishing he, too, were drunk."

"Or like a wise man looking upon fools and wishing he, too, were a
fool," I laughed.

"Quite so," he said.  "You are a blessed, bankrupt pair of fools.
You have no facts in your pocketbook."

"Yet we spend as freely as you," was Maud Brewster's contribution.

"More freely, because it costs you nothing."

"And because we draw upon eternity," she retorted.

"Whether you do or think you do, it's the same thing.  You spend
what you haven't got, and in return you get greater value from
spending what you haven't got than I get from spending what I have
got, and what I have sweated to get."

"Why don't you change the basis of your coinage, then?" she queried
teasingly.

He looked at her quickly, half-hopefully, and then said, all
regretfully:  "Too late.  I'd like to, perhaps, but I can't.  My
pocketbook is stuffed with the old coinage, and it's a stubborn
thing.  I can never bring myself to recognize anything else as
valid."

He ceased speaking, and his gaze wandered absently past her and
became lost in the placid sea.  The old primal melancholy was
strong upon him.  He was quivering to it.  He had reasoned himself
into a spell of the blues, and within few hours one could look for
the devil within him to be up and stirring.  I remembered Charley
Furuseth, and knew this man's sadness as the penalty which the
materialist ever pays for his materialism.


CHAPTER XXV


"You've been on deck, Mr. Van Weyden," Wolf Larsen said, the
following morning at the breakfast-table, "How do things look?"

"Clear enough," I answered, glancing at the sunshine which streamed
down the open companion-way.  "Fair westerly breeze, with a promise
of stiffening, if Louis predicts correctly."

He nodded his head in a pleased way.  "Any signs of fog?"

"Thick banks in the north and north-west."

He nodded his head again, evincing even greater satisfaction than
before.

"What of the Macedonia?"

"Not sighted," I answered.

I could have sworn his face fell at the intelligence, but why he
should be disappointed I could not conceive.

I was soon to learn.  "Smoke ho!" came the hail from on deck, and
his face brightened.

"Good!" he exclaimed, and left the table at once to go on deck and
into the steerage, where the hunters were taking the first
breakfast of their exile.

Maud Brewster and I scarcely touched the food before us, gazing,
instead, in silent anxiety at each other, and listening to Wolf
Larsen's voice, which easily penetrated the cabin through the
intervening bulkhead.  He spoke at length, and his conclusion was
greeted with a wild roar of cheers.  The bulkhead was too thick for
us to hear what he said; but whatever it was it affected the
hunters strongly, for the cheering was followed by loud
exclamations and shouts of joy.

From the sounds on deck I knew that the sailors had been routed out
and were preparing to lower the boats.  Maud Brewster accompanied
me on deck, but I left her at the break of the poop, where she
might watch the scene and not be in it.  The sailors must have
learned whatever project was on hand, and the vim and snap they put
into their work attested their enthusiasm.  The hunters came
trooping on deck with shot-guns and ammunition-boxes, and, most
unusual, their rifles.  The latter were rarely taken in the boats,
for a seal shot at long range with a rifle invariably sank before a
boat could reach it.  But each hunter this day had his rifle and a
large supply of cartridges.  I noticed they grinned with
satisfaction whenever they looked at the Macedonia's smoke, which
was rising higher and higher as she approached from the west.

The five boats went over the side with a rush, spread out like the
ribs of a fan, and set a northerly course, as on the preceding
afternoon, for us to follow.  I watched for some time, curiously,
but there seemed nothing extraordinary about their behaviour.  They
lowered sails, shot seals, and hoisted sails again, and continued
on their way as I had always seen them do.  The Macedonia repeated
her performance of yesterday, "hogging" the sea by dropping her
line of boats in advance of ours and across our course.  Fourteen
boats require a considerable spread of ocean for comfortable
hunting, and when she had completely lapped our line she continued
steaming into the north-east, dropping more boats as she went.

"What's up?" I asked Wolf Larsen, unable longer to keep my
curiosity in check.

"Never mind what's up," he answered gruffly.  "You won't be a
thousand years in finding out, and in the meantime just pray for
plenty of wind."

"Oh, well, I don't mind telling you," he said the next moment.
"I'm going to give that brother of mine a taste of his own
medicine.  In short, I'm going to play the hog myself, and not for
one day, but for the rest of the season,--if we're in luck."

"And if we're not?" I queried.

"Not to be considered," he laughed.  "We simply must be in luck, or
it's all up with us."

He had the wheel at the time, and I went forward to my hospital in
the forecastle, where lay the two crippled men, Nilson and Thomas
Mugridge.  Nilson was as cheerful as could be expected, for his
broken leg was knitting nicely; but the Cockney was desperately
melancholy, and I was aware of a great sympathy for the unfortunate
creature.  And the marvel of it was that still he lived and clung
to life.  The brutal years had reduced his meagre body to
splintered wreckage, and yet the spark of life within burned
brightly as ever.

"With an artificial foot--and they make excellent ones--you will be
stumping ships' galleys to the end of time," I assured him
jovially.

But his answer was serious, nay, solemn.  "I don't know about wot
you s'y, Mr. Van W'yden, but I do know I'll never rest 'appy till I
see that 'ell-'ound bloody well dead.  'E cawn't live as long as
me.  'E's got no right to live, an' as the Good Word puts it, ''E
shall shorely die,' an' I s'y, 'Amen, an' damn soon at that.'"

When I returned on deck I found Wolf Larsen steering mainly with
one hand, while with the other hand he held the marine glasses and
studied the situation of the boats, paying particular attention to
the position of the Macedonia.  The only change noticeable in our
boats was that they had hauled close on the wind and were heading
several points west of north.  Still, I could not see the
expediency of the manoeuvre, for the free sea was still intercepted
by the Macedonia's five weather boats, which, in turn, had hauled
close on the wind.  Thus they slowly diverged toward the west,
drawing farther away from the remainder of the boats in their line.
Our boats were rowing as well as sailing.  Even the hunters were
pulling, and with three pairs of oars in the water they rapidly
overhauled what I may appropriately term the enemy.

The smoke of the Macedonia had dwindled to a dim blot on the north-
eastern horizon.  Of the steamer herself nothing was to be seen.
We had been loafing along, till now, our sails shaking half the
time and spilling the wind; and twice, for short periods, we had
been hove to.  But there was no more loafing.  Sheets were trimmed,
and Wolf Larsen proceeded to put the Ghost through her paces.  We
ran past our line of boats and bore down upon the first weather
boat of the other line.

"Down that flying jib, Mr. Van Weyden," Wolf Larsen commanded.
"And stand by to back over the jibs."

I ran forward and had the downhaul of the flying jib all in and
fast as we slipped by the boat a hundred feet to leeward.  The
three men in it gazed at us suspiciously.  They had been hogging
the sea, and they knew Wolf Larsen, by reputation at any rate.  I
noted that the hunter, a huge Scandinavian sitting in the bow, held
his rifle, ready to hand, across his knees.  It should have been in
its proper place in the rack.  When they came opposite our stern,
Wolf Larsen greeted them with a wave of the hand, and cried:

"Come on board and have a 'gam'!"

"To gam," among the sealing-schooners, is a substitute for the
verbs "to visit," "to gossip."  It expresses the garrulity of the
sea, and is a pleasant break in the monotony of the life.

The Ghost swung around into the wind, and I finished my work
forward in time to run aft and lend a hand with the mainsheet.

"You will please stay on deck, Miss Brewster," Wolf Larsen said, as
he started forward to meet his guest.  "And you too, Mr. Van
Weyden."

The boat had lowered its sail and run alongside.  The hunter,
golden bearded like a sea-king, came over the rail and dropped on
deck.  But his hugeness could not quite overcome his
apprehensiveness.  Doubt and distrust showed strongly in his face.
It was a transparent face, for all of its hairy shield, and
advertised instant relief when he glanced from Wolf Larsen to me,
noted that there was only the pair of us, and then glanced over his
own two men who had joined him.  Surely he had little reason to be
afraid.  He towered like a Goliath above Wolf Larsen.  He must have
measured six feet eight or nine inches in stature, and I
subsequently learned his weight--240 pounds.  And there was no fat
about him.  It was all bone and muscle.

A return of apprehension was apparent when, at the top of the
companion-way, Wolf Larsen invited him below.  But he reassured
himself with a glance down at his host--a big man himself but
dwarfed by the propinquity of the giant.  So all hesitancy
vanished, and the pair descended into the cabin.  In the meantime,
his two men, as was the wont of visiting sailors, had gone forward
into the forecastle to do some visiting themselves.

Suddenly, from the cabin came a great, choking bellow, followed by
all the sounds of a furious struggle.  It was the leopard and the
lion, and the lion made all the noise.  Wolf Larsen was the
leopard.

"You see the sacredness of our hospitality," I said bitterly to
Maud Brewster.

She nodded her head that she heard, and I noted in her face the
signs of the same sickness at sight or sound of violent struggle
from which I had suffered so severely during my first weeks on the
Ghost.

"Wouldn't it be better if you went forward, say by the steerage
companion-way, until it is over?" I suggested.

She shook her head and gazed at me pitifully.  She was not
frightened, but appalled, rather, at the human animality of it.

"You will understand," I took advantage of the opportunity to say,
"whatever part I take in what is going on and what is to come, that
I am compelled to take it--if you and I are ever to get out of this
scrape with our lives."

"It is not nice--for me," I added.

"I understand," she said, in a weak, far-away voice, and her eyes
showed me that she did understand.

The sounds from below soon died away.  Then Wolf Larsen came alone
on deck.  There was a slight flush under his bronze, but otherwise
he bore no signs of the battle.

"Send those two men aft, Mr. Van Weyden," he said.

I obeyed, and a minute or two later they stood before him.  "Hoist
in your boat," he said to them.  "Your hunter's decided to stay
aboard awhile and doesn't want it pounding alongside."

"Hoist in your boat, I said," he repeated, this time in sharper
tones as they hesitated to do his bidding.

"Who knows? you may have to sail with me for a time," he said,
quite softly, with a silken threat that belied the softness, as
they moved slowly to comply, "and we might as well start with a
friendly understanding.  Lively now!  Death Larsen makes you jump
better than that, and you know it!"

Their movements perceptibly quickened under his coaching, and as
the boat swung inboard I was sent forward to let go the jibs.  Wolf
Larsen, at the wheel, directed the Ghost after the Macedonia's
second weather boat.

Under way, and with nothing for the time being to do, I turned my
attention to the situation of the boats.  The Macedonia's third
weather boat was being attacked by two of ours, the fourth by our
remaining three; and the fifth, turn about, was taking a hand in
the defence of its nearest mate.  The fight had opened at long
distance, and the rifles were cracking steadily.  A quick, snappy
sea was being kicked up by the wind, a condition which prevented
fine shooting; and now and again, as we drew closer, we could see
the bullets zip-zipping from wave to wave.

The boat we were pursuing had squared away and was running before
the wind to escape us, and, in the course of its flight, to take
part in repulsing our general boat attack.

Attending to sheets and tacks now left me little time to see what
was taking place, but I happened to be on the poop when Wolf Larsen
ordered the two strange sailors forward and into the forecastle.
They went sullenly, but they went.  He next ordered Miss Brewster
below, and smiled at the instant horror that leapt into her eyes.

"You'll find nothing gruesome down there," he said, "only an unhurt
man securely made fast to the ring-bolts.  Bullets are liable to
come aboard, and I don't want you killed, you know."

Even as he spoke, a bullet was deflected by a brass-capped spoke of
the wheel between his hands and screeched off through the air to
windward.

"You see," he said to her; and then to me, "Mr. Van Weyden, will
you take the wheel?"

Maud Brewster had stepped inside the companion-way so that only her
head was exposed.  Wolf Larsen had procured a rifle and was
throwing a cartridge into the barrel.  I begged her with my eyes to
go below, but she smiled and said:

"We may be feeble land-creatures without legs, but we can show
Captain Larsen that we are at least as brave as he."

He gave her a quick look of admiration.

"I like you a hundred per cent. better for that," he said.  "Books,
and brains, and bravery.  You are well-rounded, a blue-stocking fit
to be the wife of a pirate chief.  Ahem, we'll discuss that later,"
he smiled, as a bullet struck solidly into the cabin wall.

I saw his eyes flash golden as he spoke, and I saw the terror mount
in her own.

"We are braver," I hastened to say.  "At least, speaking for
myself, I know I am braver than Captain Larsen."

It was I who was now favoured by a quick look.  He was wondering if
I were making fun of him.  I put three or four spokes over to
counteract a sheer toward the wind on the part of the Ghost, and
then steadied her.  Wolf Larsen was still waiting an explanation,
and I pointed down to my knees.

"You will observe there," I said, "a slight trembling.  It is
because I am afraid, the flesh is afraid; and I am afraid in my
mind because I do not wish to die.  But my spirit masters the
trembling flesh and the qualms of the mind.  I am more than brave.
I am courageous.  Your flesh is not afraid.  You are not afraid.
On the one hand, it costs you nothing to encounter danger; on the
other hand, it even gives you delight.  You enjoy it.  You may be
unafraid, Mr. Larsen, but you must grant that the bravery is mine."

"You're right," he acknowledged at once.  "I never thought of it in
that way before.  But is the opposite true?  If you are braver than
I, am I more cowardly than you?"

We both laughed at the absurdity, and he dropped down to the deck
and rested his rifle across the rail.  The bullets we had received
had travelled nearly a mile, but by now we had cut that distance in
half.  He fired three careful shots.  The first struck fifty feet
to windward of the boat, the second alongside; and at the third the
boat-steerer let loose his steering-oar and crumpled up in the
bottom of the boat.

"I guess that'll fix them," Wolf Larsen said, rising to his feet.
"I couldn't afford to let the hunter have it, and there is a chance
the boat-puller doesn't know how to steer.  In which case, the
hunter cannot steer and shoot at the same time"

His reasoning was justified, for the boat rushed at once into the
wind and the hunter sprang aft to take the boat-steerer's place.
There was no more shooting, though the rifles were still cracking
merrily from the other boats.

The hunter had managed to get the boat before the wind again, but
we ran down upon it, going at least two feet to its one.  A hundred
yards away, I saw the boat-puller pass a rifle to the hunter.  Wolf
Larsen went amidships and took the coil of the throat-halyards from
its pin.  Then he peered over the rail with levelled rifle.  Twice
I saw the hunter let go the steering-oar with one hand, reach for
his rifle, and hesitate.  We were now alongside and foaming past.

"Here, you!" Wolf Larsen cried suddenly to the boat-puller.  "Take
a turn!"

At the same time he flung the coil of rope.  It struck fairly,
nearly knocking the man over, but he did not obey.  Instead, he
looked to his hunter for orders.  The hunter, in turn, was in a
quandary.  His rifle was between his knees, but if he let go the
steering-oar in order to shoot, the boat would sweep around and
collide with the schooner.  Also he saw Wolf Larsen's rifle bearing
upon him and knew he would be shot ere he could get his rifle into
play.

"Take a turn," he said quietly to the man.

The boat-puller obeyed, taking a turn around the little forward
thwart and paying the line as it jerked taut.  The boat sheered out
with a rush, and the hunter steadied it to a parallel course some
twenty feet from the side of the Ghost.

"Now, get that sail down and come alongside!" Wolf Larsen ordered.

He never let go his rifle, even passing down the tackles with one
hand.  When they were fast, bow and stern, and the two uninjured
men prepared to come aboard, the hunter picked up his rifle as if
to place it in a secure position.

"Drop it!" Wolf Larsen cried, and the hunter dropped it as though
it were hot and had burned him.

Once aboard, the two prisoners hoisted in the boat and under Wolf
Larsen's direction carried the wounded boat-steerer down into the
forecastle.

"If our five boats do as well as you and I have done, we'll have a
pretty full crew," Wolf Larsen said to me.

"The man you shot--he is--I hope?" Maud Brewster quavered.

"In the shoulder," he answered.  "Nothing serious, Mr. Van Weyden
will pull him around as good as ever in three or four weeks."

"But he won't pull those chaps around, from the look of it," he
added, pointing at the Macedonia's third boat, for which I had been
steering and which was now nearly abreast of us.  "That's Horner's
and Smoke's work.  I told them we wanted live men, not carcasses.
But the joy of shooting to hit is a most compelling thing, when
once you've learned how to shoot.  Ever experienced it, Mr. Van
Weyden?"

I shook my head and regarded their work.  It had indeed been
bloody, for they had drawn off and joined our other three boats in
the attack on the remaining two of the enemy.  The deserted boat
was in the trough of the sea, rolling drunkenly across each comber,
its loose spritsail out at right angles to it and fluttering and
flapping in the wind.  The hunter and boat-puller were both lying
awkwardly in the bottom, but the boat-steerer lay across the
gunwale, half in and half out, his arms trailing in the water and
his head rolling from side to side.

"Don't look, Miss Brewster, please don't look," I had begged of
her, and I was glad that she had minded me and been spared the
sight.

"Head right into the bunch, Mr. Van Weyden," was Wolf Larsen's
command.

As we drew nearer, the firing ceased, and we saw that the fight was
over.  The remaining two boats had been captured by our five, and
the seven were grouped together, waiting to be picked up.

"Look at that!" I cried involuntarily, pointing to the north-east.

The blot of smoke which indicated the Macedonia's position had
reappeared.

"Yes, I've been watching it," was Wolf Larsen's calm reply.  He
measured the distance away to the fog-bank, and for an instant
paused to feel the weight of the wind on his cheek.  "We'll make
it, I think; but you can depend upon it that blessed brother of
mine has twigged our little game and is just a-humping for us.  Ah,
look at that!"

The blot of smoke had suddenly grown larger, and it was very black.

"I'll beat you out, though, brother mine," he chuckled.  "I'll beat
you out, and I hope you no worse than that you rack your old
engines into scrap."

When we hove to, a hasty though orderly confusion reigned.  The
boats came aboard from every side at once.  As fast as the
prisoners came over the rail they were marshalled forward to the
forecastle by our hunters, while our sailors hoisted in the boats,
pell-mell, dropping them anywhere upon the deck and not stopping to
lash them.  We were already under way, all sails set and drawing,
and the sheets being slacked off for a wind abeam, as the last boat
lifted clear of the water and swung in the tackles.

There was need for haste.  The Macedonia, belching the blackest of
smoke from her funnel, was charging down upon us from out of the
north-east.  Neglecting the boats that remained to her, she had
altered her course so as to anticipate ours.  She was not running
straight for us, but ahead of us.  Our courses were converging like
the sides of an angle, the vertex of which was at the edge of the
fog-bank.  It was there, or not at all, that the Macedonia could
hope to catch us.  The hope for the Ghost lay in that she should
pass that point before the Macedonia arrived at it.

Wolf Larsen was steering, his eyes glistening and snapping as they
dwelt upon and leaped from detail to detail of the chase.  Now he
studied the sea to windward for signs of the wind slackening or
freshening, now the Macedonia; and again, his eyes roved over every
sail, and he gave commands to slack a sheet here a trifle, to come
in on one there a trifle, till he was drawing out of the Ghost the
last bit of speed she possessed.  All feuds and grudges were
forgotten, and I was surprised at the alacrity with which the men
who had so long endured his brutality sprang to execute his orders.
Strange to say, the unfortunate Johnson came into my mind as we
lifted and surged and heeled along, and I was aware of a regret
that he was not alive and present; he had so loved the Ghost and
delighted in her sailing powers.

"Better get your rifles, you fellows," Wolf Larsen called to our
hunters; and the five men lined the lee rail, guns in hand, and
waited.

The Macedonia was now but a mile away, the black smoke pouring from
her funnel at a right angle, so madly she raced, pounding through
the sea at a seventeen-knot gait--"'Sky-hooting through the brine,"
as Wolf Larsen quoted while gazing at her.  We were not making more
than nine knots, but the fog-bank was very near.

A puff of smoke broke from the Macedonia's deck, we heard a heavy
report, and a round hole took form in the stretched canvas of our
mainsail.  They were shooting at us with one of the small cannon
which rumour had said they carried on board.  Our men, clustering
amidships, waved their hats and raised a derisive cheer.  Again
there was a puff of smoke and a loud report, this time the cannon-
ball striking not more than twenty feet astern and glancing twice
from sea to sea to windward ere it sank.

But there was no rifle-firing for the reason that all their hunters
were out in the boats or our prisoners.  When the two vessels were
half-a-mile apart, a third shot made another hole in our mainsail.
Then we entered the fog.  It was about us, veiling and hiding us in
its dense wet gauze.

The sudden transition was startling.  The moment before we had been
leaping through the sunshine, the clear sky above us, the sea
breaking and rolling wide to the horizon, and a ship, vomiting
smoke and fire and iron missiles, rushing madly upon us.  And at
once, as in an instant's leap, the sun was blotted out, there was
no sky, even our mastheads were lost to view, and our horizon was
such as tear-blinded eyes may see.  The grey mist drove by us like
a rain.  Every woollen filament of our garments, every hair of our
heads and faces, was jewelled with a crystal globule.  The shrouds
were wet with moisture; it dripped from our rigging overhead; and
on the underside of our booms drops of water took shape in long
swaying lines, which were detached and flung to the deck in mimic
showers at each surge of the schooner.  I was aware of a pent,
stifled feeling.  As the sounds of the ship thrusting herself
through the waves were hurled back upon us by the fog, so were
one's thoughts.  The mind recoiled from contemplation of a world
beyond this wet veil which wrapped us around.  This was the world,
the universe itself, its bounds so near one felt impelled to reach
out both arms and push them back.  It was impossible, that the rest
could be beyond these walls of grey.  The rest was a dream, no more
than the memory of a dream.

It was weird, strangely weird.  I looked at Maud Brewster and knew
that she was similarly affected.  Then I looked at Wolf Larsen, but
there was nothing subjective about his state of consciousness.  His
whole concern was with the immediate, objective present.  He still
held the wheel, and I felt that he was timing Time, reckoning the
passage of the minutes with each forward lunge and leeward roll of
the Ghost.

"Go for'ard and hard alee without any noise," he said to me in a
low voice.  "Clew up the topsails first.  Set men at all the
sheets.  Let there be no rattling of blocks, no sound of voices.
No noise, understand, no noise."

When all was ready, the word "hard-a-lee" was passed forward to me
from man to man; and the Ghost heeled about on the port tack with
practically no noise at all.  And what little there was,--the
slapping of a few reef-points and the creaking of a sheave in a
block or two,--was ghostly under the hollow echoing pall in which
we were swathed.

We had scarcely filled away, it seemed, when the fog thinned
abruptly and we were again in the sunshine, the wide-stretching sea
breaking before us to the sky-line.  But the ocean was bare.  No
wrathful Macedonia broke its surface nor blackened the sky with her
smoke.

Wolf Larsen at once squared away and ran down along the rim of the
fog-bank.  His trick was obvious.  He had entered the fog to
windward of the steamer, and while the steamer had blindly driven
on into the fog in the chance of catching him, he had come about
and out of his shelter and was now running down to re-enter to
leeward.  Successful in this, the old simile of the needle in the
haystack would be mild indeed compared with his brother's chance of
finding him.  He did not run long.  Jibing the fore- and main-sails
and setting the topsails again, we headed back into the bank.  As
we entered I could have sworn I saw a vague bulk emerging to
windward.  I looked quickly at Wolf Larsen.  Already we were
ourselves buried in the fog, but he nodded his head.  He, too, had
seen it--the Macedonia, guessing his manoeuvre and failing by a
moment in anticipating it.  There was no doubt that we had escaped
unseen.

"He can't keep this up," Wolf Larsen said.  "He'll have to go back
for the rest of his boats.  Send a man to the wheel, Mr. Van
Weyden, keep this course for the present, and you might as well set
the watches, for we won't do any lingering to-night."

"I'd give five hundred dollars, though," he added, "just to be
aboard the Macedonia for five minutes, listening to my brother
curse."

"And now, Mr. Van Weyden," he said to me when he had been relieved
from the wheel, "we must make these new-comers welcome.  Serve out
plenty of whisky to the hunters and see that a few bottles slip
for'ard.  I'll wager every man Jack of them is over the side to-
morrow, hunting for Wolf Larsen as contentedly as ever they hunted
for Death Larsen."

"But won't they escape as Wainwright did?" I asked.

He laughed shrewdly.  "Not as long as our old hunters have anything
to say about it.  I'm dividing amongst them a dollar a skin for all
the skins shot by our new hunters.  At least half of their
enthusiasm to-day was due to that.  Oh, no, there won't be any
escaping if they have anything to say about it.  And now you'd
better get for'ard to your hospital duties.  There must be a full
ward waiting for you."


CHAPTER XXVI


Wolf Larsen took the distribution of the whisky off my hands, and
the bottles began to make their appearance while I worked over the
fresh batch of wounded men in the forecastle.  I had seen whisky
drunk, such as whisky-and-soda by the men of the clubs, but never
as these men drank it, from pannikins and mugs, and from the
bottles--great brimming drinks, each one of which was in itself a
debauch.  But they did not stop at one or two.  They drank and
drank, and ever the bottles slipped forward and they drank more.

Everybody drank; the wounded drank; Oofty-Oofty, who helped me,
drank.  Only Louis refrained, no more than cautiously wetting his
lips with the liquor, though he joined in the revels with an
abandon equal to that of most of them.  It was a saturnalia.  In
loud voices they shouted over the day's fighting, wrangled about
details, or waxed affectionate and made friends with the men whom
they had fought.  Prisoners and captors hiccoughed on one another's
shoulders, and swore mighty oaths of respect and esteem.  They wept
over the miseries of the past and over the miseries yet to come
under the iron rule of Wolf Larsen.  And all cursed him and told
terrible tales of his brutality.

It was a strange and frightful spectacle--the small, bunk-lined
space, the floor and walls leaping and lurching, the dim light, the
swaying shadows lengthening and fore-shortening monstrously, the
thick air heavy with smoke and the smell of bodies and iodoform,
and the inflamed faces of the men--half-men, I should call them.  I
noted Oofty-Oofty, holding the end of a bandage and looking upon
the scene, his velvety and luminous eyes glistening in the light
like a deer's eyes, and yet I knew the barbaric devil that lurked
in his breast and belied all the softness and tenderness, almost
womanly, of his face and form.  Its quality is best appreciated
in the kitchen. I know another seedling of excellent quality,
and so remarkable for its firmness and density that it is known on
the farm where it grows as the "heavy apple."

I have alluded to Thoreau, to whom all lovers of the apple and its
tree are under obligation. His chapter on Wild Apples is a
most delicious piece of writing. It has a "tang and smack"
like the fruit it celebrates, and is dashed and streaked with
color in the same manner.
It has the hue and perfume of the crab, and the richness and raciness
of the pippin. But Thoreau loved other apples than the wild
sorts, and was obliged to confess that his favorites could not
be eaten indoors.
Late in November he found a blue-pearmain tree growing within the
edge of a swamp, almost as good as wild. "You would not suppose,"
he says, "that there was any fruit left there on the first survey,
but you must look according to system. Those which lie exposed are
quite brown and rotten now, or perchance a few still show one
blooming cheek here and there amid the wet leaves.

Nevertheless, with experienced eyes I explore amid the bare alders,
and the huckleberry bushes, and the withered sedge, and in the
crevices of the rocks, which are full of leaves, and pry under
the fallen and decaying ferns which, with apple and alder leaves,
thickly strew the ground.

For I know that they lie concealed, fallen into hollows long
since, and covered up by the leaves of the tree itself,--a proper
kind of packing. From these lurkingplaces, anywhere within the
circumference of the tree, I draw forth the fruit all wet and glossy,
maybe nibbled by rabbits and hollowed out by crickets, and perhaps
with a leaf or two cemented to it (as Curzon an old manuscript from
a monastery's mouldy cellar), but still with a rich bloom on
it, and at least as ripe and well kept, if not better than those
in barrels, more crisp and lively than they.

If these resources fail to yield anything, I have learned to
look between the bases of the suckers which spring thickly from some
horizontal limb, for now and then one lodges there, or in the
very midst of an alderclump, where they are covered by leaves, safe
from cows which may have smelled them out. If I am sharp-set,--for
I do not refuse the blue-pearmain,--I fill my pockets on each side;
and as I retrace my steps in the frosty eve, being perhaps four
or five miles from home, I eat one first from this side, and then
from that, to keep my balance."

VIII. AN OCTOBER ABROAD
I. MELLOW ENGLAND
I will say at the outset, as I believe some one else has said
on a like occasion, that in this narrative I shall probably
describe myself more than the objects I look upon. The facts
and particulars of the case have already been set down in the
guidebooks and in innumerable books of travel. I shall only
attempt to give an account of the pleasure and satisfaction I had
in coming face to face with things in the mother country, seeing
them as I did with kindred and sympathizing eyes.

The ocean was a dread fascination to me,--a world whose dominion
I had never entered; but I proved to be such a wretched sailor
that I am obliged to confess, Hibernian fashion, that the happiest
moment I spent upon the sea was when I set my foot upon the land.

It is a wide and fearful gulf that separates the two worlds. The
landsman can know little of the wildness, savageness, and mercilessness
of nature till he has been upon the sea.

It is as if he had taken a leap off into the interstellar spaces.

In voyaging to Mars or Jupiter, he might cross such a desert,--might
confront such awful purity and coldness. An astronomic solitariness
and remoteness encompass the sea.
The earth and all remembrance of it is blotted out; there is no
hint of it anywhere.

This is not water, this cold, blue-black, vitreous liquid.
It suggests, not life, but death. Indeed, the regions of everlasting
ice and snow are not more cold and inhuman than is the sea.

Almost the only thing about my first sea voyage that I remember
with pleasure is the circumstance of the little birds that,
during the first few days out, took refuge on the steamer. The first
afternoon, just as we were losing sight of land, a delicate
little wood-bird, the black and white creeping warbler,--having
lost its reckoning in making perhaps its first southern voyage,--came
aboard.

It was much fatigued, and had a disheartened, demoralized look.

After an hour or two it disappeared, having, I fear, a hard pull to
reach the land in the face of the wind that was blowing, if indeed
it reached it at all.

The next day, just at night, I observed a small hawk sailing about
conveniently near the vessel, but with a very lofty, independent
mien, as if he had just happened that way on his travels, and was
only lingering to take a good view of us.

It was amusing to observe his coolness and haughty unconcern in that
sad plight he was in; by nothing in his manner betraying that he
was several hundred miles at sea, and did not know how he was
going to get back to land. But presently I noticed he found
it not inconsistent with his dignity to alight on the rigging under
friendly cover of the tops'l, where I saw his feathers rudely
ruffled by the wind, till darkness set in. If the sailors did not
disturb him during the night, he certainly needed all his fortitude
in the morning to put a cheerful face on his situation.

The third day, when we were perhaps off Nova Scotia or Newfoundland,
the American pipit or titlark, from the far north, a brown bird
about the size of a sparrow, dropped upon the deck of the ship, so
nearly exhausted that one of the sailors was on the point of covering
it with his hat.

It stayed about the vessel nearly all day, flitting from point to
point, or hopping along a few feet in front of the promenaders,
and prying into every crack and crevice for food. Time after time
I saw it start off with a reassuring chirp, as if
determined to seek the land; but before it had got many rods
from the ship its heart would seem to fail it, and, after circling
about for a few moments, back it would come, more discouraged than
ever.

These little waifs from the shore! I gazed upon them with a
strange, sad interest. They were friends in distress; but the
sea-birds, skimming along indifferent to us, or darting in and
out among those watery hills, I seemed to look upon as my natural
enemies. They were the nurslings and favorites of the sea, and I
had no sympathy with them.

No doubt the number of our land-birds that actually perish in the
sea during their autumn migration, being carried far out of their
course by the prevailing westerly winds of this season, is very
great.

Occasionally one makes the passage to
Great Britain by following the ships,
and finding them at convenient distances along the route; and I
have been told that over fifty different species of our more common
birds, such as robins, starlings, grosbeaks, thrushes, etc., have
been found in Ireland, having, of course, crossed in this way.

What numbers of these little navigators of the air are misled
and wrecked, during those dark and stormy nights, on the lighthouses
alone that line the Atlantic coast! Is it Celia Thaxter who tells
of having picked up her apron full of sparrows, warblers, flycatchers,
etc., at the foot of the lighthouse on the Isles of Shoals, one
morning after a storm, the ground being still strewn with birds of
all kinds that had dashed themselves against the beacon, bewildered
and fascinated by its tremendous light?

If a land-bird perishes at sea, a sea-bird is equally cast away upon
the land; and I have known the sooty tern, with its almost omnipotent
wing, to fall down, utterly famished and exhausted, two hundred
miles from salt water.

But my interest in these things did not last beyond the third
day.
About this time we entered what the sailors call the "devil's hole,"
and a very respectably sized hole it is, extending from the banks
of Newfoundland to Ireland, and in all seasons and weathers it seems
to be well stirred up.

Amidst the tossing and rolling, the groaning of penitent travelers,
and the laboring of the vessel as she climbed those dark unstable
mountains, my mind reverted feebly to Huxley's statement, that the
bottom of this sea, for over a thousand miles, presents to the eye
of science a vast chalk plain, over which one might drive as over
a floor, and I tried to solace myself by dwelling upon the spectacle
of a solitary traveler whipping up his steed across it.

The imaginary rattle of his wagon was like the sound of lutes
and harps, and I would rather have clung to his axletree than have
been rocked in the best berth in the ship.

LAND

On the tenth day, about four o'clock in the afternoon, we sighted
Ireland.

The ship came up from behind the horizon, where for so many days she
had been buffeting with the winds and the waves, but had never
lost the clew, bearing straight as an arrow for the mark.

I think, if she had been aimed at a fair-sized artillery target,
she would have crossed the ocean and struck the bull's-eye.

In Ireland, instead of an emerald isle rising out of the sea, I
beheld a succession of cold, purplish mountains, stretching along
the northeastern horizon, but I am bound to say that no tints of
bloom or verdure were ever half so welcome to me as were those dark,
heather-clad ranges.

It is a feeling which a man can have but once in his life, when he
first sets eyes upon a foreign land; and in my case, to this feeling
was added the delightful thought that the "devil's hole" would soon
be cleared and my long fast over.

Presently, after the darkness had set in, signal rockets were let off
from the stern of the vessel, writing their burning messages upon
the night; and when answering rockets rose slowly up far ahead, I
suppose we all felt that the voyage was essentially done, and no
doubt a message flashed back under the ocean that the Scotia had
arrived.

The sight of the land had been such medicine to me that I could
now hold up my head and walk about, and so went down for the first
time and took a look at the engines,--those twin monsters that had
not stopped once, or apparently varied their stroke at all, since
leaving Sandy Hook; I felt like patting their enormous cranks and
shafts with my hand,--then at the coal bunks, vast cavernous recesses
in the belly of the ship, like the chambers of the original mine
in the mountains, and saw the men and firemen at work in a sort of
purgatory of heat and dust.

When it is remembered that one of these ocean steamers consumes
about one hundred tons of coal per day, it is easy to imagine what
a burden the coal for a voyage alone must be, and one is not at all
disposed to laugh at Dr.

Lardner, who proved so convincingly that no steamship could
ever cross the ocean, because it could not carry coal enough to
enable it to make the passage.

On the morrow, a calm, lustrous day, we steamed at our leisure up
the Channel and across the Irish Sea, the coast of Wales, and her
groups of lofty mountains, in full view nearly all day. The
mountains were in profile like the Catskills viewed from the Hudson
below, only it was evident there were no trees or shrubbery upon
them, and their summits, on this last day of September, were white
with snow.

ASHORE
The first day or half day ashore is, of course, the most novel and
exciting; but who, as Mr. Higginson says, can describe his sensations
and emotions this first half day? It is a page of travel that has
not yet been written. Paradoxical as it may seem, one generally
comes out of pickle much fresher than he went in.

The sea has given him an enormous appetite for the land. Every one
of his senses is like a hungry wolf clamorous to be fed.

For my part, I had suddenly emerged from a condition bordering
on that of the hibernating animals--a condition in which I had
neither eaten, nor slept, nor thought, nor moved, when I could help
it--into not only a full, but a keen and joyous, possession of my
health and faculties.

It was almost a metamorphosis. I was no longer the clod I had
been, but a bird exulting in the earth and air, and in the
liberty of motion. Then to remember it was a new earth and a new
sky that I was beholding,--that it was England, the old mother at
last, no longer a faith or a fable, but an actual fact there before
my eyes and under my feet,--why should I not exult? Go to! I will
be indulged.

Those trees, those fields, that bird darting along the hedge-rows,
those men and boys picking blackberries in October, those English
flowers by the roadside (stop the carriage while I leap out and
pluck them), the homely, domestic looks of things, those houses,
those queer vehicles, those thick-coated horses, those big-footed,
coarsely clad, clear-skinned men and women, this massive, homely,
compact architecture,--let me have a good look, for this is my first
hour in England, and I am drunk with the joy of seeing! This
house-fly even, let me inspect it [Footnote: The English house-fly
actually seemed coarser and more hairy than ours.]; and that swallow
skimming along so familiarly,--is he the same I saw trying to cling
to the sails of the vessel the third day out?

or is the swallow the swallow the world over? This grass I certainly
have seen before, and this red and white clover, but this daisy
and dandelion are not the same; and I have come three thousand
miles to see the mullein cultivated in a garden, and christened
the velvet plant.

As we sped through the land, the heart of England, toward London,
I thought my eyes would never get their fill of the landscape, and
that I would lose them out of my head by their eagerness to
catch every object as we rushed along! How they reveled, how they
followed the birds and the game, how they glanced ahead on the
track--that marvelous track!

--or shot off over the fields and downs, finding their delight
in the streams, the roads, the bridges, the splendid breeds of
cattle and sheep in the fields, the superb husbandry, the rich
mellow soil, the drainage, the hedges,--in the inconspicuousness
of any given feature, and the mellow tone and homely sincerity of
all; now dwelling fondly upon the groups of neatly modeled stacks,
then upon the field occupations, the gathering of turnips and
cabbages, or the digging of potatoes,--how I longed to turn up the
historic soil, into which had passed the sweat and virtue of so
many generations, with my own spade,--then upon the quaint, old,
thatched houses, or the cluster of tiled roofs, then catching at a
church spire across a meadow (and it is all meadow), or at the
remains of tower or wall overrun with ivy.

Here, something almost human looks out at you from the landscape;
Nature here has been so long under the dominion of man, has been
taken up and laid down by him so many times, worked over and over
with his hands, fed and fattened by his toil and industry, and, on
the whole, has proved herself so willing and tractable, that she
has taken on something of his image, and seems to radiate his
presence.

She is completely
domesticated, and no doubt loves the titillation
of the harrow and plow. The fields look half
conscious; and if ever the cattle have
"great and tranquil thoughts," as Emerson
suggests they do, it must be when lying upon these lawns and
meadows.

I noticed that the trees, the oaks and elms, looked like fruit
trees, or as if they had felt the humanizing influences of
so many generations of men, and were betaking themselves
from the woods to the orchard. The game is more than half tame, and
one could easily understand that it had a keeper.

But the look of those fields and parks went straight to my heart.
It is not merely that they were so smooth and cultivated, but that
they were so benign and maternal, so redolent of cattle and sheep
and of patient, homely farm labor.

One gets only here and there a glimpse of such in this country. I see
occasionally about our farms a patch of an acre or half acre upon
which has settled this atmosphere of ripe and loving husbandry; a
choice bit of meadow about the barn or orchard, or near the house,
which has had some special fattening, perhaps been the site of some
former garden, or barn, or homestead, or which has had the wash of
some building, where the feet of children have played for generations,
and the flocks and herds have been fed in winter, and where they
love to lie and ruminate at night,--a piece of sward thick and
smooth, and full of warmth and nutriment, where the grass is greenest
and freshest in spring, and the hay finest and thickest in summer.

This is the character of the whole of England that I saw. I had been
told I should see a garden, but I did not know before to what
an extent the earth could become a living repository of the virtues
of so many generations of gardeners.

The tendency to run to weeds and wild growths seems to have been
utterly eradicated from the soil; and if anything were to spring
upspontaneously, I think it would be cabbage and turnips, or grass
and grain.

And yet, to American eyes, the country seems quite uninhabited,
there are so few dwellings and so, few people. Such a landscape
at home would be dotted all over with thrifty farmhouses, each
with its group of painted outbuildings, and along every road and
highway would be seen the well-to-do turnouts of the independent
freeholders.

But in England the dwellings of the people, the farmers, are so
humble and inconspicuous and are really so far apart, and the halls
and the country-seats of the aristocracy are so hidden in the
midst of vast estates, that the landscape seems almost deserted,
and it is not till you see the towns and great cities that
you can understand where so vast a population keeps itself.

Another thing that would be quite sure to strike my eye on
this my first ride across British soil, and on all subsequent
rides, was the enormous number of birds and fowls of various kinds
that swarmed in the air or covered the ground.

It was truly amazing It seemed as if the feathered life of a whole
continent must have been concentrated on this island. Indeed, I doubt
if a sweeping together of all the birds of the United States into
any two of the largest States would people the earth and air
more fully. There appeared to be a plover, a crow, a rook, a
blackbird, and a sparrow to every square yard of ground. They
know the value of birds in Britain,--that they are the friends,
not the enemies, of the farmer. It must be the paradise of crows
and rooks. It did me good to see them so much at home about the
fields and even in the towns. I was glad also to see that the
British crow was not a stranger to me, and that he differed from
his brother on the American side of the Atlantic only in being less
alert and cautious, having less use for these qualities.

Now and then the train would start up some more tempting game. A
brace or two of partridges or a covey of quails would settle
down in the stubble, or a cock pheasant drop head and tail and
slide into the copse. Rabbits also would scamper back from the
borders of the fields into the thickets or peep slyly out, making
my sportsman's fingers tingle.

I have no doubt I should be a notorious poacher in England. How
could an American see so much game and not wish to exterminate it
entirely as he does at home?

But sporting is an expensive luxury here. In the first place a man
pays a heavy tax on his gun, nearly or quite half its value; then
he has to have a license to hunt, for which he pays smartly;
then permission from the owner of the land upon which he wishes
to hunt; so that the game is hedged about by a triple safeguard.

An American, also, will be at once struck with the look of greater
substantiality and completeness in everything he sees here.

No temporizing, no makeshifts, no evidence of hurry, or failure,
or contract work; no wood and little paint, but plenty of iron and
brick and stone.

This people have taken plenty of time, and have built broad and deep,
and placed the cap-stone on. All this I had been told, but it
pleased me so in the seeing that I must tell it again. It is worth
a voyage across the Atlantic to see the bridges alone. I
believe I had seen little other than wooden bridges before, and
in England I saw not one such, but everywhere solid arches of
masonry, that were refreshing and reassuring to behold.

Even the lanes and byways about the farm, I noticed, crossed the
little creeks with a span upon which an elephant would not hesitate
to tread, or artillery trains to pass.

There is no form so pleasing to look upon as the arch, or that
affords so much food and suggestion to the mind.

It seems to stimulate the volition, the will-power, and for my part
I cannot look upon a noble span without a feeling of envy, for I
know the hearts of heroes are thus keyed and fortified. The arch
is the symbol of strength and activity, and of rectitude.

In Europe I took a new lease of this feeling, this partiality for
the span, and had daily opportunities to indulge and confirm it.
In London I had immense satisfaction in observing the bridges
there, and in walking over them, firm as the geological strata
and as enduring.

London Bridge, Waterloo Bridge, Blackfriars, clearing the river in a
few gigantic leaps, like things of life and motion,--to pass over
one of these bridges, or to sail under it, awakens the emotion of
the sublime.

I think the moral value of such a bridge as the Waterloo must be
inestimable.

It seems to me the British Empire itself is stronger for such
a bridge, and that all public and private virtues are stronger.

In Paris, too, those superb monuments over the Seine,--I think they
alone ought to inspire the citizens with a love of permanence, and
help hold them to stricter notions of law and dependence.

No doubt kings and tyrants know the value of these things, and as
yet they certainly have the monopoly of them.

LONDON
I am too good a countryman to feel much at home in cities, and
usually value them only as conveniences, but for London I conceived
quite an affection; perhaps because it is so much like a natural
formation itself, and strikes less loudly, or perhaps sharply, upon
the senses than our great cities do.

It is a forest of brick and stone of the most stupendous dimensions,
and one traverses it in the same adventurous kind of way that he
does woods and mountains.

The maze and tangle of streets is something fearful, and any
generalization of them a step not to be hastily taken.

My experience heretofore had been that cities generally were fractions
that could be greatly reduced, but London I found I could not simplify,
and every morning for weeks, when I came out of my hotel,
it was a question whether my course lay in this, or in exactly the
opposite direction.

It has no unit of structure, but is a vast aggregation of streets and
houses, or in fact of towns and cities, which have to be mastered
in detail. I tried the third or fourth day to get a bird's-eye view
from the top of St.

Paul's, but saw through the rifts in the smoke only a waste,--literally
a waste of red tiles and chimney pots. The confusion and desolation
were complete.

But I finally mastered the city, in a measure, by the aid of a
shilling map, which I carried with me wherever I went, and upon
which, when I was lost, I would hunt myself up, thus making in the
end a very suggestive and entertaining map.

Indeed, every inch of this piece of colored paper is alive
to me. If I did not make the map itself, I at least verified
it, which is nearly as good, and the verification, on street corner
by day and under lamp or by shop window at night, was often a
matter of so much concern that I doubt if the original surveyor
himself put more heart into certain parts of his work than I did
in the proof of them.

London has less metropolitan splendor than New York, and less of
the full-blown pride of the shopman. Its stores are not nearly so
big, and it has no signboards that contain over one thousand feet
of lumber; neither did I see any names painted on the gable ends
of the buildings that the man in the moon could read without his
opera-glass.

I went out one day to look up one of the great, publishing houses,
and passed it and repassed it several times trying to find the sign.

The boat was close-hauled on a fresh
breeze and the compass indicated that we were just making the
course which would bring us to Japan.  Though stoutly mittened, my
fingers were cold, and they pained from the grip on the steering-
oar.  My feet were stinging from the bite of the frost, and I hoped
fervently that the sun would shine.

Before me, in the bottom of the boat, lay Maud.  She, at least, was
warm, for under her and over her were thick blankets.  The top one
I had drawn over her face to shelter it from the night, so I could
see nothing but the vague shape of her, and her light-brown hair,
escaped from the covering and jewelled with moisture from the air.

Long I looked at her, dwelling upon that one visible bit of her as
only a man would who deemed it the most precious thing in the
world.  So insistent was my gaze that at last she stirred under the
blankets, the top fold was thrown back and she smiled out on me,
her eyes yet heavy with sleep.

"Good-morning, Mr. Van Weyden," she said.  "Have you sighted land
yet?"

"No," I answered, "but we are approaching it at a rate of six miles
an hour."

She made a moue of disappointment.

"But that is equivalent to one hundred and forty-four miles in
twenty-four hours," I added reassuringly.

Her face brightened.  "And how far have we to go?"

"Siberia lies off there," I said, pointing to the west.  "But to
the south-west, some six hundred miles, is Japan.  If this wind
should hold, we'll make it in five days."

"And if it storms?  The boat could not live?"

She had a way of looking one in the eyes and demanding the truth,
and thus she looked at me as she asked the question.

"It would have to storm very hard," I temporized.

"And if it storms very hard?"

I nodded my head.  "But we may be picked up any moment by a
sealing-schooner.  They are plentifully distributed over this part
of the ocean."

"Why, you are chilled through!" she cried.  "Look!  You are
shivering.  Don't deny it; you are.  And here I have been lying
warm as toast."

"I don't see that it would help matters if you, too, sat up and
were chilled," I laughed.

"It will, though, when I learn to steer, which I certainly shall."

She sat up and began making her simple toilet.  She shook down her
hair, and it fell about her in a brown cloud, hiding her face and
shoulders.  Dear, damp brown hair!  I wanted to kiss it, to ripple
it through my fingers, to bury my face in it.  I gazed entranced,
till the boat ran into the wind and the flapping sail warned me I
was not attending to my duties.  Idealist and romanticist that I
was and always had been in spite of my analytical nature, yet I had
failed till now in grasping much of the physical characteristics of
love.  The love of man and woman, I had always held, was a
sublimated something related to spirit, a spiritual bond that
linked and drew their souls together.  The bonds of the flesh had
little part in my cosmos of love.  But I was learning the sweet
lesson for myself that the soul transmuted itself, expressed
itself, through the flesh; that the sight and sense and touch of
the loved one's hair was as much breath and voice and essence of
the spirit as the light that shone from the eyes and the thoughts
that fell from the lips.  After all, pure spirit was unknowable, a
thing to be sensed and divined only; nor could it express itself in
terms of itself.  Jehovah was anthropomorphic because he could
address himself to the Jews only in terms of their understanding;
so he was conceived as in their own image, as a cloud, a pillar of
fire, a tangible, physical something which the mind of the
Israelites could grasp.

And so I gazed upon Maud's light-brown hair, and loved it, and
learned more of love than all the poets and singers had taught me
with all their songs and sonnets.  She flung it back with a sudden
adroit movement, and her face emerged, smiling.

"Why don't women wear their hair down always?" I asked.  "It is so
much more beautiful."

"If it didn't tangle so dreadfully," she laughed.  "There!  I've
lost one of my precious hair-pins!"

I neglected the boat and had the sail spilling the wind again and
again, such was my delight in following her every movement as she
searched through the blankets for the pin.  I was surprised, and
joyfully, that she was so much the woman, and the display of each
trait and mannerism that was characteristically feminine gave me
keener joy.  For I had been elevating her too highly in my concepts
of her, removing her too far from the plane of the human, and too
far from me.  I had been making of her a creature goddess-like and
unapproachable.  So I hailed with delight the little traits that
proclaimed her only woman after all, such as the toss of the head
which flung back the cloud of hair, and the search for the pin.
She was woman, my kind, on my plane, and the delightful intimacy of
kind, of man and woman, was possible, as well as the reverence and
awe in which I knew I should always hold her.

She found the pin with an adorable little cry, and I turned my
attention more fully to my steering.  I proceeded to experiment,
lashing and wedging the steering-oar until the boat held on fairly
well by the wind without my assistance.  Occasionally it came up
too close, or fell off too freely; but it always recovered itself
and in the main behaved satisfactorily.

"And now we shall have breakfast," I said.  "But first you must be
more warmly clad."

I got out a heavy shirt, new from the slop-chest and made from
blanket goods.  I knew the kind, so thick and so close of texture
that it could resist the rain and not be soaked through after hours
of wetting.  When she had slipped this on over her head, I
exchanged the boy's cap she wore for a man's cap, large enough to
cover her hair, and, when the flap was turned down, to completely
cover her neck and ears.  The effect was charming.  Her face was of
the sort that cannot but look well under all circumstances.
Nothing could destroy its exquisite oval, its well-nigh classic
lines, its delicately stencilled brows, its large brown eyes,
clear-seeing and calm, gloriously calm.

A puff, slightly stronger than usual, struck us just then.  The
boat was caught as it obliquely crossed the crest of a wave.  It
went over suddenly, burying its gunwale level with the sea and
shipping a bucketful or so of water.  I was opening a can of tongue
at the moment, and I sprang to the sheet and cast it off just in
time.  The sail flapped and fluttered, and the boat paid off.  A
few minutes of regulating sufficed to put it on its course again,
when I returned to the preparation of breakfast.

"It does very well, it seems, though I am not versed in things
nautical," she said, nodding her head with grave approval at my
steering contrivance.

"But it will serve only when we are sailing by the wind," I
explained.  "When running more freely, with the wind astern abeam,
or on the quarter, it will be necessary for me to steer."

"I must say I don't understand your technicalities," she said, "but
I do your conclusion, and I don't like it.  You cannot steer night
and day and for ever.  So I shall expect, after breakfast, to
receive my first lesson.  And then you shall lie down and sleep.
We'll stand watches just as they do on ships."

"I don't see how I am to teach you," I made protest.  "I am just
learning for myself.  You little thought when you trusted yourself
to me that I had had no experience whatever with small boats.  This
is the first time I have ever been in one."

"Then we'll learn together, sir.  And since you've had a night's
start you shall teach me what you have learned.  And now,
breakfast.  My! this air does give one an appetite!"

"No coffee," I said regretfully, passing her buttered sea-biscuits
and a slice of canned tongue.  "And there will be no tea, no soups,
nothing hot, till we have made land somewhere, somehow."

After the simple breakfast, capped with a cup of cold water, Maud
took her lesson in steering.  In teaching her I learned quite a
deal myself, though I was applying the knowledge already acquired
by sailing the Ghost and by watching the boat-steerers sail the
small boats.  She was an apt pupil, and soon learned to keep the
course, to luff in the puffs and to cast off the sheet in an
emergency.

Having grown tired, apparently, of the task, she relinquished the
oar to me.  I had folded up the blankets, but she now proceeded to
spread them out on the bottom.  When all was arranged snugly, she
said:

"Now, sir, to bed.  And you shall sleep until luncheon.  Till
dinner-time," she corrected, remembering the arrangement on the
Ghost.

What could I do?  She insisted, and said, "Please, please,"
whereupon I turned the oar over to her and obeyed.  I experienced a
positive sensuous delight as I crawled into the bed she had made
with her hands.  The calm and control which were so much a part of
her seemed to have been communicated to the blankets, so that I was
aware of a soft dreaminess and content, and of an oval face and
brown eyes framed in a fisherman's cap and tossing against a
background now of grey cloud, now of grey sea, and then I was aware
that I had been asleep.

I looked at my watch.  It was one o'clock.  I had slept seven
hours!  And she had been steering seven hours!  When I took the
steering-oar I had first to unbend her cramped fingers.  Her
modicum of strength had been exhausted, and she was unable even to
move from her position.  I was compelled to let go the sheet while
I helped her to the nest of blankets and chafed her hands and arms.

"I am so tired," she said, with a quick intake of the breath and a
sigh, drooping her head wearily.

But she straightened it the next moment.  "Now don't scold, don't
you dare scold," she cried with mock defiance.

"I hope my face does not appear angry," I answered seriously; "for
I assure you I am not in the least angry."

"N-no," she considered.  "It looks only reproachful."

"Then it is an honest face, for it looks what I feel.  You were not
fair to yourself, nor to me.  How can I ever trust you again?"

She looked penitent.  "I'll be good," she said, as a naughty child
might say it.  "I promise--"

"To obey as a sailor would obey his captain?"

"Yes," she answered.  "It was stupid of me, I know."

"Then you must promise something else," I ventured.

"Readily."

"That you will not say, 'Please, please,' too often; for when you
do you are sure to override my authority."

She laughed with amused appreciation.  She, too, had noticed the
power of the repeated "please."

"It is a good word--" I began.

"But I must not overwork it," she broke in.

But she laughed weakly, and her head drooped again.  I left the oar
long enough to tuck the blankets about her feet and to pull a
single fold across her face.  Alas! she was not strong.  I looked
with misgiving toward the south-west and thought of the six hundred
miles of hardship before us--ay, if it were no worse than hardship.
On this sea a storm might blow up at any moment and destroy us.
And yet I was unafraid.  I was without confidence in the future,
extremely doubtful, and yet I felt no underlying fear.  It must
come right, it must come right, I repeated to myself, over and over
again.

The wind freshened in the afternoon, raising a stiffer sea and
trying the boat and me severely.  But the supply of food and the
nine breakers of water enabled the boat to stand up to the sea and
wind, and I held on as long as I dared.  Then I removed the sprit,
tightly hauling down the peak of the sail, and we raced along under
what sailors call a leg-of-mutton.

Late in the afternoon I sighted a steamer's smoke on the horizon to
leeward, and I knew it either for a Russian cruiser, or, more
likely, the Macedonia still seeking the Ghost.  The sun had not
shone all day, and it had been bitter cold.  As night drew on, the
clouds darkened and the wind freshened, so that when Maud and I ate
supper it was with our mittens on and with me still steering and
eating morsels between puffs.

By the time it was dark, wind and sea had become too strong for the
boat, and I reluctantly took in the sail and set about making a
drag or sea-anchor.  I had learned of the device from the talk of
the hunters, and it was a simple thing to manufacture.  Furling the
sail and lashing it securely about the mast, boom, sprit, and two
pairs of spare oars, I threw it overboard.  A line connected it
with the bow, and as it floated low in the water, practically
unexposed to the wind, it drifted less rapidly than the boat.  In
consequence it held the boat bow on to the sea and wind--the safest
position in which to escape being swamped when the sea is breaking
into whitecaps.

"And now?" Maud asked cheerfully, when the task was accomplished
and I pulled on my mittens.

"And now we are no longer travelling toward Japan," I answered.
"Our drift is to the south-east, or south-south-east, at the rate
of at least two miles an hour."

"That will be only twenty-four miles," she urged, "if the wind
remains high all night."

"Yes, and only one hundred and forty miles if it continues for
three days and nights."

"But it won't continue," she said with easy confidence.  "It will
turn around and blow fair."

"The sea is the great faithless one."

"But the wind!" she retorted.  "I have heard you grow eloquent over
the brave trade-wind."

"I wish I had thought to bring Wolf Larsen's chronometer and
sextant," I said, still gloomily.  "Sailing one direction, drifting
another direction, to say nothing of the set of the current in some
third direction, makes a resultant which dead reckoning can never
calculate.  Before long we won't know where we are by five hundred
miles."

Then I begged her pardon and promised I should not be disheartened
any more.  At her solicitation I let her take the watch till
midnight,--it was then nine o'clock, but I wrapped her in blankets
and put an oilskin about her before I lay down.  I slept only cat-
naps.  The boat was leaping and pounding as it fell over the
crests, I could hear the seas rushing past, and spray was
continually being thrown aboard.  And still, it was not a bad
night, I mused--nothing to the nights I had been through on the
Ghost; nothing, perhaps, to the nights we should go through in this
cockle-shell.  Its planking was three-quarters of an inch thick.
Between us and the bottom of the sea was less than an inch of wood.

And yet, I aver it, and I aver it again, I was unafraid.  The death
which Wolf Larsen and even Thomas Mugridge had made me fear, I no
longer feared.  The coming of Maud Brewster into my life seemed to
have transformed me.  After all, I thought, it is better and finer
to love than to be loved, if it makes something in life so worth
while that one is not loath to die for it.  I forget my own life in
the love of another life; and yet, such is the paradox, I never
wanted so much to live as right now when I place the least value
upon my own life.  I never had so much reason for living, was my
concluding thought; and after that, until I dozed, I contented
myself with trying to pierce the darkness to where I knew Maud
crouched low in the stern-sheets, watchful of the foaming sea and
ready to call me on an instant's notice.


CHAPTER XXVIII


There is no need of going into an extended recital of our suffering
in the small boat during the many days we were driven and drifted,
here and there, willy-nilly, across the ocean.  The high wind blew
from the north-west for twenty-four hours, when it fell calm, and
in the night sprang up from the south-west.  This was dead in our
teeth, but I took in the sea-anchor and set sail, hauling a course
on the wind which took us in a south-south-easterly direction.  It
was an even choice between this and the west-north-westerly course
which the wind permitted; but the warm airs of the south fanned my
desire for a warmer sea and swayed my decision.

In three hours--it was midnight, I well remember, and as dark as I
had ever seen it on the sea--the wind, still blowing out of the
south-west, rose furiously, and once again I was compelled to set
the sea-anchor.

Day broke and found me wan-eyed and the ocean lashed white, the
boat pitching, almost on end, to its drag.  We were in imminent
danger of being swamped by the whitecaps.  As it was, spray and
spume came aboard in such quantities that I bailed without
cessation.  The blankets were soaking.  Everything was wet except
Maud, and she, in oilskins, rubber boots, and sou'wester, was dry,
all but her face and hands and a stray wisp of hair.  She relieved
me at the bailing-hole from time to time, and bravely she threw out
the water and faced the storm.  All things are relative.  It was no
more than a stiff blow, but to us, fighting for life in our frail
craft, it was indeed a storm.

Cold and cheerless, the wind beating on our faces, the white seas
roaring by, we struggled through the day.  Night came, but neither
of us slept.  Day came, and still the wind beat on our faces and
the white seas roared past.  By the second night Maud was falling
asleep from exhaustion.  I covered her with oilskins and a
tarpaulin.  She was comparatively dry, but she was numb with the
cold.  I feared greatly that she might die in the night; but day
broke, cold and cheerless, with the same clouded sky and beating
wind and roaring seas.

I had had no sleep for forty-eight hours.  I was wet and chilled to
the marrow, till I felt more dead than alive.  My body was stiff
from exertion as well as from cold, and my aching muscles gave me
the severest torture whenever I used them, and I used them
continually.  And all the time we were being driven off into the
north-east, directly away from Japan and toward bleak Bering Sea.

And still we lived, and the boat lived, and the wind blew unabated.
In fact, toward nightfall of the third day it increased a trifle
and something more.  The boat's bow plunged under a crest, and we
came through quarter-full of water.  I bailed like a madman.  The
liability of shipping another such sea was enormously increased by
the water that weighed the boat down and robbed it of its buoyancy.
And another such sea meant the end.  When I had the boat empty
again I was forced to take away the tarpaulin which covered Maud,
in order that I might lash it down across the bow.  It was well I
did, for it covered the boat fully a third of the way aft, and
three times, in the next several hours, it flung off the bulk of
the down-rushing water when the bow shoved under the seas.

Maud's condition was pitiable.  She sat crouched in the bottom of
the boat, her lips blue, her face grey and plainly showing the pain
she suffered.  But ever her eyes looked bravely at me, and ever her
lips uttered brave words.

The worst of the storm must have blown that night, though little I
noticed it.  I had succumbed and slept where I sat in the stern-
sheets.  The morning of the fourth day found the wind diminished to
a gentle whisper, the sea dying down and the sun shining upon us.
Oh, the blessed sun!  How we bathed our poor bodies in its
delicious warmth, reviving like bugs and crawling things after a
storm.  We smiled again, said amusing things, and waxed optimistic
over our situation.  Yet it was, if anything, worse than ever.  We
were farther from Japan than the night we left the Ghost.  Nor
could I more than roughly guess our latitude and longitude.  At a
calculation of a two-mile drift per hour, during the seventy and
odd hours of the storm, we had been driven at least one hundred and
fifty miles to the north-east.  But was such calculated drift
correct?  For all I knew, it might have been four miles per hour
instead of two.  In which case we were another hundred and fifty
miles to the bad.

Where we were I did not know, though there was quite a likelihood
that we were in the vicinity of the Ghost.  There were seals about
us, and I was prepared to sight a sealing-schooner at any time.  We
did sight one, in the afternoon, when the north-west breeze had
sprung up freshly once more.  But the strange schooner lost itself
on the sky-line and we alone occupied the circle of the sea.

Came days of fog, when even Maud's spirit drooped and there were no
merry words upon her lips; days of calm, when we floated on the
lonely immensity of sea, oppressed by its greatness and yet
marvelling at the miracle of tiny life, for we still lived and
struggled to live; days of sleet and wind and snow-squalls, when
nothing could keep us warm; or days of drizzling rain, when we
filled our water-breakers from the drip of the wet sail.

And ever I loved Maud with an increasing love.  She was so many-
sided, so many-mooded--"protean-mooded" I called her.  But I called
her this, and other and dearer things, in my thoughts only.  Though
the declaration of my love urged and trembled on my tongue a
thousand times, I knew that it was no time for such a declaration.
If for no other reason, it was no time, when one was protecting and
trying to save a woman, to ask that woman for her love.  Delicate
as was the situation, not alone in this but in other ways, I
flattered myself that I was able to deal delicately with it; and
also I flattered myself that by look or sign I gave no
advertisement of the love I felt for her.  We were like good
comrades, and we grew better comrades as the days went by.

One thing about her which surprised me was her lack of timidity and
fear.  The terrible sea, the frail boat, the storms, the suffering,
the strangeness and isolation of the situation,--all that should
have frightened a robust woman,--seemed to make no impression upon
her who had known life only in its most sheltered and consummately
artificial aspects, and who was herself all fire and dew and mist,
sublimated spirit, all that was soft and tender and clinging in
woman.  And yet I am wrong.  She WAS timid and afraid, but she
possessed courage.  The flesh and the qualms of the flesh she was
heir to, but the flesh bore heavily only on the flesh.  And she was
spirit, first and always spirit, etherealized essence of life, calm
as her calm eyes, and sure of permanence in the changing order of
the universe.

Came days of storm, days and nights of storm, when the ocean
menaced us with its roaring whiteness, and the wind smote our
struggling boat with a Titan's buffets.  And ever we were flung
off, farther and farther, to the north-east.  It was in such a
storm, and the worst that we had experienced, that I cast a weary
glance to leeward, not in quest of anything, but more from the
weariness of facing the elemental strife, and in mute appeal,
almost, to the wrathful powers to cease and let us be.  What I saw
I could not at first believe.  Days and nights of sleeplessness and
anxiety had doubtless turned my head.  I looked back at Maud, to
identify myself, as it were, in time and space.  The sight of her
dear wet cheeks, her flying hair, and her brave brown eyes
convinced me that my vision was still healthy.  Again I turned my
face to leeward, and again I saw the jutting promontory, black and
high and naked, the raging surf that broke about its base and beat
its front high up with spouting fountains, the black and forbidden
coast-line running toward the south-east and fringed with a
tremendous scarf of white.

"Maud," I said.  "Maud."

She turned her head and beheld the sight.

"It cannot be Alaska!" she cried.

"Alas, no," I answered, and asked, "Can you swim?"

She shook her head.

"Neither can I," I said.  "So we must get ashore without swimming,
in some opening between the rocks through which we can drive the
boat and clamber out.  But we must be quick, most quick--and sure."

I spoke with a confidence she knew I did not feel, for she looked
at me with that unfaltering gaze of hers and said:

"I have not thanked you yet for all you have done for me but--"

She hesitated, as if in doubt how best to word her gratitude.

"Well?" I said, brutally, for I was not quite pleased with her
thanking me.

"You might help me," she smiled.

"To acknowledge your obligations before you die?  Not at all.  We
are not going to die.  We shall land on that island, and we shall
be snug and sheltered before the day is done."

I spoke stoutly, but I did not believe a word.  Nor was I prompted
to lie through fear.  I felt no fear, though I was sure of death in
that boiling surge amongst the rocks which was rapidly growing
nearer.  It was impossible to hoist sail and claw off that shore.
The wind would instantly capsize the boat; the seas would swamp it
the moment it fell into the trough; and, besides, the sail, lashed
to the spare oars, dragged in the sea ahead of us.

As I say, I was not afraid to meet my own death, there, a few
hundred yards to leeward; but I was appalled at the thought that
Maud must die.  My cursed imagination saw her beaten and mangled
against the rocks, and it was too terrible.  I strove to compel
myself to think we would make the landing safely, and so I spoke,
not what I believed, but what I preferred to believe.

I recoiled before contemplation of that frightful death, and for a
moment I entertained the wild idea of seizing Maud in my arms and
leaping overboard.  Then I resolved to wait, and at the last
moment, when we entered on the final stretch, to take her in my
arms and proclaim my love, and, with her in my embrace, to make the
desperate struggle and die.

Instinctively we drew closer together in the bottom of the boat.  I
felt her mittened hand come out to mine.  And thus, without speech,
we waited the end.  We were not far off the line the wind made with
the western edge of the promontory, and I watched in the hope that
some set of the current or send of the sea would drift us past
before we reached the surf.

"We shall go clear," I said, with a confidence which I knew
deceived neither of us.

"By God, we WILL go clear!" I cried, five minutes later.

The oath left my lips in my excitement--the first, I do believe, in
my life, unless "trouble it," an expletive of my youth, be
accounted an oath.

"I beg your pardon," I said.

"You have convinced me of your sincerity," she said, with a faint
smile.  "I do know, now, that we shall go clear."

I had seen a distant headland past the extreme edge of the
promontory, and as we looked we could see grow the intervening
coastline of what was evidently a deep cove.  At the same time
there broke upon our ears a continuous and mighty bellowing.  It
partook of the magnitude and volume of distant thunder, and it came
to us directly from leeward, rising above the crash of the surf and
travelling directly in the teeth of the storm.  As we passed the
point the whole cove burst upon our view, a half-moon of white
sandy beach upon which broke a huge surf, and which was covered
with myriads of seals.  It was from them that the great bellowing
went up.

"A rookery!" I cried.  "Now are we indeed saved.  There must be men
and cruisers to protect them from the seal-hunters.  Possibly there
is a station ashore."

But as I studied the surf which beat upon the beach, I said, "Still
bad, but not so bad.  And now, if the gods be truly kind, we shall
drift by that next headland and come upon a perfectly sheltered
beach, where we may land without wetting our feet."

And the gods were kind.  The first and second headlands were
directly in line with the south-west wind; but once around the
second,--and we went perilously near,--we picked up the third
headland, still in line with the wind and with the other two.  But
the cove that intervened!  It penetrated deep into the land, and
the tide, setting in, drifted us under the shelter of the point.
Here the sea was calm, save for a heavy but smooth ground-swell,
and I took in the sea-anchor and began to row.  From the point the
shore curved away, more and more to the south and west, until at
last it disclosed a cove within the cove, a little land-locked
harbour, the water level as a pond, broken only by tiny ripples
where vagrant breaths and wisps of the storm hurtled down from over
the frowning wall of rock that backed the beach a hundred feet
inshore.

Here were no seals whatever.  The boat's stern touched the hard
shingle.  I sprang out, extending my hand to Maud.  The next moment
she was beside me.  As my fingers released hers, she clutched for
my arm hastily.  At the same moment I swayed, as about to fall to
the sand.  This was the startling effect of the cessation of
motion.  We had been so long upon the moving, rocking sea that the
stable land was a shock to us.  We expected the beach to lift up
this way and that, and the rocky walls to swing back and forth like
the sides of a ship; and when we braced ourselves, automatically,
for these various expected movements, their non-occurrence quite
overcame our equilibrium.

"I really must sit down," Maud said, with a nervous laugh and a
dizzy gesture, and forthwith she sat down on the sand.

I attended to making the boat secure and joined her.  Thus we
landed on Endeavour Island, as we came to it, land-sick from long
custom of the sea.


CHAPTER XXIX


"Fool!" I cried aloud in my vexation.

I had unloaded the boat and carried its contents high up on the
beach, where I had set about making a camp.  There was driftwood,
though not much, on the beach, and the sight of a coffee tin I had
taken from the Ghost's larder had given me the idea of a fire.

"Blithering idiot!" I was continuing.

But Maud said, "Tut, tut," in gentle reproval, and then asked why I
was a blithering idiot.

"No matches," I groaned.  "Not a match did I bring.  And now we
shall have no hot coffee, soup, tea, or anything!"

"Wasn't it--er--Crusoe who rubbed sticks together?" she drawled.

"But I have read the personal narratives of a score of shipwrecked
men who tried, and tried in vain," I answered.  "I remember
Winters, a newspaper fellow with an Alaskan and Siberian
reputation.  Met him at the Bibelot once, and he was telling us how
he attempted to make a fire with a couple of sticks.  It was most
amusing.  He told it inimitably, but it was the story of a failure.
I remember his conclusion, his black eyes flashing as he said,
'Gentlemen, the South Sea Islander may do it, the Malay may do it,
but take my word it's beyond the white man.'"

"Oh, well, we've managed so far without it," she said cheerfully.
"And there's no reason why we cannot still manage without it."

"But think of the coffee!" I cried.  "It's good coffee, too, I
know.  I took it from Larsen's private stores.  And look at that
good wood."

I confess, I wanted the coffee badly; and I learned, not long
afterward, that the berry was likewise a little weakness of Maud's.
Besides, we had been so long on a cold diet that we were numb
inside as well as out.  Anything warm would have been most
gratifying.  But I complained no more and set about making a tent
of the sail for Maud.

I had looked upon it as a simple task, what of the oars, mast,
boom, and sprit, to say nothing of plenty of lines.  But as I was
without experience, and as every detail was an experiment and every
successful detail an invention, the day was well gone before her
shelter was an accomplished fact.  And then, that night, it rained,
and she was flooded out and driven back into the boat.

The next morning I dug a shallow ditch around the tent, and, an
hour later, a sudden gust of wind, whipping over the rocky wall
behind us, picked up the tent and smashed it down on the sand
thirty yards away.

Maud laughed at my crestfallen expression, and I said, "As soon as
the wind abates I intend going in the boat to explore the island.
There must be a station somewhere, and men.  And ships must visit
the station.  Some Government must protect all these seals.  But I
wish to have you comfortable before I start."

"I should like to go with you," was all she said.

"It would be better if you remained.  You have had enough of
hardship.  It is a miracle that you have survived.  And it won't be
comfortable in the boat rowing and sailing in this rainy weather.
What you need is rest, and I should like you to remain and get it."

Something suspiciously akin to moistness dimmed her beautiful eyes
before she dropped them and partly turned away her head.

"I should prefer going with you," she said in a low voice, in which
there was just a hint of appeal.

"I might be able to help you a--" her voice broke,--"a little.  And
if anything should happen to you, think of me left here alone."

"Oh, I intend being very careful," I answered.  "And I shall not go
so far but what I can get back before night.  Yes, all said and
done, I think it vastly better for you to remain, and sleep, and
rest and do nothing."

She turned and looked me in the eyes.  Her gaze was unfaltering,
but soft.

"Please, please," she said, oh, so softly.

I stiffened myself to refuse, and shook my head.  Still she waited
and looked at me.  I tried to word my refusal, but wavered.  I saw
the glad light spring into her eyes and knew that I had lost.  It
was impossible to say no after that.

The wind died down in the afternoon, and we were prepared to start
the following morning.  There was no way of penetrating the island
from our cove, for the walls rose perpendicularly from the beach,
and, on either side of the cove, rose from the deep water.

Morning broke dull and grey, but calm, and I was awake early and
had the boat in readiness.

"Fool!  Imbecile!  Yahoo!" I shouted, when I thought it was meet to
arouse Maud; but this time I shouted in merriment as I danced about
the beach, bareheaded, in mock despair.

Her head appeared under the flap of the sail.

"What now?" she asked sleepily, and, withal, curiously.

"Coffee!" I cried.  "What do you say to a cup of coffee? hot
coffee? piping hot?"

"My!" she murmured, "you startled me, and you are cruel.  Here I
have been composing my soul to do without it, and here you are
vexing me with your vain suggestions."

"Watch me," I said.

From under clefts among the rocks I gathered a few dry sticks and
chips.  These I whittled into shavings or split into kindling.
From my note-book I tore out a page, and from the ammunition box
took a shot-gun shell.  Removing the wads from the latter with my
knife, I emptied the powder on a flat rock.  Next I pried the
primer, or cap, from the shell, and laid it on the rock, in the
midst of the scattered powder.  All was ready.  Maud still watched
from the tent.  Holding the paper in my lelf hand, I smashed down
upon the cap with a rock held in my right.  There was a puff of
white smoke, a burst of flame, and the rough edge of the paper was
alight.

Maud clapped her hands gleefully.  "Prometheus!" she cried.

But I was too occupied to acknowledge her delight.  The feeble
flame must be cherished tenderly if it were to gather strength and
live.  I fed it, shaving by shaving, and sliver by sliver, till at
last it was snapping and crackling as it laid hold of the smaller
chips and sticks.  To be cast away on an island had not entered
into my calculations, so we were without a kettle or cooking
utensils of any sort; but I made shift with the tin used for
bailing the boat, and later, as we consumed our supply of canned
goods, we accumulated quite an imposing array of cooking vessels.

I boiled the water, but it was Maud who made the coffee.  And how
good it was!  My contribution was canned beef fried with crumbled
sea-biscuit and water.  The breakfast was a success, and we sat
about the fire much longer than enterprising explorers should have
done, sipping the hot black coffee and talking over our situation.

I was confident that we should find a station in some one of the
coves, for I knew that the rookeries of Bering Sea were thus
guarded; but Maud advanced the theory--to prepare me for
disappointment, I do believe, if disappointment were to come--that
we had discovered an unknown rookery.  She was in very good
spirits, however, and made quite merry in accepting our plight as a
grave one.

"If you are right," I said, "then we must prepare to winter here.
Our food will not last, but there are the seals.  They go away in
the fall, so I must soon begin to lay in a supply of meat.  Then
there will be huts to build and driftwood to gather.  Also we shall
try out seal fat for lighting purposes.  Altogether, we'll have our
hands full if we find the island uninhabited.  Which we shall not,
I know."

But she was right.  We sailed with a beam wind along the shore,
searching the coves with our glasses and landing occasionally,
without finding a sign of human life.  Yet we learned that we were
not the first who had landed on Endeavour Island.  High up on the
beach of the second cove from ours, we discovered the splintered
wreck of a boat--a sealer's boat, for the rowlocks were bound in
sennit, a gun-rack was on the starboard side of the bow, and in
white letters was faintly visible Gazelle No. 2.  The boat had lain
there for a long time, for it was half filled with sand, and the
splintered wood had that weather-worn appearance due to long
exposure to the elements.  In the stern-sheets I found a rusty ten-
gauge shot-gun and a sailor's sheath-knife broken short across and
so rusted as to be almost unrecognizable.

"They got away," I said cheerfully; but I felt a sinking at the
heart and seemed to divine the presence of bleached bones somewhere
on that beach.

I did not wish Maud's spirits to be dampened by such a find, so I
turned seaward again with our boat and skirted the north-eastern
point of the island.  There were no beaches on the southern shore,
and by early afternoon we rounded the black promontory and
completed the circumnavigation of the island.  I estimated its
circumference at twenty-five miles, its width as varying from two
to five miles; while my most conservative calculation placed on its
beaches two hundred thousand seals.  The island was highest at its
extreme south-western point, the headlands and backbone diminishing
regularly until the north-eastern portion was only a few feet above
the sea.  With the exception of our little cove, the other beaches
sloped gently back for a distance of half-a-mile or so, into what I
might call rocky meadows, with here and there patches of moss and
tundra grass.  Here the seals hauled out, and the old bulls guarded
their harems, while the young bulls hauled out by themselves.

This brief description is all that Endeavour Island merits.  Damp
and soggy where it was not sharp and rocky, buffeted by storm winds
and lashed by the sea, with the air continually a-tremble with the
bellowing of two hundred thousand amphibians, it was a melancholy
and miserable sojourning-place.  Maud, who had prepared me for
disappointment, and who had been sprightly and vivacious all day,
broke down as we landed in our own little cove.  She strove bravely
to hide it from me, but while I was kindling another fire I knew
she was stifling her sobs in the blankets under the sail-tent.

It was my turn to be cheerful, and I played the part to the best of
my ability, and with such success that I brought the laughter back
into her dear eyes and song on her lips; for she sang to me before
she went to an early bed.  It was the first time I had heard her
sing, and I lay by the fire, listening and transported, for she was
nothing if not an artist in everything she did, and her voice,
though not strong, was wonderfully sweet and expressive.

I still slept in the boat, and I lay awake long that night, gazing
up at the first stars I had seen in many nights and pondering the
situation.  Responsibility of this sort was a new thing to me.
Wolf Larsen had been quite right.  I had stood on my father's legs.
My lawyers and agents had taken care of my money for me.  I had had
no responsibilities at all.  Then, on the Ghost I had learned to be
responsible for myself.  And now, for the first time in my life, I
found myself responsible for some one else.  And it was required of
me that this should be the gravest of responsibilities, for she was
the one woman in the world--the one small woman, as I loved to
think of her.


CHAPTER XXX


No wonder we called it Endeavour Island.  For two weeks we toiled
at building a hut.  Maud insisted on helping, and I could have wept
over her bruised and bleeding hands.  And still, I was proud of her
because of it.  There was something heroic about this gently-bred
woman enduring our terrible hardship and with her pittance of
strength bending to the tasks of a peasant woman.  She gathered
many of the stones which I built into the walls of the hut; also,
she turned a deaf ear to my entreaties when I begged her to desist.
She compromised, however, by taking upon herself the lighter
labours of cooking and gathering driftwood and moss for our
winter's supply.

The hut's walls rose without difficulty, and everything went
smoothly until the problem of the roof confronted me.  Of what use
the four walls without a roof?  And of what could a roof be made?
There were the spare oars, very true.  They would serve as roof-
beams; but with what was I to cover them?  Moss would never do.
Tundra grass was impracticable.  We needed the sail for the boat,
and the tarpaulin had begun to leak.

"Winters used walrus skins on his hut," I said.

"There are the seals," she suggested.

So next day the hunting began.  I did not know how to shoot, but I
proceeded to learn.  And when I had expended some thirty shells for
three seals, I decided that the ammunition would be exhausted
before I acquired the necessary knowledge.  I had used eight shells
for lighting fires before I hit upon the device of banking the
embers with wet moss, and there remained not over a hundred shells
in the box.

"We must club the seals," I announced, when convinced of my poor
marksmanship.  "I have heard the sealers talk about clubbing them."

"They are so pretty," she objected.  "I cannot bear to think of it
being done.  It is so directly brutal, you know; so different from
shooting them."

"That roof must go on," I answered grimly.  "Winter is almost here.
It is our lives against theirs.  It is unfortunate we haven't
plenty of ammunition, but I think, anyway, that they suffer less
from being clubbed than from being all shot up.  Besides, I shall
do the clubbing."

"That's just it," she began eagerly, and broke off in sudden
confusion.

"Of course," I began, "if you prefer--"

"But what shall I be doing?" she interrupted, with that softness I
knew full well to be insistence.

"Gathering firewood and cooking dinner," I answered lightly.

She shook her head.  "It is too dangerous for you to attempt
alone."

"I know, I know," she waived my protest.  "I am only a weak woman,
but just my small assistance may enable you to escape disaster."

"But the clubbing?" I suggested.

"Of course, you will do that.  I shall probably scream.  I'll look
away when--"

"The danger is most serious," I laughed.

"I shall use my judgment when to look and when not to look," she
replied with a grand air.

The upshot of the affair was that she accompanied me next morning.
I rowed into the adjoining cove and up to the edge of the beach.
There were seals all about us in the water, and the bellowing
thousands on the beach compelled us to shout at each other to make
ourselves heard.

"I know men club them," I said, trying to reassure myself, and
gazing doubtfully at a large bull, not thirty feet away, upreared
on his fore-flippers and regarding me intently.  "But the question
is, How do they club them?"

"Let us gather tundra grass and thatch the roof," Maud said.

She was as frightened as I at the prospect, and we had reason to be
gazing at close range at the gleaming teeth and dog-like mouths.

"I always thought they were afraid of men," I said.

"How do I know they are not afraid?" I queried a moment later,
after having rowed a few more strokes along the beach.  "Perhaps,
if I were to step boldly ashore, they would cut for it, and I could
not catch up with one."  And still I hesitated.

"I heard of a man, once, who invaded the nesting grounds of wild
geese," Maud said.  "They killed him."

"The geese?"

"Yes, the geese.  My brother told me about it when I was a little
girl."

"But I know men club them," I persisted.

"I think the tundra grass will make just as good a roof," she said.

Far from her intention, her words were maddening me, driving me on.
I could not play the coward before her eyes.  "Here goes," I said,
backing water with one oar and running the bow ashore.

I stepped out and advanced valiantly upon a long-maned bull in the
midst of his wives.  I was armed with the regular club with which
the boat-pullers killed the wounded seals gaffed aboard by the
hunters.  It was only a foot and a half long, and in my superb
ignorance I never dreamed that the club used ashore when raiding
the rookeries measured four to five feet.  The cows lumbered out of
my way, and the distance between me and the bull decreased.  He
raised himself on his flippers with an angry movement.  We were a
dozen feet apart.  Still I advanced steadily, looking for him to
turn tail at any moment and run.

At six feet the panicky thought rushed into my mind, What if he
will not run?  Why, then I shall club him, came the answer.  In my
fear I had forgotten that I was there to get the bull instead of to
make him run.  And just then he gave a snort and a snarl and rushed
at me.  His eyes were blazing, his mouth was wide open; the teeth
gleamed cruelly white.  Without shame, I confess that it was I who
turned and footed it.  He ran awkwardly, but he ran well.  He was
but two paces behind when I tumbled into the boat, and as I shoved
off with an oar his teeth crunched down upon the blade.  The stout
wood was crushed like an egg-shell.  Maud and I were astounded.  A
moment later he had dived under the boat, seized the keel in his
mouth, and was shaking the boat violently.

"My!" said Maud.  "Let's go back."

I shook my head.  "I can do what other men have done, and I know
that other men have clubbed seals.  But I think I'll leave the
bulls alone next time."

"I wish you wouldn't," she said.

"Now don't say, 'Please, please,'" I cried, half angrily, I do
believe.

She made no reply, and I knew my tone must have hurt her.

"I beg your pardon," I said, or shouted, rather, in order to make
myself heard above the roar of the rookery.  "If you say so, I'll
turn and go back; but honestly, I'd rather stay."

"Now don't say that this is what you get for bringing a woman
along," she said.  She smiled at me whimsically, gloriously, and I
knew there was no need for forgiveness.

I rowed a couple of hundred feet along the beach so as to recover
my nerves, and then stepped ashore again.

"Do be cautious," she called after me.

I nodded my head and proceeded to make a flank attack on the
nearest harem.  All went well until I aimed a blow at an outlying
cowls head and fell short.  She snorted and tried to scramble away.
I ran in close and struck another blow, hitting the shoulder
instead of the head.

"Watch out!" I heard Maud scream.

In my excitement I had not been taking notice of other things, and
I looked up to see the lord of the harem charging down upon me.
Again I fled to the boat, hotly pursued; but this time Maud made no
suggestion of turning back.

"It would be better, I imagine, if you let harems alone and devoted
your attention to lonely and inoffensive-looking seals," was what
she said.  "I think I have read something about them.  Dr. Jordan's
book, I believe.  They are the young bulls, not old enough to have
harems of their own.  He called them the holluschickie, or
something like that.  It seems to me if we find where they haul
out--"

"It seems to me that your fighting instinct is aroused," I laughed.

She flushed quickly and prettily.  "I'll admit I don't like defeat
any more than you do, or any more than I like the idea of killing
such pretty, inoffensive creatures."

"Pretty!" I sniffed.  "I failed to mark anything pre-eminently
pretty about those foamy-mouthed beasts that raced me."

"Your point of view," she laughed.  "You lacked perspective.  Now
if you did not have to get so close to the subject--"

"The very thing!" I cried.  "What I need is a longer club.  And
there's that broken oar ready to hand."

"It just comes to me," she said, "that Captain Larsen was telling
me how the men raided the rookeries.  They drive the seals, in
small herds, a short distance inland before they kill them."

"I don't care to undertake the herding of one of those harems," I
objected.

"But there are the holluschickie," she said.  "The holluschickie
haul out by themselves, and Dr. Jordan says that paths are left
between the harems, and that as long as the holluschickie keep
strictly to the path they are unmolested by the masters of the
harem."

"There's one now," I said, pointing to a young bull in the water.
"Let's watch him, and follow him if he hauls out."

He swam directly to the beach and clambered out into a small
opening between two harems, the masters of which made warning
noises but did not attack him.  We watched him travel slowly
inward, threading about among the harems along what must have been
the path.

"Here goes," I said, stepping out; but I confess my heart was in my
mouth as I thought of going through the heart of that monstrous
herd.

"It would be wise to make the boat fast," Maud said.

She had stepped out beside me, and I regarded her with wonderment.

She nodded her head determinedly.  "Yes, I'm going with you, so you
may as well secure the boat and arm me with a club."

"Let's go back," I said dejectedly.  "I think tundra grass, will
do, after all."

"You know it won't," was her reply.  "Shall I lead?"

With a shrug of the shoulders, but with the warmest admiration and
pride at heart for this woman, I equipped her with the broken oar
and took another for myself.  It was with nervous trepidation that
we made the first few rods of the journey.  Once Maud screamed in
terror as a cow thrust an inquisitive nose toward her foot, and
several times I quickened my pace for the same reason.  But, beyond
warning coughs from either side, there were no signs of hostility.
It was a rookery which had never been raided by the hunters, and in
consequence the seals were mild-tempered and at the same time
unafraid.

In the very heart of the herd the din was terrific.  It was almost
dizzying in its effect.  I paused and smiled reassuringly at Maud,
for I had recovered my equanimity sooner than she.  I could see
that she was still badly frightened.  She came close to me and
shouted:

"I'm dreadfully afraid!"

And I was not.  Though the novelty had not yet worn off, the
peaceful comportment of the seals had quieted my alarm.  Maud was
trembling.

"I'm afraid, and I'm not afraid," she chattered with shaking jaws.
"It's my miserable body, not I."

"It's all right, it's all right," I reassured her, my arm passing
instinctively and protectingly around her.

I shall never forget, in that moment, how instantly conscious I
became of my manhood.  The primitive deeps of my nature stirred.  I
felt myself masculine, the protector of the weak, the fighting
male.  And, best of all, I felt myself the protector of my loved
one.  She leaned against me, so light and lily-frail, and as her
trembling eased away it seemed as though I became aware of
prodigious strength.  I felt myself a match for the most ferocious
bull in the herd, and I know, had such a bull charged upon me, that
I should have met it unflinchingly and quite coolly, and I know
that I should have killed it.

"I am all right now," she said, looking up at me gratefully.  "Let
us go on."

And that the strength in me had quieted her and given her
confidence, filled me with an exultant joy.  The youth of the race
seemed burgeoning in me, over-civilized man that I was, and I lived
for myself the old hunting days and forest nights of my remote and
forgotten ancestry.  I had much for which to thank Wolf Larsen, was
my thought as we went along the path between the jostling harems.

A quarter of a mile inland we came upon the holluschickie--sleek
young bulls, living out the loneliness of their bachelorhood and
gathering strength against the day when they would fight their way
into the ranks of the Benedicts.

Everything now went smoothly.  I seemed to know just what to do and
how to do it.  Shouting, making threatening gestures with my club,
and even prodding the lazy ones, I quickly cut out a score of the
young bachelors from their companions.  Whenever one made an
attempt to break back toward the water, I headed it off.  Maud took
an active part in the drive, and with her cries and flourishings of
the broken oar was of considerable assistance.  I noticed, though,
that whenever one looked tired and lagged, she let it slip past.
But I noticed, also, whenever one, with a show of fight, tried to
break past, that her eyes glinted and showed bright, and she rapped
it smartly with her club.

"My, it's exciting!" she cried, pausing from sheer weakness.  "I
think I'll sit down."

I drove the little herd (a dozen strong, now, what of the escapes
she had permitted) a hundred yards farther on; and by the time she
joined me I had finished the slaughter and was beginning to skin.
An hour later we went proudly back along the path between the
harems.  And twice again we came down the path burdened with skins,
till I thought we had enough to roof the hut.  I set the sail, laid
one tack out of the cove, and on the other tack made our own little
inner cove.

"It's just like home-coming," Maud said, as I ran the boat ashore.

I heard her words with a responsive thrill, it was all so dearly
intimate and natural, and I said:

"It seems as though I have lived this life always.  The world of
books and bookish folk is very vague, more like a dream memory than
an actuality.  I surely have hunted and forayed and fought all the
days of my life.  And you, too, seem a part of it.  You are--"  I
was on the verge of saying, "my woman, my mate," but glibly changed
it to--"standing the hardship well."

But her ear had caught the flaw.  She recognized a flight that
midmost broke.  She gave me a quick look.

"Not that.  You were saying--?"

"That the American Mrs. Meynell was living the life of a savage and
living it quite successfully," I said easily.

"Oh," was all she replied; but I could have sworn there was a note
of disappointment in her voice.

But "my woman, my mate" kept ringing in my head for the rest of the
day and for many days.  Yet never did it ring more loudly than that
night, as I watched her draw back the blanket of moss from the
coals, blow up the fire, and cook the evening meal.  It must have
been latent savagery stirring in me, for the old words, so bound up
with the roots of the race, to grip me and thrill me.  And grip and
thrill they did, till I fell asleep, murmuring them to myself over
and over again.


CHAPTER XXXI


"It will smell," I said, "but it will keep in the heat and keep out
the rain and snow."

We were surveying the completed seal-skin roof.

"It is clumsy, but it will serve the purpose, and that is the main
thing," I went on, yearning for her praise.

And she clapped her hands and declared that she was hugely pleased.

"But it is dark in here," she said the next moment, her shoulders
shrinking with a little involuntary shiver.

"You might have suggested a window when the walls were going up," I
said.  "It was for you, and you should have seen the need of a
window."

"But I never do see the obvious, you know," she laughed back.  "And
besides, you can knock a hole in the wall at any time.'

"Quite true; I had not thought of it," I replied, wagging my head
sagely.  "But have you thought of ordering the window-glass?  Just
call up the firm,--Red, 4451, I think it is,--and tell them what
size and kind of glass you wish."

"That means--" she began.

"No window."

It was a dark and evil-appearing thing, that hut, not fit for aught
better than swine in a civilized land; but for us, who had known
the misery of the open boat, it was a snug little habitation.
Following the housewarming, which was accomplished by means of
seal-oil and a wick made from cotton calking, came the hunting for
our winter's meat and the building of the second hut.  It was a
simple affair, now, to go forth in the morning and return by noon
with a boatload of seals.  And then, while I worked at building the
hut, Maud tried out the oil from the blubber and kept a slow fire
under the frames of meat.  I had heard of jerking beef on the
plains, and our seal-meat, cut in thin strips and hung in the
smoke, cured excellently.

The second hut was easier to erect, for I built it against the
first, and only three walls were required.  But it was work, hard
work, all of it.  Maud and I worked from dawn till dark, to the
limit of our strength, so that when night came we crawled stiffly
to bed and slept the animal-like sleep exhaustion.  And yet Maud
declared that she had never felt better or stronger in her life.  I
knew this was true of myself, but hers was such a lily strength
that I feared she would break down.  Often and often, her last-
reserve force gone, I have seen her stretched flat on her back on
the sand in the way she had of resting and recuperating.  And then
she would be up on her feet and toiling hard as ever.  Where she
obtained this strength was the marvel to me.

"Think of the long rest this winter," was her reply to my
remonstrances.  "Why, we'll be clamorous for something to do."

We held a housewarming in my hut the night it was roofed.  It was
the end of the third day of a fierce storm which had swung around
the compass from the south-east to the north-west, and which was
then blowing directly in upon us.  The beaches of the outer cove
were thundering with the surf, and even in our land-locked inner
cove a respectable sea was breaking.  No high backbone of island
sheltered us from the wind, and it whistled and bellowed about the
hut till at times I feared for the strength of the walls.  The skin
roof, stretched tightly as a drumhead, I had thought, sagged and
bellied with every gust; and innumerable interstices in the walls,
not so tightly stuffed with moss as Maud had supposed, disclosed
themselves.  Yet the seal-oil burned brightly and we were warm and
comfortable.

It was a pleasant evening indeed, and we voted that as a social
function on Endeavour Island it had not yet been eclipsed.  Our
minds were at ease.  Not only had we resigned ourselves to the
bitter winter, but we were prepared for it.  The seals could depart
on their mysterious journey into the south at any time, now, for
all we cared; and the storms held no terror for us.  Not only were
we sure of being dry and warm and sheltered from the wind, but we
had the softest and most luxurious mattresses that could be made
from moss.  This had been Maud's idea, and she had herself
jealously gathered all the moss.  This was to be my first night on
the mattress, and I knew I should sleep the sweeter because she had
made it.

As she rose to go she turned to me with the whimsical way she had,
and said:

"Something is going to happen--is happening, for that matter.  I
feel it.  Something is coming here, to us.  It is coming now.  I
don't know what, but it is coming."

"Good or bad?" I asked.

She shook her head.  "I don't know, but it is there, somewhere."

She pointed in the direction of the sea and wind.

"It's a lee shore," I laughed, "and I am sure I'd rather be here
than arriving, a night like this."

"You are not frightened?" I asked, as I stepped to open the door
for her.

Her eyes looked bravely into mine.

"And you feel well? perfectly well?"

"Never better," was her answer.

We talked a little longer before she went.

"Good-night, Maud," I said.

"Good-night, Humphrey," she said.

This use of our given names had come about quite as a matter of
course, and was as unpremeditated as it was natural.  In that
moment I could have put my arms around her and drawn her to me.  I
should certainly have done so out in that world to which we
belonged.  As it was, the situation stopped there in the only way
it could; but I was left alone in my little but, glowing warmly
through and through with a pleasant satisfaction; and I knew that a
tie, or a tacit something, existed between us which had not existed
before.


CHAPTER XXXII


I awoke, oppressed by a mysterious sensation.  There seemed
something missing in my environment.  But the mystery and
oppressiveness vanished after the first few seconds of waking, when
I identified the missing something as the wind.  I had fallen
asleep in that state of nerve tension with which one meets the
continuous shock of sound or movement, and I had awakened, still
tense, bracing myself to meet the pressure of something which no
longer bore upon me.

It was the first night I had spent under cover in several months,
and I lay luxuriously for some minutes under my blankets (for once
not wet with fog or spray), analysing, first, the effect produced
upon me by the cessation of the wind, and next, the joy which was
mine from resting on the mattress made by Maud's hands.  When I had
dressed and opened the door, I heard the waves still lapping on the
beach, garrulously attesting the fury of the night.  It was a clear
day, and the sun was shining.  I had slept late, and I stepped
outside with sudden energy, bent upon making up lost time as
befitted a dweller on Endeavour Island.

And when outside, I stopped short.  I believed my eyes without
question, and yet I was for the moment stunned by what they
disclosed to me.  There, on the beach, not fifty feet away, bow on,
dismasted, was a black-hulled vessel.  Masts and booms, tangled
with shrouds, sheets, and rent canvas, were rubbing gently
alongside.  I could have rubbed my eyes as I looked.  There was the
home-made galley we had built, the familiar break of the poop, the
low yacht-cabin scarcely rising above the rail.  It was the Ghost.

What freak of fortune had brought it here--here of all spots? what
chance of chances?  I looked at the bleak, inaccessible wall at my
back and know the profundity of despair.  Escape was hopeless, out
of the question.  I thought of Maud, asleep there in the hut we had
reared; I remembered her "Good-night, Humphrey"; "my woman, my
mate," went ringing through my brain, but now, alas, it was a knell
that sounded.  Then everything went black before my eyes.

Possibly it was the fraction of a second, but I had no knowledge of
how long an interval had lapsed before I was myself again.  There
lay the Ghost, bow on to the beach, her splintered bowsprit
projecting over the sand, her tangled spars rubbing against her
side to the lift of the crooning waves.  Something must be done,
must be done.

It came upon me suddenly, as strange, that nothing moved aboard.
Wearied from the night of struggle and wreck, all hands were yet
asleep, I thought.  My next thought was that Maud and I might yet
escape.  If we could take to the boat and make round the point
before any one awoke?  I would call her and start.  My hand was
lifted at her door to knock, when I recollected the smallness of
the island.  We could never hide ourselves upon it.  There was
nothing for us but the wide raw ocean.  I thought of our snug
little huts, our supplies of meat and oil and moss and firewood,
and I knew that we could never survive the wintry sea and the great
storms which were to come.

So I stood, with hesitant knuckle, without her door.  It was
impossible, impossible.  A wild thought of rushing in and killing
her as she slept rose in my mind.  And then, in a flash, the better
solution came to me.  All hands were asleep.  Why not creep aboard
the Ghost,--well I knew the way to Wolf Larsen's bunk,--and kill
him in his sleep?  After that--well, we would see.  But with him
dead there was time and space in which to prepare to do other
things; and besides, whatever new situation arose, it could not
possibly be worse than the present one.

My knife was at my hip.  I returned to my hut for the shot-gun,
made sure it was loaded, and went down to the Ghost.  With some
difficulty, and at the expense of a wetting to the waist, I climbed
aboard.  The forecastle scuttle was open.  I paused to listen for
the breathing of the men, but there was no breathing.  I almost
gasped as the thought came to me:  What if the Ghost is deserted?
I listened more closely.  There was no sound.  I cautiously
descended the ladder.  The place had the empty and musty feel and
smell usual to a dwelling no longer inhabited.  Everywhere was a
thick litter of discarded and ragged garments, old sea-boots, leaky
oilskins--all the worthless forecastle dunnage of a long voyage.

Abandoned hastily, was my conclusion, as I ascended to the deck.
Hope was alive again in my breast, and I looked about me with
greater coolness.  I noted that the boats were missing.  The
steerage told the same tale as the forecastle.  The hunters had
packed their belongings with similar haste.  The Ghost was
deserted.  It was Maud's and mine.  I thought of the ship's stores
and the lazarette beneath the cabin, and the idea came to me of
surprising Maud with something nice for breakfast.

The reaction from my fear, and the knowledge that the terrible deed
I had come to do was no longer necessary, made me boyish and eager.
I went up the steerage companion-way two steps at a time, with
nothing distinct in my mind except joy and the hope that Maud would
sleep on until the surprise breakfast was quite ready for her.  As
I rounded the galley, a new satisfaction was mine at thought of all
the splendid cooking utensils inside.  I sprang up the break of the
poop, and saw--Wolf Larsen.  What of my impetus and the stunning
surprise, I clattered three or four steps along the deck before I
could stop myself.  He was standing in the companion-way, only his
head and shoulders visible, staring straight at me.  His arms were
resting on the half-open slide.  He made no movement whatever--
simply stood there, staring at me.

I began to tremble.  The old stomach sickness clutched me.  I put
one hand on the edge of the house to steady myself.  My lips seemed
suddenly dry and I moistened them against the need of speech.  Nor
did I for an instant take my eyes off him.  Neither of us spoke.
There was something ominous in his silence, his immobility.  All my
old fear of him returned and by new fear was increased an hundred-
fold.  And still we stood, the pair of us, staring at each other.

I was aware of the demand for action, and, my old helplessness
strong upon me, I was waiting for him to take the initiative.
Then, as the moments went by, it came to me that the situation was
analogous to the one in which I had approached the long-maned bull,
my intention of clubbing obscured by fear until it became a desire
to make him run.  So it was at last impressed upon me that I was
there, not to have Wolf Larsen take the initiative, but to take it
myself.

I cocked both barrels and levelled the shot-gun at him.  Had he
moved, attempted to drop down the companion-way, I know I would
have shot him.  But he stood motionless and staring as before.  And
as I faced him, with levelled gun shaking in my hands, I had time
to note the worn and haggard appearance of his face.  It was as if
some strong anxiety had wasted it.  The cheeks were sunken, and
there was a wearied, puckered expression on the brow.  And it
seemed to me that his eyes were strange, not only the expression,
but the physical seeming, as though the optic nerves and supporting
muscles had suffered strain and slightly twisted the eyeballs.

All this I saw, and my brain now working rapidly, I thought a
thousand thoughts; and yet I could not pull the triggers.  I
lowered the gun and stepped to the corner of the cabin, primarily
to relieve the tension on my nerves and to make a new start, and
incidentally to be closer.  Again I raised the gun.  He was almost
at arm's length.  There was no hope for him.  I was resolved.
There was no possible chance of missing him, no matter how poor my
marksmanship.  And yet I wrestled with myself and could not pull
the triggers.

"Well?" he demanded impatiently.

I strove vainly to force my fingers down on the triggers, and
vainly I strove to say something.

"Why don't you shoot?" he asked.

I cleared my throat of a huskiness which prevented speech.  "Hump,"
he said slowly, "you can't do it.  You are not exactly afraid.  You
are impotent.  Your conventional morality is stronger than you.
You are the slave to the opinions which have credence among the
people you have known and have read about.  Their code has been
drummed into your head from the time you lisped, and in spite of
your philosophy, and of what I have taught you, it won't let you
kill an unarmed, unresisting man."

"I know it," I said hoarsely.

"And you know that I would kill an unarmed man as readily as I
would smoke a cigar," he went on.  "You know me for what I am,--my
worth in the world by your standard.  You have called me snake,
tiger, shark, monster, and Caliban.  And yet, you little rag
puppet, you little echoing mechanism, you are unable to kill me as
you would a snake or a shark, because I have hands, feet, and a
body shaped somewhat like yours.  Bah! I had hoped better things of
you, Hump."

He stepped out of the companion-way and came up to me.

"Put down that gun.  I want to ask you some questions.  I haven't
had a chance to look around yet.  What place is this?  How is the
Ghost lying?  How did you get wet?  Where's Maud?--I beg your
pardon, Miss Brewster--or should I say, 'Mrs. Van Weyden'?"

I had backed away from him, almost weeping at my inability to shoot
him, but not fool enough to put down the gun.  I hoped,
desperately, that he might commit some hostile act, attempt to
strike me or choke me; for in such way only I knew I could be
stirred to shoot.

"This is Endeavour Island," I said.

"Never heard of it," he broke in.

"At least, that's our name for it," I amended.

"Our?" he queried.  "Who's our?"

"Miss Brewster and myself.  And the Ghost is lying, as you can see
for yourself, bow on to the beach."

"There are seals here," he said.  "They woke me up with their
barking, or I'd be sleeping yet.  I heard them when I drove in last
night.  They were the first warning that I was on a lee shore.
It's a rookery, the kind of a thing I've hunted for years.  Thanks
to my brother Death, I've lighted on a fortune.  It's a mint.
What's its bearings?"

"Haven't the least idea," I said.  "But you ought to know quite
closely.  What were your last observations?"

He smiled inscrutably, but did not answer.

"Well, where's all hands?" I asked.  "How does it come that you are
alone?"

I was prepared for him again to set aside my question, and was
surprised at the readiness of his reply.

"My brother got me inside forty-eight hours, and through no fault
of mine.  Boarded me in the night with only the watch on deck.
Hunters went back on me.  He gave them a bigger lay.  Heard him
offering it.  Did it right before me.  Of course the crew gave me
the go-by.  That was to be expected.  All hands went over the side,
and there I was, marooned on my own vessel.  It was Death's turn,
and it's all in the family anyway."

"But how did you lose the masts?" I asked.

"Walk over and examine those lanyards," he said, pointing to where
the mizzen-rigging should have been.

"They have been cut with a knife!" I exclaimed.

"Not quite," he laughed.  "It was a neater job.  Look again."

I looked.  The lanyards had been almost severed, with just enough
left to hold the shrouds till some severe strain should be put upon
them

"Cooky did that," he laughed again.  "I know, though I didn't spot
him at it.  Kind of evened up the score a bit."

"Good for Mugridge!" I cried.

"Yes, that's what I thought when everything went over the side.
Only I said it on the other side of my mouth."

"But what were you doing while all this was going on?" I asked.

"My best, you may be sure, which wasn't much under the
circumstances."

I turned to re-examine Thomas Mugridge's work.

"I guess I'll sit down and take the sunshine," I heard Wolf Larsen
saying.

There was a hint, just a slight hint, of physical feebleness in his
voice, and it was so strange that I looked quickly at him.  His
hand was sweeping nervously across his face, as though he were
brushing away cobwebs.  I was puzzled.  The whole thing was so
unlike the Wolf Larsen I had known.

"How are your headaches?" I asked.

"They still trouble me," was his answer.  "I think I have one
coming on now."

He slipped down from his sitting posture till he lay on the deck.
Then he rolled over on his side, his head resting on the biceps of
the under arm, the forearm shielding his eyes from the sun.  I
stood regarding him wonderingly.

"Now's your chance, Hump," he said.

"I don't understand," I lied, for I thoroughly understood.

"Oh, nothing," he added softly, as if he were drowsing; "only
you've got me where you want me."

"No, I haven't," I retorted; "for I want you a few thousand miles
away from here."

He chuckled, and thereafter spoke no more.  He did not stir as I
passed by him and went down into the cabin.  I lifted the trap in
the floor, but for some moments gazed dubiously into the darkness
of the lazarette beneath.  I hesitated to descend.  What if his
lying down were a ruse?  Pretty, indeed, to be caught there like a
rat.  I crept softly up the companion-way and peeped at him.  He
was lying as I had left him.  Again I went below; but before I
dropped into the lazarette I took the precaution of casting down
the door in advance.  At least there would be no lid to the trap.
But it was all needless.  I regained the cabin with a store of
jams, sea-biscuits, canned meats, and such things,--all I could
carry,--and replaced the trap-door.

A peep at Wolf Larsen showed me that he had not moved.  A bright
thought struck me.  I stole into his state-room and possessed
myself of his revolvers.  There were no other weapons, though I
thoroughly ransacked the three remaining state-rooms.  To make
sure, I returned and went through the steerage and forecastle, and
in the galley gathered up all the sharp meat and vegetable knives.
Then I bethought me of the great yachtsman's knife he always
carried, and I came to him and spoke to him, first softly, then
loudly.  He did not move.  I bent over and took it from his pocket.
I breathed more freely.  He had no arms with which to attack me
from a distance; while I, armed, could always forestall him should
he attempt to grapple me with his terrible gorilla arms.

Filling a coffee-pot and frying-pan with part of my plunder, and
taking some chinaware from the cabin pantry, I left Wolf Larsen
lying in the sun and went ashore.

Maud was still asleep.  I blew up the embers (we had not yet
arranged a winter kitchen), and quite feverishly cooked the
breakfast.  Toward the end, I heard her moving about within the
hut, making her toilet.  Just as all was ready and the coffee
poured, the door opened and she came forth.

"It's not fair of you," was her greeting.  "You are usurping one of
my prerogatives.  You know you I agreed that the cooking should be
mine, and--"

"But just this once," I pleaded.

[For those interested, there is a note at the end of this
document that details the adaptations made to this work to fit it
into plain ASCII text]
THE WRITINGS OF JOHN BURROUGHS WITH PORTRAITS AND MANY ILLUSTRATIONS
VOLUME II 
WINTER SUNSHINE 

PREFATORY
The only part of my book I wish to preface is the last part,--the
foreign sketches,--and it is not much matter about these, since if
they do not contain their own proof, I shall not attempt to supply
it here.

I have been told that De Lolme, who wrote a notable book on
the English Constitution, said that after he had been in England
a few weeks, he fully made up his mind to write a book on that
country; after he had lived there a year, he still thought of writing
a book, but was not so certain about it, but that after a
residence of ten years he abandoned his first design altogether.
Instead of furnishing an argument against writing out one's first
impressions of a country, I think the experience of the Frenchman
shows the importance of doing it at once.

The sensations of the first day are what we want,--the first flush
of the traveler's thought and feeling, before his perception and
sensibilities become cloyed or blunted, or before he in any way
becomes a part of that which he would observe and describe.

Then the American in England is just enough at home to enable him
to discriminate subtle shades and differences at first sight which
might escape a traveler of another and antagonistic race.

He has brought with him, but little modified or impaired, his whole
inheritance of English ideas and predilections, and much of what
he sees affects him like a memory.

It is his own past, his ante-natal life, and his long-buried ancestors
look through his eyes and perceive with his sense.

I have attempted only the surface, and to express my own first day's
uncloyed and unalloyed satisfaction.

Of course, I have put these things through my own processes
and given them my own coloring, (as who would not), and if other
travelers do not find what I did, it is no fault of mine; or if the
"Britishers" do not deserve all the pleasant things I say of them,
why then so much the worse for them.

In fact, if it shall appear that I have treated this part in the
same spirit that I have the themes in the other chapters, reporting
only such things as impressed me and stuck to me and tasted good,
I shall be satisfied.

ESOPUS-ON-HUDSON, November, 1875.

CONTENTS I. WINTER SUNSHINE II. THE EXHILARATIONS OF THE ROAD
III. THE SNOW-WALKERS IV. THE FOX V.

A MARCH CHRONICLE VI. AUTUMN TIDES VII. THE APPLE VIII. AN OCTOBER
ABROAD:
I. MELLOW ENGLAND II.

ENGLISH CHARACTERISTICS III. A GLIMPSE OF FRANCE IV. FROM
LONDON TO NEW YORK INDEX

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS AN ENGLISH LANE From a photograph by Walmsley
Brothers DRIFTS ABOUT A STONE WALL From a photograph by Herbert W.
Gleason DOWNY WOODPECKER From drawing by L. A. Fuertes COWS
IN AN ENGLISH LANDSCAPE From a photograph by Walmsley Brothers St.

PAUL'S CATHEDRAL From a photograph by Clifton Johnson IRISH COTTAGES
From a photograph by Clifton Johnson 

WINTER SUNSHINE 
I.

WINTER SUNSHINE
An American resident in England is reported as saying that the
English have an atmosphere but no climate. The reverse of this
remark would apply pretty accurately to our own case. We certainly
have a climate, a two-edged one that cuts both ways, threatening
us with sun-stroke on the one hand and with frost-stroke on the
other; but we have no atmosphere to speak of in New York and New
England, except now and then during the dog-days, or the fitful and
uncertain Indian Summer.

An atmosphere, the quality of tone and mellowness in the near
distance, is the product of a more humid climate.

Hence, as we go south from New York,the atmospheric effects
become more rich and varied, until on reaching the Potomac you find
an atmosphere as well as a climate.

The latter is still on the vehement American scale, full of sharp
and violent changes and contrasts, baking and blistering in summer,
and nipping and blighting in winter, but the spaces are not so
purged and bare; the horizon wall does not so often have the
appearance of having just been washed and scrubbed down.

There is more depth and visibility to the open air, a stronger
infusion of the Indian Summer element throughout the year, than is
found farther north.

The days are softer and more brooding, and the nights more enchanting.

It is here that Walt Whitman saw the full moon
"Pour down Night's nimbus floods,"
as any one may see her, during the full, from October to May.

There is more haze and vapor in the atmosphere during that period,
and every pariticle seems to collect and hold the pure radiance
until the world swims with the lunar outpouring.

Is not the full moon always on the side of fair weather?

I think it is Sir William Herschel who says her influence tends
to dispel the clouds. Certain it is her beauty is seldom lost
or even veiled in this southern or semi-southern clime.

"Floods of the yellow gold of the gorgeous, Indolent sinking sun,
burning, expanding the air,"

a description that would not apply with the same force farther
north, where the air seems thinner and less capable of absorbing
and holding the sunlight.

Indeed, the opulence and splendor of our climate, at least the
climate of the Atlantic seaboard, cannot be fully appreciated by
the dweller north of the thirty-ninth parallel.

It seemed as if I had never seen but a second-rate article of
sunlight or moonlight until I had taken up my abode in the National
Capital.

It may be, perhaps, because we have such splendid specimens of
both at the period of the year when one values such things
highest, namely, in the fall and winter and early spring. Sunlight
is good any time, but a bright, evenly tempered day is certainly
more engrossing to the attention in winter than in summer, and such
days seem the rule, and not the exception, in the Washington winter.
The deep snows keep to the north, the heavy rains to the south,
leaving a blue space central over the border States. And there
is not one of the winter months but wears this blue zone as a
girdle.

I am not thinking especially of the Indian summer, that charming
but uncertain second youth of the New England year, but of
regularly recurring lucid intervals in the weather system of Virginia
fall and winter, when the best our climate is capable of stand
revealed,--southern days with northern blood in their veins,
exhilarating, elastic, full of action, the hyperborean oxygen of
the North tempered by the dazzling sun of the South, a little
bitter in winter to all travelers but the pedestrian,--to him sweet
and warming,--but in autumn a vintage that intoxicates all lovers
of the open air.

It is impossible not to dilate and expand under such skies. One
breathes deeply and steps proudly, and if he have any of the eagle
nature in him, it comes to the surface then.

There is a sense of altitude about these dazzling November and December
days, of mountain-tops and pure ether. The earth in passing through
the fire of summer seems to have lost all its dross, and life all
its impediments.

But what does not the dweller in the National Capital endure in
reaching these days! Think of the agonies of the heated term,
the ragings of the dog-star, the purgatory of heat and dust,
of baking, blistering pavements, of cracked and powdered fields,
of dead, stifling night air, from which every tonic and antiseptic
quality seems eliminated, leaving a residuum of sultry malaria and
all-diffusing privy and sewer gases, that lasts from the first of
July to near the middle of September!

But when October is reached, the memory of these things is afar off,
and the glory of the days is a perpetual surprise.

I sally out in the morning with the ostensible purpose of gathering
chestnuts, or autumn leaves, or persimmons, or exploring some
run or branch. It is, say, the last of October or the first of
November. The air is not balmy, but tart and pungent, like
the flavor of the red-cheeked apples by the roadside. In the
sky not a cloud, not a speck; a vast dome of blue ether lightly
suspended above the world.

The woods are heaped with color like a painter's palette,--great
splashes of red and orange and gold. The ponds and streams bear upon
their bosoms leaves of all tints, from the deep maroon of the oak
to the pale yellow of the chestnut. In the glens and nooks it is so
still that the chirp of a solitary cricket is noticeable. The
red berries of the dogwood and spice-bush and other shrubs shine
in the sun like rubies and coral. The crows fly high above the
earth, as they do only on such days, forms of ebony floating
across the azure, and the buzzards look like kingly birds, sailing
round and round.

Or it may be later in the season, well into December. The days
are equally bright, but a little more rugged. The mornings are
ushered in by an immense spectrum thrown upon the eastern sky. A
broad bar of red and orange lies along the low horizon, surmounted
by an expanse of color in which green struggles with yellow and
blue with green half the way to the zenith. By and by the red
and orange spread upward and grow dim, the spectrum fades, and
the sky becomes suffused with yellow white light, and in a
moment the fiery scintillations of the sun begin to break
across the Maryland hills.

Then before long the mists and vapors uprise like the breath of a
giant army, and for an hour or two, one is reminded of a November
morning in England.

But by mid-forenoon the only trace of the obscurity that remains
is a slight haze, and the day is indeed a summons and a challenge
to come forth. If the October days were a cordial like the sub-acids
of a fruit, these are a tonic like the wine of iron. Drink deep, or
be careful how you taste this December vintage.

The first sip may chill, but a full draught warms and invigorates.
No loitering by the brooks or in the woods now, but spirited, rugged
walking along the public highway. The sunbeams are welcome now.
They seem like pure electricity,--like a friendly and recuperating
lightning. Are we led to think electricity abounds only in the
summer when we see storm-clouds, as it were, the veins and ore-beds
of it? I imagine it is equally abundant in winter, and more equable
and better tempered. Who ever breasted a snowstorm without being
excited and exhilarated, as if this meteor had come charged
with latent aurorae of the North, as doubtless it has? It is
like being pelted with sparks from a battery. Behold the frost-work
on the pane,--the wild, fantastic limnings and etchings!

can there be any doubt but this subtle agent has been here?
Where is it not? It is the life of the crystal, the architect of
the flake, the fire of the frost, the soul of the sunbeam.
This crisp winter air is full of it. When I come in at night after
an all-day tramp I am charged like a Leyden jar; my hair crackles
and snaps beneath the comb like a cat's back, and a strange, new
glow diffuses itself through my system.

It is a spur that one feels at this season more than at any
other. How nimbly you step forth! The woods roar, the waters
shine, and the hills look invitingly near. You do not miss the flowers
and the songsters, or wish the trees or the fields any different,
or the heavens any nearer.
Every object pleases. A rail fence, running athwart the hills, now
in sunshine and now in shadow,--how the eye lingers upon it! Or the
strait, light-gray trunks of the trees, where the woods have
recently been laid open by a road or clearing,--how curious they
look, and as if surprised in undress!

Next year they will begin to shoot out branches and make themselves
a screen. Or the farm scenes,--the winter barnyards littered with
husks and straw, the rough-coated horses, the cattle sunning
themselves or walking down to the spring to drink, the domestic
fowls moving about,--there is a touch of sweet, homely life in
these things that the winter sun enhances and brings out. Every
sign of life is welcome at this season. I love to hear dogs bark,
hens cackle, and boys shout; one has no privacy with nature
now, and does not wish to seek her in nooks and hidden ways.
She is not at home if he goes there; her house is shut up and her
hearth cold; only the sun and sky, and perchance the waters, wear
the old look, and to-day we will make love to them, and they shall
abundantly return it.

Even the crows and the buzzards draw the eye fondly. The National
Capital is a great place for buzzards, and I make the remark in
no double or allegorical sense either, for the buzzards I mean
are black and harmless as doves, though perhaps hardly dovelike
in their tastes.
My vulture is also a bird of leisure, and sails through the ether
on long flexible pinions, as if that was the one delight of his
life. Some birds have wings, others have "pinions." The buzzard
enjoys this latter distinctions. There is something in the sound
of the word that suggests that easy, dignified, undulatory movement.
He does not propel himself along by sheer force of muscle,
after the plebeian fashion of the crow, for instance, but
progresses by a kind of royal indirection that puzzles the
eye. Even on a windy winter day he rides the vast aerial billows
as placidly as ever, rising and falling as he comes up toward
you, carving his way through the resisting currents by a slight
oscillation to the right and left, but never once beating the air
openly.

This superabundance of wing power is very unequally distributed
among the feathered races, the hawks and vultures having by far
the greater share of it. They cannot command the most speed, but
their apparatus seems the most delicate and consummate. Apparently
a fine play of muscle, a subtle shifting of the power along
the outstretched wings, a perpetual loss and a perpetual
recovery of the equipoise, sustains them and bears them along.
With them flying is a luxury, a fine art; not merely a quicker and
safer means of transit from one point to another, but a gift so
free and spontaneous that work becomes leisure and movement rest.

They are not so much going somewhere, from this perch to that, as
they are abandoning themselves to the mere pleasure of riding upon
the air.

And it is beneath such grace and high-bred leisure that Nature hides
in her creatures the occupation of scavenger and carrion-eater!

But the worst thing about the buzzard is his silence. The crow caws,
the hawk screams, the eagle barks, but the buzzard says not a
word.

So far as I have observed, he has no vocal powers whatever.

Nature dare not trust him to speak. In his case she preserves discreet
silence.

The crow may not have the sweet voice which the fox in his flattery
attributed to him, but he has a good, strong, native speech,
nevertheless.

How much character there is in it! How much thrift and independence!
Of course his plumage is firm, his color decided, his wit quick.
He understands you at once and tells you so; so does the hawk by
his scornful, defiant whir-r-r-r-r. Hardy, happy outlaws, the
crows, how I love them!
But, though known to sailors, I invented it
there on Endeavour Island.  By crossing and lashing the ends of two
spars, and then elevating them in the air like an inverted "V," I
could get a point above the deck to which to make fast my hoisting
tackle.  To this hoisting tackle I could, if necessary, attach a
second hoisting tackle.  And then there was the windlass!

Maud saw that I had achieved a solution, and her eyes warmed
sympathetically.

"What are you going to do?" she asked.

"Clear that raffle," I answered, pointing to the tangled wreckage
overside.

Ah, the decisiveness, the very sound of the words, was good in my
ears.  "Clear that raffle!"  Imagine so salty a phrase on the lips
of the Humphrey Van Weyden of a few months gone!

There must have been a touch of the melodramatic in my pose and
voice, for Maud smiled.  Her appreciation of the ridiculous was
keen, and in all things she unerringly saw and felt, where it
existed, the touch of sham, the overshading, the overtone.  It was
this which had given poise and penetration to her own work and made
her of worth to the world.  The serious critic, with the sense of
humour and the power of expression, must inevitably command the
world's ear.  And so it was that she had commanded.  Her sense of
humour was really the artist's instinct for proportion.

"I'm sure I've heard it before, somewhere, in books," she murmured
gleefully.

I had an instinct for proportion myself, and I collapsed forthwith,
descending from the dominant pose of a master of matter to a state
of humble confusion which was, to say the least, very miserable.

Her hand leapt out at once to mine.

"I'm so sorry," she said.

"No need to be," I gulped.  "It does me good.  There's too much of
the schoolboy in me.  All of which is neither here nor there.  What
we've got to do is actually and literally to clear that raffle.  If
you'll come with me in the boat, we'll get to work and straighten
things out."

"'When the topmen clear the raffle with their clasp-knives in their
teeth,'" she quoted at me; and for the rest of the afternoon we
made merry over our labour.

Her task was to hold the boat in position while I worked at the
tangle.  And such a tangle--halyards, sheets, guys, down-hauls,
shrouds, stays, all washed about and back and forth and through,
and twined and knotted by the sea.  I cut no more than was
necessary, and what with passing the long ropes under and around
the booms and masts, of unreeving the halyards and sheets, of
coiling down in the boat and uncoiling in order to pass through
another knot in the bight, I was soon wet to the skin.

The sails did require some cutting, and the canvas, heavy with
water, tried my strength severely; but I succeeded before nightfall
in getting it all spread out on the beach to dry.  We were both
very tired when we knocked off for supper, and we had done good
work, too, though to the eye it appeared insignificant.

Next morning, with Maud as able assistant, I went into the hold of
the Ghost to clear the steps of the mast-butts.  We had no more
than begun work when the sound of my knocking and hammering brought
Wolf Larsen.

"Hello below!" he cried down the open hatch.

The sound of his voice made Maud quickly draw close to me, as for
protection, and she rested one hand on my arm while we parleyed.

Our first half-holiday I employed in visiting the place where the
thunderbolts had fallen so thickly, and found it a richer scene of
wonder than I could have fancied even in my dreams.

My first year of labour came to a close, and I found that the amount
of my happiness had not been less than in the last of my boyhood.

My knowledge had increased in more than the ratio of former seasons;
and as I had acquired the skill of at least the common mechanic, I
had fitted myself for independence.

My curiosity, once fully awakened, remained awake, and my opportunities
of gratifying it have been tolerably ample.

I have been an explorer of caves and ravines, a loiterer along
sea-shores, a climber among rocks, a labourer in quarries.

My profession was a wandering one. I remember passing direct,
on one occasion, from the wild western coast of Ross-shire, where
the Old Red Sandstone leans at a high angle against the prevailing
quartz of the district, to where, on the southern skirts of Midlothian,
the Mountain Limestone rises amid the coal.

I have resided one season on a raised beach of the Moray Firth.

I have spent the season immediately following amid the ancient
granite and contorted schists of the central Highlands.

In the north I have laid open by thousands the shells and lignites
of the oolite; in the south I have disinterred from their matrices
of stone or of shale the huge reds and tree ferns of the carboniferous
period.

I advise the stone-mason to acquaint himself with geology. Much of
his time must be spent amid the rocks and quarries of widely
separated localities, and so, in the course of a few years he may
pass over the whole geological scale, and this, too, with opportunities
of observation at every stage which can be shared with him by only
the gentleman of fortune who devotes his whole time to study.

Nay, in some respects, his advantages are superior to those of
the amateur, for the man whose employments have to be carried
on in the same formation for months, perhaps years, enjoys better
opportunities of arriving at just conclusions.

There are formations which yield their organisms slowly to
the discoverer, and the proofs which establish their place in
the geological scale more tardily still.

I was acquainted with the Old Red Sandstone of Ross and Cromarty
for nearly ten years ere I ascertained that it is richly fossiliferous;
I was acquainted with it for nearly ten years more ere I could
assign its fossils to their exact place in the scale.

Nature is vast and knowledge limited, and no individual need despair
of adding to the general fund.

_II.--Bridging Life's Gaps_
"The Old Red Sandstone," says a Scottish geologist in a digest
of some recent geological discoveries, "has hitherto been considered
as remarkably barren of fossils."

or that
his vision was coming back?

"How do you do, Captain Larsen," she answered.  "Pray, how did you
know I was here?"

"Heard you breathing, of course.  I say, Hump's improving, don't
you think so?"

"I don't know," she answered, smiling at me.  "I have never seen
him otherwise."

"You should have seen him before, then."

"Wolf Larsen, in large doses," I murmured, "before and after
taking."

"I want to tell you again, Hump," he said threateningly, "that
you'd better leave things alone."

"But don't you care to escape as well as we?" I asked
incredulously.

"No," was his answer.  "I intend dying here."

"Well, we don't," I concluded defiantly, beginning again my
knocking and hammering.


CHAPTER XXXV


Next day, the mast-steps clear and everything in readiness, we
started to get the two topmasts aboard.  The maintopmast was over
thirty feet in length, the foretopmast nearly thirty, and it was of
these that I intended making the shears.  It was puzzling work.
Fastening one end of a heavy tackle to the windlass, and with the
other end fast to the butt of the foretopmast, I began to heave.
Maud held the turn on the windlass and coiled down the slack.

We were astonished at the ease with which the spar was lifted.  It
was an improved crank windlass, and the purchase it gave was
enormous.  Of course, what it gave us in power we paid for in
distance; as many times as it doubled my strength, that many times
was doubled the length of rope I heaved in.  The tackle dragged
heavily across the rail, increasing its drag as the spar arose more
and more out of the water, and the exertion on the windlass grew
severe.

But when the butt of the topmast was level with the rail,
everything came to a standstill.

"I might have known it," I said impatiently.  "Now we have to do it
all over again."

"Why not fasten the tackle part way down the mast?" Maud suggested.

"It's what I should have done at first," I answered, hugely
disgusted with myself.

Slipping off a turn, I lowered the mast back into the water and
fastened the tackle a third of the way down from the butt.  In an
hour, what of this and of rests between the heaving, I had hoisted
it to the point where I could hoist no more.  Eight feet of the
butt was above the rail, and I was as far away as ever from getting
the spar on board.  I sat down and pondered the problem.  It did
not take long.  I sprang jubilantly to my feet.

"Now I have it!" I cried.  "I ought to make the tackle fast at the
point of balance.  And what we learn of this will serve us with
everything else we have to hoist aboard."

Once again I undid all my work by lowering the mast into the water.
But I miscalculated the point of balance, so that when I heaved the
top of the mast came up instead of the butt.  Maud looked despair,
but I laughed and said it would do just as well.

Instructing her how to hold the turn and be ready to slack away at
command, I laid hold of the mast with my hands and tried to balance
it inboard across the rail.  When I thought I had it I cried to her
to slack away; but the spar righted, despite my efforts, and
dropped back toward the water.  Again I heaved it up to its old
position, for I had now another idea.  I remembered the watch-
tackle--a small double and single block affair--and fetched it.

While I was rigging it between the top of the spar and the opposite
rail, Wolf Larsen came on the scene.  We exchanged nothing more
than good-mornings, and, though he could not see, he sat on the
rail out of the way and followed by the sound all that I did.

Again instructing Maud to slack away at the windlass when I gave
the word, I proceeded to heave on the watch-tackle.  Slowly the
mast swung in until it balanced at right angles across the rail;
and then I discovered to my amazement that there was no need for
Maud to slack away.  In fact, the very opposite was necessary.
Making the watch-tackle fast, I hove on the windlass and brought in
the mast, inch by inch, till its top tilted down to the deck and
finally its whole length lay on the deck.

I looked at my watch.  It was twelve o'clock.  My back was aching
sorely, and I felt extremely tired and hungry.  And there on the
deck was a single stick of timber to show for a whole morning's
work.  For the first time I thoroughly realized the extent of the
task before us.  But I was learning, I was learning.  The afternoon
would show far more accomplished.  And it did; for we returned at
one o'clock, rested and strengthened by a hearty dinner.

In less than an hour I had the maintopmast on deck and was
constructing the shears.  Lashing the two topmasts together, and
making allowance for their unequal length, at the point of
intersection I attached the double block of the main throat-
halyards.  This, with the single block and the throat-halyards
themselves, gave me a hoisting tackle.  To prevent the butts of the
masts from slipping on the deck, I nailed down thick cleats.
Everything in readiness, I made a line fast to the apex of the
shears and carried it directly to the windlass.  I was growing to
have faith in that windlass, for it gave me power beyond all
expectation.  As usual, Maud held the turn while I heaved.  The
shears rose in the air.

Then I discovered I had forgotten guy-ropes.  This necessitated my
climbing the shears, which I did twice, before I finished guying it
fore and aft and to either side.  Twilight had set in by the time
this was accomplished.  Wolf Larsen, who had sat about and listened
all afternoon and never opened his mouth, had taken himself off to
the galley and started his supper.  I felt quite stiff across the
small of the back, so much so that I straightened up with an effort
and with pain.  I looked proudly at my work.  It was beginning to
show.  I was wild with desire, like a child with a new toy, to
hoist something with my shears.

"I wish it weren't so late," I said.  "I'd like to see how it
works."

"Don't be a glutton, Humphrey," Maud chided me.  "Remember, to-
morrow is coming, and you're so tired now that you can hardly
stand."

"And you?" I said, with sudden solicitude.  "You must be very
tired.  You have worked hard and nobly.  I am proud of you, Maud."

"Not half so proud as I am of you, nor with half the reason," she
answered, looking me straight in the eyes for a moment with an
expression in her own and a dancing, tremulous light which I had
not seen before and which gave me a pang of quick delight, I know
not why, for I did not understand it.  Then she dropped her eyes,
to lift them again, laughing.

"If our friends could see us now," she said.  "Look at us.  Have
you ever paused for a moment to consider our appearance?"

"Yes, I have considered yours, frequently," I answered, puzzling
over what I had seen in her eyes and puzzled by her sudden change
of subject.

"Mercy!" she cried.  "And what do I look like, pray?"

"A scarecrow, I'm afraid," I replied.  "Just glance at your
draggled skirts, for instance.  Look at those three-cornered tears.
And such a waist!  It would not require a Sherlock Holmes to deduce
that you have been cooking over a camp-fire, to say nothing of
trying out seal-blubber.  And to cap it all, that cap!  And all
that is the woman who wrote 'A Kiss Endured.'"

She made me an elaborate and stately courtesy, and said, "As for
you, sir--"

And yet, through the five minutes of banter which followed, there
was a serious something underneath the fun which I could not but
relate to the strange and fleeting expression I had caught in her
eyes.  What was it?  Could it be that our eyes were speaking beyond
the will of our speech?  My eyes had spoken, I knew, until I had
found the culprits out and silenced them.  This had occurred
several times.  But had she seen the clamour in them and
understood?  And had her eyes so spoken to me?  What else could
that expression have meant--that dancing, tremulous light, and a
something more which words could not describe.  And yet it could
not be.  It was impossible.  Besides, I was not skilled in the
speech of eyes.  I was only Humphrey Van Weyden, a bookish fellow
who loved.  And to love, and to wait and win love, that surely was
glorious enough for me.  And thus I thought, even as we chaffed
each other's appearance, until we arrived ashore and there were
other things to think about.

"It's a shame, after working hard all day, that we cannot have an
uninterrupted night's sleep," I complained, after supper.

"But there can be no danger now? from a blind man?" she queried.

"I shall never be able to trust him," I averred, "and far less now
that he is blind.  The liability is that his part helplessness will
make him more malignant than ever.  I know what I shall do to-
morrow, the first thing--run out a light anchor and kedge the
schooner off the beach.  And each night when we come ashore in the
boat, Mr. Wolf Larsen will be left a prisoner on board.  So this
will be the last night we have to stand watch, and because of that
it will go the easier."

We were awake early and just finishing breakfast as daylight came.

"Oh, Humphrey!" I heard Maud cry in dismay and suddenly stop.

I looked at her.  She was gazing at the Ghost.  I followed her
gaze, but could see nothing unusual.  She looked at me, and I
looked inquiry back.

"The shears," she said, and her voice trembled.

I had forgotten their existence.  I looked again, but could not see
them.

"If he has--" I muttered savagely.

She put her hand sympathetically on mine, and said, "You will have
to begin over again."

"Oh, believe me, my anger means nothing; I could not hurt a fly," I
smiled back bitterly.  "And the worst of it is, he knows it.  You
are right.  If he has destroyed the shears, I shall do nothing
except begin over again."

"But I'll stand my watch on board hereafter," I blurted out a
moment later.  "And if he interferes--"

"But I dare not stay ashore all night alone," Maud was saying when
I came back to myself.  "It would be so much nicer if he would be
friendly with us and help us.  We could all live comfortably
aboard."

"We will," I asserted, still savagely, for the destruction of my
beloved shears had hit me hard.  "That is, you and I will live
aboard, friendly or not with Wolf Larsen."

"It's childish," I laughed later, "for him to do such things, and
for me to grow angry over them, for that matter."

But my heart smote me when we climbed aboard and looked at the
havoc he had done.  The shears were gone altogether.  The guys had
been slashed right and left.  The throat-halyards which I had
rigged were cut across through every part.  And he knew I could not
splice.  A thought struck me.  I ran to the windlass.  It would not
work.  He had broken it.  We looked at each other in consternation.
Then I ran to the side.  The masts, booms, and gaffs I had cleared
were gone.  He had found the lines which held them, and cast them
adrift.

Tears were in Maud's eyes, and I do believe they were for me.  I
could have wept myself.  Where now was our project of remasting the
Ghost?  He had done his work well.  I sat down on the hatch-combing
and rested my chin on my hands in black despair.

"He deserves to die," I cried out; "and God forgive me, I am not
man enough to be his executioner."

But Maud was by my side, passing her hand soothingly through my
hair as though I were a child, and saying, "There, there; it will
all come right.  We are in the right, and it must come right."

I remembered Michelet and leaned my head against her; and truly I
became strong again.  The blessed woman was an unfailing fount of
power to me.  What did it matter?  Only a set-back, a delay.  The
tide could not have carried the masts far to seaward, and there had
been no wind.  It meant merely more work to find them and tow them
back.  And besides, it was a lesson.  I knew what to expect.  He
might have waited and destroyed our work more effectually when we
had more accomplished.

"Here he comes now," she whispered.

I glanced up.  He was strolling leisurely along the poop on the
port side.

"Take no notice of him," I whispered.  "He's coming to see how we
take it.  Don't let him know that we know.  We can deny him that
satisfaction.  Take off your shoes--that's right--and carry them in
your hand."

And then we played hide-and-seek with the blind man.  As he came up
the port side we slipped past on the starboard; and from the poop
we watched him turn and start aft on our track.

He must have known, somehow, that we were on board, for he said
"Good-morning" very confidently, and waited, for the greeting to be
returned.  Then he strolled aft, and we slipped forward.

"Oh, I know you're aboard," he called out, and I could see him
listen intently after he had spoken.

It reminded me of the great hoot-owl, listening, after its booming
cry, for the stir of its frightened prey.  But we did not fir, and
we moved only when he moved.  I observe, also, that he is not far
behind us in the observance of the fashions, and that he is as
good a church-goer, theatre-goer, and pleasure-seeker generally,
as his means will allow.

As a bootblack or newsboy, he is an adept in all the tricks of the
trade; and as a fast young man about town among his kind, he is
worthy his white prototype: the swagger, the impertinent look, the
coarse remark, the loud laugh, are all in the best style.

As a lounger and starer also, on the street corners of a Sunday
afternoon, he has taken his degree.

On the other hand, I know cases among our colored brethren, plenty
of them, of conscientious and well-directed effort and industry
in the worthiest fields, in agriculture, in trade, in the mechanic
arts, that show the colored man has in him all the best rudiments
of a citizen of the States.

Lest my winter sunshine appear to have too many dark rays in
it,--buzzards, crows, and colored men,--I hasten to add the brown
and neutral tints; and maybe a red ray can be extracted from some
of these hard, smooth, sharp-gritted roads that radiate from the
National Capital.

Leading out of Washington there are several good roads that invite
the pedestrian. There is the road that leads west or northwest
from Georgetown, the Tenallytown road, the very sight of which,
on a sharp, lustrous winter Sunday, makes the feet tingle. Where it
cuts through a hill or high knoll, it is so red it fairly glows in
the sunlight. I'll warrant you will kindle, and your own color will
mount, if you resign yourself to it. It will conduct you to the
wild and rocky scenery of the upper Potomac, to Great Falls,
and on to Harper's Ferry, if your courage holds out.

Then there is the road that leads north over Meridian Hill, across
Piny Branch, and on through the wood of Crystal Springs to Fort
Stevens, and so into Maryland. This is the proper route for an
excursion in the spring to gather wild flowers, or in the fall for
a nutting expedition, as it lays open some noble woods and a great
variety of charming scenery; or for a musing moonlight saunter,
say in December, when the Enchantress has folded and folded the
world in her web, it is by all means the course to take. Your
staff rings on the hard ground; the road, a misty white belt,
gleams and vanishes before you; the woods are cavernous and still;
the fields lie in a lunar trance, and you will yourself return
fairly mesmerized by the beauty of the scene.

Or you can bend your steps eastward over the Eastern Branch, up
Good Hope Hill, and on till you strike the Marlborough pike, as a
trio of us did that cold February Sunday we walked from Washington
to Pumpkintown and back.

A short sketch of this pilgrimage is a fair sample of these winter
walks.

The delight I experienced in making this new acquisition to my
geography was of itself sufficient to atone for any aches or weariness
I may have felt.

The mere fact that one may walk from Washington to Pumpkintown was
a discovery I had been all these years in making.

I had walked to Sligo, and to the Northwest Branch, and had made
the Falls of the Potomac in a circuitous route of ten miles, coming
suddenly upon the river in one of its wildest passes; but I little
dreamed all the while that there, in a wrinkle (or shall I say
furrow?)

of the Maryland hills, almost visible from the outlook of the bronze
squaw on the dome of the Capitol, and just around the head of Oxen
Run, lay Pumpkintown.

The day was cold but the sun was bright, and the foot took hold of
those hard, dry, gritty Maryland roads with the keenest relish.
How the leaves of the laurel glistened!

The distant oak woods suggested gray-blue smoke, while the recesses
of the pines looked like the lair of Night.

Beyond the District limits we struck the Marlborough pike, which,
round and hard and white, held squarely to the east and was visible
a mile ahead.

Its friction brought up the temperature amazingly and spurred the
pedestrians into their best time.

As I trudged along, Thoreau's lines came naturally to mind:--
"When the spring stirs my blood With the instinct of travel,
I can get enough gravel On the old Marlborough road."

Cold as the day was (many degrees below freezing), I heard and saw
bluebirds, and as we passed along, every sheltered tangle and
overgrown field or lane swarmed with snowbirds and sparrows,--the
latter mainly Canada or tree sparrows, with a sprinkling of the
song, and, maybe, one or two other varieties.

The birds are all social and gregarious in winter, and seem drawn
together by common instinct. Where you find one, you will not only
find others of the same kind, but also several different kinds. The
regular winter residents go in little bands, like a well-organized
pioneer corps,--the jays and woodpeckers in advance, doing the
heavier work; the nuthatches next, more lightly armed; and the
creepers and kinglets, with their slender beaks and microscopic
eyes, last of all.

[Footnote: It seems to me this is a borrowed observation, but I do
not know to whom to credit it.]

Now and then, among the gray and brown tints, there was a dash
of scarlet,--the cardinal grosbeak, whose presence was sufficient
to enliven any scene.

In the leafless trees, as a ray of sunshine fell upon him, he was
visible a long way off, glowing like a crimson spar,--the
only bit of color in the whole landscape.

Maryland is here rather a level, unpicturesque country,--the gaze
of the traveler bounded, at no great distance, by oak woods, with
here and there a dark line of pine. We saw few travelers, passed
a ragged squad or two of colored boys and girls, and met some colored
women on their way to or from church, perhaps. Never ask a colored
person--at least the crude, rustic specimens--any question that
involves a memory of names, or any arbitrary signs; you will rarely
get a satisfactory answer.

If you could speak to them in their own dialect, or touch the
right spring in their minds, you would, no doubt, get the desired
information. They are as local in their notions and habits as the
animals, and go on much the same principles, as no doubt we all do,
more or less.

I saw a colored boy come into a public office one day, and ask
to see a man with red hair; the name was utterly gone from him.

The man had red whiskers, which was as near as he had come to the
mark.
Ask your washerwoman what street she lives on, or where such a one
has moved to, and the chances are that she cannot tell you, except
that it is a "right smart distance" this way or that, or near Mr.

So-and-so, or by such and such a place, describing some local
feature. I love to amuse myself, when walking through the
market, by asking the old aunties, and the young aunties, too, the
names of their various "yarbs." It seems as if they must trip on
the simplest names. Bloodroot they generally call "grubroot;"
trailing arbutus goes by the names of "troling" arbutus, "training
arbuty-flower," and ground "ivory;" in Virginia they call woodchucks
"moonacks."

On entering Pumpkintown--a cluster of five or six small, whitewashed
blockhouses, toeing squarely on the highway--the only inhabitant
we saw was a small boy, who was as frank and simple as if he had
lived on pumpkins and marrow squashes all his days.

Half a mile farther on, we turned to the right into a characteristic
Southern road,--a way entirely unkempt, and wandering free as the
wind; now fading out into a broad field; now contracting into a
narrow track between hedges; anon roaming with delightful abandon
through swamps and woods, asking no leave and keeping no bounds.

About two o'clock we stopped in an opening in a pine wood and ate
our lunch.

We had the good fortune to hit upon a charming place. A
wood-chopper had been there, and let in the sunlight full and
strong; and the white chips, the newly-piled wood, and the mounds
of green boughs, were welcome features, and helped also to keep off
the wind that would creep through under the pines.

The ground was soft and dry, with a carpet an inch thick of
pine-needles; and with a fire, less for warmth than to make the
picture complete, we ate our bread and beans with the keenest
satisfaction, and with a relish that only the open air can give.

A fire, of course,--an encampment in the woods at this season
without a fire would be like leaving Hamlet out of the play.
A smoke is your standard, your flag; it defines and locates your
camp at once; you are an interloper until you have made a fire;
then you take possession; then the trees and rocks seem to
look upon you more kindly, and you look more kindly upon them. As
one opens his budget, so he opens his heart by a fire. Already
something has gone out from you, and comes back as a faint reminiscence
and home feeling in the air and place.

One looks out upon the crow or the buzzard that sails by as from
his own fireside. It is not I that am a wanderer and a stranger
now; it is the crow and the buzzard. The chickadees were
silent at first, but now they approach by little journeys, as if to
make our acquaintance. The nuthatches, also, cry "Yank! yank!"

in no inhospitable tones; and those purple finches there in the
cedars,--are they not stealing our berries?

How one lingers about a fire under such circumstances, loath to
leave it, poking up the sticks, throwing in the burnt ends, adding
another branch and yet another, and looking back as he turns to go
to catch one more glimpse of the smoke going up through the trees!

I reckon it is some remnant of the primitive man, which we all carry
about with us.

He has not yet forgotten his wild, free life, his arboreal habitations,
and the sweet-bitter times he had in those long-gone ages. With
me, he wakes up directly at the smell of smoke, of burning branches
in the open air; and all his old love of fire and his dependence
upon it, in the camp or the cave, come freshly to mind.

On resuming our march, we filed off along a charming wood-path,--a
regular little tunnel through the dense pines, carpeted
with silence, and allowing us to look nearly the whole length
of it through its soft green twilight out into the open sunshine
of the fields beyond. A pine wood in Maryland or in Virginia is
quite a different thing from a pine wood in Maine or Minnesota,--the
difference, in fact, between yellow pine and white. The former, as
it grows hereabout, is short and scrubby, with branches
nearly to the ground, and looks like the dwindling remnant of a
greater race.

Beyond the woods, the path led us by a colored man's habitation,--a
little, low frame house, on a knoll, surrounded by the quaint devices
and rude makeshifts of these quaint and rude people. A few poles
stuck in the ground, clapboarded with cedar-boughs and cornstalks,
and supporting a roof of the same, gave shelter to a rickety
one-horse wagon and some farm implements. Near this there was a
large, compact tent, made entirely of cornstalks, with, for door,
a bundle of the same, in the dry, warm, nest-like interior of which
the husking of the corn crop seemed to have taken place.

A few rods farther on, we passed through another humble dooryard,
musical with dogs and dusky with children. We crossed here the
outlying fields of a large, thrifty, well-kept-looking farm with a
showy, highly ornamental frame house in the centre. There was even
a park with deer, and among the gayly painted outbuildings I noticed
a fancy dovecote, with an immense flock of doves circling aboxe it;
some whiskey-dealer from the city, we were told, trying to
take the poison out of his money by agriculture.

We next passed through some woods, when we emerged into a broad,
sunlit, fertile-looking valley, called Oxen Run.

We stooped down and drank of its clear white-pebbled stream, in the
veritable spot, I suspect, where the oxen do. There were
clouds of birds here on the warm slopes, with the usual sprinkling
along the bushy margin of the stream of scarlet grosbeaks. The
valley of Oxen Run has many good-looking farms, with old picturesque
houses, and loose rambling barns, such as artists love to
put into pictures.

But it is a little awkward to go east. It always seems left-handed.
I think this is the feeling of all walkers, and that Thoreau's
experience in this respect was not singular. The great magnet is
the sun, and we follow him. I notice that people lost in the
woods work to the westward. When one comes out of his
house and asks himself, "Which way shall I walk?" and looks up and
down and around for a sign or a token, does he not nine times out
of ten turn to the west? He inclines this way as surely as the
willow wand bends toward the water. There is something more
genial and friendly in this direction.

Occasionally in winter I experience a southern inclination, and
cross Long Bridge and rendezvous for the day in some old earthwork
on the Virginia hills. The roads are not so inviting in this
direction, but the line of old forts with rabbits burrowing in the
bomb-proofs, and a magazine, or officers' quarters turned into
a cow stable by colored squatters, form an interesting feature.
But, whichever way I go, I am glad I came. All roads lead up to the
Jerusalem the walker seeks. There is everywhere the vigorous and
masculine winter air, and the impalpable sustenance the mind draws
from all natural forms.

II. THE EXHILARATIONS OF THE ROAD

Afoot and light-hearted I take to the open road.

WALT WHITMAN.

Ocasionally on the sidewalk, amid the dapper, swiftly moving,
high-heeled boots and gaiters, I catch a glimpse of the naked
human foot.

Nimbly it scuffs along, the toes spread, the sides flatten, the
heel protrudes; it grasps the curbing, or bends to the form of the
uneven surfaces,--a thing sensuous and alive, that seems to take
cognizance of whatever it touches or passes.

How primitive and uncivil it looks in such company,--a real barbarian
in the parlor!

We are so unused to the human anatomy, to simple, unadorned nature,
that it looks a little repulsive; but it is beautiful for all that.

Though it be a black foot and an unwashed foot, it shall be exalted.
It is a thing of life amid leather, a free spirit amid cramped, a
wild bird amid caged, an athlete amid consumptives. It is the symbol
of my order, the Order of Walkers.

That unhampered, vitally playing piece of anatomy is the type of the
pedestrian, man returned to first principles, in direct contact
and intercourse with the earth and the elements, his faculties
unsheathed, his mind plastic, his body toughened, his heart light,
his soul dilated; while those cramped and distorted members in the
calf and kid are the unfortunate wretches doomed to carriages and
cushions.

I am not going to advocate the disuse of boots and shoes, or the
abandoning of the improved modes of travel; but I am going to brag
as lustily as I can on behalf of the pedestrian, and show how all
the shining angels second and accompany the man who goes afoot,
while all the dark spirits are ever looking out for a chance to
ride.

When I see the discomforts that able-bodied American men will put
up with rather than go a mile or half a mile on foot, the abuses
they will tolerate and encourage, crowding the street car on a
little fall in the temperature or the appearance of an inch or two
of snow, packing up to overflowing, dangling to the straps, treading
on each other's toes, breathing each other's breaths, crushing the
women and children, hanging by tooth and nail to a square inch of
the platform, imperiling their limbs and killing the horses,--I
think the commonest tramp in the street has good reason to felicitate
himself on his rare privilege of going afoot.

I had heard it before,
during the sinking of the Martinez.

My face was against his chest and I could not see, but I heard Maud
turn and run swiftly away along the deck.  Everything was happening
quickly.  I had not yet had a glimmering of unconsciousness, and it
seemed that an interminable period of time was lapsing before I
heard her feet flying back.  And just then I felt the whole man
sink under me.  The breath was leaving his lungs and his chest was
collapsing under my weight.  Whether it was merely the expelled
breath, or his consciousness of his growing impotence, I know not,
but his throat vibrated with a deep groan.  The hand at my throat
relaxed.  I breathed.  It fluttered and tightened again.  But even
his tremendous will could not overcome the dissolution that
assailed it.  That will of his was breaking down.  He was fainting.

Maud's footsteps were very near as his hand fluttered for the last
time and my throat was released.  I rolled off and over to the deck
on my back, gasping and blinking in the sunshine.  Maud was pale
but composed,--my eyes had gone instantly to her face,--and she was
looking at me with mingled alarm and relief.  A heavy seal-club in
her hand caught my eyes, and at that moment she followed my gaze
down to it.  The club dropped from her hand as though it had
suddenly stung her, and at the same moment my heart surged with a
great joy.  Truly she was my woman, my mate-woman, fighting with me
and for me as the mate of a caveman would have fought, all the
primitive in her aroused, forgetful of her culture, hard under the
softening civilization of the only life she had ever known.

"Dear woman!" I cried, scrambling to my feet.

The next moment she was in my arms, weeping convulsively on my
shoulder while I clasped her close.  I looked down at the brown
glory of her hair, glinting gems in the sunshine far more precious
to me than those in the treasure-chests of kings.  And I bent my
head and kissed her hair softly, so softly that she did not know.

Then sober thought came to me.  After all, she was only a woman,
crying her relief, now that the danger was past, in the arms of her
protector or of the one who had been endangered.  Had I been father
or brother, the situation would have been in nowise different.
Besides, time and place were not meet, and I wished to earn a
better right to declare my love.  So once again I softly kissed her
hair as I felt her receding from my clasp.

"It was a real attack this time," I said:  "another shock like the
one that made him blind.  He feigned at first, and in doing so
brought it on."

Maud was already rearranging his pillow.

"No," I said, "not yet.  Now that I have him helpless, helpless he
shall remain.  From this day we live in the cabin.  Wolf Larsen
shall live in the steerage."

I caught him under the shoulders and dragged him to the companion-
way.  At my direction Maud fetched a rope.  Placing this under his
shoulders, I balanced him across the threshold and lowered him down
the steps to the floor.  I could not lift him directly into a bunk,
but with Maud's help I lifted first his shoulders and head, then
his body, balanced him across the edge, and rolled him into a lower
bunk.

But this was not to be all.  I recollected the handcuffs in his
state-room, which he preferred to use on sailors instead of the
ancient and clumsy ship irons.  So, when we left him, he lay
handcuffed hand and foot.  For the first time in many days I
breathed freely.  I felt strangely light as I came on deck, as
though a weight had been lifted off my shoulders.  I felt, also,
that Maud and I had drawn more closely together.  And I wondered if
she, too, felt it, as we walked along the deck side by side to
where the stalled foremast hung in the shears.


CHAPTER XXXVII


At once we moved aboard the Ghost, occupying our old state-rooms
and cooking in the galley.  The imprisonment of Wolf Larsen had
happened most opportunely, for what must have been the Indian
summer of this high latitude was gone and drizzling stormy weather
had set in.  We were very comfortable, and the inadequate shears,
with the foremast suspended from them, gave a business-like air to
the schooner and a promise of departure.

And now that we had Wolf Larsen in irons, how little did we need
it!  Like his first attack, his second had been accompanied by
serious disablement.  Maud made the discovery in the afternoon
while trying to give him nourishment.  He had shown signs of
consciousness, and she had spoken to him, eliciting no response.
He was lying on his left side at the time, and in evident pain.
With a restless movement he rolled his head around, clearing his
left ear from the pillow against which it had been pressed.  At
once he heard and answered her, and at once she came to me.

Pressing the pillow against his left ear, I asked him if he heard
me, but he gave no sign.  Removing the pillow and, repeating the
question he answered promptly that he did.

"Do you know you are deaf in the right ear?" I asked.

"Yes," he answered in a low, strong voice, "and worse than that.
My whole right side is affected.  It seems asleep.  I cannot move
arm or leg."

"Feigning again?" I demanded angrily.

He shook his head, his stern mouth shaping the strangest, twisted
smile.  It was indeed a twisted smile, for it was on the left side
only, the facial muscles of the right side moving not at all.

"That was the last play of the Wolf," he said.  "I am paralysed.  I
shall never walk again.  Oh, only on the other side," he added, as
though divining the suspicious glance I flung at his left leg, the
knee of which had just then drawn up, and elevated the blankets.

"It's unfortunate," he continued.  "I'd liked to have done for you
first, Hump.  And I thought I had that much left in me."

"But why?" I asked; partly in horror, partly out of curiosity.

Again his stern mouth framed the twisted smile, as he said:

"Oh, just to be alive, to be living and doing, to be the biggest
bit of the ferment to the end, to eat you.  But to die this way."

He shrugged his shoulders, or attempted to shrug them, rather, for
the left shoulder alone moved.  Like the smile, the shrug was
twisted.

"But how can you account for it?" I asked.  "Where is the seat of
your trouble?"

"The brain," he said at once.  "It was those cursed headaches
brought it on."

"Symptoms," I said.

He nodded his head.  "There is no accounting for it.  I was never
sick in my life.  Something's gone wrong with my brain.  A cancer,
a tumour, or something of that nature,--a thing that devours and
destroys.  It's attacking my nerve-centres, eating them up, bit by
bit, cell by cell--from the pain."

"The motor-centres, too," I suggested.

"So it would seem; and the curse of it is that I must lie here,
conscious, mentally unimpaired, knowing that the lines are going
down, breaking bit by bit communication with the world.  I cannot
see, hearing and feeling are leaving me, at this rate I shall soon
cease to speak; yet all the time I shall be here, alive, active,
and powerless."

"When you say YOU are here, I'd suggest the likelihood of the
soul," I said.

"Bosh!" was his retort.  "It simply means that in the attack on my
brain the higher psychical centres are untouched.  I can remember,
I can think and reason.  When that goes, I go.  I am not.  The
soul?"

He broke out in mocking laughter, then turned his left ear to the
pillow as a sign that he wished no further conversation.

Maud and I went about our work oppressed by the fearful fate which
had overtaken him,--how fearful we were yet fully to realize.
There was the awfulness of retribution about it.  Our thoughts were
deep and solemn, and we spoke to each other scarcely above
whispers.

"You might remove the handcuffs," he said that night, as we stood
in consultation over him.  "It's dead safe.  I'm a paralytic now.
The next thing to watch out for is bed sores."

He smiled his twisted smile, and Maud, her eyes wide with horror,
was compelled to turn away her head.

"Do you know that your smile is crooked?" I asked him; for I knew
that she must attend him, and I wished to save her as much as
possible.

"Then I shall smile no more," he said calmly.  "I thought something
was wrong.  My right cheek has been numb all day.  Yes, and I've
had warnings of this for the last three days; by spells, my right
side seemed going to sleep, sometimes arm or hand, sometimes leg or
foot."

"So my smile is crooked?" he queried a short while after.  "Well,
consider henceforth that I smile internally, with my soul, if you
please, my soul.  Consider that I am smiling now."

And for the space of several minutes he lay there, quiet, indulging
his grotesque fancy.

The man of him was not changed.  It was the old, indomitable,
terrible Wolf Larsen, imprisoned somewhere within that flesh which
had once been so invincible and splendid.  Now it bound him with
insentient fetters, walling his soul in darkness and silence,
blocking it from the world which to him had been a riot of action.
No more would he conjugate the verb "to do in every mood and
tense."  "To be" was all that remained to him--to be, as he had
defined death, without movement; to will, but not to execute; to
think and reason and in the spirit of him to be as alive as ever,
but in the flesh to be dead, quite dead.

And yet, though I even removed the handcuffs, we could not adjust
ourselves to his condition.  Our minds revolted.  To us he was full
of potentiality.  We knew not what to expect of him next, what
fearful thing, rising above the flesh, he might break out and do.
Our experience warranted this state of mind, and we went about our
work with anxiety always upon us.

I had solved the problem which had arisen through the shortness of
the shears.  By means of the watch-tackle (I had made a new one), I
heaved the butt of the foremast across the rail and then lowered it
to the deck.  Next, by means of the shears, I hoisted the main boom
on board.  Its forty feet of length would supply the height
necessary properly to swing the mast.  By means of a secondary
tackle I had attached to the shears, I swung the boom to a nearly
perpendicular position, then lowered the butt to the deck, where,
to prevent slipping, I spiked great cleats around it.  The single
block of my original shears-tackle I had attached to the end of the
boom.  Thus, by carrying this tackle to the windlass, I could raise
and lower the end of the boom at will, the butt always remaining
stationary, and, by means of guys, I could swing the boom from side
to side.  To the end of the boom I had likewise rigged a hoisting
tackle; and when the whole arrangement was completed I could not
but be startled by the power and latitude it gave me.

Of course, two days' work was required for the accomplishment of
this part of my task, and it was not till the morning of the third
day that I swung the foremast from the deck and proceeded to square
its butt to fit the step.  Here I was especially awkward.  I sawed
and chopped and chiselled the weathered wood till it had the
appearance of having been gnawed by some gigantic mouse.  But it
fitted.

"It will work, I know it will work," I cried.

"Do you know Dr. Jordan's final test of truth?" Maud asked.

I shook my head and paused in the act of dislodging the shavings
which had drifted down my neck.

"Can we make it work?  Can we trust our lives to it? is the test."

"He is a favourite of yours," I said.

"When I dismantled my old Pantheon and cast out Napoleon and Caesar
and their fellows, I straightway erected a new Pantheon," she
answered gravely, "and the first I installed as Dr. Jordan."

"A modern hero."

"And a greater because modern," she added.  "How can the Old World
heroes compare with ours?"

I shook my head.  We were too much alike in many things for
argument.  Our points of view and outlook on life at least were
very alike.

"For a pair of critics we agree famously," I laughed.

"And as shipwright and able assistant," she laughed back.

But there was little time for laughter in those days, what of our
heavy work and of the awfulness of Wolf Larsen's living death.

He had received another stroke.  He had lost his voice, or he was
losing it.  He had only intermittent use of it.  As he phrased it,
the wires were like the stock market, now up, now down.
Occasionally the wires were up and he spoke as well as ever, though
slowly and heavily.  Then speech would suddenly desert him, in the
middle of a sentence perhaps, and for hours, sometimes, we would
wait for the connection to be re-established.  He complained of
great pain in his head, and it was during this period that he
arranged a system of communication against the time when speech
should leave him altogether--one pressure of the hand for "yes,"
two for "no."  It was well that it was arranged, for by evening his
voice had gone from him.  By hand pressures, after that, he
answered our questions, and when he wished to speak he scrawled his
thoughts with his left hand, quite legibly, on a sheet of paper.

The fierce winter had now descended upon us.  Gale followed gale,
with snow and sleet and rain.  The seals had started on their great
southern migration, and the rookery was practically deserted.  I
worked feverishly.  In spite of the bad weather, and of the wind
which especially hindered me, I was on deck from daylight till dark
and making substantial progress.

I profited by my lesson learned through raising the shears and then
climbing them to attach the guys.  To the top of the foremast,
which was just lifted conveniently from the deck, I attached the
rigging, stays and throat and peak halyards.  As usual, I had
underrated the amount of work involved in this portion of the task,
and two long days were necessary to complete it.  And there was so
much yet to be done--the sails, for instance, which practically had
to be made over.

While I toiled at rigging the foremast, Maud sewed on canvas, ready
always to drop everything and come to my assistance when more hands
than two were required.  The canvas was heavy and hard, and she
sewed with the regular sailor's palm and three-cornered sail-
needle.  Her hands were soon sadly blistered, but she struggled
bravely on, and in addition doing the cooking and taking care of
the sick man.

"A fig for superstition," I said on Friday morning.  "That mast
goes in to-day.'

Everything was ready for the attempt.  Carrying the boom-tackle to
the windlass, I hoisted the mast nearly clear of the deck.  Making
this tackle fast, I took to the windlass the shears-tackle (which
was connected with the end of the boom), and with a few turns had
the mast perpendicular and clear.

Maud clapped her hands the instant she was relieved from holding
the turn, crying:

"It works!  It works!  We'll trust our lives to it!"

Then she assumed a rueful expression.

"It's not over the hole," she add.  "Will you have to begin all
over?"

I smiled in superior fashion, and, slacking off on one of the boom-
guys and taking in on the other, swung the mast perfectly in the
centre of the deck.  Still it was not over the hole.  Again the
rueful expression came on her face, and again I smiled in a
superior way.  Slacking away on the boom-tackle and hoisting an
equivalent amount on the shears-tackle, I brought the butt of the
mast into position directly over the hole in the deck.  Then I gave
Maud careful instructions for lowering away and went into the hold
to the step on the schooner's bottom.

I called to her, and the mast moved easily and accurately.
Straight toward the square hole of the step the square butt
descended; but as it descended it slowly twisted so that square
would not fit into square.  But I had not even a moment's
indecision.  Calling to Maud to cease lowering, I went on deck and
made the watch-tackle fast to the mast with a rolling hitch.  I
left Maud to pull on it while I went below.  By the light of the
lantern I saw the butt twist slowly around till its sides coincided
with the sides of the step.  Maud made fast and returned to the
windlass.  Slowly the butt descended the several intervening
inches, at the same time slightly twisting again.  Again Maud
rectified the twist with the watch-tackle, and again she lowered
away from the windlass.  Square fitted into square.  The mast was
stepped.

I raised a shout, and she ran down to see.  In the yellow lantern
light we peered at what we had accomplished.  We looked at each
other, and our hands felt their way and clasped.  The eyes of both
of us, I think, were moist with the joy of success.

"It was done so easily after all," I remarked.  "All the work was
in the preparation."

"And all the wonder in the completion," Maud added.  "I can
scarcely bring myself to realize that that great mast is really up
and in; that you have lifted it from the water, swung it through
the air, and deposited it here where it belongs.  It is a Titan's
task."

"And they made themselves many inventions," I began merrily, then
paused to sniff the air.

I looked hastily at the lantern.  It was not smoking.  Again I
sniffed.

"Something is burning," Maud said, with sudden conviction.

We sprang together for the ladder, but I raced past her to the
deck.  A dense volume of smoke was pouring out of the steerage
companion-way.

"The Wolf is not yet dead," I muttered to myself as I sprang down
through the smoke.

It was so thick in the confined space that I was compelled to feel
my way; and so potent was the spell of Wolf Larsen on my
imagination, I was quite prepared for the helpless giant to grip my
neck in a strangle hold.  I hesitated, the desire to race back and
up the steps to the deck almost overpowering me.  Then I
recollected Maud.  The vision of her, as I had last seen her, in
the lantern light of the schooner's hold, her brown eyes warm and
moist with joy, flashed before me, and I knew that I could not go
back.

I was choking and suffocating by the time I reached Wolf Larsen's
bunk.  I reached my hand and felt for his.  He was lying
motionless, but moved slightly at the touch of my hand.  I felt
over and under his blankets.  There was no warmth, no sign of fire.
Yet that smoke which blinded me and made me cough and gasp must
have a source.  I lost my head temporarily and dashed frantically
about the steerage.  A collision with the table partially knocked
the wind from my body and brought me to myself.  I reasoned that a
helpless man could start a fire only near to where he lay.

I returned to Wolf Larsen's bunk.  There I encountered Maud.  How
long she had been there in that suffocating atmosphere I could not
guess.

"Go up on deck!" I commanded peremptorily.

"But, Humphrey--" she began to protest in a queer, husky voice.

"Please! please!" I shouted at her harshly.

She drew away obediently, and then I thought, What if she cannot
find the steps?  I started after her, to stop at the foot of the
companion-way.  Perhaps she had gone up.  As I stood there,
hesitant, I heard her cry softly:

"Oh, Humphrey, I am lost."

I found her fumbling at the wall of the after bulkhead, and, half
leading her, half carrying her, I took her up the companion-way.
The pure air was like nectar.  Maud was only faint and dizzy, and I
left her lying on the deck when I took my second plunge below.

The source of the smoke must be very close to Wolf Larsen--my mind
was made up to this, and I went straight to his bunk.  As I felt
about among his blankets, something hot fell on the back of my
hand.  It burned me, and I jerked my hand away.  Then I understood.
Through the cracks in the bottom of the upper bunk he had set fire
to the mattress.  He still retained sufficient use of his left arm
to do this.  The damp straw of the mattress, fired from beneath and
denied air, had been smouldering all the while.

As I dragged the mattress out of the bunk it seemed to disintegrate
in mid-air, at the same time bursting into flames.  I beat out the
burning remnants of straw in the bunk, then made a dash for the
deck for fresh air.

Several buckets of water sufficed to put out the burning mattress
in the middle of the steerage floor; and ten minutes later, when
the smoke had fairly cleared, I allowed Maud to come below.  Wolf
Larsen was unconscious, but it was a matter of minutes for the
fresh air to restore him.  We were working over him, however, when
he signed for paper and pencil.

"Pray do not interrupt me," he wrote.  "I am smiling."

"I am still a bit of the ferment, you see," he wrote a little
later.

"I am glad you are as small a bit as you are," I said.

"Thank you," he wrote.  "But just think of how much smaller I shall
be before I die."

"And yet I am all here, Hump," he wrote with a final flourish.  "I
can think more clearly than ever in my life before.  Nothing to
disturb me.  Concentration is perfect.  I am all here and more than
here."

It was like a message from the night of the grave; for this man's
body had become his mausoleum.  And there, in so strange sepulchre,
his spirit fluttered and lived.  It would flutter and live till the
last line of communication was broken, and after that who was to
say how much longer it might continue to flutter and live?


CHAPTER XXXVIII


"I think my left side is going," Wolf Larsen wrote, the morning
after his attempt to fire the ship.  "The numbness is growing.  I
can hardly move my hand.  You will have to speak louder.  The last
lines are going down."

"Are you in pain?" I asked.

I was compelled to repeat my question loudly before he answered:

"Not all the time."

The left hand stumbled slowly and painfully across the paper, and
it was with extreme difficulty that we deciphered the scrawl.  It
was like a "spirit message," such as are delivered at seances of
spiritualists for a dollar admission.

"But I am still here, all here," the hand scrawled more slowly and
painfully than ever.

The pencil dropped, and we had to replace it in the hand.

"When there is no pain I have perfect peace and quiet.  I have
never thought so clearly.  I can ponder life and death like a
Hindoo sage."

"And immortality?" Maud queried loudly in the ear.

Three times the hand essayed to write but fumbled hopelessly.  The
pencil fell.  In vain we tried to replace it.  The fingers could
not close on it.  Then Maud pressed and held the fingers about the
pencil with her own hand and the hand wrote, in large letters, and
so slowly that the minutes ticked off to each letter:

"B-O-S-H."

It was Wolf Larsen's last word, "bosh," sceptical and invincible to
the end.  The arm and hand relaxed.  The trunk of the body moved
slightly.  Then there was no movement.  Maud released the hand.
The fingers spread slightly, falling apart of their own weight, and
the pencil rolled away.

"Do you still hear?" I shouted, holding the fingers and waiting for
the single pressure which would signify "Yes."  There was no
response.  The hand was dead.

"I noticed the lips slightly move," Maud said.

I repeated the question.  The lips moved.  She placed the tips of
her fingers on them.  Again I repeated the question.  "Yes," Maud
announced.  We looked at each other expectantly.

"What good is it?" I asked.  "What can we say now?"

"Oh, ask him--"

She hesitated.

"Ask him something that requires no for an answer," I suggested.
"Then we will know for certainty."

"Are you hungry?" she cried.

The lips moved under her fingers, and she answered, "Yes."

"Will you have some beef?" was her next query.

"No," she announced.

"Beef-tea?"

"Yes, he will have some beef-tea," she said, quietly, looking up at
me.  "Until his hearing goes we shall be able to communicate with
him.  And after that--"

She looked at me queerly.  I saw her lips trembling and the tears
swimming up in her eyes.  She swayed toward me and I caught her in
my arms.

"Oh, Humphrey," she sobbed, "when will it all end?  I am so tired,
so tired."

She buried her head on my shoulder, her frail form shaken with a
storm of weeping.  She was like a feather in my arms, so slender,
so ethereal.  "She has broken down at last," I thought.  "What can
I do without her help?"

But I soothed and comforted her, till she pulled herself bravely
together and recuperated mentally as quickly as she was wont to do
physically.

"I ought to be ashamed of myself," she said.  Then added, with the
whimsical smile I adored, "but I am only one, small woman."

That phrase, the "one small woman," startled me like an electric
shock.  It was my own phrase, my pet, secret phrase, my love phrase
for her.

"Where did you get that phrase?" I demanded, with an abruptness
that in turn startled her.

"What phrase?" she asked.

"One small woman."

"Is it yours?" she asked.

"Yes," I answered.  "Mine.  I made it."

"Then you must have talked in your sleep," she smiled.

The dancing, tremulous light was in her eyes.  Mine, I knew, were
speaking beyond the will of my speech.  I leaned toward her.
Without volition I leaned toward her, as a tree is swayed by the
wind.  Ah, we were very close together in that moment.  But she
shook her head, as one might shake off sleep or a dream, saying:

"I have known it all my life.  It was my father's name for my
mother."

"It is my phrase too," I said stubbornly.

"For your mother?"

"No," I answered, and she questioned no further, though I could
have sworn her eyes retained for some time a mocking, teasing
expression.

With the foremast in, the work now went on apace.  Almost before I
knew it, and without one serious hitch, I had the mainmast stepped.
A derrick-boom, rigged to the foremast, had accomplished this; and
several days more found all stays and shrouds in place, and
everything set up taut.  Topsails would be a nuisance and a danger
for a crew of two, so I heaved the topmasts on deck and lashed them
fast.

Several more days were consumed in finishing the sails and putting
them on.  There were only three--the jib, foresail, and mainsail;
and, patched, shortened, and distorted, they were a ridiculously
ill-fitting suit for so trim a craft as the Ghost.

"But they'll work!" Maud cried jubilantly.  "We'll make them work,
and trust our lives to them!"

Certainly, among my many new trades, I shone least as a sail-maker.
I could sail them better than make them, and I had no doubt of my
power to bring the schooner to some northern port of Japan.  In
fact, I had crammed navigation from text-books aboard; and besides,
there was Wolf Larsen's star-scale, so simple a device that a child
could work it.

As for its inventor, beyond an increasing deafness and the movement
of the lips growing fainter and fainter, there had been little
change in his condition for a week.  But on the day we finished
bending the schooner's sails, he heard his last, and the last
movement of his lips died away--but not before I had asked him,
"Are you all there?" and the lips had answered, "Yes."

The last line was down.  Somewhere within that tomb of the flesh
still dwelt the soul of the man.  Walled by the living clay, that
fierce intelligence we had known burned on; but it burned on in
silence and darkness.  And it was disembodied.  To that
intelligence there could be no objective knowledge of a body.  It
knew no body.  The very world was not.  It knew only itself and the
vastness and profundity of the quiet and the dark.


CHAPTER XXXIX


The day came for our departure.  There was no longer anything to
detain us on Endeavour Island.  The Ghost's stumpy masts were in
place, her crazy sails bent.  All my handiwork was strong, none of
it beautiful; but I knew that it would work, and I felt myself a
man of power as I looked at it.

"I did it!  I did it!  With my own hands I did it!" I wanted to cry
aloud.

But Maud and I had a way of voicing each other's thoughts, and she
said, as we prepared to hoist the mainsail:

"To think, Humphrey, you did it all with your own hands?"

"But there were two other hands," I answered.  "Two small hands,
and don't say that was a phrase, also, of your father."

She laughed and shook her head, and held her hands up for
inspection.

"I can never get them clean again," she wailed, "nor soften the
weather-beat."

"Then dirt and weather-beat shall be your guerdon of honour," I
said, holding them in mine; and, spite of my resolutions, I would
have kissed the two dear hands had she not swiftly withdrawn them.

Our comradeship was becoming tremulous, I had mastered my love long
and well, but now it was mastering me.  Wilfully had it disobeyed
and won my eyes to speech, and now it was winning my tongue--ay,
and my lips, for they were mad this moment to kiss the two small
hands which had toiled so faithfully and hard.  And I, too, was
mad.  There was a cry in my being like bugles calling me to her.
And there was a wind blowing upon me which I could not resist,
swaying the very body of me till I leaned toward her, all
unconscious that I leaned.  And she knew it.  She could not but
know it as she swiftly drew away her hands, and yet, could not
forbear one quick searching look before she turned away her eyes.

By means of deck-tackles I had arranged to carry the halyards
forward to the windlass; and now I hoisted the mainsail, peak and
throat, at the same time.  Geology abounds with creatures of the
intermediate class.

Fishes seem to have been the master existences of two great geological
systems, mayhap of three, ere the age of reptiles began.

Now, fishes differ very much among themselves, some ranking nearly
as low as worms, some nearly as high as reptiles; and we find in
the Old Red Sandstone series of links which are wanting in the
present creation, and the absence of which occasions a wide gap
between the two grand divisions of fishes, the bony and the
cartilaginous.

Of all the organisms of the system one of the most extraordinary
is the pterichthys, or winged fish, which the writer had the
pleasure of introducing to the acquaintance of geologists.

Had Lamarck been the discoverer he would unquestionably have held
that he had caught a fish almost in the act of wishing itself into
a bird. There are wings which want only feathers, a body which
seems to have been as well adapted for passing through the air
as through water, and a tail with which to steer.

My first idea regarding it was that I had discovered a connecting
link-between the tortoise and the fish. I submitted some of my
specimens to Mr. Murchison, and they furnished him with additional
data by which to construct the calculations he was then making
respecting fossils, and they added a new and very singular link
to the chain of existence in its relation to human knowledge.

Agassiz confirmed the conclusions of Murchison in almost every
particular, deciding at once that the creature must have been a
fish.

Next to the pterichthys of the Lower Old Red Sandstone I shall
place its contemporary the coccosteus of Agassiz--a fish which in
some respects must have resembled it.
Her
brown eyes were like a startled deer's.  There was a wild, keen
look in them I had never seen before, and her lips parted and her
breath suspended as the Ghost, charging upon the wall of rock at
the entrance to the inner cove, swept into the wind and filled away
into safe water.

My first mate's berth on the sealing grounds stood me in good
stead, and I cleared the inner cove and laid a long tack along the
shore of the outer cove.  Once again about, and the Ghost headed
out to open sea.  She had now caught the bosom-breathing of the
ocean, and was herself a-breath with the rhythm of it as she
smoothly mounted and slipped down each broad-backed wave.  The day
had been dull and overcast, but the sun now burst through the
clouds, a welcome omen, and shone upon the curving beach where
together we had dared the lords of the harem and slain the
holluschickie.  All Endeavour Island brightened under the sun.
Even the grim south-western promontory showed less grim, and here
and there, where the sea-spray wet its surface, high lights flashed
and dazzled in the sun.

"I shall always think of it with pride," I said to Maud.

She threw her head back in a queenly way but said, "Dear, dear
Endeavour Island!  I shall always love it."

"And I," I said quickly.

It seemed our eyes must meet in a great understanding, and yet,
loath, they struggled away and did not meet.

There was a silence I might almost call awkward, till I broke it,
saying:

"See those black clouds to windward.  You remember, I told you last
night the barometer was falling."

"And the sun is gone," she said, her eyes still fixed upon our
island, where we had proved our mastery over matter and attained to
the truest comradeship that may fall to man and woman.

"And it's slack off the sheets for Japan!" I cried gaily.  "A fair
wind and a flowing sheet, you know, or however it goes."

Lashing the wheel I ran forward, eased the fore and mainsheets,
took in on the boom-tackles and trimmed everything for the
quartering breeze which was ours.  It was a fresh breeze, very
fresh, but I resolved to run as long as I dared.  Unfortunately,
when running free, it is impossible to lash the wheel, so I faced
an all-night watch.  Maud insisted on relieving me, but proved that
she had not the strength to steer in a heavy sea, even if she could
have gained the wisdom on such short notice.  She appeared quite
heart-broken over the discovery, but recovered her spirits by
coiling down tackles and halyards and all stray ropes.  Then there
were meals to be cooked in the galley, beds to make, Wolf Larsen to
be attended upon, and she finished the day with a grand house-
cleaning attack upon the cabin and steerage.

All night I steered, without relief, the wind slowly and steadily
increasing and the sea rising.  At five in the morning Maud brought
me hot coffee and biscuits she had baked, and at seven a
substantial and piping hot breakfast put new lift into me.

Throughout the day, and as slowly and steadily as ever, the wind
increased.  It impressed one with its sullen determination to blow,
and blow harder, and keep on blowing.  And still the Ghost foamed
along, racing off the miles till I was certain she was making at
least eleven knots.  It was too good to lose, but by nightfall I
was exhausted.  Though in splendid physical trim, a thirty-six-hour
trick at the wheel was the limit of my endurance.  Besides, Maud
begged me to heave to, and I knew, if the wind and sea increased at
the same rate during the night, that it would soon be impossible to
heave to.  I watched him from my garden-wall Perhaps an hour or
more, For something in his attitude, The clothes he wore,
Awoke the dimmest memories Of when I was a boy And knew the story
of a man Named Reuben Roy.

It seems that Reuben went to sea The night his wife decried The fence
he built before their house And up the side.

He wanted it but she did not, Because it hid from view The spot in
which her mignonette And tulips grew.

Nobody saw his face again, But each year, unawares, He sent a sum
for taxes due- And fence repairs.

My curiosity aroused,
I sauntered forth to see Whether this individual Were really he.
"Who are you looking for?" I asked His eyes, like two bright pence,
Sparkled at mine; and then he said:
"A fence."From pain and sheer
exhaustion I wept in the darkness, secretly, so that Maud should
not know.

Then, in desperation, I abandoned the attempt to reef the mainsail
and resolved to try the experiment of heaving to under the close-
reefed foresail.  Three hours more were required to gasket the
mainsail and jib, and at two in the morning, nearly dead, the life
almost buffeted and worked out of me, I had barely sufficient
consciousness to know the experiment was a success.  The close-
reefed foresail worked.  The Ghost clung on close to the wind and
betrayed no inclination to fall off broadside to the trough.

I was famished, but Maud tried vainly to get me to eat.  I dozed
with my mouth full of food.  I would fall asleep in the act of
carrying food to my mouth and waken in torment to find the act yet
uncompleted.  So sleepily helpless was I that she was compelled to
hold me in my chair to prevent my being flung to the floor by the
violent pitching of the schooner.

Of the passage from the galley to the cabin I knew nothing.  It was
a sleep-walker Maud guided and supported.  In fact, I was aware of
nothing till I awoke, how long after I could not imagine, in my
bunk with my boots off.  It was dark.  I was stiff and lame, and
cried out with pain when the bed-clothes touched my poor finger-
ends.

Morning had evidently not come, so I closed my eyes and went to
sleep again.  I did not know it, but I had slept the clock around
and it was night again.

Once more I woke, troubled because I could sleep no better.  I
struck a match and looked at my watch.  It marked midnight.  And I
had not left the deck until three!  I should have been puzzled had
I not guessed the solution.  No wonder I was sleeping brokenly.  I
had slept twenty-one hours.  I listened for a while to the
behaviour of the Ghost, to the pounding of the seas and the muffled
roar of the wind on deck, and then turned over on my ride and slept
peacefully until morning.

When I arose at seven I saw no sign of Maud and concluded she was
in the galley preparing breakfast.  On deck I found the Ghost doing
splendidly under her patch of canvas.  But in the galley, though a
fire was burning and water boiling, I found no Maud.

I discovered her in the steerage, by Wolf Larsen's bunk.  At length
he became something better, and began to talk to the nurses, but
in such terms that no one could understand him, till it was
discovered that he had forgotten his English, and was talking
Welsh; a language he had not spoken for eighteen years."His life flickered out in the storm," I said.

"But he still lives," she answered, infinite faith in her voice.

"He had too great strength."

"Yes," she said, "but now it no longer shackles him.  He is a free
spirit."

"He is a free spirit surely," I answered; and, taking her hand, I
led her on deck.

The storm broke that night, which is to say that it diminished as
slowly as it had arisen.  After breakfast next morning, when I had
hoisted Wolf Larsen's body on deck ready for burial, it was still
blowing heavily and a large sea was running.  The deck was
continually awash with the sea which came inboard over the rail and
through the scuppers.  The wind smote the schooner with a sudden
gust, and she heeled over till her lee rail was buried, the roar in
her rigging rising in pitch to a shriek.  Lurk--A plan of action; a
regular occupation.

Mafeesh--Finish; I am finished.

[Arabic "there is no.."] Mag--To scold or talk noisily.
Mallee--A species of Eucalypt; the country where the Mallee
grows.
Mash--To woo; to pay court. s. A lover.
Maul--To lay hands upon, either violently or with affection.
Meet, a--An assignation.

Mill--A bout of fisticuffs.
Mix--To mix it; to fight strenuously.
Mizzle--To disappear; to depart suddenly.

Mo--An abbreviation of "moment." Moll--A woman of loose
character.
Moniker--A name; a title; a signature.
Mooch--To saunter about aimlessly.
Moon--To loiter.
Mud, my name is--i.e., I am utterly discredited.
Mug--A fool; also the mouth.
Mug, to--To kiss.
Mullock, to poke--To deride; to tease.
Mushy--Sentimental.The Ghost, at the moment, was uptossed on a
sea, and I caught a clear view of a small steamship two or three
miles away, rolling and pitching, head on to the sea, as it steamed
toward us.  It was painted black, and from the talk of the hunters
of their poaching exploits I recognized it as a United States
revenue cutter.  I pointed it out to Maud and hurriedly led her aft
to the safety of the poop.

I started to rush below to the flag-locker, then remembered that in
rigging the Ghost.  I had forgotten to make provision for a flag-
halyard.

"We need no distress signal," Maud said.  "They have only to see
us."

"We are saved," I said, soberly and solemnly.  And then, in an
exuberance of joy, "I hardly know whether to be glad or not."

I looked at her.  Our eyes were not loath to meet.  We leaned
toward each other, and before I knew it my arms were about her.

"Need I?" I asked.

And she answered, "There is no need, though the telling of it would
be sweet, so sweet."

Then come the red-streak, the yellow-sweet, and others. There are
windfalls among them, too, as among the apples, and one side or
hemisphere of the leaf is usually brighter than the other.

The ash has been less noticed for its autumnal foliage than it
deserves."My woman, my one small woman," I said, my free hand petting her
shoulder in the way all lovers know though never learn in school.

"My man," she said, looking at me for an instant with tremulous
lids which fluttered down and veiled her eyes as she snuggled her
head against my breast with a happy little sigh.

I looked toward the cutter.  It was very close.  A boat was being
lowered.

"One kiss, dear love," I whispered.  "One kiss more before they
come."

"And rescue us from ourselves," she completed, with a most adorable
smile, whimsical as I had never seen it, for it was whimsical with
love.