"Very well told," was Tanno's comment, "and I comprehend far better than
you perhaps imagine. Not only are the magistrates of Reate hot on the
trail of Annius and those of Trebula equally keen after Vedius Molo, but
all Vedians are eager to shield Molo and to help catch and convict Annius
Largus, and all Satronians conversely doing all they can to shield Largus
and get Molo. Oh, I twig! Moreover I realize that all Vedians regard the
abduction of Greia as not so much a hot-headed folly of Largus as a
Satronian retort to the abduction of Xantha; and conversely, all
Satronians regard it as merely an insufficient counter to Xantha's
abduction. Oh, I comprehend the feud atmosphere. I have no doubt that
scores of poniards of the Vedian clan are sharp and daily sharpened
sharper, for use on Largus and as many Satronian dirks for use on Molo;
that every road hereabouts has watchers posted along it; that bands of
lusty lads are camped here and there waiting summonses or are actually in
likely ambushes by the roadsides. I foresee shindies of great amplitude.
You need not say any more; neither of you need say any more; none of you
need say any more. In fact, I beg that the whole subject be dropped right
here. I comprehend the feud atmosphere and I don't want any more of it in
this _triclinium_. Let's forget or ignore the feud and enjoy Hedulio's
good fare."

His compelling personality exerted its magic, as usual. All six feudists
relaxed. I could feel the social tension dissolve. We all felt relieved.

By that time we had disposed of the fish and roasts, the boys had lighted
the hanging lamps and the standing lamps, had removed the tray with what
we had left of the roasts and had brought in the third-course tray with
the birds and salads. As we sampled them Tanno remarked:

"You have a cook, astonishingly good, Caius, for anywhere outside of Rome
and amazingly good for a villa in the hills, far from a town. I must see
your cook and question him. His roasts, his broiled, baked and fried
dishes are above the averages, yet nothing wonderful. But his ragouts or
fricassees or whatever you call them, are marvellous. This salmi of fig-
peckers (or of some similar bird, for it is so ingeniously flavored and
spiced, that I cannot be sure) is miraculous. There was a sort of chowder,
too, of what fish I could not conjecture, which was so appetizing that I
could have gorged on it. Just as provocative and alluring was one of the
concoctions of the second course, apparently of lamb or kid, but
indubitably a masterpiece. I certainly must see your cook."

"My cook," I confessed, "was not the artist of the dishes you praise so
highly. Hereabouts we do not give them such high-sounding names as you
apply to them, we call them hashes or stews. Ofatulena, the wife of my
villa-farm bailiff, devised them and prepared them. She is famous
hereabouts for her cooking."

I cannot see,--perhaps in some inner recess. With this flash of brilliancy,
all sign of life in Reims disappears. We drive on, jolted and rattled over
the cobble stones--(if not cobble, what are they? Wobble?)--and so up
to the _Lion d'Or_.

[Illustration]

I am depressed. I can't help it. It _is_ depressing to be the only
prisoners in a black van; I should have said "passengers," but the
sombre character of the omnibus suggests "Black Maria;" it _is_
depressing (I repeat to myself), to be the only two passengers
driving through a dead town at night-time, as if we were the very
personification of "the dead of night" being taken out in a hearse
to the nearest cemetery.

Even DAUBINET feels it, for he is silent, except when he tries to rouse
himself by exclaiming "Caramba!" Only twice does he make the attempt, and
then, meeting with no response from me, he collapses. Nor does it
relieve depression to be set down in a solemn courtyard, lighted
by a solitary gas-lamp.

This in itself would be quite sufficient to make a weary traveller
melancholy, without the tolling of a gruesome bell to announce our arrival.
This dispiriting sound seems to affect nobody in the house, except a lengthy
young man in a desperate state of unwakefulness, who sleepily
resents our arrival in the midst of his first slumber (he must have
gone to bed at nine), and drowsily expresses a wish to be informed
(for he will not take the trouble to examine into the matter for
himself) whether we have any luggage; and this sense of depression
becomes aggravated and intensified when no genial Boniface (as the
landlord used invariably to be styled in romances of half a century
ago) comes forth to greet us with a hearty welcome, and no buxom
smiling hostess, is there to order the trim waiting-maid, with
polished candlestick, "to show the gentleman his room."

And, at length, when a hostess, amiable but shivering, does appear,
there is still an absence of all geniality; no questions are asked
as to what we might like to take in the way of refreshment, there
is no fire to cheer us, no warm drinks are suggested, no apparent
probability of getting food or liquor, even if we wanted it, which,
thank Heaven, we don't, not having recovered from the last
hurriedly-swallowed meal at the railway buffet _en route_.

Yes, at the "Lion d'Or" at Reims, on this occasion, _hic et nunc_, is a
combination of melancholy circumstances which would have delighted _Mark
Tapley_, and, as far as I know, _Mark Tapley_ only.

"On an occasion like this," I murmur to myself, having no one else to
whom I can murmur it confidentially,--for DAUBINET, having a knowledge of
the house, has disappeared down some mysterious passage in order to examine
and choose our rooms,--"there is, indeed, some merit in being jolly."

DAUBINET returns.

He has found the rooms. The somnolent boots will carry our things
upstairs. Which of the two rooms will I have? They are _en suite_. I
make no choice. It is, I protest, a matter of perfect indifference to
me; but one room being infinitely superior to the other, I select it,
apologetically. DAUBINET, being more of a _Mark Tapley_ than I am, is
quite satisfied with the arrangement, and has almost entirely recovered
his wonted high spirits.

[Illustration]
"Very good. _Très bien!_ Da! Petzikoff! Pedadjoi! I shall sleep like a
top. _Bon soir! Buono notte! Karascho!_ Blass the Prince of WAILES!"
and he has disappeared into his bedroom. I never knew a man so quick
in unpacking, getting into bed, and going to sleep.

He hasn't far to go, or else Morpheus must have caught him up, _en
route_, and hypnotised him.

I hear him singing and humming for two minutes; I hear him calling out to
me, "All right? Are you all right?" and, once again invoking the spirit
of _Mark Tapley_, I throw all the joviality I can into my reply as I
say, through the wall, "Quite, thanks. Jolly!
Good-night!" But my reply is wasted on him; he has turned a deaf ear to
me, the other being on the pillow, and gives no sign. If he is asleep,
the suddenness of the collapse is almost alarming. Once again I address
him. No answer. I continue my unpacking.

All my portmanteau arrangements seem to have become unaccountably
complicated.

I pause and look round. Cheerless. The room is bare and lofty, the
bed is small, the window is large, and the one solitary _bougie_
sheds a gloom around which makes unpacking a difficulty.

I pull up the blind. A lovely moonlight night. In front of me, as if it had
had the politeness to put itself out of the way to walk up here,
and pay me a visit, stands the Cathedral, that is--some of it; but
what I can see of it, _au clair de la lune_, fascinates me.

It is company, it is friendly. But it is chilly all the same, and
the sooner I close the window and retire the better. Usual difficulty,
of course, in closing French window.

After a violent struggle, it is done. The bed looks chilly, and I feel
sure that that stuffed, pillow-like thing, which is to do duty for
blanket and coverlet, can't be warm enough.

Hark! a gentle snore. A very gentle one. It is the first time I ever knew
a snore exercise a soothing effect on the listener.

    This is decidedly soporific. It is an invitation to sleep. I accept.
    The Cathedral clock sounds a _carillon_. It plays half a tune, too, as
    if this was all it had learnt up to the present, or perhaps to
    intimate that there is more where that comes from, only I must wait
    for to-morrow, and be contented with this instalment. I am. Half
    a tune is better than no tune at all, or _vice versâ_: it doesn't matter.
    When the tune breaks off I murmur to myself, "To be continued in
    our next;" and so--as I believe, for I remember nothing after this--I
    doze off to sleep on this my first night in the ancient town of Reims.
    

    * * * * *

BUMBLE BROUGHT TO BOOK.

["Mr. Ritchie ... has taken the unusual step of preparing a memorandum
explanatory of ... the Public Health (London) Act, which comes into
operation on the 1st of January ...
The Vestries and District Councils ... have come out with increased powers,
but also with increased responsibilities.
They are in future known as 'the sanitary authorities'; they must make
bye-laws, and enforce not only their own, but those made by the
County Council; and, if they fail in their duty--as, for example, in
the matter of removing house-refuse, or keeping the streets clean--they
are liable to a fine. It is pleasant to think that, in future, any ratepayer
may bring Mr.
Bumble to book."--_The Times_.]
[Illustration: _President of the Local Government Board_. "THERE'S MR.
BUMBLE'S WORK, MADAM, AND IT'LL BE YOUR OWN FAULT IF YOU DON'T KEEP
HIM UP TO IT!"]

_Bumble_. Wot, more dooties piled upon me? It's a beastly black shame and
a bore.

Which Ritchie beats _Oliver Twist_ in a canter at "asking for more."

Didn't grasp his dashed Hact, not at fust, though of course I opposed it
like fun; But this 'ere Memyrandum's a startler. _I_ want to know what's
to be done.
_Me_ keep the streets clean, _me_ go poking my dalicot nose into
'oles As ain't fit for 'ogs, but is kep' for them Sweaters' pale wictims--pore
soles?
_Me_ see that the dust-pails is emptied, and underground bedrooms made
sweet?
_Me_ nail the Court Notices hup upon Butchers as deals in bad meat?
Great Scissors, it's somethink houtrageous. I knew Ritchie's Act meant
'ard lines, And it's wus than I could 'ave emagined. But wot I funk most
is them FINES!!!
Fine _Me_--if I make a mistake, as, perhaps, even BUMBLE may do!
That _is_ turning the tables a twister! More powers? Ah, well, that might
do, But increase my great "Responsibilities," give them Ratepayers a chance
Of a calling _me_ hover the coals! Won't this make my hold henemies dance?

I never did like that HYGEIA, a pompous and nose-poking minx-- A
sort of a female _Poll Pry_, with a heye like an 'ork or a lynx;
But the making me "Sanit'ry," too--oh, I know wot _that_ means to
a T.

She's cock--or say, hen--of the walk, and her sanit'ry slave'll be Me!
Oh, I fancy I see myself sweeping the snow from the streets with a broom,
Or explorin'--with fingers to nose--some effluvious hunderground room!
Or a-trotting around with the dust-pails when scavengers chance to run
short!
Oh, just _won't_ the street-boys chyike me and 'ousemaids of BUMBLE make
sport?
Disgustin'! But there RITCHIE stands with his dashed Memyrandum. A look
In his heye seems to tell me that he too enjoys bringing BUMBLE to
book, As the _Times_--I'm serprised at that paper!--most pleasantly puts
it to-day.
My friend BONES the Butcher too! Moses! wot _would_ my old parlour-chum
say If he saw me a nailing a Notice--but no, that's too horrid a
dream.

I must be a 'aving a Nightmare, and things cannot be wot they seem.

I could do with mere Laws--bye or hother-wise--Hacts, jest like
Honours, is easy, But this Memyrandum of RITCHIE's queers BUMBLE,
and makes him feel queasy, Can't pertend as I don't hunderstand it,
it's plain as my nose, clear as mud.

_I'm_ responsible for--say Snow-clearing! It stirs up a Beadle's
best blood!

And when they can _Fine_ me for negligence, jest like some rate-paying
scrub-- Oh!

Porochial dignity's bust! I must seek a pick-up at my Pub!

[_Does so._

* * * * *
[Illustration: A MODEST REQUEST.

"I HEAR YOU'RE SO CLEVER ABOUT ZENANA WORK. WILL YOU SHOW ME THE STITCH?"]

* * * * *
"FIRST-CLASS" TRAVELLING
_MADE EASY, BY PAYING A "THIRD-CLASS" FARE AND A SMALL ADDITIONAL
TIP._ 
(BY ONE WHO HAS DONE IT.) 
1.

Arrive at station in four-wheeler, accompanied by lots of superfluous rugs,
wraps, air-cushions, and pillows, &c., and if your domestic arrangements
permit of it, two young ladies and one middle-aged one, who should assume
an anxious and sympathetic mien.

2. On your cab drawing up, stay with a gentle forbearance the rush of
the ordinary attentive porter, and request him, as if you had
something important to communicate, to send you "the guard of the
train" by which you propose to travel.

On the appearance of this official, who will not fail to turn up, you will
now appeal to one of your three female assistants, the middle-aged
one for choice.

Placing your case, as it were, in her hands, she will, in a half-sympathetic,
half-commanding tone, address the official somewhat as follows:--"This
gentleman, who is travelling to Barminster, and is going third-class
(she makes a point of this), is, as you see, a great invalid, and
he will require (this with a certain sense of being understood to
mean a handsome tip) a carriage to himself."

If said with a certain self-assurance, involving a species of lofty wink,
this will probably be understood in the right sense by the official
in question, and will be probably met by some such assurance as--"The
train is very full, Madam, but I will do my best for the gentleman,
and can ensure him, I think, a compartment to himself, at least,
as far as Bolchester, where I leave the train.

But I will explain the matter to my successor, and I have no doubt
that he will be able (this also with a significant wink) to ensure
the gentleman's seclusion.

You are, I think, four?

If you will follow me, and take my arm, Sir, I think we shall be able to
manage it for you."
3. Enlist the assistance of several attendant porters, regardless of apparent
outlay, who have been fairly let into your secret, and are prepared
to, and in fact absolutely do, empty a third-class compartment
already packed with passengers for Barminster, who retreat awe-stricken
at your approach.

4.

Immediately on taking possession of your carriage, recline the whole
length of the five seats, faced by your three sympathetic and
anxious-miened female companions.

Be careful to give each of the assistant porters certainly not less
than sixpence apiece in ostentatious fashion.

Do not, however, as yet administer the shilling, or perhaps, eighteenpence
you purpose giving to the original guard of the train who is to
hand you over to the official who will have charge of you after
Bolchester.

5.

You will possibly have a _mauvais quart d'heure_ before departure, for though
your guard, in hopes of the remunerative fee, will have carefully locked
you in, he will not be able to prevent the calculating and more or
less unfeeling British public, who, composed of a party of nine, are
looking for as many places as they can find together, from discovering
that you have six vacant places in your carriage, and directing the
attention of other railway officials, not initiated into your secret
agreement, to this circumstance.

You must therefore be prepared for some such curt brutality as, "Why,
look 'ere, EMMA, there's room for 'arf-a-dozen of us 'ere!" or, "I'm
sure 'e needn't be a sprawlin' like that, takin' 'arf the carriage to
'isself," a rebuke which your feminine supporters resent in their
severest manner.

You are, however, at length saved by the interposition of your
guardian angel, who sweeps away the party of nine unseated ones
with a voice of commanding control, as much as to say, "This isn't
your end of the train; besides, can't you see the poor gentleman's
pretty well dying?"

And he does hurry them off, and pack them in somewhere or other,
but whether to their satisfaction or not, it is easier to hazard a
guess than faithfully to record.

6.

Bolchester is reached, and you are formally introduced to your final
guarding and protecting angel, who rapidly takes in the situation,
and by an assurance that he will see to your comfort, this, accompanied
by a slightly perceptible wink, leaves you in happy expectation,
which the result justifies, of reaching your destination uninvaded

.

* * * * *
THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. V. Scene--_Upper deck of the Rhine Steamer, König Wilhelm, somewhere
between Bonn and Bingen. The little tables on deck are occupied by
English, American, and German tourists, drinking various liquids, from
hock to Pilsener beer, and eating veal-cutlets. Mr. CYRUS K. TROTTER
is on the lower deck, discussing the comparative merits of the New York
hotels with a fellow countryman. Miss MAUD S. TROTTER is seated on
the after-deck in close conversation with CULCHARD. PODBURY _is perched
on a camp-stool in the forward part. Near him a British Matron,
with a red-haired son, in a green and black blazer, and a blue flannel
nightcap, and a bevy of rabbit-faced daughters, are patronising a tame
German Student in spectacles, who speaks a little English._
[Illustration: Mr. Cyrus K. Trotter discussing New York Hotels.]
_The British Matron_. Oh, you _ought_ to see London; it's our capital--chief
city, you know. Very grand--large--four million inhabitants!
[_With pride, as being in some way responsible for this._
_A Rabbit-faced Daughter_ (_with a simper_). Quite a little _world_!

[_She looks down her nose, as if in fear of having said something a little
too original._
_The Germ. Stud._ No, I haf not yet at London peen. Ven I vill pedder
Englisch learn, I go.

_The Blazer_. You read our English books, I suppose? DICKENS, you know,
and HOMER, eh? About the Trojan War--that's his _best_ work!

_The Stud._ (_Ollendorffically_). I haf not read DIGGINS; but I haf read
ze bapers by _Bigvig_. Zey are vary indereshtin, and gurious.

_A Patriotic Young Scot_ (_to an admiring Elderly Lady in a black mushroom
hat_).

Eh, but we just made a pairrty and went up Auld Drachenfels, and when
we got to th' tope, we danced a richt gude Scots reel, and sang, "_We're
a' togither an' naebody by_." concluding--just to show, ye'll understan',
that we were loyal subjics--wi' "_God Save th' Queen_." The peasants didna
seem just to know what to mak' of us, I prawmise ye!

_The Black Mushroom_. How I wish I'd been one of you!

_The Young Scot_ (_candidly_). I doot your legs would ha' stood
such wark.

[_PODBURY becomes restless, and picks his way among the camp-stools
to CULCHARD and Miss TROTTER._ 
_Podbury_ (_to himself_).

Time _I_ had a look in, I think. (_Aloud._) Well, Miss Trotter, what do
you think of the Rhine, as far as you've got?

_Miss T._ Well, I guess it's navigable, as far as _I've_ got.

_Podb._ No, but I mean to say--does it come up to the mark in the
scenery line, you know?

_Miss T._ I cannot answer that till I know whereabouts it is they mark the
scenery-line. I expect Mr. CULCHARD knows. He knows pretty well everything.
Would you like to have him explain the scenery to you going along?

His explanations are vurry improving, I assure you.

_Podb._ I daresay; but the scenery just here is so flat that even
my friend's remarks won't improve it.

_Culch._ (_producing his note-book ostentatiously_). I do not propose to
attempt it. No doubt you will be more successful in entertaining Miss
TROTTER than I can pretend to be. I retire in your favour. [_He scribbles._

_Podb._ Is that our expenses you're corking down there, CULCHARD,
eh?

_Culch._ (_with dignity_).

If you want to know, I am "corking down," to adopt your elegant expression,
a sonnet that suggested itself to me.

_Podb._ Much better cork that _up_, old chap--hadn't he, Miss TROTTER?

[_He glances at her for appreciation._ 
_Miss T._ That's so.

I don't believe the poetic spirit has much chance of slopping over so
long as Mr. PODBURY is around. You have considerable merit as a stopper,
Mr. PODBURY.

_Podb._ I see; I'd better clear out till the poetry has all gurgled out of
him, eh? Is that the idea?

_Miss T._ If it is, it's your own, so I guess it's a pretty good
one.

[_PODBURY shoulders off._
_Culch._ (_with his pathetic stop on_). I wish I had more of
your divine patience! Poor fellow, he is not without his good points; but
I do find him a thorn in my flesh occasionally, I'm afraid.

_Miss T._ Well, I don't know as a thorn in the flesh is any the pleasanter
for having a good point.

_Culch._ Profoundly true, indeed. I often think I could like him better if
there were less in him to like.

I assure you he tries me so at times that I could almost wish I was back at
work in my department at Somerset House!

_Miss T._ I daresay you have pretty good times there, too. Isn't that one
of your leading dry goods stores?

_Culch._ (_pained_). It is not; it is a Government Office, and I am in
the Pigeonhole and Docket Department, with important duties to
discharge. I hope you didn't imagine I sold ribbons and calico over a
counter?

_Miss T._ (_ambiguously_). Well, I wasn't just sure. It takes a pretty
bright man to do that where I come from.

_An Old Lady_ (_who is sitting next to PODBURY, and reading a home-letter
to another Old Lady_).

"Dear MARIA and dear MADELINE are close by, they have taken very
comfortable lodgings in Marine Crescent.

Dear MADELINE's frame is expected down next Saturday."
_Second Old Lady_.

MADELINE's frame!

Is anything wrong with the poor girl's spine?

_First Old Lady_.

I never heard of it. Oh, I see, it's _fiancé_, my dear. CAROLINE _does_
write so illegibly.

(_Continuing._) "Um--um,--suppose you know she will be maimed--" (perhaps
it _is_ her spine after all--oh, _married_, to be sure), "very slowly" (is
it slowly or shortly, I wonder?), um--um, "very quiet wedding, nobody but
dear Mr. WILKINSON and his hatter."

_Second O.L._ The idea of choosing one's hatter for one's best man!

I'm surprised MARIA should allow it!

_First O.L._ Maria always _was_ peculiar--still, now I come to look,
it's more like "brother," which is certainly _much_ more suitable.

(_Continuing._) "She will have no--no bird's-marks ..." (Now, what
_does_ that--should you think that meant "crows-feet"? Oh, no, _how_ stupid
of me--_bridesmaids_, of course!)

--"and will go to the otter a plain guy"--(Oh, Caroline really is
_too_....)--"to the _altar_ in plain _grey_! She has been given such
quantities of pea-nuts"--(very odd things to give a girl! Oh, _presents_!
um, um)--"Not settled yet where to go for their hangman"--(the
officiating clergyman, I suppose--very flippant way of putting it,
I _must_ say!

It's meant for _honeymoon_, though, I see, to be _sure_!) &c., &c.

_Culch._ I should like to be at Nuremberg with you.

It would be an unspeakable delight to watch the expansion of a fresh young
soul in that rich mediæval atmosphere!

_Miss T._ I guess you'll have opportunities of watching Mr. PODBURY's fresh
young soul under those conditions, any way.

_Culch._ It would not be at all the same thing--even if he--but you _do_
think you're coming to Nuremberg, don't you?

"You tell me, then!" he said. "I guess from their faces that I have
advertised my ignorance of what is perfectly well known to everybody else
here. Remove my disabilities."

I hesitated and then went in with a rush.

"It does not matter a particle," I said, "how often I lie down to dinner
with Agathemer when we are alone. Since I am then the only freeman in the
villa there are no witnesses of our dining together. But if I have him to
dinner with any guest he becomes thereby a freeman, as you very well know.
And if I were free to set him free and chose to free him in that fashion,
I should have to advise my friends in advance of my intentions and ask
whether they were willing to lend themselves to such a proceeding. One
cannot invite a man without previous explanation and then, when he's
already in one's house, ask him to lie down to dinner with a slave."

"Slave!" Tanno roared at me, his face red as the back of a boiled lobster.
If I had just missed being angry with him, there was no doubt that he was
in a tearing fury with me.

"Slave?" he repeated. "Agathemer still a slave? Are you joking or are you
serious? Is this true?"

"Entirely and literally true." I affirmed.

Tanno, so red that I should have thought it impossible that he could grow
redder, grew redder.

"If your uncle," he roared, "did not free him in his will he was a hog. If
you haven't freed him yourself, you're a hog. Free him here and now! Show
some decency and some gratitude! Better late than never. Here, Agathemer,
get off that boy's stool and lie down between me and Entedius."

"Go slow, Caius!" I admonished him. "You just confessed that you know
nothing of the circumstances, yet you give orders in my house, orders
affecting my property-rights, without first acquainting yourself with all
the conditions on which such orders should be based, even if you had asked
and received my permission to issue them."

Tanno was impulsive, even headlong, but he never wrangled or quarrelled
and seldom lost his temper. I had feared a still more violent outburst
from him, but my admonition brought him to himself.

"I apologize," he said, the red fading from his face. "Tell me the whole
matter, so that I may comprehend. I'll listen in silence."

"The vital fact," I said, "is that, although I fully expected my uncle, in
his will, to free Agathemer, he not only did not free him, but he enjoined
me not to free him within five years after my entrance into my
inheritance."

"Well," said Tanno, "I take back what I said of you when I called you a
hog, but, even if we are taught to utter nothing but good of the dead, I
repeat that your uncle was a hog. What do you think of it, Agathemer?"

Agathemer sat at ease now on his stool and his face was placid.

"Since you have asked what I think," he said, "may I assume that you
accord me permission to utter what I think, as if I were even a free man?"

"Utter precisely what you think, without any reservations or
modifications," said Tanno. "I want to have exactly what you think and all
you think."

"I think," spoke Agathemer, "that you are neither wise to speak so of the
dead nor justified in speaking so of my former master. He was a just man
and a wise man. Though I cannot conjecture his reason, I am sure that what
he did was, somehow, for the best."

Tanno stared at him with a puzzled expression.

He turned to me.

"Isn't it true," he queried, "that your uncle had on his hands an
hereditary lawsuit of the most exasperating sort, in the course of which
the other side had won the first decision and every appeal?"

"Everybody knows that, Socrates," I admitted.

"Didn't Agathemer," Tanno pressed me, "just before the case was heard in
the highest court, make a suggestion which your uncle's lawyers utilized
and through which they won the case?"

"That is also true," I affirmed.

"Didn't they all say, that Agathemer's suggestion was just what they
should have thought of at the very first and didn't they admit that they
had not thought of it until Agathemer suggested it and that they never
would have thought of it if he had not suggested it?"

"Those are the facts," I confessed.

"In view of those facts," Tanno continued, "what did you yourself expect
your uncle to do for Agathemer in his will?"

I ruminated.

"The very least I anticipated," I said, "was that he would free Agathemer
and make him a present equal to the value of half the property in dispute
in the lawsuit. As Ducconius had had to repay to my uncle the full amount
of the rents paid since his family first gained possession of the
property, that would have been a very moderate reward for Agathemer's
service. I also conjectured that he might free Agathemer and will him a
sum equivalent to the net proceeds of the repaid rents, less the costs of
the suit. I should not have been surprised if he had made him a present of
the whole farm out and out. Many an owner has done more for a slave who
had done less for him."

"And you would have regarded it as fair if your uncle had taken any of
those methods of recompensing Agathemer?"

"Certainly!" I affirmed.

"Then why, in the name of Mercury," he demanded, "didn't you free
Agathemer the moment the will was read?"

"I have told you over and over," I retorted impatiently, "that my uncle's
will enjoined me not to free Agathemer within five years, though he also
enjoined that I was to make a new will at once so as to leave Agathemer
free and recompensed if I died before the five years elapsed."

"But the injunction was not binding," Tanno persisted, "either in law or
by religious custom. No dead man can prevent his heirs freeing slaves he
leaves them. Why heed the injunction?"

"I could not contravene so explicit a behest of the dead," I demurred,
"especially of a man I loved and revered. And you must recall my uncle's
queer habit of acting on intuitions and the way he expressed them, always
saying:

"'It has been revealed to me that....' And his intuitions always seemed to
amount to prevision, he never seemed to have acted amiss, however
eccentric his act, however baseless his premonition. I have a feeling that
in Agathemer's case he acted on some such presentiment."

Tanno turned to Agathemer.

"Do you feel that way too?" he demanded.

"I most certainly do," said Agathemer, "I have a feeling that my remaining
a slave is going to be of vital service to Hedulio, somehow, sometime."

"Then you are content to remain a slave?" Tanno queried.

"No one wants to remain a slave," Agathemer confessed, "and every slave
longs to be a free man and is impatient to be free at once. But I try to
be resigned, of course, and, except that I cannot rejoice in not being
free, I am as well fed, clothed and housed as I should be as a free man
and have as much leisure."

Tanno glowered at both of us.

I cut in:

"You must remember that Agathemer was raised almost as a free man and
almost as my brother. We slept and played together from the time we could
walk. We had the same tutors, always, when in the country, both in
Bruttium and in Sabinum. In Rome, while I was at school, Agathemer was
taught the same subjects at home. We love each other almost as brothers.
Both of us were amazed when grandfather left Agathemer to my Uncle instead
of to my father or to me. We were more amazed at Uncle's will. But as
things are between us, Agathemer not only looks forward to freedom and an
estate within five years, but knows that his interval of waiting will be
pleasant, as pleasant as I can make it."

"But," Tanno objected, "think of the danger he is in while a slave. For
instance, just suppose--(may the gods avert the omen)--that you were
murdered in your bed this very night and no clue to the murderer found.
Nothing could save Agathemer from being tortured along with all your other
slaves."

"Pooh!" I cried. "You are behind the times! You may be an unsurpassable
expert on dress and manners, on perfumery and jewels, but you could know
more law. All those ferocious old statutes have been abolished by the
enactments of Antoninus and Aurelius. A slave, during good behavior, is
almost as safe as a freedman."

"It is you," Tanno countered, "who are behind the times. Commodus has had
rescinded every edict ameliorating the condition of slaves promulgated
since the accession of Trajan. As Nerva did little for them the status of
slaves is now practically what it was at the death of Domitian."

"Anyhow," spoke up Agathemer, "whatever real or fancied perils hang over
me, by my late master's will and wish, a slave I am and a slave I remain
till the five years elapse. Even thereafter I shall be Hedulio's devoted
servitor, meanwhile I am his devoted slave."

"Does being his slave inhibit you from telling the truth about him?" Tanno
queried.

"If it is to his discredit, certainly," Agathemer answered.

"Suppose it is to his credit, very much to his credit," Tanno pursued.

"Then I am permitted to tell the truth," laughed Agathemer.

"Then," said Tanno, "tell us the whole truth about Hedulio and Chryseros
Philargyrus and the bull."

Agathemer laughed out loud.

"Delighted to oblige you," he bowed.  Tanno looked at me.

"Hedulio is blushing," he said, "this promises to be interesting. As king
of the revels I forbid Hedulio from interrupting. Everybody drain a
goblet. Boy, pour a goblet for Agathemer. Agathemer, take a good long
drink, so you may start in good voice. And, boy, fill his goblet again
when it gets low. Keep an eye on it. Begin, Agathemer."

"It is a shorter story than you anticipate," Agathemer began.

"Hedulio and I had completed the final inspection of the estate. We had
begun each inspection with Chryseros' farm and had taken the farms in
rotation, ending up with Feliger's. We had inspected Macer's farm in the
morning, had had a leisurely bath, lunch and snooze and had ridden out to
Feliger's. After looking over the last details of the toolsheds and
henneries we were riding home under the over-arching elms down Bran Lane.
As we passed Chryseros' entrance we heard yells for help. Hedulio spurred
his horse up the avenue and towards the yells, I after him. The yells
guided us to the lower barn-yard gate. Hedulio reined up abruptly, leaped
off, leaving me to catch his mare, and vaulted the gate. I tethered our
mounts as quickly as I could and climbed the gate. I saw old Chryseros
pinned against the wall of his barley-barn, in between the horns of his
white bull. The points of the bull's horns were driven into the wood of
the barn and the horns were so long that Chryseros was in no immediate
danger of being crushed between the bull's forehead and the barn wall. The
bull was so enraged that he was pushing with all his might, puffing and
bellowing, spraying Chryseros' legs with froth, grunting and lowing
between bellows. As long as he kept on pushing Chryseros was more scared
than hurt; but, sooner or later, the bull was certain to draw back, lunge,
and skewer Chryseros on one or the other of his horns.

"When I first saw them Chryseros and the bull were as I have described.
Hedulio was twisting the bull's tail.

"The bull paid no more attention to the tail-twisting than if Hedulio had
been in the moon.

"Hedulio shouted to Chryseros to hold tight to the bull's horns, as he was
already doing, and to stand still. He let go the bull's tail and turned
round. Seeing me, he ordered me to get back over the gate and to stay
there. He looked about, ran to the stable door, peered in, went in and
returned with a manure fork. With that in his hand he ran back to the bull
and jabbed him with the fork.

"Then the bull did roar. He backed suddenly away from the barn, shaking
his horns loose from the futile grip Chryseros had on them, and whirled on
Hedulio. Hedulio jabbed him in the neck with the fork. The bull bellowed
with rage, it seemed, more than with pain, lowered his head and charged at
Hedulio.

"Hedulio side-stepped as deftly as a professional beast-fighter in an
amphitheatre and to my amazement, well as I knew him, threw away the fork.

"The bull's rush carried him almost the whole breadth of the barn-yard.
When he turned round he stood, pawing the ground, shaking his head and
bellowing. I never saw a bull angrier-looking. He lowered his head to
charge.

"But he never charged.

"Hedulio was walking toward him and the bull just stood and pawed and
bellowed till Hedulio caught hold of the ring in his nose and led him off
to his pen.

"Chryseros, who had dodged through the little door into the barn and had
slammed it after him, had peered out of it just before Hedulio reached the
bull and had stood, mouth open, hands hanging, letting the door swing wide
open.

"Hedulio led the bull into the pen, patted him on the neck and then turned
his back on him and sauntered out of the pen, shutting the gate without
hurry.

"Chryseros ran to him, stumbling as he ran, fell on his knees, caught
Hedulio's hand, and poured out a torrent of thanks."

"Did all that really happen?" Tanno queried.

"Precisely as I have told it." Agathemer affirmed.

"Well," said Tanno, "I know why Caius did not want to tell it. He knew I'd
think it an impudent lie."

"Don't you believe it?" Agathemer asked, respectfully.

"Well," Tanno drawled, "I've been watching the faces of the audience.
Nobody has laughed or smiled or sneered. I'm an expert on curios and
antiques and other specialties, but I am no wiser on bulls than any other
city man. So I suppose I ought to believe it. But it struck me, while I
listened to you, as the biggest lie I ever heard. I apologize for my
incredulity."

"It would be incredible," said Juventius Muso, "if told of any one except
Hedulio and it would probably be untrue. As it is told of Hedulio it is
probably true and also entirely credible."

"Why of Caius any more than any one else?" queried Tanno.

Muso stared at him.

"I beg pardon," he said, "but I somehow got the idea that you were an old
and close friend of our host."

"I was and am," Tanno asserted.

"And know nothing," Muso pressed him, "of his marvellous powers over
animals of all kinds, even over birds and fish?"

"Never heard he had any such powers." Tanno confessed.

"How's this, Hedulio?" Juventius demanded of me.

"I suppose," I said, "that Tanno and I have mostly been together at Rome.
Animals are scarcer there than in the country and human beings more
plentiful. He knows more of my dealings with men and women than with other
creatures."

"Besides," Tanno cut in, "you must all remember that our Caius not only
never boasts but is absurdly reticent about anything he has done of such a
kind that most men would brag of it. Towards his chums and cronies he is
open-hearted and as unreserved as a friend could be about everything else,
but especially close with them about such matters. So I know nothing of
his powers concerning which you speak."

My guests cried out in amazement, all talking at once.

"I'm king of the revels," Tanno reminded them.

"Juventius was talking; let him say his say. Everyone of you shall talk
his fill, I promise you. I am immensely interested and curious, as I
expect to hear many things which I should have heard from Caius any time
these ten years. Speak out, Juventius!"

"Before I say what I meant to say," Muso began, "I want to ask some
questions. What you have just told me has amazed me and what little you
have said leaves me puzzled. Surely there are dogs in Rome?"

"Plenty," Tanno assured him.

"Haven't you ever seen a vicious dog fly at Hedulio?" Muso pursued.

"Many a time," Tanno admitted.

"Did you ever see one bite him?" Muso asked.

"Never!" Tanno affirmed.

"Can you recall what happened?" queried Muso.

Tanno rubbed his chin.

"It seems to me," he said, "that every time I saw a snarling cur or an
open-mouthed watch-dog rush at Caius, the dog slowed his rush before he
reached him, circled about him, sniffing, and trotted back where he came
from."

"Did you never see Hedulio beckon such a dog, handle and gentle him, even
pet him."

"Once I did, as I now recall," Tanno confessed, "yet I thought nothing of
it at the time and forgot it at once."

"Probably," Muso conjectured, "you thought the dog was only pretending to
be cross and was really tame."

"Just about that, I suppose," Tanno ruminated.

"Well," said Muso, "I take it that any one of the dogs you saw run at
Hedulio was affected by him just as was the bull this afternoon; each
began by acting towards him as he would have towards any other man; each
was cowed and tendered mild by the nearer sight of him. That is the way
Hedulio affects all animals whatever."

"Tell us some cases you have seen yourself," Tanno suggested.

"I fear your skepticism, even your derision," Muso demurred.

"I haven't a trace of either left in me by now," Tanno declared. "What you
say has knocked the mental wind out of me, so to speak, and I see that the
others feel as you do and seem to have similar ideas to express. I vow I
believe you, gentlemen, though something inside me is still numb with
amazement. Tell us, Juventius, the biggest story you know of these alleged
powers of our Caius."

"I told you so," said Muso. "In spite of your disclaimers you slip in that
'alleged.' I don't like that 'alleged' of yours, Opsitius."

"That wasn't mine." Tanno laughed. "That was the numb something inside me
talking in its sleep. I'm all sympathetic interest, with no admixture of
unbelief. I can see you have startling anecdotes to tell. Tell the most
startling."

"The most startling," Juventius began, "I most solemnly aver is literally
true. Hedulio and I were once riding along a woodcutters' road through the
forests on the Aemilian estate, in the wildest portion of it. The road
forms a part of a good short-cut from Villa Aemilia to this valley. It was
hot weather and very dry. We were both thirsty. There is a cool and
abundant spring not many paces up a steep path on the left of that road.
At the path we tethered our horses and walked to the spring. When we had
quenched our thirst and had started down the little glade below the spring
we saw the head of a big gray wolf appear among some ferns at the lower
end of the glade by the path on our left. I stopped, for we had no
weapons. Hedulio, however, went on, never altering his easy saunter. The
wolf came out of the ferns and paced up to Hedulio like a house dog.
Hedulio patted his head, pulled his ears and the wolf not only did not
attack him nor snap at him, nor even snarl, but showed his pleasure as
plainly as any pet dog. When Hedulio had stopped petting him, I reached
them. We two went on as if we were alone, leaving the wolf standing
looking after us as if he were watch-dog at the house of an intimate
friend."

"Rome," said Tanno, when Muso paused, "is rated the most wonderful place
on earth. Rome is my home. Rome rates Sabinum low, except for olives,
wines, oaks, sheep and mules. Wonders are not named among the staple
products of Sabinum. Yet I come to Sabinum for the first time and hear
wonders such as I never dreamed of at Rome."

"And you are only at the beginning of such wonders," spoke up Entedius
Hirnio. "That tale of Muso's is mild to one I can tell and I take oath in
advance to every word of my story."

"Begin it then, in the name of Hercules," Tanno urged him. "If it is what
you herald we cannot have it too quickly."

"When Hedulio and I were hardly more than boys," Hirnio began, "we bird-
nested and fished and hunted and roamed the woods like any pair of country
lads. Parts of our woodland hereabouts are wilder than anything on the
Aemilian estate, and we liked the wildest parts best. I had an uncle at
Amiternum and it happened that Hedulio's uncle allowed him to go with me
once when my father visited his brother. My uncle had a farm high up in
the mountains east of Amiternum and Hedulio and I there revelled in
wildness wilder than anything hereabouts. We had no fear and ranged the
hillsides, ravines and pine-woods eager and unafraid.

"High up the mountains we blundered on a bear's den with two cubs in it.
They were old enough to be playful and young enough not to be fierce or
dangerous. I was for carrying them off, but Hedulio said that if the
mother returned before we were well on our way home she would certainly
catch us before we could reach a place of safety and we should certainly
be killed.

"'We had better stop playing with these fascinating little brutes,' he
said, 'and be as far off as possible before she comes back.'

"Just as he said it we heard twigs snapping, the crash of rent underbrush,
and I looked up and saw the bear coming.

"I had never seen a wild bear till then. She looked to me as big as a half
grown calf, and as fat as a six-year-old sow. She came like a race-horse.
Besides my instantaneous sense of her size, weight and speed, I saw only
her great red mouth, wide-open, set round with gleaming white teeth, from
which came a snarl like the roar of a cataract.

"I sprang to the nearest tree which promised a refuge, caught the lowest
boughs and scrambled up, the angry snarls of the bear filling my ears. As
I reached the first strong branch the snarls stopped.

"I settled myself and looked down.

"The bear was standing still, some paces from her den, peering at it and
snuffing the air, working her nose it seemed to me, and moving her head
from side to side.

"Hedulio had not moved. He stood just where I had left him, one cub in his
arms, the other cuddled at his feet.

"The bear, growling very short, almost inaudible growls, approached him
slowly, moving only one foot at a time and pausing before she lifted
another foot. She sniffed at the cub on the ground, sniffed at Hedulio's
legs, and looked up at the cub in his arms. She made a sound more like a
whine than a growl. Hedulio lowered the cub and she sniffed at it. Then
Hedulio caught her by the back of the neck. She did not snarl but yielded
to his pull and rolled over on her side. He picked up the cub on the
ground and laid both by her nipples. They went to, nursing avidly, almost
like little pigs, yet also somewhat like puppies. Hedulio sauntered away
and to my tree, beckoned me down and we strolled away as if there were no
bear near: she in fact paying no attention to either of us after the cubs
began nursing her."

Tanno looked wildly about.

"Boys," he said, "forgive me if I am dazed, and don't be insulted. I
recall that Entedius prefaced his narrative with an oath to its veracity.
I am ready to believe all this if he reaffirms it. But I have a horrible
feeling that you farmers think you have caught a city ignoramus and that
it is your duty to stuff me with the tallest stories you can invent.
Please set me right. If you are stuffing me the joke is certainly on me,
for these incredible tales seem true: if they are true the joke is doubly
on me. As I am the butt, either way, don't be too hard on me: Please set
me right."

They chorused at him that they had all heard the story, most of them soon
after the marvel took place; that they had always believed it, and
believed it then. I corroborated Hirnio's exactitude as to all the
details.


CHAPTER IV

HOROSCOPES AND MARVELS


Tanno looked about again, less wildly, but still like a man in a daze.

"But," he cried, "if you do such wonders, how do you do them, Caius?"

"I don't know now," I said, "any more than I knew the first time I gentled
a fierce strange dog. It came natural then, it always has come natural."

"Naturally," said Lisius Naepor, "since it is part of your nature from
before birth. Do you mean to tell us, Opsitius, that Hedulio has never
shown you his horoscope?"

"Never!" said Tanno, "and he never spoke of it to me. I'm Spanish, you
know, by ancestry, and Spaniards are not Syrians or Egyptians. Horoscopes
don't figure largely in Spanish life. I never bothered about horoscopes, I
suppose. So I never mentioned horoscopes to Hedulio nor he to me."

"Nor he to you of course," said Neponius Pomplio, "he is too modest."

"In fact," said Naepor. "I should never have known of Hedulio's horoscope
if his uncle had not shown me a copy. Caius has never mentioned it, unless
one of us talked of it first."

"What's the point of the horoscope?" Tanno queried.

"Why you see," Naepor explained. "Hedulio was born in the third watch of
the night on the Ides of September.

"Now it is well known that persons are likely to be competent trainers of
animals if they are born under the influence of the Whale or of the
Centaur or the Lion or the Scorpion or when the Lesser Bear rises at dawn
or in those watches of the night when the Great Bear, after swinging low
in the northern sky, is again beginning to swing upwards, or at those
hours of the day when, as it can be established by calculations, the Great
Bear, though invisible in the glow of the sunlight, is in that part of its
circle round the northern pole.

"It is disputed which of these constellations has the most powerful
influence, but it is generally reckoned that the Whale is most
influential, next the Centaur, next the Lion, and the Scorpion least of
all, while the dawn rising of the Lesser Bear and the beginning of the
upward motion of the Great Bear are held to have merely auxiliary
influence when the other signs are favorable. If two or more of these are
at one and the same time powerful in the sky at the moment of any one's
birth, he will be an unusually capable animal-tamer, the more puissant
according as more of the potent stars shine upon his birth.

"It is manifest that, at no day and hour, will all of these signs conspire
at their greatest potency. For clearly, for instance, the Lion and the
Scorpion, being both in the Zodiac, and being separated in the Zodiac by
the interposition of two entire constellations, can never be in the
ascendant at one and the same time, nor can one be near the ascendant when
the other is in that position. Yet there are times when a majority of them
all exert their most potent or nearly their most potent influence, there
are some moments when their possible combination of influences is nearly
at its maximum potency.

"Now the day, hour, and moment of Hedulio's birth is, as astrologers
agree, precisely that instant of the entire year when the stars combine
their magic powers with their most puissant force to produce their
greatest possible effect on the nature of a child born at that instant, in
order that he may have irresistible sway over the wills of all fierce,
wild and ferocious animals.

"Such, from his birth and by the divine might of his birth-stars, is our
Hedulio."

"After all that," said Tanno, "I should believe anything. I believe the
tale of the she-bear. Who has another to tell?"

"Before anyone begins another anecdote," said Neponius Pomplio, "I want to
state my opinion that Hedulio's habitual and instantaneous subjugation of
vicious dogs which have never before set eyes on him and his miraculous
powers of similarly pacifying such wild animals as bears and wolves, while
inexpressibly marvellous, is no more wonderful, if, in fact, as wondrous
as his power to attract to him, even from a great distance, creatures
naturally solitary, or timorous."

"It is strange," said Juventius Muso, "that I should have begun by telling
the story of the wolf at the spring, an occurrence of which I was the only
witness, instead of mentioning first Hedulio's power over deer, something
known to all of us, and many miracles which everyone of us has seen. I
suppose we each thought of the most spectacular example of Hedulio's
powers known to us, whereas he had so generally handled and gentled deer
that we instinctively regarded that as commonplace."

"I think you are right," said Lisius Naepor, "for Hedulio's ability to
approach a doe with fawns and to handle the young in sight of the mother
without her showing any sign of alarm or concern, is, to my mind, quite as
marvellous as his dealings with the she-bear. It seems to me as miraculous
to overcome the timidity of the doe as the ferocity of the bear. And we
have all seen him play with fawns, fawns so young that they had barely
begun to follow their dam. We have all seen a herd of deer stand placidly
and let him approach them, move about among them, handle them. We have all
seen him handle and gentle stags, even old stags in the rutting season.
There is no gainsaying our Hedulio's power over animals, it is a matter of
too general and too common knowledge."

"I have seen a mole," said Fisevius Rusco, "come out of its burrow at dusk
and eat earth worms out of Hedulio's hand."

"I," said Naepor, "have watched him catch a butterfly and, holding it
uncrushed, walk into a wood, and have seen a woodthrush flutter down to
him, take the butterfly from his fingers, speed away with it to feed its
young and presently return to his empty hand, as if expecting another
insect, perch on his hand, peck at it and remain some time; and there is
no song-bird more fearful of mankind, more aloof, more retiring, more
secret than a wood-thrush."

Several of the others told of my similarly attracting seed-eating birds
with handfuls of millet, wheat or other grains or seeds; of squirrels,
anywhere in the forests, coming down trees to me and taking nuts from my
fingers.

Bultius Seclator said:

"I have seen Hedulio seat himself on a rock in the sunshine and seen a
golden eagle, circling in the sky, circle lower and lower till he perched
on Hedulio's wrist and not only perched there, but sat there some time,
preening his feathers as if alone on the dead topmost limb of a tall tree,
eye Hedulio's face without pecking at him and finally take wing and leave
Hedulio's arm not only untorn by his talons, but unscratched, without even
a mark of the claw-points."

Said Mallius Vulso:

"Hedulio has a way of catching flies with a quick sweep of his hand. I
have seen him catch a fly and hold him, buzzing between his fingers and
thumb and have seen a lizard run up to him and dart at the fly."

"And I," said Lisius Naepor, "have seen fish in a tank rise to his hand
and let him take them out of the water, handle them and slip them back
into the water again, all without a struggle."

"More wonderful than that," spoke up Juventius Muso, "I have seen lampreys
feed from his hand without biting it, and I have even seen him pick up
lampreys out of the water without their attempting to bite him. I'll wager
no other man ever did the like."

"True," ruminated Naepor, "Hedulio can pick up and handle a puff-adder and
it will never strike at him and he can similarly handle any kind of
snake."

"Well," Tanno summed up, after they had talked the subject out, "you
countrymen beat me. Here I've been cronying with Caius for years and years
and never suspected any such wizardry in him."

"May I speak?" asked Agathemer from his stool, where he had sat silent,
sipping his wine very moderately at infrequent intervals.

"Certainly, man," said Tanno, "speak up if you have anything to tell as
good as the bull story."

"Although I know my master's modesty." Agathemer said, "I cannot conceive
how you can have associated with him so long without knowing of his power
over animals. Have you never seen him, for instance, with Nemestronia's
leopard?"

"Never that I recall," said Tanno, "and if I had I should have thought
nothing of it. Nemestronia's leopard has been tame since it learned to
suck milk from Nemestronia's fingers, before its eyes were half open. It
always has been tame and is tame with everybody, not only with all
Nemestronia's household, not only with frequenters of her reception rooms,
but also with casual visitors, total strangers to it. Nobody would think
it anything wonderful for Hedulio to handle Nemestronia's leopard."

"I do not mean merely handling," said Agathemer respectfully. "I mean
something quite amazing in itself. And that leads me to remark that none
of you gentlemen has mentioned or referred to what I regard as one of my
master's most amazing feats and one which he has repeated countless times
in the presence of uncountable witnesses: I mean taking a bone away from a
vicious dog which has never seen him before. I think that amounts to a
portent, or would if it had not happened so often."

"Incredible!" cried Tanno.

Then the whole room broke into a hubbub of confirmations and
corroborations of Agathemer's statement.

"I give in," Tanno declared, "now for the leopard."

"I am told," said Agathemer, "that all such animals, lions, tigers,
leopards, panthers and lynxes, when they set out on their nocturnal
prowlings, intent on catching prey, have the strange habit of giving
notice to all creatures within hearing that they are about to begin
hunting, by a series of roars, snarls, squalls, screams, screeches or
whatever they may be properly called for each variety of animal.

"Now one of the tricks of Nemestronia's leopard, which she is fond of
exhibiting to her guests, is its method of approaching any live creature
exposed to its mercy for its food. If a kid, hare, lamb, porker or what
not is turned into one of Nemestronia's walled gardens and the leopard let
in, she will, at first sight of the game, crouch belly-flat on the ground
and give out a really appalling series of screams or whatever they should
be called, entirely unlike any other noise she ever makes. Her hunting-
squall, as Nemestronia calls it, rises and falls like a tune on an organ,
and besides changing from shriller to less shrill alters in volume from
louder to less loud and louder again. It is an experience to hear it, for
it is like no sound anyone in Rome ever heard and is unforgettable."

"There you are wrong," Tanno cut in, "it is the normal hunting cry of a
leopard. But not many leopards in captivity ever give it. She is the only
leopard I ever heard give it in captivity, but I have heard it in the
deserts south of Gaetulia and Africa, when I was there with my cohort,
while I was still in the army. And let me tell you right here, what I have
often told Nemestronia, only the dear self-willed old lady will not listen
to me at all, there will be trouble yet with that leopard. She has been a
parlor and bedroom pet from birth and she is tame, not only to all
Nemestronia's household but to all visitors. But the mere fact that she is
old enough to give her hunting-squall for small game is warning enough, if
Nemestronia would only realize it, that she is getting fiercer as she gets
older. It's only a question of time, no matter how liberally she is fed,
that she will turn on her human associates. Possibly she'll give them
warning with her hunting-squall, and precious little help it will be
towards escaping her, but most likely she'll just turn on someone, without
warning, and there'll be a corpse and a pool of blood on the floor or
pavement. You mark my words: that is coming as sure as fate, if
Nemestronia keeps that leopard about her mansion."

"That may all be true," Hirnio cut in, "but Opsitius, do let Agathemer say
his say, whatever it may be."

"You are right and I was wrong," Tanno admitted.

"Proceed, Agathemer."

"Let me describe her behavior fully, for the sake of others," Agathemer
resumed. "When she sights a victim she flattens herself out on the ground
and gives her long, quavering squall. If the victim remains stationary she
crawls toward it very slowly, almost imperceptibly, moving one paw only at
a time. If it runs about she ceases her advance and pivots around until it
is again stationary and she facing it. She keeps that up until she is
within springing distance. But if she sees it near a gate or a door and
apparently trying to escape through that, she springs and bounds on it.
Otherwise, if the victim keeps quiet and still, she spends a long time in
her approach, seeming to enjoy every breath she draws and to be gloating
over her helpless prey."

"Just so, gentlemen," Tanno put in, "Agathemer is exact. I have seen all
that over and over."

"It is the more astonishing to me," Agathemer went on, "that you have
never seen Hedulio divert her attention and entice her away from her
victim, even when she is within leaping distance and ready for her final
spring. That, to me, is the only thing I ever saw Hedulio do surpassing
his repeated success in taking a bone from a cross dog without resistance
from the dog."

"Never saw him do it," Tanno declared. "Never heard of it from
Nemestronia, and she'll talk 'leopard' by the hour, if you let her. Never
suspected any such sorcery from Hedulio. How does he do it? Expound his
methods."

"Very simple," said Agathemer. "He calls to her or he walks in front of
her. At once she turns her attention to him, appears to forget her prey
altogether, rubs against him, purrs, lets him chafe her ears, head and
neck, seems to beg for more chafing, rolls on the ground by him and
invites him to play with her. Sometimes she seems to insist on his playing
with her and to threaten to lose her temper unless he does play with her."

"What do you mean by playing with her?" Tanno queried.

"Have you ever seen any of these little Egyptian cats which some folks
have nowadays for pets?" Agathemer asked in his turn. "Creatures about as
long as your forearm and rather gentle?"

"Certainly," said Tanno. "I've seen a number of them at ultra-fashionable
mansions of the fast set, who must have the latest novelty."

"Ever see any of their kittens?" Agathemer asked.

"Two or three times I have," Tanno replied. "Amusing, fluffy little
creatures, not much bigger than a man's hand."

"Ever see one play with a ball?" Agathemer asked.

Tanno laughed.

"Run after a ball, you mean," he said, "slap it first with one paw and
then with the other, bound after it and all that?"

"No," said Agathemer, "I do not mean that way; I mean the way a kitten
will pretend that a ball is another kitten, will lie on the floor with the
ball between its paws, will kick it with its hind feet and paw at it with
its forefeet and yet not really claw it."

"I've seen that, too," said Tanno.

"Well," said Agathemer, "Hedulio acts as the ball or the other kitten for
that big leopard. He lies down on the pavement by her and they tussle like
two puppies, only it is cat-play not dog-play. Hedulio kicks and slaps the
leopard and she kicks and slaps him, and they are all mixed up like a pair
of wrestlers, and she growls and mouths his hands and arms and shoulders,
yet she never bites or claws him, does all that clawing of him with her
claws sheathed; never hurts him, and, when she has had enough play, lets
him lead her off to her cage."

"Miraculous!" cried Tanno, "but beastly undignified. Fancy a Roman, of
equestrian rank, moving in Rome's best society circles, a friend of the
Emperor, sprawling on a pavement playing with a stinking leopard, letting
her tousle him and rumple his clothes, and letting her slobber her foul
saliva all over his arms and shoulders! I'm ashamed of you, Hedulio!"

"Nothing to be ashamed of!" I said. "I thought it fun, every time I have
done it, and I did it only for Nemestronia and a few of her intimates,
never before any large gathering."

"I should hope not!" Tanno cried, "and I trust you will never try it
again. It's disgraceful! And it's too risky. If you keep it up some fine
day she'll slash the face off you or bite your whole head off at one
snap."

I was surprised and abashed at Tanno's reception of the leopard story and
Agathemer seemed similarly affected and more so than I. He tried to start
a diversion.

"Most marvellous of all Hedulio's exploits," he said, "I account his
encounter with the piebald horse."

"Tell us about it," said Tanno. "Horse-training is, at least, and always,
an activity fit for a gentleman and wholly decent and respectable."

"It happened last year," said Agathemer, "in the autumn, before Andivius
died; in fact, before we had any reason to dread that the end of his life
was near. Entedius saw it, perhaps he would be a more suitable narrator
than I."

"Go on," said Hirnio, "I'd rather listen to you than talk myself."

Agathemer resumed.

"We were at Reate Fair. You know how such festivals are always attended by
horse-dealers and all sorts of such cheats and mountebanks. There was a
plausible and ingratiating horse-dealer with some good horses. Entedius
bought one and has it yet."

"And no complaints to make," said Hirnio, "the brute was as represented
and has given satisfaction in every way."

"Some others in our party bought horses of him also." Agathemer continued.
"Later, when the sports were on, he brought out a tall, long-barrelled
piebald horse, rather a well-shaped beast, and one which would have been
handsome had he been cream or bay. He showed off his paces and then
offered him as a free gift to anyone who could stick on him without a
fall. Several farm-lads tried and he threw them by simple buckings and
rearings. Some more experienced horse-wranglers tried, but he threw one
after the other.

"Then there came forward Blaesus Agellus, the best horse-master about
Reate. He had watched till he thought he knew all the young stallion's
tricks. No kicking, rearing or bucking could unseat him and the beast
tried several unusual and bizarre contortions. Blaesus stuck on. Then the
horse-dealer seemed to give a signal, as the horse cantered tamely round
the ring.

"Instantly the horse, without any motion which gave warning of what he was
about to do, threw himself sideways flat on the ground.

"Blaesus was stunned and his right leg badly bruised, though not broken.

"The owner gloried in his treasure and boasted of his control over the
horse, even at a distance.

"Then Hedulio came forward. The crowd was visibly amazed to see a young
nobleman put himself on a level with the commonality. But they all knew
Hedulio's affable ways and there were no hoots or jeers.

"Hedulio examined the horse carefully, fetlocks, hoofs, mouth and all.
Then he gentled and patted it. When he vaulted into the saddle, the brute
did a little rearing, kicking and bucking, but soon quieted.

"Hedulio trotted him round the ring, calling to the owner:

"I dare you to try all your signals.'

"The owner seemed to try, at first far back in the crowd, so confident was
he of his control of the horse, then nearer, then standing in the front
row of spectators.

"The horse remained quiet.

"So Hedulio rode him home and all at the villa acclaimed the horse a great
prize.

"The marvel was that he was only a two-year-old, as all experts agreed. I
have seen many trick horses, but seldom a good trick horse under eight
years old and never a well-trained trick horse under four years old. This
was barely two."

"Is he still in your stables?" Tanno asked.

"Let Agathemer finish his tale," I replied.

"Two mornings afterward," Agathemer summed up, "we found the stable was
broken into and the young stallion gone. No other horse had been stolen."

"Just what might have been expected," said Tanno, "and now, as king of the
revels, I pronounce this symposium at an end. I mean to be up by dawn and
to get Hedulio up soon after I am awake. I mean to start back for Rome
with him as soon after dawn as I can arrange. You other gentlemen can
sleep as late as you like, of course."

"I'm going with you," Hirnio cut in. "I came prepared, with my servant and
led-mule loaded with my outfit. I'm to be up as soon as you two."

"Let's all turn in," Tanno proposed.

Mallius Vulso and Neponius Pomplio, who lived nearest me, declared their
intention of riding home in the moon-light. The others discussed whether
they should also go home or sleep in the rooms ready for them. I urged
them to stay, but finally, they all decided to ride home.

Agathemer went to give orders for their horses to be brought round.

"By the way, Caius," Tanno asked, "how are you going to travel?"

"On horseback," I replied.

"Why not in your carriage?" he queried. "I was hoping to ride with you to
the Via Salaria, at least, unless your roads jolt a carriage as badly as
bearers on them jolt a litter. What's wrong with the superperfect
travelling carriage of your late Uncle?"

"I have lent it," I explained, "to Marcus Martius, to travel to Rome in
with his bride. I wrote you of his wedding. He has just married my uncle's
freedwoman Marcia. I wrote you about it."

"Pooh!" cried Tanno, "how should I remember the marriage of a freedwoman I
never saw with a bumpkin I never heard of?"

"No bumpkin," cut in Lisius Naepor. "Not any more of a bumpkin than I or
any of the rest of us here. You are too high and mighty, Opsitius. It is
true that in our countryside the only senators are Aemilius, Vedius and
Satronius, and that in our immediate vicinity Hirnio and Hedulio are the
only proprietors of equestrian rank but we commoners here are no bumpkins
or clodhoppers."

"I apologize," Tanno spoke conciliatingly. "You are right to call me down.
We Romans of Rome really know the worth of farmers and provincials and the
like. But we are so used, among ourselves, to thinking of Rome as the
whole world, that our speech belies our esteem for our equals. I should
not have spoken so. Who is Marcus Martius, Caius, and who is Marcia?"

"Marcus Martius," I said, "is a local landowner like the rest of us. He
would have been here to-night but for his recent marriage and approaching
journey to Rome. I have always asked him to my dinners."

"Then how, in the name of Ops Consiva," cried Tanno, "did he come to marry
your uncle's freedwoman?"

"This time I agree with you, Opsitius," said Naepor. "Your tone of scorn
is wholly justified. Marrying freedwomen is getting far too common. If
things go on this way there will be no Roman nobility nor gentry nor even
any Roman commonality; just a wish-wash of counterfeit Romans, nine-tenths
foreign in ancestry, with just enough of a dash of Roman blood to bequeath
them our weaknesses and vices."

"On the other hand," said Juventius Muso, "while agreeing with Naepor as
to the propriety of the tone, I object to the question. Instead of asking
how Martius came to marry Marcia, had you been acquainted with the recent
past history of this neighborhood, Opsitius, you would have asked how most
of the rest of us managed to escape marrying her."

"A freedwoman!" cried Tanno.

"A most unusual freedwoman," Hirnio asserted, "as she was almost a portent
as a slave-girl. Haven't you ever heard of her, Opsitius?"

"We Romans," Tanno bantered, "are lamentably ignorant on the life-
histories of brood-sows, slave-girls, prize-heifers and such-like
notabilities of Sabinum."

"She is no Sabine," Hirnio retorted, "but, as far as the locality of her
birth and upbringing goes, is as Roman as you are. Did you never hear of
Ummidius Quadratus?"

"Hush!" Tanno breathed. "I have heard of the man you have named, heard of
him on the deaf side of my head, as did all Rome. But, in the name of
Minerva, do not utter his name. It is best forgotten. Even so long after
his execution and so far from Rome, the mention of the name of anyone
implicated as he was might have most unfortunate results."

"Not here and among us," Hirnio declared. "The point is that Quadratus had
a eunuch less worthless than most eunuchs. He became a very clever surgeon
and physician, and endeared himself to Quadratus by many cures among his
countless slaves, and even among his kin. Quadratus made him his chief
physician and trusted him utterly. Naturally he let him set up an
establishment of his own, allowing him to select a location. Hyacinthus,
for that is the eunuch's name, instead of choosing for a home any one of a
dozen desirable neighborhoods well within his means with the liberal
allowance Quadratus gave him, settled in a peculiarly vile slum, because,
as he said, his associates mostly lived there; meaning by his associates
the votaries of some sort of Syrian cult, chiefly peddlers and such,
living like ants or maggots, all packed together in the rookeries of that
quarter.

"Hyacinthus was not only a member of their sect, but their hierophant, or
whatever they call it, and presided at the ceremonies of their religion at
their little temple somewhere in the same part of the city.

"He divided his energies between his calling of surgeon, at which he
prospered amazingly, and his avocation of hierophant.

"As head of their cult it fell to him to care for the orphans of their
poorer families and for foundlings, for such Asiatics never expose infants
or fail to succor exposed infants.

"Marcia was a foundling and brought up by Hyacinthus, therefore, legally a
slave of Quadratus.

"Quadratus saw her and took a fancy to her. He had her taught not only
dancing, music and such accomplishments, but had her educated almost as if
she had been his niece or daughter.

"When she was yet but a half-grown girl, she had acquired such a hold on
him that he used to bewail it. What was it he said, Hedulio?"

"I have heard him say to my uncle," I said, "that Marcia was as imperious
as if she were Empress and that living with her was as bad as being
married. Quadratus was born to be a bachelor and never thought of
matrimony. But though he had solaced himself with a long series of
beauties in all previous cases his word had been law and not one of his
concubines had had any will of her own. Marcia's word was law to him, even
her tone or look. She had wheedled him into lavishing on her flowers,
perfumery, jewels, an incredibly varied and costly wardrobe, maids,
masseuses, bathgirls, a mob of waiters, cooks, doorkeepers, litter-bearers
and what not and the most costly equipages.

"He groaned, but was too infatuated to deny her anything.

"My uncle sympathized with him and, with the idea of disabusing him of his
folly, somehow, while visiting him, saw Marcia.

"Uncle at once fell madly in love with her.

"He offered to buy her.

"That was just before Quadratus became involved in the intrigues radiating
from Lucilla's conspiracy, was implicated in the conspiracy itself and so
disgraced and executed.

"Marcia seems to have had some prevision or inkling of what was coming.
Anyhow she could not have acted more for her own interest if she had had
accurate information of what was impending. She cajoled Uncle into buying
her and coaxed Quadratus into selling her.

"'Take her,' Quadratus told him, 'at your own price. If you don't or if
somebody else don't free me from this vampire, I'll be fool enough to
manumit her and marry her as soon as she is free!'

"Uncle brought her up here.

"Did she wail at leaving Rome and mourn over seclusion in our hills? Not
she.

"She made as big a fool of Uncle as she had of Quadratus.

"He, with his ill health and his frequent illnesses, got as much
satisfaction out of Marcia as a blind man would get from a painting. But
he indulged her far beyond his means. He gave her the little west villa
for her home, and a small horde of servants. She wheedled him into freeing
her and then, from the day she was freed, set herself to marry and marry
well. She had every bachelor and widower hereabouts visiting her, dangling
about her, competing for her smiles, showering gifts on her, soliciting
her favor!

"When they found, one by one, that the only road to her favors was by
matrimony, they sheered off in terror, one by one.

"She nearly married Vedius Caspo, came almost as near with Satronius
Sabinus.

"Then, when she saw no hope left of a senator, she almost landed Hirnio,
tried to marry Uncle, and tried to marry me."

"And just missed all three," said Hirnio, fervently. "I am still equally
congratulating myself on my escape and wondering over it. I was sure
Andivius would marry her, sure of it until his last illness made it
impossible. And I feared for our Hedulio here.

"The only man hereabouts whom she did not try to marry was Ducconius
Furfur. She had made eyes at his father, and Ducconius was precious afraid
she would be his stepmother. At first he railed at her. Then, just before
his father's death, it was manifest to everybody that he was yielding to
her fascinations, himself. Hardly was old Ducconius buried when young
Furfur lost his head completely and fell madly in love with Marcia. She
could have married him easily; in fact, he offered marriage, not only to
her in private, but before witnesses. She, for some reason, would not hear
of marrying him. In fact, Furfur, it seems, was the only bachelor
hereabouts whom she was unwilling to marry. She flouted him, derided him,
and finally forbade him her house and ordered him never to dare to
approach her. He kept away, sulky and morose and low-spirited.

"After that episode she had a go at Muso, the only other bachelor among us
seven.

"Finally she fastened on Marcus Martius, who is not quite as rich as Muso,
but yet comfortably well off. She married him day before yesterday."

"Thanks be to Hercules," Tanno cried, "that I have never set eyes on the
jade. I'm for matrimony only with an heiress of my own class and only with
such an heiress as I personally fancy. No matrimony for me otherwise."

With this the party broke up. We all went out on the terrace. My six
neighbors mounted and cantered off on their various roads home; Tanno,
Hirnio and I went in and to bed.


CHAPTER V

ENCOUNTERS


Next morning I was wakened by a dash of cold water over me and sat up in
bed dripping and angry. Tanno was bending over me.

"I had to souse you," he explained. "I've been shaking you and yelling at
you and you stayed as fast asleep as before I touched you. Get up and
let's start for Rome."

We enjoyed a brief rubdown and after Entedius joined us each relished a
small cup of mulled wine and one of Ofatulena's delicious little hot,
crisp rolls.

In the east courtyard we found our equipages and I descried my tenants
outside the gate, all horsed and each muffled in a close rain-cloak,
topped off by a big umbrella hat, its wide brim dripping all round its
edge, for the weather was atrocious; foggy mist blanketing all the world
under a gray sky from which descended a thin, chilly drizzle.

Hirnio was inspecting Tanno's litter and chatting with Tanno about it.

"Never saw one with poles like this," he said. "All I have seen had one
long pole on each side, a continuous bar of wood from end to end. What's
the idea of four poles, half poles you might call them, two on a side?"

"You see," Tanno explained, "It is far harder to get sound, flawless,
perfect poles full length. Then, too, full-length spare poles are very
bothersome and inconvenient to carry. With a litter equipped in this
fashion one man can carry a spare pole, and they are much easier and
quicker to put in if a pole snaps."

"I should think," Hirnio remarked, "that the half-poles would pull out of
the sockets."

"Not a bit," said Tanno, "they clamp in at the end, this way. See? The
clamps fasten instantly and release at a touch, but hold tenaciously when
shut."

Under the arcade my household had gathered to say farewell and wish me
good luck. I spoke briefly to each and thanked Ofatulena for her
distinguished cookery, both in respect to the credit her masterpieces had
done me at dinner and also for the taste of her rolls, which yet lingered
in mouth and memory. Tanno also expressed his admiration of her powers.

Last I said farewell to my old nurse and foster mother Uturia, who, when I
was scarcely a year old, had closed the eyes of my dying mother, and not
much later of my father, and who had not merely suckled me, but had been
almost as my real mother to me in my childhood.

She could not keep back her tears, as always at our partings; the more as
she had had dreams the night before and she took her dreams very
seriously.

"Deary," she sobbed, "it has been revealed to me that you go into great
perils when you set out to-day. I saw danger all about you, danger from
men and danger from beasts. Beware of strangers, of narrow streets, of
walled gardens, of plots, of secret conferences. All these threaten you
especially."

I kissed her as heartily as if she had been my own mother.

"Don't worry, Uturia," I said, "as long as I live I'll take care of you
and if I die you shall be a free woman with a cottage and garden and three
slaves of your own."

But she only sobbed harder, both as she clung to me and after I had
mounted.

Tanno, of course, rolled into his litter and slid the panels against the
rain. His bearers were muffled up precisely like my tenants. So was
Tanno's intendant, so was Hirnio, so was I. The entire caravan was a mere
column of horses, cloaks and hats, not a man visible, all the faces hid
under the flapping hat-brims, no man recognizable.

Hirnio and I led, next came Tanno in his litter, then his extra bearers,
next his intendant on horseback, then my nine tenants, each horsed and
leading a pack-mule, last the mounted servants, Tanno's, Hirnio's and
mine, similarly leading pack-mules, in all twenty-seven men afoot, sixteen
mounted and twelve led mules.

As we strung out Tanno called to me:

"Luck for us if we don't blunder into one of those ambushes we heard about
at dinner last night. With all this cavalcade everybody we meet cannot
fail to conjecture that so large a party can only be from either Villa
Vedia or Villa Satronia, such an escort misbefits anyone not of senatorial
rank. If we do blunder into an ambush either side will know we are not
their men and will assume we are of the other party. No one can recognize
anybody in this wet-weather rig. Any ambush will attack first and
investigate afterwards or not at all."

Had I heeded his chance words I might, even then, have saved myself. But
while my ears heard him my wits were deaf. I called back:

"There are no ambushes. Each side spreads such rumors to discredit the
other, but neither so much as thinks of ambush. If Xantha or Greia is
located, the clan concerned for her freedom will gather a rescue-party and
there may be fight over her, but there are no ambushes."

At the foot of my road Hirnio and I turned to our left. Tanno from his
litter emitted a howl of protest.

"Nothing," he yelled, "will induce me to traverse that road again. I told
you so. You promised to take the other road. What do you mean?"

"Don't worry, Opsitius," Hirnio reassured him. "We turned instinctively
according to habit. You shall have your way. It is not much farther by the
other road."

"Anyhow," I added, "Martius is not in sight. He was to have been here
before us. If we went this way we should have to wait for him. If we go
the other we shall most likely meet him at the fork of the road."

We turned to our right towards Villa Vedia and Vediamnum. About half way
to the entrance to Villa Vedia, at the top of the hill between the two
bridges, the rain for a brief interval fairly cascaded from the sky.
During this temporary downpour, as we splashed along, we saw loom out of
the rain, fog and mist the outline of what might have been an equestrian
statue, but which, as we drew up to it, we found a horse and rider,
stationary and motionless to the south of the road, on a tiny knoll,
facing the road and so close to it that I might have put out my right hand
and touched the horse's nose as we passed.

Like everyone in our convoy the rider was enveloped in a rain-cloak and
his head and face hidden under a wide-brimmed umbrella hat. He saluted as
I came abreast of him, but his salutation was merely a perfunctory wave of
a hand, an all-but-imperceptible nod and an inarticulate grunt.

I barely caught a glimpse of his face, but I made sure he was no one I had
ever seen before and equally sure that he was not a Sabine.

When we reached the entrance of Villa Vedia, which was also the crossroad
down which Marcus Martius and his bride must come, there was no sign of a
travelling carriage, nor any fresh ruts in the road.

We halted and peered into the mist. Nothing was in sight on the road, but
there was a stir in the bushes by the roadside. Out of them appeared a
bare head, with a shock of tousled, matted, rain-soaked gray hair, a
hatchet face, brow like a bare skull, bleared eyes, far apart and deepset
on either side of a sharp hooked nose like the beak of a bird of prey,
high cheekbones under the thin, dry, tight-drawn skin above the sunken
cheeks, a wide, thin-lipped mouth and a chin like a ship's prow. The rain
trickled down the face.

Up it rose, till there was visible under it a lean stringy neck, a
tattered garment, and the outline of a gaunt, emaciated body, that of a
tall, spare, half-starved old woman.

I recognized the Aemilian Sibyl, as all the countryside called her, an old
crone who had, since before the memory of our oldest patriarchs, lived in
a cave in the woods on the Aemilian Estate, supported by the gifts doled
out to her by the kindness, respect or fear of the slaves and peasantry
living nearest her abode, for she had a local reputation for magical
powers in the way of spells to cure or curse, charms for wealth or health,
love philtres, fortune-telling, prophecy and good advice on all subjects
likely to cause uncertainty of mind in farm-life.

She towered out of the dripping shrubberies and pointed a long skinny
finger at me.

"I know you under your cloak and hat, Hedulio," she wheezed. "Well for you
if younger folk than I had such, eyes in their heads as I have in my
spirit. I know you, Andivius Hedulio. You turn your face towards Reate,
but you shall never see Reate this day. You might as well take the road to
Rome and be done with it, for to Rome you shall go, whether you will or
not. Whether you will or not, whatever road your feet take, you will find
it leads you to Rome, whatever ship you take, no matter to what port she
steers, will land you at Rome's Wharf. They say all roads lead to Rome.
For you, in truth, every road leads to Rome, whether you face towards Rome
or away from Rome.

"Be warned! Yield to your fate! If you would have luck, go to Rome, abide
in Rome; and if you must leave Rome, return to Rome.

"And hearken to my words, let them sink deep into your mind, remember them
and heed them; beware of a man with a hooked nose, beware of secret
conferences, beware of  plots, walled gardens, beware of narrow streets,
for these will be your undoing."

Agathemer had edged his horse along the roadside the length of our
cavalcade and had joined me. He dismounted, strode to the hag and held out
his hand to her, some silver pieces on its palm, saying:

"My master thanks you for your warning and offers you these as a guerdon."

"Greek!" she screamed. "I warn not for guerdons, but at the behest of the
God of Prophecy. Begone with your silver! Silver I scorn and gold and all
the treasures of mankind's folly and all the joys of mankind's life. I am
the Sibyl!"

And she tramped off through the crackling underbrush till the trees hid
her and the noise of her going died away, till she was so far off that we
heard the rain drops drip from the boughs and the horses fret at their
bits.

So at a standstill, as we stared expectantly up the crossroad, we saw come
into sight, not a travelling carriage, but a horseman, looming huge out of
the fog, a vast bulk of a man on a big black horse like a farm work-horse.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

ADVICE, BY A MAN OF THE WORLD.

[We quoted _Contarini Fleming_ in our last volume, but were silent on its
character. It is purely metaphysical, and metaphysics, at this season, may
be "like pork in the dog-days;" but there are certain portions which strike
out ideas so forcibly, and illustrate the _communia_ of life with
such vigour, as to tempt any lounging reader.

Contarini is stated to be Mr.
D'Israeli, the younger--Vivian Grey and the Young Duke,--with much more of
the crust and wing of age and experience than was found in either of
the fashionable novels. The real charm of Contarini is in its abstractedness,
and consists in being pleased and puzzled at the same moment. The
embellishment which the playful genius of the writer has gracefully,
not tawdrily, thrown over his pages will attract, but the main
purpose and merit of the work lies in its undercurrents, or, rather
it would consist in this feature if the judgment of the writer were
still more matured.

Perhaps Mr. D'Israeli, who began the world of letters as a writer
of fashionable novels, may leave us a work on metaphysics.

In the opening chapter of Contarini Fleming, Mr.

D'Israeli explains his object as follows:--]
I am desirous of writing a book which shall be all truth, a work
of which the passion, the thought, the action, and even the style,
should spring from my own experience of feeling, from the meditations
of my own intellect, from my own observation of incident, from my
own study of the genius of expression.

[We can only admit a passage which appears to us to contain much
world-knowledge and wholesome experience--what half the coroneted
heads in Europe lack most lamentably.

It is the advice tendered to Contarini by his father, previous to
the youth of promise repairing to the University:]
I wish you to mix as much as is convenient with society.

I apprehend that you have, perhaps, hitherto indulged a little too much
in lonely habits.
Young men are apt to get a little abstracted, and occasionally to think
that there is something singular in their nature, when the fact is, if they
were better acquainted with their fellow creatures, they would
find they were mistaken.

This is a common error, indeed the commonest. I am not at all surprised
that you have fallen into it. All have. The most practical business-like
men that exist have many of them, when children, conceived themselves totally
disqualified to struggle in the world.

You may rest assured of this. I could mention many remarkable instances.
All persons, when young, are fond of solitude, and, when they are
beginning to think, are sometimes surprised at their own thoughts.

There is nothing to be deplored, scarcely to be feared, in this.

It almost always wears off; but sometimes it happens, that they
have not judicious friends by them to explain, that the habits which
they think peculiar are universal, and, if unreasonably indulged,
can ultimately only turn them into indolent, insignificant members
of society, and occasion them lasting unhappiness.

But to enter society with pleasure, you must be qualified for it. I think
it quite time for you to make yourself master of some
accomplishments.

Decidedly you should make yourself a good dancer. Without dancing, you can
never attain a perfectly graceful carriage, which is of the highest
importance in life, and should be every man's ambition.

You are yet too young fully to comprehend, how much in life depends
upon manner.

Whenever you see a man, who is successful in society, try to discover
what makes him pleasing, and, if possible, adopt his system.

You should learn to fence. For languages, at present, French will be
sufficient. You speak it fairly: try to speak it elegantly. Read French
authors. Read Rouchefoucault.

The French writers are the finest in the world, for they clear our heads
of ridiculous ideas. Study precision.

Do not talk too much at present, do not _try_ to talk. But whenever you
speak, speak with self-possession. Speak in a subdued tone, and always
look at the person whom you are addressing.

Before one can engage in general conversation with any effect, there
is a certain acquaintance with trifling, but amusing subjects, which
must be first attained.

You will soon pick up sufficient by listening and observing.

Never argue. In society, nothing must be discussed: give only
results.

If any person differ with you--bow and turn the conversation.

In society, never think--always be on the watch, or you will miss
many opportunities, and say many disagreeable things.

Talk to women, talk to women as much as you can. This is the best
school.

This is the way to gain fluency--because you need not care what you
say, and had better not be sensible.

They too will rally you on many points, and, as they are women, you
will not be offended.

Nothing is of so much importance, and of so much use, to a young
man entering life, as to be well criticised by women.

It is impossible to get rid of those thousand bad habits, which we
pick up in boyhood, without this supervision.

Unfortunately, you have no sisters. But never be offended if a woman
rally you. Encourage her. Otherwise, you will never be free from your
awkwardness, or any little oddities, and certainly never learn to
dress.

You ride pretty well, but you had better go through the manège.

Every gentleman should be a perfect cavalier.

As you are to be at home for so short a time, and for other reasons,
I think it better that you should not have a tutor in the house.

Parcel out your morning, then, for your separate masters. Rise early
and regularly, and read for three hours. Read the Memoirs of the Cardinal
de Retz--the Life of Richelieu--everything about Napoleon,--read
works of that kind.

Read no history: nothing but biography, for that is life without
theory.

Then fence. Talk an hour with your French master, but do not throw
the burden of the conversation upon him.

Give him an account of something.
Describe to him the events of yesterday, or give him a detailed account
of the constitution.

You will have then sufficiently rested yourself for your dancing.

And after that ride and amuse yourself as much as you can.
Amusement to an observing mind is study.

I pursued the system which my father had pointed out, with exactness,
and soon with pleasure. I sacredly observed my hours of reading, and
devoted myself to the study of the lives of what my father considered
really great men--that is to say, men of great energies, and violent
volition, who look upon their fellow creatures as mere tools, with
which they can build up a pedestal for their solitary statue, and
who sacrifice every feeling which should sway humanity, and every
high work which genius should really achieve, to the short-sighted
gratification of an irrational and outrageous selfism.

As for my manners, I flattered myself that they advanced in measure with
my mind, although I already emulated Napoleon.

I soon overcame the fear which attended my first experiments in
society, and by scrupulously observing the paternal maxims, I soon
became very self-satisfied.

I listened to men with a delightful mixture of defference and self-confidence:
were they old, and did I differ with them, I contented myself by positively
stating my opinion in a most subdued voice, and then either turning the
subject, or turning upon my heel. But as for women, it is astonishing how
well I got on. The nervous rapidity of my first rattle soon subsided into
a continuous flow of easy nonsense.

Impertinent and flippant, I was universally hailed an original and a
wit.
But the most remarkable incident was, that the baroness and myself
became the greatest friends.

I was her constant attendant, and rehearsed to her flattered ear
all my evening performance.

She was the person with whom I practised, and as she had a taste in dress,
I encouraged her opinions.
Unconscious that she was at once my lay figure and my mirror, she
loaded me with presents, and announced to all her coterie, that I
was the most delightful young man of her acquaintance.

From all this it may easily be suspected, that at the age of fifteen I had
unexpectedly become one of the most affected, conceited, and intolerable
atoms that ever peopled the sunbeam of society.

* * * * *

[This gem is from a volume of Songs and other small Poems, by Barry Cornwall.
It is one of the prettiest poetical _bijoux_ of the season, and shall
receive more attention in our next.]
PETITION TO TIME.

Touch us gently, Time!
Let us glide adown thy stream Gently,--as we sometimes glide Through a quiet
dream!
Humble voyagers are We, Husband, wife, and children three-- (One is
lost,--an angel, fled To the azure overhead!)
Touch us gently, Time!
We've not proud nor soaring wings:
_Our_ ambition, _our_ content Lies in simple things.

Humble voyagers are We, O'er Life's dim unsounded sea, Seeking only some
calm clime:-- Touch us _gently_, gentle Time!

* * * * *

THE SPIRIT OF SONG-WRITING.

Song-writing is the most difficult species of poetry; failure is not to be
recovered--one slip ruins the whole attempt. A good song is a little piece
of perfection, and perfection does not grow in every field. There must
be felicity of idea, lightness of tone, exquisiteness or extreme
naturalness and propriety of expression; and this within the compass
of a few verses.

And this is not all; the writer must betray a sustained tone of enthusiasm:

the song should have neither beginning nor end,--it must seem a snatch
from out of a continuous strain of melody--something that swells upon
the ear, as if the previous parts had been unheard, and which dies
away as if the air had carried its notes afar, and the sounds were
wafted along to other lands.

Men of genius are now and then born song-writers; such were Horace
and Burns, such is Béranger. England has not had hers yet, and
perhaps never may have.

Englishmen are not nationally calculated to make song-writers; but
individual genius makes light of running counter to a whole nation of
habits, and there is no saying that we may not have our true lyricist
yet. Song-writing is most likely to spring up among people greatly susceptible
of the charms of music, and inventive of airs which, by some peculiar
charm they possess, spread over all the country, sink deep in the
memory, and come spontaneously on the thoughts in moments of sadness
or joy, and, in short, become what are called national.

National songs go with national airs, and spring up with circumstances. The
English have few native airs, and as few native songs of any excellence.
When an Englishman is in love, does he sing? In camp, what wretched
braying goes by that name! at table, what have we of the generous, jovial
sort?
Generally speaking, our table songs--always excepting our glees--are
pieces of bald sentiment, when they are English; but more generally,
they are borrowed from the Scotch, the Irish, and other national
song-writers.

Gaiety, and that gaiety showing itself musically, is not _English_: when
we are poetically given, it is in the sad piping strain of the
forlorn, deserted, or hopeless lover.

Gaiety is not English: we can be sentimental, tender, witty, pretty,
pompous, and glorious in our songs; but we ever want the essential
quality of gaiety--gaiety of heart--the dancing life of the spirit,
that makes the voice hum, the fingers crack merrily, and the feet
fidget restlessly on the ground.

--_Spectator Newspaper_.

* * * * *

LORD BYRON'S EARLY POEMS.

[The following specimens are from the Seventh Volume of the elegant Edition
of Lord Byron's Life and Works, now in the course of publication,
under the editorship of Mr. Moore:]

THE ADIEU.

_Written under the impression that the Author would soon die._

Adieu, thou hill![4] where early joy Spread roses o'er my brow; Where science
seeks each loitering boy With knowledge to endow.

Adieu, my youthful friends or foes, Partners of former bliss or woes; No
more through Ida's path we stray; Soon must I share the gloomy cell,
Whose ever-slumbering inmates dwell Unconscious of the day.

Adieu, ye hoary Regal Fanes, Ye spires of Granta's vale, Where
learning robed in sable reigns, And melancholy pale.

Ye comrades of the jovial hour, Ye tenants of the classic bower,
On Cama's verdant margin placed, Adieu!

while memory still is mine, For offerings on oblivion's shrine,
These scenes must be effaced.

Adieu, ye mountains of the clime, Where grew my youthful years; Where Loch
na Garr in snows sublime His giant summit rears.

Why did my childhood wander forth From you, ye regions of the North,
With sons of pride to roam?

Why did I quit my Highland cave, Marr's dusky heath, and Dee's clear
wave, To seek a Sotheron home?

Hall of my sires!

a long farewell; Yet why to thee adieu?
Thy vaults will echo back my knell, Thy towers my tomb will view; The
faltering tongue which sung thy fall, And former glories of thy hall
Forgets its wonted simple note; But yet the lyre retains the
strings, And sometimes on Aeolian wings, In dying strains may float.

Fields, which surround yon rustic cot, While yet I linger here, Adieu!
you are not now forgot, To retrospection dear.
Streamlet[5] along whose rippling surge, My youthful limbs were
wont to urge At noontide heat their pliant course; Plunging with
ardour from the shore, Thy springs will lave these limbs no more,
Deprived of active force.

And shall I here forget the scene, Still nearest to my breast?
Rocks rise, and rivers roll between The spot which passion blest; Yet,
Mary,[6] all thy beauties seem Fresh as in Love's bewitching dream, To
me in smiles display'd:
Till slow disease resigns his prey To Death, the parent of decay, Thine
image cannot fade.

And thou, my friend![7] whose gentle love Yet thrills my bosom's chords,
How much thy friendship was above Description's power of words!
Still near my breast thy gift I wear, Which sparkled once with feeling's
tear.
Of Love, the pure, the sacred gem; Our souls were equal, and our lot In
that dear moment quite forgot; Let Pride alone condemn!

All, all is dark and cheerless now!
No smile of Love's deceit Can warm my veins with wonted glow, Can bid
Life's pulses beat:
Not e'en the hope of future fame Can wake my faint, exhausted frame.
Or crown with fancied wreaths my head.
Mine is a short inglorious race, To humble in the dust my face, And
mingle with the dead.

Oh Fame! thou goddess of my heart:
On him who gains thy praise, Pointless must fall the Spectre's dart, Consumed
in glory's blaze; But me she beckons from the earth, My name
obscure, unmark'd my birth, My life a short and vulgar dream:
Lost in the dull, ignoble crowd, My hopes recline within a shroud,
My fate is Lethe's stream.

Without meeting any wayfarers, with little talk among ourselves, we had
passed the entrance to Villa Satronia and were no great distance from the
Salarian Highway, when, where the road traversed a dense bit of woodland,
the trees of which met overhead, the underbrush on both sides of the road
suddenly rang with yells and was alive with excited men.

It was almost the duplicate of our experience in Vediamnum, save that our
assailants were more numerous and shouted:

"Xantha, Xantha, rescue Xantha!"

"Satronius forever! Eat 'em alive, boys! Get Xantha! Get Xantha!" and such
like calls.

This time we had an infinitesimally longer warning, as the bushes to right
and left of the road were further apart than had been the houses lining
the streets of Vediamnum; also we reacted more quickly to the yells,
having heard the like such a short time before.

The fight was fully joined all along the line and was raging with no
advantage for either side, when I missed a parry and knew no more.

Afterwards I was told that I fell stunned from a blow on the head and lay,
bleeding not only from a terrific scalp wound but also from a dozen other
abrasions, until the fight was over, our assailants routed and completely
put to flight, and Tanno with the rest of the pursuers returned to the
travelling carriage and litter to find Marcia, pink and pretty and placid,
seated as she had been when she left home, and me, weltering in a pool of
blood.

A dozen Satronians lay stunned. Tanno reckoned two of them dead men.

I was the only man seriously hurt on our side.

Agathemer was for convoying me home.

Tanno hooted at the idea, expatiating on the distance from Reate and the
improbability of such a town harboring a competent physician, on the
number of excellent surgeons in Rome, on the advisability of getting me
out of the locality afflicted with our Vedian-Satronian feud, and so on.

He had me bandaged as best might be and composed in his litter.

He took my horse.

To me the journey to Rome was and is a complete blank. I was mostly
insensible, and, when I showed signs of consciousness, was delirious. I
recall nothing except a vague sense of endless pain, misery and horror. I
have no memory of anything that occurred on the road after I was hit on
the head, nor of the first night at Vicus Novus nor of the second at
Eretum. I first came to myself about the tenth hour of the third day, when
we were but a short distance from Rome and in full sight of it.  The view
of Rome, from any eminence outside the city from which a view of it may be
had, has always seemed to me the most glorious spectacle upon which a
Roman may feast his eyes. As a boy my tutors had yielded to my
importunities and had escorted me to every one of those elevations near
the city famous as viewpoints. As a lad I had ridden out to each many
times, whenever the weather promised a fine view, to delight my soul with
the aspect of the great city citizenship in which was my dearest heritage.
To have been born a Roman was my chief pride; to gaze at Rome, to exult at
the beauty of Rome, was my keenest delight.

More even than the acclaimed viewpoints, to which residents like me and
visitors from all the world flocked on fine afternoons, did I esteem those
places on the roads radiating from Rome where a traveller faring Romeward
caught his first sight of the city; or those points where, if one road had
several hill-crests in succession, one had the best view possible anywhere
along the road.

Of the various roads entering Rome it always appeared to my judgment that
the Tiburtine Highway afforded the most charming views of the city.

But, along the Salarian Highway, are several rises at the top of each of
which one sees a fascinating picture when looking towards Rome. Of these
my favorite was that from the crest of the ascent after one crosses the
Anio, just after passing Antemnae, near the third milestone.

This view I love now as I have always loved it, as I loved it when a boy.
To halt on that crest of the road, of a fair, still, mild, brilliant
afternoon when the sun is already visibly declining and its rays fall
slanting and mellow; to view the great city bathed in the warm, even
light, its pinnacles, tower-roofs, domes, and roof-tiles flashing and
sparkling in the late sunshine, all of it radiant with the magical glow of
an Italian afternoon, to see Rome so vast, so grandiose, so majestic, so
winsome, so lovely; to know that one owns one's share in Rome, that one is
part of Rome; that, I conceive, confers the keenest joy of which the human
heart is capable.

It so happened that Tanno had his litter opened, that I might get all the
air possible, and the curtains looped back tightly. Somehow, at the very
crest of that rise on the Salarian Road, on a perfect afternoon, about the
tenth hour, I came to myself.

I was aching in every limb and joint, I was sore over every inch of my
surface, I was all one jelly of bruises, my head and my left shin hurt me
acutely. More than all that I was permeated by that nameless horror which
comes from weakness and a high fever.

Now it would be impossible to convey, by any human words, the strangeness
of my sensations. My sufferings, my illness, my distress of mind enveloped
me and permeated me with a general misery in which I could not but loathe
life, the world and anything I saw, and I saw before me the most
magnificent, the most noble, the most inspiriting sight the world affords.

At the instant of reviving I was overwhelmed by my sensations, by my
recollections of the two fights and of all they meant to me of misfortune
and disaster, and I was more than overwhelmed by the glory spread before
me. I went all hot and cold inside and all through me and lost
consciousness.

After this lapse I was not conscious of anything until I began to be dimly
aware that I was in my own bed in my own bedroom, in my own house and
tended by my own personal servants.

Strangely enough this second awakening was as different as possible from
my momentary revival near Antemnae. Then I had been appalled by the rush
of varying sensations, crowding memories, conflicting emotions and
daunting forebodings, each of which seemed as distinct, vivid and keen as
every other of the uncountable swarm of impressions: I had felt acutely
and cared extremely. Now every memory and sensation was blurred, no
thought of the future intruded, I accepted without internal questionings
whatever was done for me, and lay semi-conscious, incurious and
indifferent. Mostly I dozed half-conscious. I was almost in a stupor, at
peace with myself and all the world, wretched, yet acquiescing in my
wretchedness, not rebellious nor recalcitrant.

This semi-stupor gradually wore off, my half-consciousness between long
sleeps growing less and less blurred, my faculties more alive, my
personality emerging.

When I came entirely to myself I found Tanno seated by my bed.

"You're all right now, Caius," he said, "I have kept away till Galen said
you were well enough for me to talk to you."

"Galen?" I repeated, "have I been as ill as all that?"

"Not ill," Tanno disclaimed, "merely bruised. You are certainly a portent
in a fight. I never saw you fight before, never saw you practice at really
serious fencing, never heard anybody speak of you as an expert, or as a
fighter. But I take oath I never saw a man handle a stave as you did. You
were quicker than lightning, you seemed in ten places at once, you were as
reckless as a Fury and as effectual as a thunderbolt. You laid men out by
twos and threes. But jammed as you were in a press of enemies you were hit
often and hard, so often and so hard that, after you were downed by a blow
on the head, you never came to until I had you where you are."

"Yes I did," I protested, "I came to on the hilltop this side of
Antemnae."

"Not enough to tell any of us about it," he soothed me. "Anyhow, you are
mending now and will soon be yourself."

I was indifferent. My mind was not yet half awake.

"Did I fight as well as you say?" I asked, "or are you flattering me?"

"No flattery, my boy," he said. "You are a portent."

Then he told me of the result of the fight with the Satronians, of their
complete discomfiture and rout, of how he had brought me to Rome, seen me
properly attended and looked after my tenants.

"They are having the best time," he said, "they ever had in all their
lives."

And he told me where he had them lodged and which sights of Rome they had
seen from day to day.

"Just as soon as I had seen to you and them," he said, "I called on dear
old Nemestronia and told her of your condition. She is full of solicitude
for you and will overwhelm you with dainties as soon as you are well
enough to relish any."

He did not mention Vedia and I was still too dazed, too numb, too weak,
too acquiescent to ask after her, or even to think of asking after her or
to notice that he had not mentioned her.

"While I was talking to Nemestronia," Tanno said, "I took care to warn her
about that cursed leopard. She would not agree to cage it, at least not
permanently. She did agree to cage it at night and said she would not let
it have the run of her palace even by day, as it has since she first got
it, but would keep it shut up in the shrubbery garden, as she calls it,
where they usually feed it and where you and I have seen it crawl up on
its victims and pounce on them."

I could not be interested in leopards, or Nemestronia or even in Vedia, if
he had mentioned Vedia. I fell into a half doze. Just on the point of
going fast asleep I half roused, queerly enough.

"Caius!" I asked, "do you remember that man on horseback we passed in the
rain between my road entrance and Vediamnum?"

"You can wager your estate I remember him!" Tanno replied.

"What sort of man was he?" I queried, struggling with my tendency to
sleep. "You said you knew."

"I do know," Tanno asserted, "I cannot identify him, though I have
questioned those who should know and who are safe. I should know his name,
but I cannot recall it or place him. But I know his occupation. He is a
professional informer in the employ of the palace secret service, an
Imperial spy.

"Now what in the name of Mercury was he doing in the rain, on a Sabine
roadside? I cannot conjecture."

This should have roused me staring wide awake.

But I was too exhausted to take any normal interest in anything.

"I can't conjecture either," I drawled thickly.


CHAPTER VI

A RATHER BAD DAY


Next morning, strangely enough, I wakened at my normal, habitual time for
wakening when in town, and wakened feeling weak indeed and still sore in
places, but entirely myself in general and filled with a sort of sham
energy and spurious vigor.

By me, when I woke, was Occo, my soft-voiced, noiseless-footed, deft-
handed personal attendant. At my bidding he summoned Agathemer. When I
told him that I proposed to get up, dress and go out as I usually did when
in Rome, in fact that I intended to follow the conventional and
fashionable daily routine to which I had been habituated, he protested
vigorously. He said that both Celsianus and Galen, the two most acclaimed
physicians in Rome, who had been called in in consultation by my own
physician, but also he himself, had enjoined most emphatically that I must
remain abed for some days yet, must keep indoors for many days more, if I
was to continue on the road to recovery on which their ministrations had
set me, and that all three had bidden him tell me that any transgression
of their instructions would expose me to the probability of a relapse far
more serious than my initial illness and to a far longer period of
inactivity.

I was determined and obstinate. When he added that I must not only remain
quiet, but must not talk for any length of time nor concern myself with
any news or any matters likely to excite me, I revolted. I commanded him
to obey me and to be silent as to the physicians' orders.

I began by asking him what day it was. I then learned that I had been ill
fifteen days since reaching Rome, for I had left my villa on the eighth
day before the Ides of June and it was now the ninth day before the
Kalends of July.

Next I asked after my tenants. Agathemer said that they had most dutifully
presented themselves each morning to salute me and attend my reception, if
I should be well enough to hold one; to ask after my progress towards
recovery if I was not; that Ligo Atrior, as recognized leader among them,
had also come each evening between bath-time and dinner-time to ask
personally after my condition; that, as all the physicians had, the day
before, stated that I must by no means be allowed to see anyone save Tanno
or to leave my bedroom, for some days, he had told Ligo the evening before
not to diminish his and his fellows' time for sight-seeing by coming on
this particular morning; that Ligo had expressed his unalterable intention
of coming each evening in any case.

I commended Agathemer's discretion but told him to tell Ligo, when he came
in the afternoon, that I intended to hold a reception next morning and
wanted to see all nine of them at it.

I then asked about Murmex. Agathemer said that Tanno had offered to bring
him to the Emperor's notice, but that Murmex had declined, thanking him,
but remarking that, as I had offered to bring him to the Emperor's notice,
it would be bad manners on his part to appear under the countenance of any
other patron and would moreover be inviting bad luck instead of good luck
on his presentation.

Agathemer said Murmex had called twice to ask after me and had told him
where he lodged. I instructed him to apprise Murmex of my intention to
hold a morning reception. I knew Agathemer would send out notifications to
all my city clients of long standing without any admonition of mine.

He told me that no message of any kind had come from Vedia nor from Vedius
Vedianus, the head of her clan, nor from Satronius Satro. I could not
conjecture just why Vedia had remained silent, and I was not only worried
over the fact of her silence and aloofness, but felt myself wearied, even
after a very short time, by the uncontrollable turmoil of my mind,
puzzling as to why she had ignored me.

As to Vedius and Satronius, I was vividly aware of their state of mind and
acutely wretched over it.

Only nineteen days before I had seen my _triclinium_ walled and floored
with flowers presented by the local leader of one clan; had seen my dinner
table groan under the fruit sent me by the local leader of the other clan,
had known that both clans were competing for my favor and that I was high
in the good graces of each.

Now I felt that all men of both clans must be bitterly incensed with me,
for I knew their clan-pride. No man of either clan would weigh the facts:
that neither fight had been of my seeking; that both fights had been
forced on me; that I could not by any exercise of ingenuity have avoided
either, once the onset began; that each had been the result of the
headlong impetuosity and self-deception of my assailants, that both were
the outcome of conditions which I could not be expected to recognize as
dangerous beforehand, of a mistake not of my causing, for which I was in
no way to blame. I knew that every man of both clans, and most of all the
head of each clan, would consider nothing except that I had participated
in a roadside brawl in which men of their clan had been roughly handled,
some of them by me personally, and from which their men had fled in
confusion, routed partly by my participation.

I saw myself embroiled with both clans, conjectured that the two fights
were the staple of the clan gossip on both sides, and that animosity
against me was increasing from day to day. I felt impelled to state my
case to both Vedius and Satronius, but I knew that even if I had been in
the best of health, even if I should be eloquent beyond my best previous
effort, there was little or no chance that anything I might say would
avail to placate either magnate or to abate either's hostility toward me.
And I knew that, in my dazed condition, the chances were that I would
bungle the simplest mental task.

Yet I formed the purpose of attempting, that very morning, to see both
Satronius and Vedius, and of attempting, if I was admitted to either, to
convince him that he had no reason to be incensed with me, but that he
should rather be incensed against my assailants: an aim impossible of
attainment, as I knew, but would not admit to myself.

As I was to have no reception that morning I lay abed a while longer, at
Agathemer's earnest solicitation.

Little good it did me. In my mind, behind my shut eyelids, I rehearsed the
unfortunate occurrences on the road, I groped back to their causes.

I could see that Tanno's jesting replies to the Satronians he had met on
the road had given them the idea that Xantha was being conveyed, in a shut
litter, to Villa Vedia: similarly his quizzical words to the Vedians he
had met had given them a similar notion that Greia was being smuggled
behind slid panels and drawn curtains, to Villa Satronia.

The men of each side had spread their conjecture among their clansmen.
Each side had made the forecast that the abductors would try to carry off
their prize to Rome: each had calculated that the other side would try to
fool them, that they would not travel the obvious road, but try to escape
by boldly following the route least to be expected. So the Vedians
inferred that the Satronians, instead of taking their direct road to the
Salarian Highway, would expect an ambush along it and would try to sneak
through Vediamnum. Therefore they were in ambush at Vediamnum. Similarly
and for similar reasons the Satronians were in ambush below their road
entrance, calculating that the Vedians would pass that way.

I had blundered on both ambushes in succession.

I lay, eyes closed, raging at my lack of foresight and at my hideous bad
luck.

When Agathemer knew that I could not be kept longer abed he brought me a
cup of delicious hot mulled wine and a roll almost as well-flavored as
Ofatulena's, for my town cook was fit for a senator's kitchen. I lay still
a while longer.

When I stood up I felt dizzy and faint, but I was resolved and stubborn.
Besides, I craved fresh air and thought that an airing would revive me. In
fact, once out of doors and in my litter, with all Uncle's sliding panels
open, I felt very much better. I told my bearers to take me to the Vedian
mansion.

There the doorkeeper, indeed, stared, and the footmen nudged each other,
but I was received civilly and was shown into the atrium, which I found
crowded with the clan clients and with gentlemen like myself.

The atrium of the Vedian mansion had kept, by family tradition, a sort of
affectation of old-fashioned plainness. It was indeed lined with expensive
marbles, but it was far soberer in coloring, far simpler in every detail,
than most atriums of similar houses. Instead of striving for an effect of
opulent gorgeousness by every device of material, color and decoration,
the heads of the Vedian family had expressed, in their atrium, their cult
of primitive simplicity. Compared with others of the houses of senators
their atrium appeared bare and bleak.

His guests gazed at me curiously as I advanced to greet our host.

Vedius, the smallest man in the throng, stood blinking at me with his red
eyelids, his bald head shining from its top to the thin fringe of reddish
hair above his big flaring ears, his small wizened face all screwed up
into a knot, his thin lips pursed, his little ferret eyes, close-set
against his mean, miserly nose, peering at me under their blinking red
lids.

His expression was malign and sneering, his tone sarcastic, but his mere
words were not discourteous.

"I am delighted to see you, Andivius," he said, "and very much amazed to
see you here.

"I have been told that on the eighth day before the Ides, you entered
Vediamnum early of a rainy morning, with an escort so numerous that none
could have conjectured that the cavalcade was yours; that, when three or
four of the inhabitants of the village accosted you civilly and asked who
you were and where you were going, your men, without any reply, fell on
them and beat them unmercifully; that, when the population of Vediamnum
rushed to the assistance of their fellows, your convoy set upon them and
started a pitched battle, mishandling them so frightfully that the street
was strewn with stunned and bleeding villagers; that you not only
participated in the affray, but fomented it and led it; that the two men
who have since died, fell under blows from your own quarter-staff.

"Now, the fact that I see you here leads me to conjecture that, after the
occurrences which I have rehearsed, you would not have presented yourself
before me and come to salute me, had you not had some version of these
events other than that uniformly reported to me. If you have any version
differing from those which I have heard, speak; we listen."

I had begun to feel dizzy and faint just as soon as I was indoors, I
seemed dazed and as if my faculties were numb; at his ironical mock-
courtesy I felt myself hot and cold all over. Yet I essayed to state my
side of the case.

I explained all the circumstances, narrated Tanno's unexpected arrival,
his quizzical bantering of the persons whom he encountered on the road, my
tenants' petition, my agreement with Marcus Martins, the accretion of
Hirnio and Murmex to our party, Tanno's insistence on reaching the
Salarian Highway through Vediamnum, and all the other trivial factors
which had conspired to my undoing; I described the affray in Vediamnum,
both as I had seen it and as Tanno and Agathemer had told me of it;
similarly the fight below Villa Satronia. I thought I was lucid and
convincing.

When I paused Vedius leered at me.

"Andivius," he said, "I am not such a fool as you take me for. I am not in
any way deceived by all that rigmarole. I see through you and your words
as I saw through your actions. I comprehend perfectly that you connived
with the Satronians to entice my people into a roadside brawl to discredit
our clan. I understand how ingeniously you made all your arrangements,
even to concocting a sham fight with the Satronians to enable you to put
forward the excuses you have offered.

"Your plans miscarried at only two points: you did not mean to leave any
corpses, yet you caused the deaths of two of my retainers; you did not
mean to suffer anything yourself, yet in your sham fight you were
accidentally hit on the head.

"Blows on the head often unsettle the intellect. I take that into
consideration in dealing with you. If you go home now and recover from
your injury your mind will clear. Then you will have wit enough to decide
how soon and how often it will be advisable for you to return here!"

His labored sarcasm was entirely intelligible. I bade him farewell as
ceremoniously as I could manage.

He silkily said:

"I have a bit of parting advice for you, Andivius. The climate of Bruttium
is far better than that of Rome or Sabinum in promoting a recovery from
any sort of illness; it is also far more conducive to long life. If you
are wise Rome will not see you linger here, nor will either Sabinum or
Rome see you return; a word to the wise is enough."

Somehow I reached my litter. I understood his implied threat and saw
endless difficulties and perils confronting me.

At the Satronian mansion the lackeys were insolent and it needed all
Agathemer's tact and self-control, and all mine to browbeat them into
admitting me.

As much as possible in contrast with the Vedian atrium was the Satronian
atrium, a hall decorated as gorgeously, floridly and opulently as any in
Rome; fairly walled with statues almost jostling in their niches, so
closely were the niches set; and all behind, between and above them ablaze
with crimson and glittering with gilding; every inch of walls and ceiling
carved, colored, gilded and glowing.

Satronius was similarly in contrast with Vedius, a man tall, bulky,
swarthy, rubicund and overbearing.

No finesse about Satronius, not a trace.

From amid his bevy of sycophants and toadies, over the heads of his
fashionably garbed guests, he towered, his face red as a beacon, his big
bullet head wagging, his great mouth open.

He roared at me:

"What brings you here, with your hands red with the blood of three of my
henchmen? No Greek can outdo you in effrontery, Andivius. You are the
shame of our nobility. To force your way into my morning reception after
having killed three of my men in an unprovoked assault on them on the open
road on my own land!"

I kept my temper and somehow kept my head clear, though it buzzed, and I
kept my feet though I seemed to myself to reel. I spoke up for myself
boldly and, I thought, expounded the circumstances and my version of the
brawls even better than I had to Vedius.

To my amazement Satronius, in more brutal language, all but duplicated
what Vedius had said to me, only reversing the clan names. He was
convinced that I had assaulted his men by prearrangement with the Vedians,
after a mock fight with them at Vediamnum.

I saw I was accomplishing nothing and endeavored to escape after a formal
farewell.

Satronius roared after me:

"You left three corpses on the roadway below my villa. I'll not forget
them nor will any man of my name. If you have sense you'll keep away from
Sabinum, you'll get out of Rome, you'll hide yourself far away. My men
have long memories and keen eyes. There'll be another corpse found
somewhere by and by and the score paid off."

I laughed mirthlessly to myself as I climbed into my litter. I had, in
fact, embroiled myself hopelessly with both sides of the feud.

Then my men carried me to the Palace.

The enormousness and magnificence of the great public throne-room had
always overwhelmed me with a sense of my own insignificance. On that
morning, chagrined at my reception by Vedius and Satronius, weak, ill and
tottering on my feet, needing all my will power to stand steadily and not
reel, with my head buzzing and my ears humming, feeling large and light
and queer, I was abased and crushed by the vastness and hugeness of the
room and by the uncountable crowd which thronged it.

Necessarily I was kept standing a long time in the press, and, in my
weakened condition, I found my toga more than usually a burden, which is
saying a great deal.

I suppose the toga was a natural enough garment for our ancestors, who
practically wore nothing else, as their tunics were short and light. But
since we have adopted and even developed foreign fashions in attire, we
are sufficiently clad without any toga at all. To have to conceal one's
becoming clothes under a toga, on all state and official occasions, is
irritating to any well-dressed man even in the coldest weather, when the
weight of the toga is unnoticed, since its warmth is grateful.

But to have to stew in a toga in July, when the lightest clothing is none
too light, is a positive affliction, even out of doors on a breezy day.
Indoors, in still and muggy weather, when one is jammed in a throng for an
hour or two, a toga becomes an instrument of torture. Yet togas we must
wear at all public functions, and though we rage at the infliction and
wonder at the queerness of the fate which has, by mere force of
traditional fashion, condemned us to such unconscionable sufferings, yet
no one can devise any means of breaking with our hereditary social
conventions in attire. Therefore we continue to suffer though we rail.

If a toga is a misery to a strong, well man, conceive of the agonies I
suffered in my weakened state, when I needed rest and fresh air, and had
to stand, supporting that load of garments, the sweat soaking my inner
tunic, fainting from exhaustion and heat.

I somewhat revived when Tanno edged his way through the crowd and stood by
me. We talked of my health, he rebuking me for my rashness in coming out
so soon, I protesting that I was plenty well enough and feeling better for
my outing.

There we stood an hour or more, very uncomfortable, Tanno making
conversation to keep me cheerful.

I needed his companionship and the atmosphere he diffused. For in addition
to my illness and the circumstances I have described, I suffered from the
proximity of Talponius Pulto, my only enemy among my acquaintances in the
City. I had seen him once already that morning, in the Vedian atrium,
where he had stood beside Vedius Vedianus, towering over his diminutive
host, for he was a very tall man. Now, in the Imperial Audience Hall, he
was almost a full head taller than any man in the press about him, so that
I could not but be aware of his satirical gaze.

He was a singularly handsome man, surpassed by few among our nobility, and
I had remarked how he dwarfed Vedius, how he made him appear stunted and
contemptible. He had a head well shaped and well set, curly brown hair,
fine and abundant, a high forehead, wide-set dark blue eyes, a chiseled
nose, a perfect mouth and a fine, rounded chin. His neck was the envy of
half our most beautiful women. His carriage was noble and he always looked
a very distinguished man.

I could never divine why he hated me, but hate me he had from our earliest
encounters. He derided me, maligned me and had often thwarted me from,
apparently, mere spitefulness.

As I knew his evil gaze on me I now, in my weakened condition, somehow
felt unable to bear it.

Yet I was somewhat buoyed up, as I stood there, by a recurrence of
thoughts which I had often had before under similar circumstances. Most
men of my rank seemed to take their wealth and position as matters of
course. I never could. I have, all my life, at times meditated on my good
fortune in being a Roman and a Roman of equestrian rank. While waiting in
the great Audience Hall of the Palace, especially, the emotions aroused by
these meditations often became so poignant as almost to overcome me, on
this day in particular. As I viewed the splendor of the Hall and the
gorgeousness of the crowd that thronged it, my heart swelled at the
thought of being part of all that magnificence. It thrilled me to feel
that I had a share and had a right to a share in Rome's glory.

The Emperor was busy with a succession of embassies, delegations and so
on, and, as far as I could see, was in a good humor and trying to appear
affable and not to seem bored.

After the deputations were disposed of the senators passed before the
throne and saluted the Prince. Commodus barely spoke to most of them; it
seemed to me, indeed, that he said more to Vedius and Satronius than to
any other senators.

Then came the turn of us knights, far more numerous than the senators. The
ushers positively hurried us along.

To me, to my amazement, the Emperor spoke very kindly.

"I am delighted to see you here today, Hedulio." he said.

"And I am sorry that I have no time for what I want to ask you and say to
you.

"I have heard of your illness and I know how it originated. Galen told me
you ought to keep your bed for days yet. Are you sure you are well enough
to be out?"

"I think it is doing me good, your Majesty," I replied. "Your words are, I
know."

"If you feel too ill to come here tomorrow," he said, "I'll hold you
excused, but in that case send a message early. I want you here tomorrow,
specially, come if you can.

"Meanwhile, tell me, has coming here to-day tired you? Can you stay
longer?"

"I certainly can," I replied, elated at his notice.

"Then stay here till this tiresome ceremonial is over," he said, "and
accompany me to the Palace Stadium. Rice and the Honorable Nathaniel P.
Banks, ex-governors of Massachusetts, his Honor Oliver Ames, lieutenant-governor
of the State, his Honor Albert Palmer, mayor of Boston, General
Joshua L.

Chamberlain, ex-governor of Maine, the Honorable Frederick Smyth, ex-governor
of New Hampshire, Professor J.C. Greenough, president of the Massachusetts
Agricultural College, General Francis A. Walker, president of the Institute
of Technology, the Honorable Francis B.

Hayes, president of the Horticultural Society, the Reverend Edmund F.
Slafter, corresponding secretary of the New England Historic Genealogical
Society, John E.

Russell, secretary of the State Board of Agriculture, and Major Ben:
Perley Poore, secretary of the United States Agricultural Society, and
ex-commander of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company.

Other societies with which Mr. Wilder is connected were also represented,
as the Massachusetts Society for the Promotion of Agriculture, the New
England Agricultural Society, the New England Life Insurance
Company, the Hamilton Bank, the Home Savings Bank, the Grand Lodge
of Masons, and the Second Church of Dorchester.

Letters were received from the Honorable Robert C. Winthrop, president of
the Massachusetts Historical Society, his Excellency Benjamin F.

Butler, governor, and the Honorables John D. Long, William Claflin, and
Thomas Talbot, ex-governors of the State, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, the
Honorable Dr. George B. Loring, United States Commissioner of Agriculture,
and the Honorable Francis W.

Bird, president of the Bird Club, The addresses and letters are to be
printed in full. A few extracts follow:

Dr. Holmes referred to Mr. Wilder as: "The venerable and venerated
friend who has outlived the fruits of fourscore seasons, and is still
ripening as if his life were all summer."
Mr. Winthrop wrote: "No other man has done so much for our fields and
gardens and orchards. He has distinguished himself in many other lines
of life, and his relations to the Legislature of Massachusetts and to the
Historic Genealogical Society will not soon be forgotten. But his name
will have its most enduring and most enviable association with the flowers
and fruits for whose culture he was foremost in striving, both by precept
and example. He deserves a grateful remembrance as long as a fine pear is
relished or a brilliant bouquet admired."
Governor Rice said: "There is hardly a public enterprise of the last three
generations, scarcely a pursuit in life, or an institution of
patriotism, discipline, or charity, that does not bear the signet
of his touch and feel the vigor of his co-operation.

Why, sir, it may be said, almost with literal truth, that the trees
which this great arborist has planted and cultivated and loved are
not more numerous than the evidences of his handiwork in all the
useful and beneficent departments of life; and all the flowers that
shall grow to the end of time ought to bear fragrance to his memory."

Mayor Palmer said: "Time would fail me to recount his great and
honorable services to society and the State. It must suffice to say
that no name of this century is written more imperishably in the affection
and esteem of Boston and Massachusetts than the name of him, our honored
guest."
Dr. Loring wrote: "It is with pride and satisfaction that the business
associations of the city of Boston can point to him as a representative
of that mercantile integrity which gives that city its distinguished
position among the great commercial centres of the world."

Governor Banks said: "I can scarcely enumerate, much less analyze, the
numerous and important social and national enterprises which make the
character and career of our distinguished guest illustrious."

Governor Chamberlain said: "We rejoice in this honored old age,--this
youth, rounded, beautified, and sweetened into supreme manhood; and
we rejoice also that it shall remain for after times an example and
inspiration for all who would live true lives, and win the honor
that comes here and hereafter to noble character."

President Greenough thus spoke:--"The line of buildings which to-day at
Amherst graces one of the fairest landscapes in New England, and the
sound and practical education which they were built to secure, are
to be a lasting monument to his foresight, his patriotism, and his
eloquent persuasion."

Mr.

Russell said: "To him the agriculture of the Commonwealth owes a debt that
can never be paid; the records of our board are a monument of his
good works more enduring than brass.

And, sir, in view of his venerable years, so lightly borne, his interest
in all the active affairs of men, and his continued powers of social
enjoyment, I may well repeat the wish of the poet Horace, expressed in one
of his invocations to the Emperor Augustus: 'Serus in coelum redeas.'"
Major Poore said: "Mr. President, I am confident that the distinguished
gentlemen around these tables will long remember to-night, and recall
with pleasure its varied homages to Colonel Wilder, thankful that we
have so pure a shrine, so bright an oracle, as the common property
of all who reverence virtue, admire manhood, or aspire to noble
deeds.

Succeeding years will not dim the freshness of Colonel Wilder's fame;
and the more frequently we drink at this fountain, the sweeter we
shall find its waters.

'You may break, you may shatter the vase, if you will, But the scent
of the roses will hang round it still

.'"
* * * * *

THE OLD TAVERNS AND STAGE-COACHES OF GROTON.

BY THE HON. SAMUEL ABBOTT GREEN, M.D.

It has been said that there is nothing contrived by man which has produced
so much happiness as a good tavern. Without granting or denying the
statement, all will agree that many good times have been passed around
the cheerful hearth of the old-fashioned inn.

The earliest tavern in Groton, of which there is any record or tradition,
was kept by Samuel Bowers, Jr., in the house lately and for a long time
occupied by the Champney family. Mr.

Bowers was born in Groton on December 21, 1711, and, according to his
tombstone, died on "the Sixteenth Day of December Anno Domini 1768. Half
a hour after Three of the Clock in ye Afternoon, and in the Fifty
Eight year of his age."

He kept the house during many years, and was known in the neighborhood
as "land'urd Bowers,"--the innkeeper of that period being generally
addressed by the title of landlord. I do not know who succeeded him
in his useful and important functions.

The next tavern of which I have any knowledge was the one kept by Captain
Jonathan Keep, during the latter part of the Revolution. In The Independent
Chronicle (Boston), February 15, 1781, the Committee of the General Court
for the sale of confiscated property in Middlesex County, advertise
the estate of Dr.

Joseph Adams, of Townsend, to be sold "at Mr. Keep's, innholder in
Groton." This tavern has now been kept as an inn during more than a
century. It was originally built for a dwelling-house, and, before the
Revolution, occupied by the Reverend Samuel Dana; though since that time
it has been lengthened in front and otherwise considerably enlarged.
Captain Keep was followed by the brothers Isaiah and Joseph Hall, who were
the landlords as early as the year 1798. They were succeeded in 1825 by
Joseph Hoar, who had just sold the Emerson tavern, at the other end of
the village street. He kept it for nearly twenty years,--excepting the
year 1836, when Moses Gill and his brother-in-law, Henry Lewis Lawrence,
were the landlords,--and sold out about 1842 to Thomas Treadwell
Farnsworth.

It was then conducted as a temperance house, at that time considered a great
innovation on former customs. After a short period it was sold to Daniel
Hunt, who kept it until 1852, and he was followed by James M. Colburn, who
had it for two years. It then came into the possession of J. Nelson
Hoar, a son of the former landlord, who took it in 1854, and in
whose family it has since remained.

Latterly it has been managed by three of his daughters, and now is known
as the Central House. It is the only tavern in the village, and for neatness
and comfort can not easily be surpassed.

In the list of innholders, near the end of Isaiah Thomas's Almanack,
for 1785, appears the name of Richardson, whose tavern stood on the
present site of the Baptist church.

It was originally the house owned and occupied by the Reverend Gershom Hobart,
which had been considerably enlarged by additions on the north and east
sides, in order to make it more suitable for its new purposes. Mine host
was Captain Jephthah Richardson, who died on October 9, 1806.

His father was Converse Richardson, who had previously kept a small inn,
on the present Elm Street, near the corner of Pleasant. It was in
this Elm Street house that Timothy Bigelow, the rising young lawyer,
lived, when he first came to Groton.

Within a few years this building has been moved away. Soon after the death
of Captain Jephthah Richardson, the tavern was sold to Timothy Spaulding,
who carried on the business until his death, which occurred on
February 19, 1808.

Spaulding's widow subsequently married John Spalter, who was the landlord
for a short time.

About 1812 the house was rented to Dearborn Emerson, who had been possession
of it for a few years.

During the War of 1812 it was an inn of local renown; and a Lieutenant
Chase had his headquarters here for a while, when recruiting for
the army.

He raised a company in the neighborhood, which was ordered to
Sackett's Harbor, near the foot of Lake Ontario.

The men were put into uniforms as they enlisted, and drilled daily. They
were in the habit of marching through the village streets to the music
of the spirit-stirring drum and the ear-piercing fife; and
occasionally they were invited into the yard of some hospitable
citizen, who would treat them to "the cups that cheer but not
inebriate," when taken in moderation.

William Kemp was the drummer, and Wilder Shepley the fifer, both
noted musicians in their day.

Sometimes his brother, Moses Kemp, would act as fifer.
William is still alive, at the advanced age of nearly ninety-five years,
and gives many reminiscences of that period.

He was born at Groton on May 8, 1789, and began to drum in early boyhood.
His first appearance in the public service was during the year 1805,
as drummer of the South Company of Groton, commanded by Luther Lawrence,
afterward the mayor of Lowell.

He has been the father of nine children, and has had thirty
grandchildren, thirty-three great-grandchildren, and one
great-great-grandchild.

Mr. Kemp can even now handle the drumsticks with a dexterity rarely
equaled; and within a short time I have seen him give an exhibition
of his skill which would reflect credit on a much younger person. Among
the men enlisted here during that campaign were Marquis D.
Farnsworth, Aaron Lewis, William Shepley, and John Woodward, of this town;
and James Adams, and his son, James, Jr., of Pepperell.

It was about the year 1815 that and Dearborn Emerson left the Richardson
tavern, and moved down the street, perhaps thirty rods, where he
opened another public house on the present site of Milo H.

Shattuck's store.
The old tavern, in the meantime, passed into the hands of Daniel
Shattuck, who kept it until his death, which occurred on April 8,
1831.

The business was then carried on during a short time by Clark Tenny, who
was followed by Lemuel Lakin, and afterward by Francis Shattuck, a
son of Daniel, for another brief period.

About the year 1833 it was given up entirely as a public house, and
thus passed away an old landmark widely known in those times.

It stood well out on the present road, the front door facing down
what is now Main Street, the upper end of which then had no existence.

In approaching the tavern from the south, the road went up Hollis Street and
turned to the left somewhere south of the Burying-Ground.

The house afterward was cut up and moved off, just before the Baptist
meeting-house was built.

My earliest recollections carry me back faintly to the time when it was
last used as a tavern, though I remember distinctly the building as it
looked before it was taken away.

Dearborn Emerson married a sister of Daniel Brooks, a large owner in the
line of stage-coaches running through Groton from Boston to the
northward; and this family connection was of great service to him.

Jonas Parker, commonly known as "Tecumseh" Parker, was now associated
with Emerson in keeping the new hotel.

The stage business was taken away from the Richardson tavern, and
transferred to this one. The house was enlarged, spacious barns and stables
were erected, and better accommodations given to man and beast,--on too
large a scale for profit, it seems, as Parker and Emerson failed
shortly afterward, This was in the spring of 1818, during which year the
tavern was purchased by Joseph Hoar, who kept it a little more than six
years, when he sold it to Amos Alexander. This landlord, after a long
time, was succeeded in turn by Isaac J. Fox, Horace Brown, William Childs,
Artemas Brown, John McGilson, Abijah Wright, and Moses Gill. It was
given up as a hotel in 1856, and made into a shoe factory; and finally
it was burned. Mr. Gill had the house for eight years, and was the last
landlord. He then opened a public house directly opposite to the
Orthodox church, and called it The Globe, which he kept for two
years.

He was succeeded by Stephen Woods, who remained only one year, after which
time this also was given up as a public house.

Another hostelry was the Ridge Hill tavern, situated at the Ridges, three
miles from the village, on the Great Road to Boston. This was built about
the year 1805, and much frequented by travelers and teamsters. At this
point the roads diverge and come together again in Lexington, making
two routes to Boston. It was claimed by interested persons that one was
considerably shorter than the other,--though the actual difference was
less than a mile. In the year 1824 a guide-board was set up at the
crotch of the roads, proclaiming the fact that the distance to Lexington
through Concord was two miles longer than through Carlisle. Straightway
the storekeepers and innholders along the Concord road published a
counter-statement, that it had been measured by sworn surveyors, and
the distance found to be only two hundred and thirty-six rods further
than by the other way.

The first landlord of the Ridge Hill tavern was Levi Parker, noted
for his hospitality.

He was afterward deputy-sheriff of Middlesex County, and lived in Westford.
He was followed, for a short time, by John Stevens, and then by John H.
Loring, who conducted the house during many years, and was succeeded
by his son Jefferson. After him came Henry L.
Lawrence, who kept it during one year; he was followed by his brother-in-law,
Moses Gill, who took the tavern in April, 1837, and kept it just five
years. When Mr. Gill gave up the house, he was followed by one Langdon
for a short time, and he in turn by Kimball Farr as the landlord, who
had bought it the year previously, and who remained in charge until 1868.
During a part of the time when the place was managed by Mr. Farr;
his son Augustus was associated with him. Mr. Farr sold the tavern to
John Fuzzard, who kept it for a while, and is still the owner of
the property.

He was followed by Newell M. Jewett; the present landlord is Stephen
Perkins, a native of York, Maine, who took it in 1880. The house had been
vacant for some years before this time. A fair is held here regularly on
the first Tuesday of every month, for the sale of horses, and
buyers are attracted from a long distance.

At one time this property was owned by Judge Samuel Dana, who sold it to
John H.

Loring.

As early as the year 1798 there was a tavern about a mile from the
Ridges, toward Groton.

It was kept by Stephen Farrar, in the house now standing near where the brook
crosses the Great Road. Afterward one Green was the landlord.

The house known as the Levi Tufts place in this neighborhood was an inn
during the early part of this century, conducted by Tilly Buttrick.

Also about this time, or previously, the house situated south of
Indian Hill, and occupied by Charles Prescott,--when the map in Mr.

Butler's History was made,--was an inn.

There was a tavern kept from the year 1812 to 1818 by a Mr. Page, in Mr.
Gerrish's house, near the Unitarian church in the village. There was also
a tavern, near the present paper-mills of Tileston and Hollingsworth,
kept for many years (1825-55) by Aaron Lewis, and after him for a
short time by one Veazie.

It was originally the house of John Capell, who owned the sawmill and
gristmill in the immediate neighborhood. Amos Adams had an inn
near Squannacook, a hundred years ago, in a house now owned by James
Kemp.

Just before and during the Revolution a tavern was kept by George Peirce,
in the south part of the town, within the present limits of Ayer. This
landlord was probably the inn-holder of Littleton, whose name appears in
The Massachusetts Gazette, of August 8, 1765.

The house was the one formerly owned by the late Calvin Fletcher, and burned
March 25, 1880. It was advertised for sale, as appears from the following
advertisement in The Boston Gazette, September 27, 1773:--
To be Sold at PUBLIC VENDUE, to the highest Bidder, on Wednesday the 3d
Day of November next, at four o'Clock in the Afternoon (if not Sold
before at Private Sale) by me the Subscriber, A valuable FARM in
Groton, in the County of Middlesex, pleasantly situated on the great
County Road, leading from Crown Point and No. 4 to Boston: Said Farm
contains 172 Acres of Upland and Meadow, with the bigger Part under
improvement, with a large Dwelling House and Barn, and Out Houses,
together with a good Grist Mill and Saw Mill, the latter new last
Year, both in good Repair, and on a good Stream, and within a few
Rods of the House.

Said Farm would make two good Livings, and would sell it in two
Divisions, or together, as it would best suit the Purchaser.

Said House is situated very conveniently for a Tavern, and has been
improved as such for Ten Years past, with a Number of other Conveniences,
too many to enumerate. And the Purchaser may depend upon having a good
warrantee Deed of the same, and the bigger Part of the Pay made very
easy, on good Security. The whole of the Farming Tools, and Part of the
Stock, will be sold as above-mentioned, at the Subscriber's House
on said Farm.

GEORGE PEIRCE.

Groton, Aug. 30, 1773.

The gristmill and sawmill, mentioned in the advertisement, were on
Nonacoicus Brook.

In the Gazette, of November 15, 1773, another notice appears, which
shows that the tavern was not sold at the time originally appointed.

It is as follows:--
The Publick are hereby Notified that the Sale of the FARM in Groton,
which was to have been sold the 3d Instant on the Premisses, at the
House of Mr.

George Peirce, is adjourn'd to the house of Mr. Joseph Moulton, Innholder
in Boston, where it will certainly be Sold to the highest Bidder, on Wednesday
the 1st Day of December next, at 4 o'Clock, P.M.

The following advertisement appears in The Independent Chronicle (Boston),
September 19, 1808; the site of the farm was near that of Peirce's inn,
just mentioned. Stone's tavern was afterward kept by one Day, and
subsequently burned.

A FARM--for Sale,
Containing 140 acres of Land, situated in the South part of _Groton, (Mass.)_
with a new and well-finished House, Barn, & Out-houses, and Aqueduct,
pleasantly situated, where a Tavern has been kept for the last
seven years;--a part of the whole will be sold, as best suits the
purchaser.

For further particulars, inquire of THO's B. RAND, of _Charlestown_,
or the Subscriber, living on the Premises.

Sept. 12. JESSE STONE.

About a generation ago an attempt was made to organize a company
for the purpose of carrying on a hotel in the village, and a charter
was obtained from the Legislature.

The stock, however, was not fully taken up, and the project fell through.
Of the corporators, Mr. Potter and Mr.

Smith still survive.

Below is a copy of the act:--
An Act to incorporate the Groton Hotel Company.

_Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General
Court assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:--_
SECT. 1.

Luther F. Potter, Nathaniel P.

Smith, Simeon Ames, their associates and successors, are hereby made
a corporation, by the name of the Groton Hotel Company, for the
purpose of erecting, in the town of Groton, buildings necessary and
convenient for a public house, with all the powers and privileges,
and subject to all the liabilities, duties, and restrictions, set
forth in the forty-fourth chapter of the Revised Statutes.

SECT. 2.

Said corporation may hold such real and personal property, as may
be necessary and convenient for the purposes aforesaid, not exceeding
in amount twenty thousand dollars:
_provided_, that no shares in the capital stock of said corporation
shall be issued for a less sum or amount, to be actually paid in
on each, than the par value of the shared which shall be first
issued.

And if any ardent spirits, or intoxicating drinks of any kind whatever,
shall be sold by said company, or by their agents, lessees, or
persons in their employ, contrary to law, in any of said buildings,
then this act shall be void.

[_Approved by the Governor, May 2, 1850._]

In the spring of 1852, a charter was given to Benjamin Webb, Daniel
D.R.
Bowker, and their associates, for the purpose of forming a corporation
to carry on a hotel at the Massapoag Springs, in the eastern part
of this town, but the project fell through.

It was to be called the Massapoag Spring Hotel, and its capital stock was
limited to $30,000.

The act was approved by the Governor, May 18, 1852, and it contained similar
conditions to those mentioned above in regard to the sale of
liquors.

These enterprises are now nearly forgotten, though the mention of
them may revive the recollections of elderly people.

During the first half of the present century Groton had one
characteristic mark, closely connected with the old taverns, which it no
longer possesses. It was a radiating centre for different lines of
stage-coaches, until this mode of travel was superseded by the
swifter one of the railroad.

During many years the stage-coaches were a distinctive feature of the
place; and their coming and going was watched with great interest, and
created the excitement of the day. In early times the drivers, as they
approached the village, would blow a bugle in order to give notice
of their arrival; and this blast was the signal at the taverns to put the
food on the table.

More than a generation has now passed away since these coaches were wont
to be seen in the village streets.

They were drawn usually by four horses, and in bad going by six. Here a
change of coaches, horses, and drivers was made.

The stage-driver of former times belonged to a class of men that has entirely
disappeared from this community.
He, his big face brick-red,
his eyes popping out, seemed half strangled by his efforts to speak.

"I could hear it all," he managed to say.

"You two stand facing me," Commodus commanded. "Stand on either side of
Andivius."

They so placed themselves with a very bad grace.

The Emperor raised his voice.

"Come near, all you senators," he commanded. "I want all of you to hear
what I am about to say and to be witnesses to it."

Everybody, senators, knights and commoners crowded as close to the throne
as etiquette and the ushers would allow.

"Now listen to me," spoke Commodus. "You know I hate all sorts of official
business and should greatly prefer to put my entire time and energies on
athletics, horsemanship and swordsmanship, archery and other things really
worth while. I make no secret of my love for the activities at which I am
best and of my detestation of my duties.

"But, just because I hate my duties, it does not follow that I neglect
them. A lot of you think I do. I'll show you you are not always right, nor
often right. Just because I surround myself with wrestlers and charioteers
and gladiators and other good fellows, not with senile self-styled
philosophers, prosy and with unkempt beards and rough cloaks, as my father
did, half of you think I am incapable of being serious, or haven't
intellect enough to understand government or sense enough to care for the
Empire.

"You are mightily mistaken. I realize the importance of my
responsibilities and the magnificence of my opportunities. I hate routine,
but I know well the value of our Empire and that I, as Prince of the
Republic, [Footnote: See Note A.] have a bigger stake in it than any other
citizen of our Republic. I am not wholly absorbed in the joys of
practicing feats of strength and skill. I put more time on governing than
you think.

"I am autocrat of our world, and I know how to make my influence felt when
I choose. I have very positive views about fighting. Fighting has to go
on, on the frontiers of the Empire. My army can keep off our foes, but it
cannot kill off the Moorish and Arab and Scythian nomads, nor the hordes
of the German forests and the Caledonian moors. The Marcomanni and the
rest will claw at us. There must be fighting on the frontiers. It is
proper that there should be fighting where necessary, on any frontier, and
corpses scattered about.

"Also corpses are in place on any arena of any amphitheatre anywhere
inside our frontiers; fighting inside amphitheatres is proper and seemly.

"But I will tolerate no fighting inside our frontiers outside the
amphitheatres. I'll not condone any corpses on the pavement of any street
or on the road of any highway or byways. I'll not permit any battles, set-
tos, affrays or brawls in towns or villages or on roads. You hear me? You
hear me, Vedius? You hear me, Satronius? You hear me, all of you?

"Now it so happened that I had heard of your disgraceful Sabine feud,
which mars the peace of a whole countryside near Reate, and I had sent a
competent and reliable agent with four assistants to investigate and
report. For once luck was with me: generally my luck as a ruler is as bad
as it is good for me as an athlete. It so happened that my agents had just
completed their preliminary investigations and acquainted themselves with
general conditions when your idiotic feud broke loose in two abductions of
women, one by each side, that put my agents on their mettle. They kept
awake. They are no fools. My head man has a keen scent for incipient
trouble; he managed to have one of his helpers get among the ambushers in
Vediamnum and another among those on your byway, Satronius. Each of these
two severally heard all the talk of the ambushers with whom he mingled; so
I have had a faithful report of just what the Vedian ambush meant to do to
the Satronian convoy they lay in wait for and similarly of the other side.
Each was waiting for a sheep; both caught a wildcat. If the men in the
ambushes had had any eyes or any sense, no fight would have occurred. As
it was they got no more than they deserved. Hedulio was set on without
provocation and merely defended himself and his associates as any self-
respecting free man would. I have no fault to find with Hedulio. I take
you all to witness.

"Now that disposes of what is past. As to the future I shall tolerate no
illegalities of any kind anywhere in the City, in Italy or in the Empire.
You'll see. Dr. Commodus will cure this epidemic of lawlessness which
afflicts the Republic. You'll see my agents run down, catch and bring to
punishment the ingenious rascals who have been amusing themselves by
masquerading as Imperial Messengers, scampering across the landscape for
the fun of the thing, eating lavish meals at my cost, running the legs off
my best horses, lodging luxuriously in the best bed at every inn they stop
at, showing forged papers, or showing none at all, using no other means
than effrontery and assurance. I'll have them stopped. I'll stop them. And
I'll quell, I'll squelch this outburst of banditry of which we have too
much. I'll see that my agents hunt down and capture and execute these
highwaymen who rob not only rich travellers, but government treasure-
convoys, who even rob Imperial Messengers. A pretty state of affairs when
my couriers are fair game alike for impostors and robbers. I'll make the
slyest and the boldest quail at the idea of interfering with one of my
despatch riders and I'll exterminate all highwaymen. I'll have no one
swaggering up and down Italy, now in Liguria, now in Apulia, mocking the
law and its guardians, looting as he pleases, uncatchable, untraceable,
hidden and helped by mountaineers and farm-laborers and farmers, even
welcomed secretly in villages and towns, acclaimed as King of the
Highwaymen, until songs are made on him and sung even in Rome. He'll soon
decorate a gibbet, impaled there and spiked there too. You'll see. And
still less will I tolerate lawlessness among men of property and position.
The past actions of you magnates I dislike. As to the future I may say
that my agents were at your morning reception yesterday, Vedius, and heard
and reported your covert threats to Hedulio: likewise two were at your
house, Satronius, and heard and reported your open threats.

"Now I perfectly understand what you two implied. You threatened Andivius
with assassination, if he returned to his estates in Sabinum or if he so
much as remained in Rome.

"Beware! Be warned! Take care! I am easy-going enough, but I am Caesar and
I'll brook no trenching on my personal prerogatives or my legal authority.
I have the tribunician power for life, I am commissioned thereby to forbid
anything in the Republic and to see to it that no magistrate or citizen
oversteps the limits of what is permitted him. By your threats to Hedulio
you practically arrogate to yourself the right to exile a Roman of
equestrian rank. Banishment is a governmental power and a prerogative of
Caesar. I'll have no magnates of such overweening behavior. I am jealous
of my prerogatives, more than jealous!

"I know what you intend and what you can accomplish by your henchmen. I
comprehend that hundreds of stilettos are being sharpened, up there in the
Sabine Hills, and down here in the slums, for a chance at Hedulio.

"Now I can do much by legal authority and more by personal prerogative. Be
quick. Pass the word swiftly to all your satellites, here and in Sabinum.
Let them all know that if Andivius Hedulio dies by poison or violence or
is injured by any weapon, you two at Rome and your brother at Villa Vedia
and your son, Satro, at Villa Satronia, will not see two more sunrises. I
know how to enforce my will, and well you know that. Your lives are in
pawn for his, let all your clansmen know in good time.

"And more: if you dare, either of you, to move against Hedulio in any
court at Reate or elsewhere in Sabinum for his participation in the brawls
which you fomented and he fell into, I shall see to it that not your
influence dominates any trial, but evenhanded justice, jealously watched
over by my best legal advisers. You know what that means to you."

The Emperor spoke with a sustained, white-hot fury and it was comical to
watch Satronius and Vedius, as I did by sidelong glances when the
Emperor's eyes were not on my face.

When he stopped, both magnates bowed low and each in turn expressed his
loyal submissiveness.

The Emperor dismissed them with a wave of his hand. To me he said:

"That will keep you alive, Hedulio and, I trust, help you to get back into
good health. Horrible bore, these small-size local matters; worse, if
anything, even, than the maintenance of the Rhine frontier. I loathe all
this routine. But my agents serve me pretty well. Besides putting me in
touch, with all this feud idiocy they have incidentally informed me that
you brought to Rome with you a son of Murmex Frugi, also a nephew of
Pacideianus, and a pupil of both, who has come to Rome to try his luck at
their former profession. Did you bring him here today? I hoped you would."

"I did," I answered, "and thanks to your orders, I was able to pass him in
with me. He is in this hall now."  "Fine!" cried the Emperor, "and how
about your nine tenants, who stood by you so well in both fights. Did you
bring them too?"

"I should never have so presumed," I stammered, amazed, "It would never
have entered my head to ask entry here for such simple rustics. I should
have anticipated your wrath had I so far forgot myself."

"Rustics," said Commodus, smiling, even grinning, "who can fight as I am
told your tenants can fight are always to my mind. Bring them here
tomorrow, if you like. I'll see them in the Palaestra. I'm going there
today after this function is finished. Bring your swordsman there. You
know the door. I have given orders to admit you in my retinue."

In the Palaestra Tanno cheerfully presented Murmex to some of his favorite
prize-fighters and he stood talking with them, they appraisingly conning
the son of Murmex Frugi.

Tanno and I seated ourselves well back on the middle tier of the
spectators' benches and chatted until the Emperor should have returned
from his dressing-room and should seem at leisure to notice us.

"You must not be too puffed up at your good luck of today," Tanno warned
me.

"In fact, I advise you to be very wary and to comport yourself most
modestly. You know Commodus. It has too often happened that when he has
overwhelmed a courtier with favors, his very condescension seems to cause
a reaction in his feelings and he becomes insanely suspicious. Respond
promptly to all his suggestions, of course, but do not obtrude yourself on
his notice. In particular ask no favor of him for a long time to come."

I thanked him for his advice and assured him that I most heartily agreed
with his ideas.

Presently a page summoned me, and Tanno came, too.

Commodus had rid himself of his official robes and was now clad only in an
athlete's tunic and soft-soled shoes. I presented Murmex and the Emperor
questioned him, as to his age, his upbringing, his father's years in
retirement at Nersae, as to Pacideianus and put questions about thrusts
and parries designed to test his knowledge of fence.

Then he seated himself on his throne on the little dais by the fencing-
floor and had Murmex called to him, made him stand by him, and asked his
opinion of several pairs of fighters whom he had fence, one pair after the
other.

Appearing pleased with the replies he elicited he bade Murmex go with one
of the pages, rub down and change into fencing rig. While Murmex was gone
he viewed more fencing by young aspirants matched against accredited
Palace-school trainers.

When Murmex returned he had him matched with the best of these tiros. But,
almost at once, he called to the _lanista_:

"Save that novice! Murmex will kill him, even with that lath sword, if you
don't separate them."

He then had Murmex pitted against a succession of experts, each better
than his predecessor. Murmex acquitted himself so brilliantly that
Commodus cried:

"I must try this man myself."

He stood up and stepped down from the dais. Then he spent some time in
selecting a pair of cornel-wood fencing-swords of equal length and weight
and of similar balance, repeatedly hefting the sword he had chosen and
repeatedly asking Murmex whether he was satisfied with his sword, whether
it suited him; and similarly of the choice of shields.

When they faced each other they made as pretty a spectacle as I had ever
seen: Murmex stocky, so burly that he did not look tall, square-
shouldered, deep-chested, vast of chest-girth, huge in every dimension and
yet neither heavy nor slow in his movements; Commodus tall, slender,
sinewy, lithe and graceful, quick in every movement and amazingly
handsome.

They had made but a few passes when Commodus exclaimed:

"You show your training: it is some fun to fence with you."

After not many more thrusts and parries he called out:

"Be on your guard! I'm going to attack in earnest."

There followed a hot burst of sword-play and when both adversaries were
out of breath and stepped back and stood panting, Commodus praised Murmex
highly.

"You have the best guard I have ever encountered," he said, "steady-eyed,
cautious, wary yet quick too, and always with the threat of attack in your
defense. You are a credit to your training."

When they stepped forward again Commodus commanded:

"Attack now, attack your fiercest and show your quality. I shall not be
angry if you land on me, I shall be pleased. Do your utmost!"

After the second bout he said:

"You are most dangerous in attack. At last I have found a man really worth
fencing with. You gave me all I could do to protect myself. You are a
pearl!"

He looked round at the envious faces of more than two score seasoned
professionals and addressed the gathering at large.

"We have here a man who is nephew of Pacideianus and son to Murmex Frugi,
trained since infancy by both. No wonder he is a marvel. I have never
faced a swordsman who gave me so much trouble to protect myself or who
held off my attacks so easily and completely. He is the only man alive, so
far as I know, really in my class as a fencer."

As he was eyeing the assembly to note their manner of receiving this
proclamation his expression changed.

"Egnatius!" he called sharply. "Come here!"

Egnatius Capito came forward. Like Tanno and myself he was conspicuous
since he was in his toga, most of those present being athletes and clad
for practice.

"I did not notice you among your fellow senators at my levee," said the
Emperor.

"I was not there," Egnatius admitted. "I had a press of clients at my own
levee this morning and reached the Palace just in time to hear what you
had to say to Vedius and Satronius. I tried to catch your eye as you
passed out, but you did not notice me at all."

"I had rather see you here than in the throne-room," Commodus said. "I am
told that you have let your tongue run entirely too wild in talking of me
lately. If I had not been also told that you had had too much wine I
should animadvert on your effrontery officially. As it is I prefer to
prove you wrong before these experts and gentlemen."

"Of what have I been accused?" Capito queried, steadily.

"There has been no accusation," Commodus disclaimed. "But I have been told
that, at more than one dinner, you have been fool enough to say that I am
only a sham swordsman, that I take a steel sword and face an adversary
whose sword has a blade of lead: that it is no wonder that no one scores
off me, and that I run up big scores in all my bouts."

"If I ever said anything like that," spoke Capito boldly, "I was so drunk
that I have no recollection of having said it. And I am a sober man and a
light drinker. Also I have never harbored such thoughts unless too drunk
to know what I thought or said."

"You are cold sober now, aren't you?" Commodus queried.

"Entirely sober," Egnatius agreed.

"And you are a fencer far above the average?" he pursued.

"I have been told I have no mean skill," said Capito modestly.

"Such being the case," said Commodus, "you and I shall fence. Go with the
attendants and change into fencing kit. You'll find all styles and sizes
of everything needed in the dressing-rooms. First pick out a pair of
cornel-wood swords, entirely to your mind."

When Capito had selected a pair of swords which suited both him and the
Emperor, he went off to change. While he was gone Commodus had the armorer
drill a tiny hole near the point of one sword and insert in it one of
those thorn-like little steel points which are commonly used on the ends
of donkey-goads.

When Capito returned he showed him the two swords. Capito looked up at him
questioningly and amazedly.

"The idea is this," Commodus explained. "I mean to demonstrate my perfect
ability to defend myself, as well as my dangerousness in attack. You are
to use the sword with the goad point set in it; so that, if you succeed in
hitting me, you will tear a long slash in my hide; for I am going to fence
with you in my skin only, stark; mother-naked as I was born. I shall use
the unaltered sword and you will have on your fencing-tunic, so that if I
hit you, it won't hurt you nearly as much as a hit from you will hurt me.

"If you draw blood from me, I'll pay you one hundred thousand sesterces:
if I fail to lay you out on the pavement, totally insensible, in three
bouts, I'll pay you two hundred thousand sesterces. You can pick any
_lanista_ here to judge the fight and tell us when to separate and rest."

Capito, cool enough, indicated Murmex as referee.

"He's not a _lanista_," Commodus objected.

"He's Frugi's pupil," Capito maintained, "and therefore the best _lanista_
here."

"I agree," said Commodus, and he called:

"Who's the physician on duty?"

When the official came forward he said truculently:

"Get your plasters ready and your revivers. You'll have to attend a man
flat on the pavement, insensible and with a bad scalp wound, before much
time has passed."

And actually, though Capito fenced well, he was no match for Commodus.

The bout was worth watching. The adversaries were just the same height and
differed little in weight. Capito seemed more compact and steady; Commodus
more lithe and agile. Capito was a handsome man and made a fine figure in
his scanty, leek-green fencing tunic. Commodus, always vain, of his good
looks, delighted in exhibiting himself totally nude, not only because he
loved to shock elderly noblemen imbued with old-fashioned ideas of
propriety, but also because he rightly thought himself one of the best
formed men alive. He was fond of being told that he was like Hercules but,
except in the paintings of Zeuxis, Hercules has always been depicted as
brawnier and more mature than Commodus was then or ever became, to his
last hour. To me he suggested Mercury, especially as he appears in the
paintings of Polygnotus, or Apollo, as Apelles depicted him.

Besides the grace and good looks of the two, they fenced very well, Capito
correctly and with good judgment, Commodus with amazing dash and
originality.

Capito, though bold, was wholly unable to touch Commodus, while Commodus
slashed him, even through his tunic, till his blood ran from a dozen
scratches. Before the second bout was well joined Capito was felled by a
blow on the head, which laid him flat and insensible, bleeding from a
terrible scalp wound.

After Capito had been carried off by the attendants, the Emperor, wrapped
in an athlete's blanket, talked a while to Murmex and then went off to
bathe, for he bathed many times a day.

Set free, I went out and was helped into my litter. The two dogs were
still by it, took their places under it as if they had belonged to me
since puppyhood and under it trotted as I returned home. Once home I ate
the lunch permitted me and had an hour's sound, dreamless sleep.

I woke feeling so well that I sent for Agathemer, bade him have my litter
ready and told him I was going to the Baths of Titus.

Inevitably Agathemer protested that I was not well enough; naturally I
insisted and, of course, I had my way.

As with court levees, I have never been able to take as a matter of course
without wonder and admiration, the marvellous spectacle afforded by an
assemblage of our nobility and gentry gathered for their afternoon bath in
any of our splendid Thermae. Of these I hold the Baths of Titus not only
the most magnificent, which is conceded by everybody, but also I hold them
the most impressive mass of buildings in Rome, both outside and inside,
and surpassing in every respect every other great public building in the
city. Most connoisseurs appraise the Temple of Venus and Rome as our
capital's most splendid structure, but I could never bring myself to admit
it superior to or even equal to the Baths of Titus. To enter this
surpassing building, always congratulating myself on my right to enter the
baths and use them; to be one of the courtly throng of fashionable
notables resorting to them: I could never take these things as a matter of
course.

Nor could I ever take as a matter of course the sight of the bulk of
Rome's nobility, gentlemen and ladies together, thronging the great pools
and halls or roaming about the corridors, passage-ways or galleries, all
totally nude.

Social convention is an amazing factor in human life. One may say that
anything fashionable is accepted and that anything unfashionable is
banned. But that does not help one to explain to one's self the oddity of
some social conventions.

Oddest of all our Roman social conventions is the contrast between the
insistence on complete concealment of the human figure everywhere else and
the universal acceptance of its display at the Thermae.

At home, if receiving guests, on the streets, at a formal dinner, at
Palace levees, at the Circus games or in the Amphitheatre, a man must be
wrapped up in his toga. Any exposure of too much of the left arm, of
either ankle, is hooted at as bad form, is decried as indecent.

So of our ladies, on dinner sofas, on their reclining chairs in their
reception rooms, in their homes, in their litters abroad, at the
Amphitheatre or at the Circus games, from neck to instep they are muffled
up. If one catches a glimpse of a beauty's ankle as she goes up a stair,
one is thrilled, one watches eagerly, one cranes to look.

Yet one encounters the same beauty the same afternoon in a corridor of the
Baths of Titus, with nothing on but a net over her elaborate coiffure and
the bracelet with the key and number of the locker in which the attendant
has put away her clothing and valuables and one not only cannot stare at
her, one cannot look at her, not even if she accosts one and lingers for a
chat.

I have pondered over this, the most singular of our social conventions,
and the most mandatory and inescapable; and the more I ponder the more
singular it seems.

Yet it is real, it is a fact. One meets the wives of all one's friends,
the wives of all Rome's nobility, naked as they were born; they mingle
with the men in the swimming pools, in the ante-rooms, in the rest-rooms,
everywhere except in the shower-bath cabinets and the rubbing-down rooms;
one swims with them, lounges with them, joins groups of chatting gentlemen
and ladies, chats, goes off, and all the while one cannot, one simply
cannot stare at a nude woman, any more than any of the women ever stares
at any man.

It is a social convention. But not the less amazing, although a fact.

One not only cannot scrutinize a woman, one cannot scrutinize a group of
women, even at a distance, even all the way across a swimming pool. So,
hoping to encounter Vedia in the gathering, I yet could not look for her.

I had met and talked with many of my acquaintances, notably Marcus Martius
and his bride Marcia.

Marcia, rosy as the inside of a sea-shell, with her gold hair confined by
a net of gold wire, was a bewitching creature, if I had been able to let
my eyes dwell on her.

She was as contained and slow spoken and soft-voiced as always, but she
was, for her, notably complimentary as to my share in the two fights;
thanked me warmly for defending her, declared that she would certainly
have been carried off, either as Xantha or Greia, or as a hostage for one
or the other, if I had not fought "like both the Dioscuri at once," as she
phrased it.

Martius corroborated her opinion of my services to them and thanked me
warmly.

Delayed by chats with friends and acquaintances, held up by distant
acquaintances and even by persons hardly known to me by sight, who
congratulated me on the Emperor's public championing of me against my
powerful Sabine neighbors, I felt my strength ebbing and sometimes saw a
gray blur between my eyes and what I looked at.

I was, in fact, so weak that I nearly fainted when, unseen in the swarm of
bathers until he was close to me, I encountered Talponius Pulto, tall,
handsome, disdainful, sneering and malignant as usual. From his proximity
I escaped as unobtrusively as I could and as promptly.

The cold douche and a swim in the cold pool had revived me. Also, in the
cold pool I had encountered Nemestronia, still personable enough at
eighty-odd to mingle daily with her social world, as nude as they, and
enjoy herself thoroughly. Yet, at her age, she knew she looked better when
under water, and spent most of her time in the pools. She and I did some
fancy swimming together, while she questioned me about my health.

I did not spend any more time than I could help between the cold pool and
the tepid pool; no more at least than importunate acquaintances exacted of
me.

In the tepid pool I felt, somehow, weaker and more relaxed than at any
time since I had gone out the previous morning. The effect of the
Emperor's favor, the effect of the cold plunge, were wearing off: mind and
body were losing tone. I swam languidly, alone, on my back and so swimming
found myself about one third of the way from the upper end of the pool and
about midway of its width. I was staring up at the panels of the vaulting,
relishing the beauty of the color scheme, the gold rosettes brilliant
against the deep blue of the soffits, set off by the red of the coffering.

So swimming and staring my eyes roamed downward to the great round-headed
coved window above the gallery. The railing of the gallery had a sort of
wicket in it, by which bathers could emerge one by one on to the bracket-
like platform which overhung the pool at that end, for use as a take-off
for a high dive.

Suddenly, on this diving-stand, poised for her dive, outlined against the
window behind her, I recognized Vedia; Vedia, my angered sweetheart, rosy
as Marcia, more lovely, and nude as Venus rising from the sea.

Seeing her thus, and seeing her thus unexpectedly, woke in me a volcanic
outburst of conflicting emotions altogether too much for my weakened
condition.

I fainted.

When I came to I felt weak and queer and did not at first open my eyes. I
heard subdued voices all about me, as of an interested crowd; I felt all
wet, I felt the cold of a wet mosaic pavement under me, but my head and
shoulders were pillowed on a support wet indeed, as I was, but soft and
warm.

I opened my eyes.

I realized that my head was in Vedia's lap, for I saw above me her
dripping breasts and, higher, her anxious face looking down at mine.

I fainted again.


CHAPTER VIII

THE WATER-GARDEN


Just how long I was entirely unconscious I do not know. For after I began
to come to myself at intervals which grew shorter, for periods which grew
longer, I was too weak to move a muscle or to utter a syllable. I lay,
flaccid, in my big, deep, soft bed, very dimly aware of Occo or of
Agathemer hovering about me, generally recalled to consciousness by an
eggspoonful of hot spiced wine being forced through my slow-opening lips
and teeth.

How many times I was sufficiently conscious to know that I was being fed,
but too ill for any thoughts whatever, I cannot conjecture. When I began
to have mental feelings the first was one of dazed confusion of mind, of
groping to recollect where I was and why and what had last happened to me.

When I recalled my last waking experience I lay bathed in sleepy
contentment. I could think connectedly enough to reason out, or my
unthinking intuitions presented to me without my thinking, the conviction
that, if Vedia could recognize me in a big pool among scores of swimmers,
if her perceptions in regard to me were acute enough and quick enough for
her and her alone to notice that I had fainted in the water, if she cared
enough for me and was sufficiently indifferent to what society might say
of her, for her to rescue me and sit down on the pavement of the
_tepidarium_ and pillow my wet head on her wet thighs till I showed signs
of life, I need not worry about whether Vedia cared for me or not. I was
permeated with the conviction that, however difficult it might be to get
her to acknowledge it, however great or many might be the obstacles in the
way of my marrying her, Vedia loved me almost as consumedly as I loved
her.

In this frame of mind I convalesced steadily, if slowly, incurious of the
flight of time, of news, of anything; content to get well whenever it
should please the gods and confident that happiness, even if long
deferred, was certain to follow my recovery.

After I could talk to Occo and Agathemer and seemed to want to ask
questions, which both of them discouraged, one morning, on wakening for
the second time, after a minute allowance of nourishment and a refreshing
nap, I found Galen by my bedside.

He looked me over and asked questions, as physicians invariably do,
concerning my bodily sensations. After he seemed satisfied he asked:

"My son, were you ever ill before you were hit on the head in your recent
affrays?"

"Never that I remember," I answered.

"I judge so," he said. "If you had not been blessed with the very best
physique and constitution you would have died in your friend's litter on
the Salarian Highway. Thanks to your general strength and healthiness, and
thanks, to some extent, to my care and that of my colleagues, you are
alive and on the way to complete, permanent recovery and to long life with
good health. But you very nearly committed suicide when you went out and
about contrary to my orders. I say all this solemnly, for I want you to
remember it. If you disobey again, you will, most likely, be soon buried.
If you obey you have every chance of getting so well that you can safely
forget that you ever were ill.

"But, until I tell you that you are well, do not forget that you are ill."

"I shall remember," I said, "and I shall be scrupulously obedient."

"Good !" he ejaculated. "I infer that you find life worth living."

"Very well worth living," I rejoined devoutly.

"Then listen to me," he said. "You must remain abed until I tell you to
get up; when you first get up, it must be for only an hour or so. You must
not attempt to go out until I give you permission. You must not risk
eating such meals as you are used to. You must take small amounts of
specified foods at stated intervals. Agathemer will see to all that, with
Occo to help him. Do you promise to acquiesce?"

"I promise," I said.

"Remember," he cautioned me, "that the number, variety and severity of the
blows rained on you in your two fights were so great that you were almost
beaten to death. You had no bones broken, but the injury to your muscles
and ligaments was sufficient to kill a man only ordinarily strong, while
the blows affecting your kidneys, liver and other internal organs were in
themselves, without the bruising of all your surface, enough to cause
death. I had you convalescing promptly and rapidly; you went out and
overstrained all your vitalities. Your recklessness almost ended you. You
were far nearer death in your relapse than at first, and that is saying a
great deal. If you obey me you will certainly recover. If you disobey you
will probably kill yourself."

"I shall take all that to heart," I said. "I have promised to be docile:
I'll keep my word and obey my slaves as if every day were the Saturnalia."

"Good!" he exclaimed. "You are getting better."

He looked me over again and asked:

"Is there anything you want?"

"I want to see Tanno," I said.

"You shall the day after tomorrow," he promised, "or perhaps tomorrow, if
I find you improving faster than I anticipate."

Actually, after a brief visit from him the next day, Tanno was ushered
into my sick-room.

My first question was about my tenants. Not one such tenant-farmer in a
million would ever have a chance of being personally presented to Caesar.
They had been awestruck when I told them of their amazing good fortune.
They had said almost nothing. But I knew that they were, all nine of them,
as nearly rapt into ecstasy as Sabine farmers could be at the prospect of
personally saluting Caesar in his Palace, in his Audience Hall on his
throne. I had been too inert to worry about anything, but I almost worried
at the thought of their disappointment, through my relapse.

Tanno told me that he, knowing the Emperor's character pretty well, had
taken it upon himself to have them passed in with him as the Emperor had
ordered, and had himself asked permission to present them and had
presented them. The next day, he said, everyone of them had returned home.

I heaved a deep sigh of relief: my tenants and my Sabine Estate were off
my mind; I might be entirely easy about all things in Sabinum.

He then told me what a brilliant success Marcia was among the pleasure-
loving, novelty-loving, luxurious high-living set in our city society.

"Since the enforcement of the old-fashioned laws relaxed and became a dead
letter and some were even repealed," he said, "not a few men of equestrian
rank have married freed-women and such occurrences no longer cause any
scandal or much remark. But the results are not generally productive of
any social success for the ill-assorted pair.

"I have known a few freedwomen married to men of wealth, and equestrian
rank, who gained some vague approximation of social standing among the
wives of their husbands' friends. But Marcia is the first freedwoman I
ever knew or heard of to be treated, by everybody and at once, as if she
had been freeborn and since birth in her husband's class. Martius has not
brought this about, or aided much; he is a good enough fellow, but he has
no social qualities; for all the power he has of attracting friends he
might as well be an archaic statue. Marcia has done it all. She's a
wonder."

Then he told me of Murmex: how he was already rated Rome's champion
swordsman; how the Palace Palaestra was jammed with notables eager to see
him fence, how magnates competed for invitations to such exhibitions, how
Murmex was overwhelmed with attentions of all kinds from all sorts of
people, had had a furnished apartment put at his disposal by one admirer,
a litter and bearers presented him by another, already saw his domicile
crowded with presents of statuary, paintings, furniture, flowers and all
possible gifts, how he was an immediate and brilliant success with all
classes, even the populace talking of him, crowding behind his litter, and
demanding him for the next public exhibition of gladiators.

That such luck had befallen a man whom I had presented to Court augured
well for me, indubitably.

After I had been out of bed an hour or more for several consecutive days
Galen said to me:

"You are almost well enough to be about, but not quite. If you go back to
your habitual hours of sleep you will fret and fidget indoors, and you are
not yet sufficiently recovered to resume your normal life. You need fresh
air. I have considered what is best and what is possible. I have talked
with your friend Opsitius. Through him I have arranged for you to have
short outings in this manner. On fair days if you feel like going out you
may call for your litter. In it you must keep the panels closed and the
curtains drawn. Agathemer will give your bearers directions. Nemestronia
has offered you the use of her lower garden. You are to have it all to
yourself, whenever you want it, as long as my directions to Agathemer
permit you to remain in it; and you need not remain a moment unless you
enjoy being there."

I understood without asking any questions. Nemestronia's palace was one of
the most desirable, magnificent and spacious abodes in Rome. Her father,
who had been accustomed to say that he was too great a man to have to live
in a fashionable neighborhood, that any neighborhood in which he settled
would thereby become fashionable, had bought a very generous plot of land
nearly on the crest of the Viminal Hill and had there built himself a
dwelling which was at once noted among the dozen finest private dwellings
in the Eternal City. In one respect it was preëminent. From its lofty
position it had, down the slope of the hill, a wide view over the city and
this view was unobstructed, for below his palace Nemestronius had had laid
out six separate gardens, two large and four small. Next the house the
ground fell away so sharply that he had been able to create a terraced
garden, the only private terraced garden in Rome, extending across the
entire rear of his palace and with three terraces, from the uppermost of
which the view was almost as good as from the upper windows of the
mansion. Below this, each extending along but half the length of the
terraces, was a grass-garden, where it was possible to play ball-games, it
being a mere expanse of sward shut in by high walls covered with flowering
vines; and a formal garden, in the fashionable style. Below the grass-
garden was one of similar size, all flower-beds, to supply roses, lilies,
violets and other staple blossoms for his banqueting-hall, below the
formal garden was one called the wild-garden or shrubbery-garden, like the
grass-garden in being covered with sward almost from wall to wall, but
unlike it, in that it had four shade trees, no two alike, and many
flowering shrubs of all kinds and sizes. Lastly below these two was the
water-garden, the same size as the terraced garden, taken up with
fountains and pools, and all gay in season, with the flowers which thrive
in or beside ponds and pools. It had also eight beautiful lotus trees.

High walls, through which one might pass from one to the other only by
gates generally shut fast, separated and enclosed these gardens, for their
creator's intention was to enjoy the peculiar charm of each undistracted
by the contrasting charms of the others. From the upper gardens it was
possible to see, to some extent, into those lower down the hill; but, from
the lower, one could see nothing of those above.

One side of the property was flanked by a street, a mere narrow, walled
lane on which no dwelling opened. Along this were posterns in the wall,
giving access to or exit from the terrace-garden, the formal-garden, the
wild-garden and the water-garden.

I understood at once what I later heard from Agathemer. The water-garden
was to be mine for my airings. I was to leave my litter at its postern in
the unfrequented lane and reenter my litter there.

There I went next day and revelled in the beauty of the garden, in the
sunshine, in the breeze and in the sensations of returning health and
strength which inundated me. There I went for some days in succession
similarly.

On the eighth day before the Kalends of August Galen came to see me, not
early in the morning, but about the bath-hour of the afternoon. He seemed
well pleased with his inspection of me and with my answers to his
questions.

"You are practically well," he said, "and much sooner than I anticipated.
I am tempted to tell you to return to your normal routine of meals, eating
what you please; and to give you permission to resume your usual social
activities But I think it better, in a case like yours, to wait a month
too long rather than to be a day too soon. So I shall enjoin an adherence
to your diet and a continuance of your long rest hours and brief outings
for some days yet."

He had me summon Agathemer and repeated to him much of what he had said to
me.

"He might go out at once," he said, "but we had best be cautious. Limit
him to morning outings in Nemestronia's gardens. He may, however, see
friends, one at a time, according to his wishes and your directions. And
be particular as to his diet. Give him more of each viand at each feeding.
Feed him as soon as he wakes. Then time the feedings two hours apart. Are
your _clepsydras_ [Footnote: water-clocks] good?"

"Of the best," I interjected. "My uncle was a fancier of time-keepers and
had one in every room, and no two alike in ornamentation, all beautifully
decorated."

"The ornamentation doesn't matter," said Galen, impatiently. "Do they keep
time with anything approaching accuracy?"

"As near accuracy," I said, "as any _clepsydras_ ever made."

"Well," he said, "_clepsydras_ always work better when nearly full than
when nearly empty. When you feed him have a full _clepsydra_ handy and
start it when he begins to eat. Then by it feed him again after two hours.
Keep to that interval and to the diet I have enjoined."

Next day I spent over three hours in Nemestronia's water-garden, Tanno
with me for most of the time. Twice, during the chat, Agathemer brought me
a tray with the drink and food enjoined for that hour of the day. Each
time I left not a drop or crumb: I was ravenous.

The following morning Agathemer let in to me, in that same garden, Murmex
Lucro, who thanked me for my good offices with Commodus and narrated his
triumphal progress of professional and social success ever since I had
seen him fence with the Emperor.

Agathemer did not permit Murmex to linger long, saying that it was against
Galen's orders. After I was alone and had eaten what he brought I basked
and idled happily, thinking of Vedia, entirely unruffled by the fact that
I had had no missive or message from her, considering her silence merely
discreet and judicious after her spectacular rescue of me in the
_Tepidarium_, and confident of seeing her as soon as I was entirely well.

While I was in this mood my hostess came to chat with me. Nemestronia, at
eighty-odd, was as dainty and charming an old lady as the sun ever shone
on. And as lovable as any woman alive. I loved her dearly, as all Rome
loved her dearly, and I ranked myself high among her countless honorary
grandsons, for her motherly ways made her seem an honorary grandmother to
all young noblemen whom she favored.

After a heart-warming chat she said:

"I must go now, by Galen's orders. Before I go I want to ask you whether
you are coming here tomorrow?"

"Certainly!" I cried, looking about me with delight. "Could there, can
there, be in Rome a more Elysian spot in which to feel health being
restored to one?"

She beamed at me.

"Be sure to be here," she said. "You will not regret coming."

Between naps that afternoon and before I slept that night I soothed myself
with the hope that I was, by Nemestronia's influence, to have an interview
with Vedia.

Next morning the weather was beautiful, the sky clear, the air neither too
cool nor too warm, the breeze soft and steady. Nemestronia's water-garden
appeared to me even more delightful than the day before. I admired the
lotus trees, the water-lily pads in the pools, the jets of the fountains,
the bright strips of flowers along the pools, particularly some water-
flags or some flowers resembling water-flags.

I was idling in the sun on a cushion which Agathemer had arranged for me
on a marble seat against the upper wall, nearly midway of the garden, but
in sight of the postern gate by which I had entered. So idling and
dreaming day dreams I let my eyes rove languidly about the scene before
me. While meditating and staring at the pavement at my feet I heard
footsteps on the walk and looked up.

To my amazement I saw Egnatius Capito approaching.

No wonder I was amazed. I knew him but slightly. I should never have
thought of asking to see him, as I had asked to be allowed to see several
of my semi-intimates. Agathemer had insisted that I postpone seeing them,
because an interview with any of them was likely to overtire me. I knew
that no one could have entered that garden without Agathemer's knowledge.
I could not conceive how Capito came to be there.

He greeted me formally and asked permission to seat himself beside me. I
gave it rather grudgingly.

He asked after my health and I answered only less grudgingly.

"I conjecture," he said, "that you are surprised to see me here?"

"I am surprised," I said shortly.

"Will you permit me to explain?" he asked courteously.

I could not be less courteous than he and signified my assent.

"Your secretary," he said, "is of the opinion that your illness, while
caused by your injuries in the affrays into which you were entrapped, was
greatly intensified by your chagrin at finding yourself embroiled with
both the Vedian and Satronian clans, and he also thinks that brooding over
the condition of affairs has delayed your recovery."

"I assumed all that," I interrupted, "but I cannot conceive why he has
talked to you about it."

Capito was always ingratiating. He gazed at me reproachfully, gently,
winningly.

"If I have your permission," he said, "I shall explain."

"Explain!" I cried impatiently.

"Agathemer," he went on, "has left no stone unturned to find some means
for placating both clans and for reconciling you with both. In pursuit of
this aim he has been cautious, discreet, tactful and secret. He has
covertly tried many plans of approach. It was intimated to him, truly,
that I had on foot a scheme which promised to succeed in reconciling both
clans with each other and he rightly inferred that I might be able to
arrange for reconciling both with you at the same time. I am confident
that I can, as I told him when he tentatively approached me and
unostentatiously sounded me on this matter. I told him that it was only
necessary that I have an interview with you as soon as might be. Believing
that an early dissipation of your embroilment would conduce to your quick
and complete recovery he arranged for me to meet you as I have."

While he was saying this my eyes roved about the garden. To my
astonishment I saw a man standing against the shut postern door, intently
regarding us as we sat on the marble seat conferring. In my half
convalescent state I had become used to acquiescence in anything and
everything, I was inert mentally and physically and my perceptive
faculties dulled and slow as were my intellectual processes. While
hearkening to Capito I gazed at the man uncomprehendingly, only half
conscious. I thought him a queer-looking fellow to be in Capito's retinue;
he did not look like a slave, but like a free man of the lowest class. I
did not recognize him, yet it seemed to me that I should; I did not like
the way he looked at us, yet I said nothing. He seemed to see me looking
at him, opened the postern, stepped through it and shut it after him. As
he went I was shot through with the conviction that I had seen him
somewhere before.

"If you have in you," I said to Capito, "any such supernatural powers as
you would need for success in what you aim at, if you have any reasons for
anticipating success, Agathemer was fully justified in what he has done.
If you can really accomplish what you seem to believe you can accomplish,
I shall be grateful to you to the last breath I draw. But I am skeptical.
Speak on. Convince me."

"I must first," he said, "have your pledge of secrecy for what I am about
to say."

"What sort of secrecy?" I queried, repelled and suspicious.

"If I am to disclose what I wish to disclose," he said, "you must give me
your word not to reveal by word, look, act or silence anything I may make
known to you, from your pledge until the termination of our interview."

I was uneasy, but curious. I gave my pledge as he asked.

He looked about, warily. He leaned closer to me. He spoke in a subdued
tone.

"It must be known to you," he said, "that many of us nobles, many men of
equestrian rank, many senators, are gravely anxious concerning the
Republic, gravely dissatisfied with the character and behavior, I might
say the misbehavior, of our present Prince."

"I don't wonder that you pledged me to secrecy," I blurted out. "You are
talking treason."

"Hear me to the end," he begged, "and you will find that I am talking not
treason but patriotism."

I grunted and he went on.

"Many of us are of the opinion that the Republic, which was never as
prosperous as within the past eighty years, is in grave danger of losing
much of its Empire, so gloriously extended by Trajan, so well maintained
by his three successors, if it continues to be neglected and mismanaged as
it is. To save the commonwealth and retain its provinces we must have a
Caesar competent, diligent, discreet and brave; and not one of these
epithets can be properly applied to the autocrat now in power. We feel
that he must be removed and that there must be substituted for him a ruler
who is all that the State needs and has the right to expect."

"Fine words," I said. "Masking a conspiracy to assassinate our Emperor."

He looked shocked and pained.

"Hear me out," he pleaded.

"I am curious, I confess," I admitted, "to learn what all this has to do
with reconciling Vedius and Satronius and regaining me the good graces of
both. I ought to terminate the interview, but I am weak. Go on."

"Naturally," he said, "both Vedius and Satronius resent what the Emperor
did and said concerning your entanglement in their feud and they are both
infuriated at their humiliation and at the effective means he took to tie
their hands as far as concerns you and to ensure your safety, as far as
they were concerned."

"Commodus," I interrupted, "is not altogether a bungler when he gives his
mind to the duties of his office."

"May I go on?" Capito enquired, mildly, even reproachfully and, I might
say, irresistibly. He was a born leader of a conspiracy, for few men could
be alone with him and not fall under his influence.

"Go on," I said. "I am consumed with curiosity to discover how their rage
at the Emperor could lead to a reconciliation between them."

"It is not obvious, I admit," he said, "but when I explain, you will see
how naturally, how inevitably a reconciliation might be expected to
result.

"You have seen, perhaps often, a peasant or laborer beating his wife?"

"Everybody has," I replied. "What has that to do with what you were
talking of?"

"Be patient!" he pleaded. "You have seen some bystander interfere in such
a domestic fracas?"

"Often," I agreed.

Apparently the old fence between prose and verse has been broken down.
Or, if one conceives of indubitable prose and indubitable verse as forming
two intersecting circles, there is a neutral zone,
[Illustration: Prose / Neutral Zone / Verse]
which some would call "prose poetry" and some "free verse," and
which, according to the experiments of Dr.

Patterson [Footnote: _The Rhythm of Prose_, already cited.] may be
appropriated as "prose experience" or "verse experience" according
to the rhythmic instinct of each individual.

Indeed Mr. T. S. Omond has admitted that "the very same words, with the
very same natural stresses, may be prose or verse according as we treat
them. The difference is in ourselves, in the mental rhythm to which we
unconsciously adjust the words." [Footnote: Quoted in B. M. Alden, "The
Mental Side of Metrical Form," _Modern Language Review_, July, 1914.]
Many familiar sentences from the English Bible or Prayer-Book, such as the
words from the _Te Deum_, "We, therefore, pray thee, help thy servants,
whom thou hast redeemed with thy precious blood," have a rhythm which
may be felt as prose or verse, according to the mental habit or mood or
rhythmizing impulse of the hearer.

Nevertheless it remains true in general that the rhythms of prose
are more constantly varied, broken and intricate than the rhythms
of verse.

They are characterized, according to the interesting experiments of Dr.
Patterson, by syncopated time, [Footnote: "For a 'timer' the definition of
prose as distinguished from verse experience depends upon a predominance
of syncopation over coincidence in the coordination of the accented syllables
of the text with the measuring pulses." _Rhythm of Prose_, p. 22.]
whereas in normal verse there is a fairly clean-cut coincidence
between the pulses of the hearer and the strokes of the rhythm.

Every one seems to agree that there is a certain danger in mixing these
infinitely subtle and "syncopated" tunes of prose with the easily
recognized tunes of verse.
There is, unquestionably, a natural "iambic" roll in English prose,
due to the predominant alternation of stressed and unstressed
syllables in our native tongue, but when Dickens--to cite what John
Wesley would call "an eminent sinner" in this respect--inserts in
his emotional prose line after line of five-stress "iambic" verse,
we feel instinctively that the presence of the blank verse impairs
the true harmony of the prose.

[Footnote: Observe, in the "Notes and Illustrations" for this
chapter, the frequency of the blank-verse lines in Robert G.

Ingersoll's "Address over a Little Boy's Grave."] Delicate writers of
English prose usually avoid this coincidence of pattern with the more
familiar patterns of verse, but it is impossible to avoid it wholly, and
some of the most beautiful cadences of English prose might, if detached
from their context, be scanned for a few syllables as perfect verse. The
free verse of Whitman, Henley and Matthew Arnold is full of these embedded
fragments of recognized "tunes of verse," mingled with the unidentifiable
tunes of prose. There has seldom been a more curious example of accidental
coincidence than in this sentence from a prosaic textbook on "The
Parallelogram of Forces": "And hence no force, however great, can draw
a cord, however fine, into a horizontal line which shall be absolutely
straight."

This is precisely the "four-stressed iambic" metre of _In Memoriam_,
and it even preserves the peculiar rhyme order of the _In Memoriam_
stanza:
"And hence no force, however great, Can draw a cord, however fine,
Into a horizontal line Which shall be absolutely straight."

We shall consider more closely, in the section on Free Verse in the
following chapter, this question of the coincidence and variation
of pattern as certain types of loosened verse pass in and out of
the zone which is commonly recognized as pure prose.

But it is highly important here to remember another fact, which
professional psychologists in their laboratory experiments with the
notation of verse and prose have frequently forgotten, namely, the
existence of a type of ornamented prose, which has had a marked
historical influence upon the development of English style.

This ornamented prose, elaborated by Greek and Roman rhetoricians, and
constantly apparent in the pages of Cicero, heightened its rhythm by various
devices of alliteration, assonance, tone-color, cadence, phrase and
period. Greek oratory even employed rhyme in highly colored passages,
precisely as Miss Amy Lowell uses rhyme in her polyphonic or
"many-voiced" prose.

Medieval Latin took over all of these devices from Classical Latin, and
in its varied oratorical, liturgical and epistolary forms it strove
to imitate the various modes of _cursus_ ("running") and _clausula_ ("cadence")
which had characterized the rhythms of Isocrates and Cicero.
[Footnote: A. C. Clark, _Prose Rhythm in English_. Oxford, 1913.
Morris W. Croll, "The Cadence of English Oratorical Prose," _Studies in
Philology_. January, 1919.
Oliver W.

Elton, "English Prose Numbers," in _Essays and Studies_ by members of the
English Association, 4th Series. Oxford, 1913.] From the Medieval Latin
Missal and Breviary these devices of prose rhythm, particularly those
affecting the end of sentences, were taken over into the Collects and
other parts of the liturgy of the English Prayer-Book.
They had a constant influence upon the rhythms employed by the translators
of the English Bible, and through the Bible the cadences of this
ancient ornamented prose have passed over into the familiar but
intricate harmonies of our "heightened" modern prose.

While this whole matter is too technical to be dealt with adequately
here, it may serve at least to remind the reader that an appreciation
of English prose rhythms, as they have been actually employed for
many centuries, requires a sensitiveness to the rhetorical position
of phrases and clauses, and to "the use of sonorous words in the
places of rhetorical emphasis, which cannot be indicated by the
bare symbols of prosody."

[Footnote: New York _Nation_, February 27, 1913.] For that sonority and
cadence and balance which constitute a harmonious prose sentence cannot
be adequately felt by a possibly illiterate scientist in his laboratory
for acoustics; the "literary" value of words, in all strongly emotional
prose, is inextricably mingled with the bare sound values: it is
thought-units that must be delicately "balanced" as well as stresses and
slides and final clauses; it is the elevation of ideas, the nobility and
beauty of feeling, as discerned by the trained literary sense, which
makes the final difference between enduring prose harmonies and
the mere tinkling of the "musical glasses."

[Footnote: This point is suggestively discussed by C. E.

Andrews, _The Writing and Reading of Verse_, chap. 5.

New York, 1918.]

The student of verse may very profitably continue to exercise himself with
the rhythms of prose.

He should learn to share the unwearied enthusiasm of Professor
Saintsbury for the splendid cadences of our sixteenth-century
English, for the florid decorative period of Thomas Browne and
Jeremy Taylor, for the eloquent "prose poetry" of De Quincey and
Ruskin and Charles Kingsley, and for the strangely subtle effects
wrought by Pater and Stevenson.

But he must not imagine that any laboratory system of tapping
syncopated time, or any painstaking marking of macrons (-) breves
(u) and caesuras (||) will give him full initiation into the mysteries
of prose cadences which have been built, not merely out of stressed
and unstressed syllables, but out of the passionate intellectual
life of many generations of men.

He may learn to feel that life as it pulsates in words, but no one has
thus far devised an adequate scheme for its notation

.

_5. Quantity, Stress and Syllable_
The notation of verse, however, while certainly not a wholly simple
matter, is far easier.

It is practicable to indicate by conventional printer's devices the
general rhythmical and metrical scheme of a poem, and to indicate
the more obvious, at least, of its incidental variations from the
expected pattern.

It remains as true of verse as it is of prose that the "literary" values
of words--their connotations or emotional overtones--are too subtle to
be indicated by any marks invented by a printer; but the alternation or
succession of long or short syllables, of stressed or unstressed syllables,
the nature of particular feet and lines and stanzas, the order and interlacing
of rhymes, and even the devices of tone-color, are sufficiently external
elements of verse to allow easy methods of indication.

When you and I first began to study Virgil and Horace, for instance,
we were taught that the Roman poets, imitating the Greeks, built heir
verses upon the principle of _Quantity_. The metrical unit was the foot,
made up of long and short syllables in various combinations, two short
syllables being equivalent to one long one.

The feet most commonly used were the Iambus [short-long], the Anapest
[short-short-long], the Trochee [long-short], the Dactyl [long-short-short],
and the Spondee [long-long].
Then we were instructed that a "verse" or line consisting of one
foot was called a monometer, of two feet, a dimeter, of three, a
trimeter, of four, a tetrameter, of five, a pentameter, of six, a
hexameter.

This looked like a fairly easy game, and before long we were marking the
quantities in the first line of the Aeneid, as other school-children had
done ever since the time of St. Augustine:

_Arma vi¦rumque ca¦no Tro¦jae qui ¦ primus ab¦oris_.

Or perhaps it was Horace's
_Maece¦nas, atavis ¦¦ edite reg¦ibus_.

We were told, of course, that it was not all quite as simple as this: that
there were frequent metrical variations, such as trochees changing places
with dactyls, and anapests with iambi; that feet could be inverted, so
that a trochaic line might begin with an iambus, an anapestic line
with a dactyl, or _vice versa_; that syllables might be omitted
at the beginning or the end or even in the middle of a line, and
that this "cutting-off" was called _catalexis_; that syllables might
even be added at the beginning or end of certain lines and that
these syllables were called _hypermetric_; and that we must be very
watchful about pauses, particularly about a somewhat mysterious
chief pause, liable to occur about the middle of a line, called a
_caesura_.

But the magic password to admit us to this unknown world of Greek and
Roman prosody was after all the word _Quantity_.

If a few of us were bold enough to ask the main difference between this
Roman system of versification and the system which governed modern
English poetry--even such rude playground verse as
"Eeny, meeny, miny, mo, Catch a nigger by the toe"--
we were promptly told by the teacher that the difference was a very
plain one, namely, that English, like all the Germanic languages,
obeyed in its verse the principles of _Stress_.

Instead of looking for "long" and "short" syllables, we had merely to look
for "stressed" and "unstressed" syllables. It was a matter, not of quantity,
but of accent; and if we remembered this fact, there was no harm but
rather a great convenience, in retaining the technical names of classical
versification. Only we must be careful that by "iambus," in English
poetry, we _meant_ an unstressed syllable, rather than a short syllable
followed by a long one. And so with "trochee," "dactyl," "anapest" and the
rest; if we knew that accent and not quantity was what we really had in
mind, it was proper enough to speak of _Paradise Lost_ as written in
"iambic pentameter," and _Evangeline_ in "dactylic hexameter," etc.
The trick was to count stresses and not syllables, for was not
Coleridge's _Christabel_ written in a metre which varied its
syllables anywhere from four to twelve for the line, yet maintained
its music by regularity of stress?

Nothing could be plainer than all this. Yet some of us discovered when we
went to college and listened to instructors who grew strangely excited
over prosody, that it was not all as easy as this distinction between
_Quantity_ and _Stress_ would seem to indicate. For we were now told
that the Greek and Roman habits of daily speech in prose had something to
do with their instinctive choice of verse-rhythms: that at the very
time when the Greek heroic hexameters were being composed, there was a
natural dactylic roll in spoken prose; that Roman daily speech had a
stronger stress than Greek, so that Horace, in imitating Greek lyric measures,
had stubborn natural word-accents to reconcile with his quantitative measures;
that the Roman poets, who had originally allowed normal word-accent
and verse-pulse to coincide for the most part, came gradually to
enjoy a certain clash between them, keeping all the while the
quantitative principle dominant; so that when Virgil and Horace
read their verses aloud, and word-accent and verse-pulse fell upon
different syllables, the verse-pulse yielded slightly to the
word-accent, thus adding something of the charm of conversational
prose to the normal time-values of the rhythm.

In a word, we were now taught--if I may quote from a personal letter of a
distinguished American Latinist--that "the almost universal belief that
Latin verse is a matter of quantity only is a mistake. Word-accent
was not lost in Latin verse."
And then, as if this undermining of our schoolboy faith in pure Quantity
were not enough, came the surprising information that the Romans had
kept, perhaps from the beginning of their poetizing, a popular type of
accented verse, as seen in the rude chant of the Roman legionaries,
_Mílle Fráncos mílle sémel Sármatás occídimús_.

[Footnote: See C. M. Lewis, _Foreign Sources of Modern English Versification_.
Halle, 1898.]
Certainly those sun-burnt "doughboys" were not bothering themselves about
trochees and iambi and such toys of cultivated "literary" persons;
they were amusing themselves on the march by inventing words to fit the
"goose-step."

Their
_Unus homo mille mille mille decollavimus_
which Professor Courthope scans as trochaic verse, [Footnote:
_History of English Poetry_, vol. 1, p. 73.] seems to me nothing
but "stress" verse, like
_"Hay-foot, straw-foot, belly full of bean-soup--Hep--Hep!"

_
Popular accentual verse persisted, then, while the more cultivated Roman
public acquired and then gradually lost, in the course of centuries, its
ear for the quantitative rhythms which originally had been copied
from the Greeks.

Furthermore, according to our ingenious college teachers, there was still
a third principle of versification to be reckoned with, not
depending on Quantity or Stress, but merely _Syllabic_, or
syllable-counting.

This was immemorially old, it seemed, and it had reappeared mysteriously in
Europe in the Dark Ages.

Dr. Lewis cites from a Latin manuscript poem of the ninth century:
[Footnote: _Foreign Sources_, etc., p. 3.]
_"Beatissimus namque Dionysius ¦ Athenis quondam episcopus, Quem Sanctus
Clemens direxit in Galliam ¦ propter praedicandi gratiam_," etc.

"Each verse contains 21 syllables, with a caesura after the 12th. No further
regularity, either metrical or rhythmical, can be perceived.
Such a verse could probably not have been written except for music."
Church-music, apparently, was also a factor in the development of
versification,--particularly that "Gregorian" style which demanded neither
quantitative nor accentual rhythm, but simply a fair count of syllables
in the libretto, note matching syllable exactly.

But when the great medieval Latin hymns, like _Dies ire_, were written,
the Syllabic principle of versification, like the Quantitative
principle, dropped out of sight, and we witness once more the
emergence of the Stress or accentual system, heavily ornamented
with rhymes.

[Footnote: See the quotation from Taylor's _Classical Heritage of the Middle
Ages_ printed in the "Notes and Illustrations" for this chapter.] Yet
the Syllabic method reappears once more, we were told, in French
prosody, and thus affects the verse of Chaucer and of subsequent
English poetry, and it still may be studied, isolated as far as may
be from considerations of quantity and stress, in certain English
songs written for music, where syllable carefully matches note.

The "long metre" (8 syllables), "short metre" (6 syllables) and "common
metre" (7 syllables, 6 syllables) of the hymn books is a convenient
illustration of thinking of metre in terms of syllables alone.

_6. The Appeal to the Ear_
At this point, perhaps, having set forth the three theories of _Quantity,
Stress_ and _Syllable_, our instructors were sensible enough to make an
appeal to the ear. Reminding us that stress was the controlling
principle in Germanic poetry,--although not denying that considerations
of quantity and number of syllables might have something to do with the
effect,--they read aloud to us some Old English verse. Perhaps it was
that _Song of the Battle of Brunanburh_ which Tennyson has so
skilfully rendered into modern English words while preserving the
Old English metre.

And here, though the Anglo-Saxon words were certainly uncouth, we
caught the chief stresses without difficulty, usually four beats
to the line.

If the instructor, while these rude strokes of rhythm were still pounding
in our ears, followed the Old English with a dozen lines of Chaucer,
we could all perceive the presence of a newer, smoother, more highly
elaborated verse-music, where the number of syllables had been
cunningly reckoned, and the verse-accent seemed always to fall upon
a syllable long and strong enough to bear the weight easily, and
the rhymes rippled like a brook.

Whether we called the metre of the _Prologue_ rhymed couplets of iambic
pentameter, or rhymed couplets of ten-syllabled, five-stressed verse,
the music, at least, was clear enough. And so was the music of the "blank"
or unrhymed five-stress lines of Marlowe and Shakspere and Milton, and
as we listened it was easy to believe that "stress" and "quantity"
and "syllable," all playing together like a chime of bells, are
concordant and not quarrelsome elements in the harmony of modern English
verse. Only, to be richly concordant, each must be prepared to yield a
little if need be, to the other!

I have taken too many pages, perhaps, in thus sketching the rudimentary
education of a college student in the elements of rhythm and metre, and in
showing how the theoretical difficulties of the subject--which are
admittedly great--often disappear as soon as one resolves to let the ear
decide. A satisfied ear may soothe a dissatisfied mind. I have quoted from
a letter of an American scholar about quantity being the "controlling"
element of cultivated Roman verse, and I now quote from a personal letter
of an American poet, emphasizing the necessity of "reading poetry as
it was meant to be read": "My point is _not_ that English verse has no
quantity, but that the controlling element is not quantity but
accent.

The lack of fixed _syllabic _quantity is just what I emphasize. This lack
makes definite _beat _impossible: or at least it makes it absurd to attempt
to scan English verse by feet. The proportion of 'irregularities' and
'exceptions' becomes painful to the student and embarrassing to the
professor. He is put to fearful straits to explain his prosody and make it
fit the verse.
"I must remain, here many days yet to get rid
of the most pressing matters on my crowded files of official papers."

After the Palace levee was over I went to Vedia's mansion and tried to see
her, but was rebuffed, the porter declaring that, by her physician's
orders, she was denying herself to all visitors.

At home I found Agathemer still suffering terribly, but without fever,
with no sign of proud flesh anywhere on his flayed back and not only
entirely able to talk to me but eager to do so. We had a long talk on the
entire subject of our peculiar relations as a master and slave who were
more like brothers. He assured me that I had done just right to act as I
had and he begged my pardon for his blunders in arranging to have Capito
admitted to talk to me, in arranging it without my permission or even
knowledge, in neglecting to guard the outer door of the garden and so
admitting Bambilio, and in causing the escape of the leopard. I heartily
forgave him, told him to forget all that, that I forgot it all and, on my
side, begged his forgiveness for his agonies. He said there was nothing to
forgive: that my uncle's injunctions had compelled my leaving him a slave
and the rest had been his fault, not mine.

I told him that I would do anything in my power to make him well,
comfortable and happy, except setting him free, from which I was
restrained by my uncle's behests.

He asked to be allowed to return to Villa Andivia as soon as the
physicians pronounced him fit to travel.

I agreed: commanded that my travelling carriage, which Marcus Martius had
returned to me, should be put in order and prepared for the journey; and
consulted Galen, who came of his own accord to see Agathemer two days in
succession. On his third visit he gave Agathemer permission to travel by
carriage the next day and he accordingly set off for Villa Andivia on the
Ides of August.

Each day I had spent most of my afternoon at the Baths of Titus. Each
afternoon I had seen Vedia at a distance, but she had always taken pains
to avoid me, and one cannot pursue or seem to pursue, a lady in the
Thermae.

Each day, also, I had called to see her at her house; each day I had been
rebuffed. On the morning of the nineteenth day before the Kalends of
September one of the runners brought me a letter. It read:

    "Vedia gives greetings to Andivius. If you are well I am well also."

But this formal opening altered at once to familiar writing.

    "You are acting like a silly boy. As things are, both in my cousins'
    clan and in that of my late husband, I cannot receive you at my house,
    and you ought to have sense enough to realize that without being told.
    Be patient and I shall arrange for an interview with you. Please avoid
    me at the Baths, as I have you.

    "Farewell."

This letter greatly encouraged me and I felt so elated that I really
enjoyed life for the next few days, which were filled up with a reception
of my own each morning, a round of receptions to salute magnates, my
salutation to the Emperor, a lunch always with some friends, a long nap at
home, a lingering afternoon at the Baths of Titus, and a jolly dinner at
some friend's house, for I was invited out twice each day.

On the seventh day before the Kalends of September, as I was on my way to
the Palace levee, a runner inconspicuously clad ranged himself alongside
my litter and handed me a letter.

It read:

    "She whose handwriting he will recognize gives greeting to Hedulio.
    Take care! Do not let anyone see this letter; take care to seem
    negligent and uninterested as you read it.

    "A conspiracy against the life of Caesar has been detected and
    reported. Its leader is said to be Egnatius Capito. As some informer,
    sponsored by Talponius Pulto, claims to have seen you in Capito's
    company, you are implicated. Save yourself. Do not return home. Do not
    go to the Palace, order yourself carried immediately to the
    Querquetulan Gate. On the way there purchase a raincloak and an
    umbrella hat and whatever else may be needful for your journey.
    Outside the _Porta Querquetulana_, in front of Plosurnia's tavern, you
    will find one of the fastest horses in Italy, a blood-bay, noticeable
    for light-blue reins with silver bosses, his saddlecloth light-blue
    with a silver edge. Descend from your litter in front of the tavern,
    accost the man holding the horse, say to him:

    "'Is this the leopard-tamer's horse?'

    "He will reply:

    "'It is.'

    "Then say:

    "'I am the leopard-tamer.'

    "He will then allow one of your spare bearers to take the horse.

    "Divest yourself of your toga then, not sooner. Equip yourself for
    your journey. Mount and order your bearers to take your empty litter
    home. Follow the Praenestine Highroad till it meets the _Via
    Labicana_. Then take the first crossroad to the Highroad to Tibur.
    From Tibur press on to Carseoli. Prom there return to Villa Andivia as
    you judge best. Provide for yourself thereafter as best you may.

    "Farewell."

I recognized Vedia's handwriting. I trusted her implicitly. I was far more
elated at her concern for me than I was depressed at my impending ruin.
Somehow the fact that she had taken the trouble not only to warn me, but
to think out for me all the details of a plan of at least temporary
escape, the inference that she hoped, hoped against hope, that I might be
somehow saved, heartened me amazingly; so that I was rather inspirited at
the prospect of adventure than daunted by the shadow of inescapable doom.
I gathered myself together, determined to take as much advantage as
possible of Vedia's warning, and of the respite it afforded me. I resolved
to follow her suggestions. I had set out for the Palace unusually early. I
had plenty of time. I ordered my bearers to carry me through the heart of
the City down the whole length of the _Vicus Tuscus_ to the meat market.

I should, I suppose, have been in an agony of vain regrets; I rather
expected from moment to moment to be drowned in an inundation of such
sensations, I was more than a little surprised at my actual feelings. Here
I was, hitherto a wealthy Roman nobleman in excellent standing with my
fellows, my superiors and the Prince; from now on a hunted fugitive and
not likely to postpone my last hour more than a few days. I was,
presumably, viewing the throbbing heart of glorious Rome for the last
time. I should have felt chief mourner at my own funeral. Actually I
relished, I hugely enjoyed, every pace of my progress through the filling
streets, where the passers-by and idlers were still fresh, and lively
after a night's sleep and where everything was irradiated by cheerful
morning sunlight. I felt cheerful as the sunlight.

Beyond the Meat Market I had my bearers stop at the Temple of Fortune,
which I entered, there I prayed fervently before the statue of the
Goddess.

When I was again out in the market I bought two live white hens, young and
plump, and assigned one of my relief-bearers to carry carefully the basket
in which the old market-woman ensconced them, after I had paid her well
for her basket as well as her hens.

Then I had my men carry me down the straight empty street along the
southwest flank of the Circus Maximus. Half way along it I halted them
before the Temple of Mercury. He has challenged Mr. Wilson to a match,
and the President of the United States immediately took him up. The match
will be played in a few days.

"'Every able-bodied man and woman found golfing at the present time should
be taken by the scruff of the neck and made to do some work of national
importance,' said Mr. Waldie at the Edinburgh Parish Council."
So that's that.

* * * * *
SCHOOL.

During the past week there has taken place, almost without our
knowledge, a great migration of boys.

From their homes, out on to the roads and railways, has been pouring
a flood of big boys, middle-sized boys, small boys, old boys, new boys,
all tending towards the various schools where they are supposed to make
all the best parts of human knowledge their own and to live a
life of dignified abstraction from the troubles of the world, in the midst
of their own _argot_ and their own special traditions.

Of the big boys and the middle-sized boys I have little to say. They are
already imbued, if one may say so, with the influence of their school, and
can hold their own with the masters and their fellow-boys.
Much as they enjoy their holidays, they show no undue reluctance to take
up again the burden of their studies at a place which they will afterwards
consider as having given them some of the happiest days of their lives.
Many of them indeed are already or are in process of becoming the trusted
coadjutors of the headmaster and his colleagues in the work of
maintaining good order and discipline in the school.

They are monitors--tremendous word!--or prefects or præpostors, and their
_mitis sapientia_, no less than their muscular strength, causes them
to be feared and venerated.

Of such awful beings one must not speak lightly lest some terrific fate
reserved for scoffers overtake one. No, my concern at present is rather
with the little boys who have gone up for the first time to their preparatory
school, those forlorn scraps of humanity who are beginning a
life entirely new to them in all its details. Hitherto, except for
visits to the seaside with their parents and family, they have not spent
a night away from home.

Now they are separated from their parents and plunged into a world
of perfect strangers.

Everything is done to make them at ease and comfortable in their
new surroundings; the headmaster is kindness itself, the matron
beams on them with smiles and fortifies them with encouragement;
but just at first the wrench for the little fellows is great.

In a day or two, however, they will begin to acclimatise themselves;
the strangeness will begin to wear off; and having borne up bravely
against their first sense of loneliness in the midst of a crowd
they will gradually become parts of the machine to the making of
which many gentle and sympathising hands for years past have
contributed.

"Schools are not what they were," says one of my friends.

"There is no bullying nowadays and little roughness of any kind. Masters
are not looked upon as the natural enemies of boys. Corporal punishment,
except for the gravest offences, is abolished. Whereas, formerly,
little boys were at once sucked into the vortex of a Public School,
there are now Preparatory Schools, where Tommie and Dickie and
Harry, aged from nine to ten, learn the business of Public Schooling
in a manner suited to their age and capacity.

When we were boys," he continues, "these admirable buffer states were
so few that they might almost be said not to exist at all; they now
flourish everywhere. The path of the little boy is thus made easier for
him."
"But," I said, "is a little boy, then, never brought to a sense of
his unimportance by being physically, if not morally, kicked?

Is he to pass his life in a condition of Sybaritic softness?"
"You need not," he said, "worry about that. Softness makes no appeal to
the average English boy."
When therefore, on a day in last week, it happened to me to take a
little boy I happen to know to his Preparatory School on his first
day of his first term there, I did so with no undue depression.

"Be a good boy," I said to him; "never tell a lie, never push yourself
forward, and don't swank about yourself."
Ofatulenus took my horse and swore that no one outside of the stable
should know it was there or suspect it. I told him to lock the trappings
in the third locker in my harness-room, which locker I knew should be
empty.

I got from the stable to my villa without encountering any human being.
Outside I found Agathemer, as I had hoped I would, sunning himself on the
terrace.

He was even more amazed than Ofatulenus and began to exclaim. I silenced
him and questioned him as to his health. He told me that his back was
entirely healed and that, while any effort still caused him not a little
pain, he was capable of the customary activities of his normal life.

I then told him why I had returned home. He listened in silence, except
that he here and there put in a query when I omitted some detail in my
excitement.

When he understood my situation thoroughly he asked:

"And what do you propose to do?"

"I propose," I said, "to live here unobtrusively, visiting no one,
receiving no one and, by all the means in our power, arranging that as few
persons as possible may know of my presence here. There is not the
faintest scintilla of hope in my doing anything whatever. But if I merely
exist without calling attention to my existence there may be some hope for
me. No man accused as I am is ever allowed an opportunity to clear
himself: but it has often happened that, by keeping away from Rome for a
time, a man in my situation has given his friends a chance to use their
influence in his behalf, to gain the ear of someone powerful at Court, to
get an unbiassed hearing for what they had to say, to prove his complete
innocence and rehabilitate him. Vedia and Tanno will do all they can for
me. I have hosts of friends, not a few of whom will aid Vedia and Tanno as
far as they are able. By keeping quiet here I shall give my friends a
chance to save me, if I can be saved. If not, I shall here await such
orders as may be sent me, or my arrest, if I am to be seized."

"Is that your whole plan?" Agathemer queried.

"All," I said.

"May I speak?" he asked. "May I speak out my full mind?"

"Certainly!" I agreed. "Speak!"

"If you stay here as you propose," he said, "you will be arrested not
later than tomorrow and haled to your death, if not butchered at sight. At
most the centurion in charge might allow you an hour in which to commit
suicide. But if you remain here inactive your death is certain, you will
never see two sunrises.

"But I agree with you that your friends will do what they can and I
heartily believe that Opsitius and Vedia will move sky, earth and sea and
Hades beneath all, as far as their powers go, to save you. If they have
any chance of succeeding they will need more time than Perennis will give
them. Reims seems to be in bed and fast asleep, except for the presence
in the streets of a very few persons, official and unofficial, of whom
the former are evidently on the alert as to the movements, slouching
and uncertain, of the latter.
"Your plan means certain death for you. I think I can save you if you will
put yourself in my hands. Will you?"

"I most certainly will," I said, "and without reservation. If you think
you can save me, tell me what you want me to do and I shall do it. I shall
follow your suggestions implicitly."

"Well," said Agathemer, "since remaining here means certain death and
since there seems a chance of final salvation for you through the efforts
of your friends and especially those of Opsitius and Vedia, since they
will need plenty of time to save you, if you can be saved, from every
point of view the right course of action is not merely inaction, not
merely hiding, but an immediate and complete disappearance. If you are
found you will be ordered to kill yourself or will be put to death. If you
cannot be found you cannot be killed or made to kill yourself. Since you
cannot be found you will stay alive until you can be rehabilitated with
the Emperor. If that cannot be done or is not done, at least you will be
alive. My deduction is, disappear at once and completely. You have many
times, for a lark, disguised yourself as an ordinary country proprietor or
small farmer and mingled with the crowd at a fair without being
recognized. What you have done for an evening in jest now attempt in
earnest and for as long a period as is necessary. And to begin with,
vanish from here at once and completely."

"But how?" I queried.

"If you are to disappear," said Agathemer, "why should I waste time in
explaining how. Let us disappear together, leaving no trace and let us do
it at once."

"But," I cried, "I could never consent to anything like that! You are not
in any danger. You will be manumitted by my will and you can live safely,
comfortably and at ease. Why should I drag you into I know not what
miseries, hardships and privations along with me? Tell me what to do and I
will proceed to do it. But do you stay here."

"If I told you my plan," said Agathemer, "you could not carry it out
alone. My scheme for your escape and vanishment pivots on my disappearing
along with you. If you agree, as I beg that you will, we shall both be
safe, I hope and trust; alive, able to return here if it can be arranged,
able to live elsewhere, somehow, if it cannot be arranged. If you refuse
your assent, I shall die with you or soon after you; I am resolute not to
survive you."

"I agree," I said. "I am under your orders henceforth, not you under
mine."

Agathemer at once guided me into the house and upstairs to his rooms, for
he inhabited the guest-suite next my rooms, which had been my uncle's.

"The first thing to do," he said, "is for both of us to eat heartily, for
we do not know when we shall eat again. I have been choicy and whimmy
about my eating since I came back here and mostly my meals have revolted
me and I have left the _triclinium_ practically unfed, whereas I have
often been seized with imperative hunger between meals. I have an
overabundant supply of all sorts of tempting cold viands up here."

And, in fact, in the room he used as a reading and writing room, on a side
table, I found an inviting array of cold meats, jellies, cakes, and fancy
breads, with an assortment of wines. We ate till we could eat no more,
masticating our food carefully and taking wine in moderation.

Then Agathemer put up a liberal supply of bread and relishes in a small
linen bag, obliterated all traces of our meal and presence and went into
his dressing-room, where he stripped stark naked and rubbed himself down
with a rough towel, carefully disposing of his garments in his wardrobes.

From one of his tables he took a small silver case containing flint, steel
and tinder. Then we went into my rooms, where he stripped me, rubbed me
down, and disposed of my garments as he had of his. My wallet he took
pains to hide in the bottom of a chest, after emptying it and putting the
contents about so that each article was hidden in a different place and
none could be connected with the others or with the wallet. The little
horn case with flint and steel he retained.

The ante-room to what had been my uncle's bed-room and was now mine, had
on its walls trophies of hunting-spears and other weapons of the chase.
Agathemer selected two knives for killing wounded stags, dependable
implements, blade and shank one piece of fine steel, the handles of stag-
horn, fastened on with copper rivets.

With the bag of food, the two knives and the two tinder boxes we went up
my uncle's private stair to his library and reading room.

My uncle had had his own ideas as to nearly everything, usually much at
variance with other people's ideas. As to building his ideas, perhaps,
were less aberrant than his opinions on other subjects, but, certainly he
was as tenacious of them as of his other notions.

He held, in the first place, that sleeping-rooms on the ground-floor of
any house were unhealthy and a relic of primitive barbarism. He was
equally positive that, in the country, where there was ample room for a
building to spread out, it was folly to construct a dwelling of three or
more stories: such villas he railed at as exhibitions of silly
extravagance and of a desire to appear different from one's neighbors. His
villa, therefore, was of two stories only.

But, on the other hand, he loved fresh air, light, and wide prospects from
his windows; also he spent most of his daylight reading or writing, or
both. To gratify to the full all his chief tastes at once he included in
the plans of his villa a sort of tower, at the northwest corner, rising
well above the remainder of the structure, so that the floors of its third
story were on a level higher than that of the ridge-poles of the roofs of
the other parts of the villa and from the wide windows of its rooms there
was an unobstructed view over the tiles of the villa upon the farm-
buildings and beyond them across the fields to the woodlands and the
forested eastern and southern horizon as well as a fine outlook down the
valley northward and across it westward.

In this third story of this tower he housed his library and there he spent
most of his time. It was reached by three stairs. One was connected with
the villa in general and was used by him when going down to meals in his
_triclinium_, or when escorting visitors up to his library, as he
sometimes did with his particular favorites; and this stair was also used
by such servants as he might summon to him while in his library or as
might have to go up there to attend to it in his absence. The second stair
connected with his living-rooms on the second floor, which rooms looked
northwestward, as he detested being waked early by the rays of the rising
sun and loved basking in the mellow radiance of afternoon sunlight. The
third stair is not easy to describe and was one of my uncle's oddest
eccentricities. It was inside a sort of minor tower built against the
tower in which his library was set aloft, which minor tower extended far
up towards the sky, like a great chimney. What was the primary purpose of
this minor tower I shall explain later. In it, however, was a narrow,
cramped, spiral stair, unlit by any window or loop-hole, unconnected with
the second or first floor of the villa, opening at the top into the
library and at the bottom into a cellar, a cellar so far down the hillside
that its vault was below the level of the floors of the cellars under the
villa in general. _Century Dictionary_.

"A word is not a crystal--transparent and unchanged; it is the skin
of a living thought, and may vary greatly in color and content according
to the circumstances and the time in which it is used." Justice OLIVER
WENDELL HOLMES, _Towne vs. Eisner_.

"I wish our clever young poets would remember my homely definitions of prose
and poetry; that is, prose = words in their best order;--poetry = the _best_
words in the best order." COLERIDGE, _Table Talk_.

_1. The Eye and the Ear_
"Literary" language is commonly distinguished from the language of
ordinary life by certain heightenings or suppressions.

The novelist or essayist, let us say, fashions his language more or less
in accordance with his own mood, with his immediate aim in writing,
with the capacity of his expected readers. He is discoursing with a
certain real or imaginary audience. He may put himself on paper, as
Montaigne said, as if he were talking to the first man he happens
to meet; or he may choose to address himself to the few chosen
spirits of his generation and of succeeding generations.

He trusts the arbitrary written or printed symbols of word-sounds to
carry his thoughts safely into the minds of other men.
The "literary" user of language in modern times comes to depend upon the
written or printed page; he tends to become more or less "eye-minded";
whereas the typical orator remains "ear-minded"--i.e. peculiarly
sensitive to a series of sounds, and composing for the ear of
listeners rather than for the eye of readers.

Now as compared with the typical novelist, the poet is surely, like
the orator, "ear-minded."

Tonal symbols of ideas and emotions, rather than visual symbols of
ideas and emotions, are the primary stuff with which he is working,
although as soon as the advancing civilization of his race brings
an end to the primitive reciting of poetry and its transmission through
oral repetition alone, it is obvious that he must depend, like other
literary artists, or like the modern musicians, upon the written or
printed signs for the sounds which he has composed. But so stubborn
are the habits of our eyes that we tend always to confuse the look
of the poet's words upon the printed page with the sound of those words
as they are perceived by the ear. We are seldom guilty of this confusion
in the case of the musician. His "music" is not identified with the
arbitrary black marks which make up his printed score.

For most of us there is no music until those marks are actually translated
into terms of tone-- although it is true that the trained reader of
music can easily translate to his inner ear without any audible rendering
of the indicated sounds.

This distinction is essential to the understanding of poetry. A poem is not
primarily a series of printed word-signs addressed to the eye; it
is a series of sounds addressed to the ear, and the arbitrary symbols
for these sounds do not convey the poem unless they are audibly rendered--except
to those readers who, like the skilled readers of printed music,
can instantly hear the indicated sounds without any actual
rendition of them into physical tone. Many professed lovers of poetry have
no real ear for it. They are hopelessly "eye-minded." They try to
decide questions of metre and stanza, of free verse and of emotionally
patterned prose by the appearance of the printed page instead of by the
nerves of hearing.

Poets like Mr. Vachel Lindsay--who recites or chants his own verses
after the manner of the primitive bard--have rendered a true service
by leading us away from the confusions wrought by typography, and back
to that sheer delight in rhythmic oral utterance in which poetry
originates.

_2. How Words convey Feeling_
For it must never be forgotten that poetry begins in excitement, in some
body-and-mind experience; that it is capable, through its rhythmic
utterance of words which suggest this experience, of transmitting
emotion to the hearer; and that the nature of language allows the
emotion to be embodied in more or less permanent form.

Let us look more closely at some of the questions involved in the origin,
the transmission and embodiment of poetic feeling, remembering that we
are now trying to trace these processes in so far as they are
revealed by the poet's use of words.
Rhythm will be discussed in the next chapter.
We have already noted that there are no mental images of feeling
itself.
The images recognized by the consciousness of poets are those of
experiences and objects associated with feeling.The two keys he hid far apart, where neither was at all likely to be
found easily or soon. He had laid the knives, tinder-boxes and bag of food
on a table. He went to the case containing my uncle's most highly prized
treasures. From it he took the ebony box, opened it and took out two of
the cylinders. From these he removed the rolls embodying the grammarians'
comments. These rolls he put back in the box, shut it, returned it to the
case and closed the case.

The two cylinders he had laid on the table by the things which he had
brought up stairs. Inside each cylinder he placed a knife, a tinder-box,
and a selection of the food. The bag, with what remained of the food, he
tied up again. He handed me one cylinder.

"Now," he said, "we are prepared to escape. My idea is to leave no trace
of how we leave this villa, to have no one see us leave, to have nothing
with us which could identify us after we have left. We are to go down the
secret stair, crawl out through the big lower drain pipe, hide in the
bushes till dark, take to the woods, hide by day, creep northward by
night, and, if we succeed in reaching a district where no one would
recognize us, press on northward boldly, passing ourselves off as runaway
slaves if anyone encounters us."

"We'd be locked up as runaway slaves," I said, "advertised, sold to the
highest bidder if unclaimed and henceforth kept in slavery."

"I'm in slavery now," said Agathemer. "You, if kept in slavery, would at
least be alive and in no danger of being recognized."

"Thou fool; this echo is a cheat as well,-- The hum of earthly
instincts; and we crave A world unreal as the shell-heard sea."

And now read aloud one of the best-known of Shakspere's sonnets, where
he follows his favorite device of a threefold statement of his central
thought, using a different image in each quatrain, and closing with a
personal application of the idea:

"That time of year thou mayst in me behold When yellow leaves, or none,
or few, do hang Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,
Bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.

In me thou see'st the twilight of such day As after sunset fadeth in the
west; Which by and by black night doth take away, Death's second self,
that seals up all in rest.
In me thou see'st the glowing of such fire, That on the ashes of
his youth doth lie, As the death-bed whereon it must expire, Consumed
with that which it was nourish'd by.

This thou perceivest, which makes thy love more strong, To love
that well which thou must leave ere long."

Where there is beauty such as this, it is an impertinence to insist
that Shakspere has not conformed to the special type of beauty
represented in the Petrarchan sonnet.

He chose not to conform. He won with other tactics.

If the reader will analyse the form and thought of the eighty sonnets in
the _Oxford Book_, or the two hundred collected by Miss Lockwood, he will
feel the charm of occasional irregularity in the handling of both the
Petrarchan and the Shaksperean sonnet. But he is more likely, I think, to
become increasingly aware that whatever restraints are involved
in adherence to typical forms are fully compensated by the rich
verbal beauty demanded by the traditional arrangement of rhymes.

For the sonnet, an intricately wrought model of the reflective lyric,
requires a peculiarly intimate union of thinking and singing. It may be,
as it often was in the Elizabethan period, too full of thought to allow
free-winged song, and it may also be too full of uncontrolled, unbalanced
emotion to preserve fit unity of thought.

Now the minor tower, in which was the spiral stair, was built as a vent to
carry up into the air, far above the roofs of the villa, any miasma,
effluvium or exhalation from the drainage-water of the villa's baths,
kitchen and latrines. On the subject of harmful vapours from drains my
uncle was fanatical and to bear out his contentions he quoted from the
works of many celebrated philosophers and physicians, including those of
Galen.

Pursuant with his notions as to how to get rid of the exhalations from
drainage and to make certain that no whiff of any such vapours ever found
its way up any offset into his kitchen or any latrine or bathroom, he had
built in this small high tower a shaft reaching its top and full six feet
square all the way up. At its bottom it widened out into a chamber fully
twelve feet square, carried down below the level of the cellar floor to
form a cemented tank, vat, cistern or cesspool fully as deep as it was
wide. The outfall from this trap was by a terra-cotta pipe of considerable
size, its opening at such a point that the drain-water in the trap never
reached higher than a foot or so below the level of the cellar floor. The
various drainage-pipes from different parts of the villa were so led into
this trap-room that their lower ends were always under water, so that no
exhalations could ever pass up any of them.

To the bottom of the trap settled the solid matter and sediment from the
drainage-water. The trap was cleaned by slaves so often that the ooze in
it never rose high enough to escape down the outfall pipe and befoul the
Bran Brook. For cleaning out the trap-room had an outer door, of heavy,
solid oak, carefully locked, which when opened enabled the slaves
entrusted with this task to dredge or bale or scoop out the filth and
convey it off to be used as garden manure. There was also an inner door,
as heavy and solid as the other, opening from the cellar, which enabled my
uncle to inspect the trap at his convenience. This door Agathemer opened.

I peered in and, after my eyes became accustomed to the gloom, descried
the opening of the outfall drain opposite me. It was large enough for lean
men like me and Agathemer to crawl through, but certainly barely large
enough. I could see, after some moments, the lower ends of the drain
pipes, two dozen or more, dipping into the foul liquid which filled the
cistern. It was very foul, for since my uncle's death the cleaning out of
the trap had been neglected and the ooze came almost to the top of the
water.

Agathemer hunted about the cellar, found some bits of stone about the size
of apples, put them in the bag of food, tied up its neck again, and threw
it into the trap, where it sank out of sight. After it he threw in the two
keys.

Now was the moment for our plunge into the unknown. Agathemer's plan
implied that we must crawl a full furlong through the outfall drain. We
might be drowned, at any point of the crawl, by a rush of water from the
bath-tank. We might suffocate in the foul vapours of the drain. But,
plainly, Agathemer had pitched upon our only chance of escape, and we must
escape that way and at once or not at all.

Agathemer threw the two copper cylinders, one after the other, neatly and
deftly into the mouth of the outfall drain.

"Now," he said, "one of us must jump for that opening, and must cling to
it, his arms inside, his body in the ooze of the trap. The other must
stand on the narrow stone ledge inside this door, must contrive to slam
the door behind him so that it will shut fast and stay shut, must then, in
the pitch dark, jump for the shoulders of the other. If the drag of his
weight pulls the other down, both of us will drown in this deep trap in
the vile ooze. Victor Hugo is now seen to be something far other than the
mere amazing lyric virtuoso of the _Odes et Ballades_ of 1826. Walt Whitman
ultimately gets judged as Walt Whitman, and not merely as the
inventor of a new type of free verse in 1855.

I considered the door, the sill, the ledge inside, the jambs of the door,
its edges; stood on the ledge, went through the motions and concluded that
I could slam the door shut and not be knocked off into the ooze by its
impact or topple off because of the sill's narrowness. Crummles_' Theatre, when somebody, looking through a hole in the
curtain, announced, in a state of great excitement, the advent of
another boy to the pit.

And now we rattle over the stones joltingly, along a fairly well-lighted
street.
I
know I can hold on, no matter how much filth is plastered over my head as
you crawl over me. I should not like the idea of defiling your head with
filth in crawling over you. Jump so that your clutching hands just reach
my shoulders; so that your weight will come on me gradually as you sink
into the ooze. Take your time about crawling over me. Jeffery Llewelyn
Prichard, who recently told me it was out of print, and that
inquiries had been made for the book which might probably lead to
a new and improved edition.

ELIJAH WARING.
Dowry Parade, Clifton.

_Wotton's Poem to Lord Bacon_ (No. 19. p. 302.)."I'm all right," he called back, "and ready for you."

Three times I tried to slam that door and failed to shut it. The fourth
time I found myself, my back against the shut door, my toes sticking out
over the edge of the stone sill, balanced in the pitch dark on a too
narrow ledge.

"Lean back against the door," Agathemer called, thickly. "If it gives it
is not shut."

It did not give.

I said so.

