The crucial moment had arrived. Jenks pressed the trigger, and the Dyak
hurtled through the air, falling headlong out of sight.

The sound of this, the first shot of real warfare, awoke Rainbow Island
into tremendous activity. His Creatures_, continues he, _talk'd of this
Design with excessive Encomiums. Never_, said they, _were the past
Ages possest of so much Eloquence as ours is like to be. We shall
out-do all that went before us, and all that shall come after. And the
greatest Share of the Glory will redound to the Academy and the Cardinal.
Others, on the contrary, treated this Design as ridiculous. They
accused the Academy as aiming to give Laws to Things not susceptible of
them, and were perpetually falling upon them with Jests and Satyrs.Iris could hear the turmoil beneath, and she tremulously asked--

"Are they going to attack us?"

"Not yet," was the reassuring answer. "I killed the fellow who saw us
before he could tell the others."

It was a bold risk, and he had taken it, though, now the Dyaks knew for
certain their prey had not escaped, there was no prospect of their
speedy departure. Nevertheless the position was not utterly hopeless.
None of the enemy could tell how or by whom their companion had been
shot. Each issue contains an Introduction by a of special competence in
the field represented.

The Augustan Reprints are available only to members.

They will never be offered at "remainder" prices.

_GENERAL EDITORS_
RICHARD C. BOYS, _University of Michigan_ EDWARD NILES HOOKER,
_University of California, Los Angeles_ H. T. SWEDENBERG, JR.,
_University of California, Los Angeles_ 
_ADVISORY EDITORS_
EMMETT L. AVERY, _State College of Washington_ LOUIS I.He could only
wait, with ready rifle, with the light of battle lowering in his eyes.
Of one thing at least he was certain--before they conquered him he
would levy a terrible toll.

He glanced back at Iris. Her face was pale beneath its mask of
sunbrown. She was bent over her Bible, and Jenks did not know that she
was reading the 91st Psalm. Her lips murmured--

"I will say unto the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress; my God, in
Him will I trust."

The chief was listening intently to the story of the Dyak who saw the
dead man totter and fall. He gave some quick order. The Centennial Baby
Walking-Table.

This Walking-Table is the best article of the kind ever offered to
the mothers of America.

The time saved to be given to other duties, aside from personal relief
to the mother or nurse, will more than pay the price of the table.

Any child that can stand a moment by a chair without falling, can,
by one day's practice, and sometimes at once, walk where it pleases
about the room. It is so constructed that it is impossible for the
child to fall or get injured in any way.

"For He shall give His angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy
ways.

"They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone....

"He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in
trouble: I will deliver him and honour him."

Iris did not apply the consoling words to herself. Among all the various
ways in which we of late have endeavour'd to endear our selves to the
_French_, and make 'em forgive us for beating them so, nothing
certainly will oblige 'em more than our affecting to imitate them
in our Political Style.After reading those inspired verses she
placed implicit trust in the promise made. For He was good: His was the
mercy that "endureth forever." Enemies encompassed them with words of
hatred--fought against them without a cause--but there was One who
should "judge among the heathen" and "fill the places with dead
bodies."

