State of the Union Address
Woodrow Wilson
December 2, 1913

Gentlemen of the Congress:

In pursuance of my constitutional duty to "give to the Congress information
of the state of the Union," I take the liberty of addressing you on several
matters which ought, as it seems to me, particularly to engage the
attention of your honorable bodies, as of all who study the welfare and
progress of the Nation.

I shall ask your indulgence if I venture to depart in some degree from the
usual custom of setting before you in formal review the many matters which
have engaged the attention and called for the action of the several
departments of the Government or which look to them for early treatment in
the future, because the list is long, very long, and would suffer in the
abbreviation to which I should have to subject it. I shall submit to you
the reports of the heads of the several departments, in which these
subjects are set forth in careful detail, and beg that they may receive the
thoughtful attention of your committees and of all Members of the Congress
who may have the leisure to study them. Their obvious importance, as
constituting the very substance of the business of the Government, makes
comment and emphasis on my part unnecessary.

The country, I am thankful to say, is at peace with all the world, and many
happy manifestations multiply about us of a growing cordiality and sense of
community of interest among the nations, foreshadowing an age of settled
peace and good will. By the name of this neighborhood and other aspects
of local topography and nomenclature, it was festively that have
Cordoban _The Truth in the Field, Health in the Cemetery, Charity in foal
and the point in a cuerno_. The latter refers to an altar call _del punto_,
immediately to a large elephant tusk (according to Horn vulgo) as a
symbol of strength, hangs from the dome of one of the buildings on the
Cathedral.] [Note 352 : So in the text editing prince, but probably
lack a word: the _A Patricia_ Cologne, I would say the original, because
it was the Roman name of Cordova, as we see in their autonomous coins of
the time.] [Note 353: About the meaning of note was _acto positivo_ trance
III (83, 4) [230].] [354 Note: I wrote asking for this old inn don Enrique
Romero de Torres, my learned and gentle _paisano_ (because he is a native
of Cordova I'm Cordoban adoptive), and has satisfied my curiosity, report
that the first book of patterns that confessions cathedral (1604-1609)
consists of _Mesón that Rexas_ was the second house on the street
from the Blacksmith, No. today. 83 of the Cardinal González.

And my friend said in his letter: "The house is very beautiful and looks
should be one of the best inns of the time, is located near Gate Bridge
and the main route of Cordova, who was from this Door to Door New callers
(which no longer exists), and constituted the road from Seville to
Madrid. "In _mesón of stay tended Rejas_ companies representing comedians
in Cordova: there were staying in 1610 Pedro de Castro Jeronimo
de la Fuente, the company's famous Granados, when dismissal.

(See my _Aportaciones for the history of histrionics in the Spanish siglos_
XVI and XVII, Madrid, 1914, p. 34..)]
Mexico has
no Government. The attempt to maintain one at the City of Mexico has broken
down, and a mere military despotism has been set up which has hardly more
than the semblance of national authority. It originated in the usurpation
of Victoriano Huerta, who, after a brief attempt to play the part of
constitutional President, has at last cast aside even the pretense of legal
right and declared himself dictator. As a consequence, a condition of
affairs now exists in Mexico which has made it doubtful whether even the
most elementary and fundamental rights either of her own people or of the
citizens of other countries resident within her territory can long be
successfully safeguarded, and which threatens, if long continued, to
imperil the interests of peace, order, and tolerable life in the lands
immediately to the south of us. Even if the usurper had succeeded in his
purposes, in despite of the constitution of the Republic and the rights of
its people, he would have set up nothing but a precarious and hateful
power, which could have lasted but a little while, and whose eventual
downfall would have left the country in a more deplorable condition than
ever. But he has not succeeded. He has forfeited the respect and the moral
support even of those who were at one time willing to see him succeed.
Little by little he has been completely isolated. By a little every day his
power and prestige are crumbling and the collapse is not far away. We shall
not, I believe, be obliged to alter our policy of watchful waiting. And
then, when the end comes, we shall hope to see constitutional order
restored in distressed Mexico by the concert and energy of such of her
leaders as prefer the liberty of their people to their own ambitions.

I turn to matters of domestic concern. You already have under consideration
a bill for the reform of our system of banking and currency, for which the
country waits with impatience, as for something fundamental to its whole
business life and necessary to set credit free from arbitrary and
artificial restraints. I need not say how earnestly I hope for its early
enactment into law. I take leave to beg that the whole energy and attention
of the Senate be concentrated upon it till the matter is successfully
disposed of. And yet I feel that the request is not needed-that the Members
of that great House need no urging in this service to the country.

I present to you, in addition, the urgent necessity that special provision
be made also for facilitating the credits needed by the farmers of the
country. The pending currency bill does the farmers a great service. It
puts them upon an equal footing with other business men and masters of
enterprise, as it should; and upon its passage they will find themselves
quit of many of the difficulties which now hamper them in the field of
credit. The farmers, of course, ask and should be given no special
privilege, such as extending to them the credit of the Government itself.
What they need and should obtain is legislation which will make their own
abundant and substantial credit resources available as a foundation for
joint, concerted local action in their own behalf in getting the capital
they must use. It is to this we should now address ourselves.

It has, singularly enough, come to pass that we have allowed the industry
of our farms to lag behind the other activities of the country in its
development. I need not stop to tell you how fundamental to the life of the
Nation is the production of its food. Our thoughts may ordinarily be
concentrated upon the cities and the hives of industry, upon the cries of
the crowded market place and the clangor of the factory, but it is from the
quiet interspaces of the open valleys and the free hillsides that we draw
the sources of life and of prosperity, from the farm and the ranch, from
the forest and the mine. Without these every street would be silent, every
office deserted, every factory fallen into disrepair. And yet the farmer
does not stand upon the same footing with the forester and the miner in the
market of credit. He is the servant of the seasons. Nature determines how
long he must wait for his crops, and will not be hurried in her processes.
He may give his note, but the season of its maturity depends upon the
season when his crop matures, lies at the gates of the market where his
products are sold. And the security he gives is of a character not known in
the broker's office or as familiarly as it might be on the counter of the
banker.

The Agricultural Department of the Government is seeking to assist as never
before to make farming an efficient business, of wide co-operative effort,
in quick touch with the markets for foodstuffs. The farmers and the
Government will henceforth work together as real partners in this field,
where we now begin to see our way very clearly and where many intelligent
plans are already being put into execution. The Treasury of the United
States has, by a timely and well-considered distribution of its deposits,
facilitated the moving of the crops in the present season and prevented the
scarcity of available funds too often experienced at such times. But we
must not allow ourselves to depend upon extraordinary expedients. We must
add the means by which the, farmer may make his credit constantly and
easily available and command when he will the capital by which to support
and expand his business. We lag behind many other great countries of the
modern world in attempting to do this. Systems of rural credit have been
studied and developed on the other side of the water while we left our
farmers to shift for themselves in the ordinary money market. You have but
to look about you in any rural district to see the result, the handicap and
embarrassment which have been put upon those who produce our food.

Conscious of this backwardness and neglect on our part, the Congress
recently authorized the creation of a special commission to study the
various systems of rural credit which have been put into operation in
Europe, and this commission is already prepared to report. Its report ought
to make it easier for us to determine what methods will be best suited to
our own farmers. I hope and believe that the committees of the Senate and
House will address themselves to this matter with the most fruitful
results, and I believe that the studies and recently formed plans of the
Department of Agriculture may be made to serve them very greatly in their
work of framing appropriate and adequate legislation. It would be
indiscreet and presumptuous in anyone to dogmatize upon so great and
many-sided a question, but I feel confident that common counsel will
produce the results we must all desire.

Turn from the farm to the world of business which centers in the city and
in the factory, and I think that all thoughtful observers will agree that
the immediate service we owe the business communities of the country is to
prevent private monopoly more effectually than it has yet been prevented. 
For Mr. Bonilla, in his notes to the edition of 1902, _Nitesgut_ was "word
comes from the corruption of the German _Nichtsgut_ comprising _nicht -
_nada and _gut_ = good '. Perez and Gonzalez noted, with his usual discretion,
one that _ 'Nitesgut! - _o Whatever - is an offensive phrase Velez de
Guevara puts in the mouth of an English insult, seriously and angrily to his
critics 'and another that does not seem to own that insulted the French
españolizado devil in French and Italian in Italian, the English had to
resort to _inventar_ dicterios Germans in their language as if it had
not, nor is natural that After calling the _pícaro and sodomita_ French and
Italian, and Jewish _traidor or knave, _ was satisfied with the English
say, _ Nothing good Spanish!, _ because this, after those improperios rather
than anger Don Cleophas and the devil out of the boxes would have helped,
by contrast, to make unscrewing of laughter. " So much was going well and
rebién my dear friend and former comrade Felipe Pérez, but by no less a
commentator commented that his wished, as he cast his fourth Philology
and believed to make it clear that _nitty_ means of Castilian
_lleno liendres_ and _goose_ (read _gus) silly, "NiTi gus_ might
well become, by work and grace of the typesetters, then _nitesgut_
incomprehensible."

Recently, the matter back to Mr. Bonilla's edition in 1910, leaving
his old German and conjecture that _nitesgut "may ser_ a compound word
_naughty_ = naughty, wicked, and _guest_ - host two words - added --
coming from the knob Cojuelo and Velez joined, written without spelling and
sound mainly _ (guest reported). _ I will not go to ground where it is
as easy as desbarrar revolver dictionaries of various languages that
are not known, or, which is usually worse, are not well understood,
but I will say, opening the door for others, it does not seem very sure
_nitesgut_ even put into the mouth of an English, speech is English,
while it makes Castillo Solórzano tell _un gabacho, _ gives the Lope
_un tudesco_, indeed acting _ni you gote_. See the texts referred
to, the first of a romance with a woman roma (apud _Donayres of Parnassus.
Parte_ Second, Madrid, Diego Flamenco, 1625, fol. 26): If you convictions,
you can trust your romanitud Lucifer , which is between hazerte demons
Monsiur. And tell chewing coals (with his stick flux) _tan well as the most
gauacho 'nitifiston, Nites gut._ And Lope, in Act II of _The Knight of
the Sacramento_: CRISPIN .

Such
territories, once regarded as mere possessions, are no longer to be
selfishly exploited; they are part of the domain of public conscience and
of serviceable and enlightened statesmanship. We must administer them for
the people who live in them and with the same sense of responsibility to
them as toward our own people in our domestic affairs. No doubt we shall
successfully enough bind Porto Rico and the Hawaiian Islands to ourselves
by ties of justice and interest and affection, but the performance of our
duty toward the Philippines is a more difficult and debatable matter. We
can satisfy the obligations of generous justice toward the people of Porto
Rico by giving them the ample and familiar rights and privileges accorded
our own citizens in our own territories and our obligations toward the
people of Hawaii by perfecting the provisions for self-government already
granted them, but in the Philippines we must go further. We must hold
steadily in view their ultimate independence, and we must move toward the
time of that independence as steadily as the way can be cleared and the
foundations thoughtfully and permanently laid.

Acting under the authority conferred upon the President by Congress, I have
already accorded the people of the islands a majority in both houses of
their legislative body by appointing five instead of four native citizens
to the membership of the commission. I believe that in this way we shall
make proof of their capacity in counsel and their sense of responsibility
in the exercise of political power, and that the success of this step will
be sure to clear our view for the steps which are to follow. Step by step
we should extend and perfect the system of self-government in the islands,
making test of them and modifying them as experience discloses their
successes and their failures; that we should more and more put under the
control of the native citizens of the archipelago the essential instruments
of their life, their local instrumentalities of government, their schools,
all the common interests of their communities, and so by counsel and
experience set up a government which all the world will see to be suitable
to a people whose affairs are under their own control. At last, I hope and
believe, we are beginning to gain the confidence of the Filipino peoples.
By their counsel and experience, rather than by our own, we shall learn how
best to serve them and how soon it will be possible and wise to withdraw
our supervision. Let us once find the path and set out with firm and
confident tread upon it and we shall not wander from it or linger upon it.

A duty faces us with regard to Alaska which seems to me very pressing and
very imperative; perhaps I should say a double duty, for it concerns both
the political and the material development of the Territory. The people of
Alaska should be given the full Territorial form of government, and Alaska,
as a storehouse, should be unlocked. One key to it is a system of railways.
These the Government should itself build and administer, and the ports and
terminals it should itself control in the interest of all who wish to use
them for the service and development of the country and its people.

But the construction of railways is only the first step; is only thrusting
in the key to the storehouse and throwing back the lock and opening the
door. How the tempting resources of the country are to be exploited is
another matter, to which I shall take the liberty of from time to time
calling your attention, for it is a policy which must be worked out by
well-considered stages, not upon theory, but upon lines of practical
expediency. It is part of our general problem of conservation. We have a
freer hand in working out the problem in Alaska than in the States of the
Union; and yet the principle and object are the same, wherever we touch it.
We must use the resources of the country, not lock them up. There need be
no conflict or jealousy as between State and Federal authorities, for there
can be no essential difference of purpose between them. [Note 344: With
_Hermandad_, or with some of the _cuadrilleros Santa Hermandad_,
which as is well known, was one of the _tres santas_ of those who
said: "Three Saints and bring to a Honrado Kingdom overwhelmed".] [
Note 345: _Tantos_ within the meaning of tokens or Pedrezuela often
identify themselves to earn points in certain games. Our author means that
the jugs, jars and pots made dishes were often so small as to serve
many of the players. The same Quevedo, in its first jácaras (Musa V):
"The pay for the patent, we come to find me and Perotudo of Burgos: acabóse
friendship.

_Hizo_ In my head _tantos_ a pitcher who was potty and I, knife cut it
with half half jaw. "] [Note 346: As a part of the proceeds from
the theater in Madrid and in many villages, was applied to the
upkeep of the houses of charity, when these were not owners of the
theaters, and the Court is always required significant assistance
from shore, you do not miss cuidábase companies that require order
of the Council of Castile, or to whom such comedians who went to
other regions of Spain, to come to Madrid, and even a sheriff who
released the lead.

See this funny book and Pérez González, pp. 87 et seq.] [Note 347: It is
well known that chameleons vulgo cree kept the air.] [Note 348: As _del
more Mecenas_ our author refers to the Conde Duque de Olivares, Jr., in
effect, Don Diego Lopez de Haro, fifth marquis of Carpio.]
Social justice comes first. Law is the machinery for its
realization and is vital only as it expresses and embodies it.

An international congress for the discussion of all questions that affect
safety at sea is now sitting in London at the suggestion of our own
Government. So soon as the conclusions of that congress can be learned and
considered we ought to address ourselves, among other things, to the prompt
alleviation of the very unsafe, unjust, and burdensome conditions which now
surround the employment of sailors and render it extremely difficult to
obtain the services of spirited and competent men such as every ship needs
if it is to be safely handled and brought to port.

May I not express the very real pleas-are I have experienced in
co-operating with this Congress and sharing with it the labors of common
service to which it has devoted itself so unreservedly during the past
seven months of uncomplaining concentration upon the business of
legislation? Surely it is a proper and pertinent part of my report on "the
state of the Union" to express my admiration for the diligence, the good
temper, and the full comprehension of public duty which has already been
manifested by both the Houses; and I hope that it may not be deemed an
impertinent intrusion of myself into the picture if I say with how much and
how constant satisfaction I have availed myself of the privilege of putting
my time and energy at their disposal alike in counsel and in action.

***

State of the Union Address
Woodrow Wilson
December 8, 1914

GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS:

The session upon which you are now entering will be the closing session of
the Sixty-third Congress, a Congress, I venture to say, which will long be
remembered for the great body of thoughtful and constructive work which it
has done, in loyal response to the thought and needs of the country. I
should like in this address to review the notable record and try to make
adequate assessment of it; but no doubt we stand too near the work that has
been done and are ourselves too much part of it to play the part of
historians toward it.

Our program of legislation with regard to the regulation of business is now
virtually complete. It has been put forth, as we intended, as a whole, and
leaves no conjecture as to what is to follow. The road at last lies clear
and firm before business. It is a road which it can travel without fear or
embarrassment. It is the road to ungrudged, unclouded success. In it every
honest man, every man who believes that the public interest is part of his
own interest, may walk with perfect confidence.

Moreover, our thoughts are now more of the future than of the past. While
we have worked at our tasks of peace the circumstances of the whole age
have been altered by war. What we have done for our own land and our own
people we did with the best that was in us, whether of character or of
intelligence, with sober enthusiasm and a confidence in the principles upon
which we were acting which sustained us at every step of the difficult
undertaking; but it is done. It has passed from our hands. It is now an
established part of the legislation of the country. Its usefulness, its
effects will disclose themselves in experience. What chiefly strikes us
now, as we look about us during these closing days of a year which will be
forever memorable in the history of the world, is that we face new tasks,
have been facing them these six months, must face them in the months to
come,-face them without partisan feeling, like men who have forgotten
everything but a common duty and the fact that we are representatives of a
great people whose thought is not of us but of what America owes to herself
and to all mankind in such circumstances as these upon which we look amazed
and anxious.

War has interrupted the means of trade not only but also the processes of
production. [Note 328: _Representantas_ as Lope said in the caption of one
of his sonnets, despite the evil that feminists today, who want to read
_The counselor, the professor even _maestro_ y_. Cervantes said _preguntanta
(Quijote, II _, 62).] [Note 329: _Recalcado_, as an adverb:
_recalcadamente_. Another author, I do not remember which one (maybe
Quevedo), _hablar jeringado_ called to speak well and is very proper,
because it denotes either the words coming out as prizes alquitaradas and
pushed by the plunger of a syringe.

_Recalcado_ And _jeringado_, as in other calendar, still speaking ill
comedians today, inside and outside the theater.] [Note 330: The writers
of the latest fashion _ (dernier cri_, they say) and omit the preposition
would type today Galić: "...
This
is particularly true of our own neighbors, the States, great and small, of
Central and South America. Their lines of trade have hitherto run chiefly
athwart the seas, not to our ports but to the ports of Great Britain and of
the older continent of Europe. I do not stop to inquire why, or to make any
comment on probable causes. What interests us just now is not the
explanation but the fact, and our duty and opportunity in the presence of
it. Here are markets which we must supply, and we must find the means of
action. The United States, this great people for whom we speak and act,
should be ready, as never before, to serve itself and to serve mankind;
ready with its resources, its energies, its forces of production, and its
means of distribution.

It is a very practical matter, a matter of ways and means. We have the
resources, but are we fully ready to use them? And, if we can make ready
what we have, have we the means at hand to distribute it? [Note 359: Call
_espadas negras_ because they threw in that color, the iron, without gloss
or court, which served to fencing exercises, and which, in order not
injured with the tip, were placed in her leather buttons, these commonly
_zapatillas_.We are not prepared to use them immediately
and at their best, without delay and without waste.

To speak plainly, we have grossly erred in the way in which we have stunted
and hindered the development of our merchant marine. And now, when we need
ships, we have not got them. We have year after year debated, without end
or conclusion, the best policy to pursue with regard to the use of the ores
and forests and water powers of our national domain in the rich States of
the West, when we should have acted; and they are still locked up. The key
is still turned upon them, the door shut fast at which thousands of
vigorous men, full of initiative, knock clamorously for admittance. [Note
356: This _linea_ angles and these are terms of what is still to mediate the
seventeenth century was called _nuevo art of destreza_, mainly due to studies
and work by Jerónimo de Carranza and Don Luis Pacheco de Narváez, its
continuity. ]
We withhold by regulation.

I have come to ask you to remedy and correct these mistakes and omissions,
even at this short session of a Congress which would certainly seem to have
done all the work that could reasonably be expected of it. The time and the
circumstances are extraordinary, and so must our efforts be also.

