"

Eve's attitude was difficult to read.  She stood twisting the
string of diamonds between her fingers.

"Tell me?" he said again.

She continued to look at him for a moment; then, as if some
fresh impulse moved her, she turned away from him towards the
fire.

"I cannot," she said.  "We--I--I could not set myself to
judge--any one."

Loder held himself rigidly in hand.

"Eve," he said, quietly, "I was at the `Arcadian' to-night.
The play was 'Other Men's Shoes.'  I suppose you've read the
book 'Other Men's Shoes'?"

She was leaning on the mantel-piece and her face was invisible
to him.  "Yes, I have read it," she said, without looking
round.

"It is the story of an extraordinary likeness between two men.
Do you believe such a likeness possible?  Do you think such a
thing could exist?"  He spoke with difficulty; his brain and
tongue both felt numb.

Eve let the diamond chain slip from her fingers.  "Yes," she
said, nervously.  "Yes, I do believe it.  Such things have
been--"

Loder caught at the words.  "You're quite right," he said,
quickly.  "You're quite right.  The thing is possible--I've
proved it.  I know a man so like me that you, even you, could
not tell us apart."

Eve was silent, still averting her face.

In dire difficulty he labored on.  "Eve," he began once more,
"such a likeness is a serious thing--a terrible danger--a
terrible temptation.  Those who have no experience of it
cannot possibly gauge its pitfalls--"  Again he paused, but
again the silent figure by the fireplace gave him no help.

"Eve," he exclaimed, suddenly, "if you only knew, if you only
guessed what I'm trying to say--"  The perplexity, the whole
harassed suffering of his mind showed in the words.  Loder,
the strong, the resourceful, the self-contained, was palpably,
painfully at a loss.  There was almost a note of appeal in the
vibration of his voice.

And Eve, standing by the fireplace, heard and understood.  In
that moment of comprehension all that had held her silent, all
the conflicting motives that had forbidden speech, melted away
before the unconscious demand for help.  Quietly and yet
quickly she turned, her whole face transfigured by a light
that seemed to shine from within
--something singularly soft and tender.

"There's no need to say anything," she said, simply, "because
I know."

It came quietly, as most great revelations come.  Her voice
was low and free from any excitement, her face beautiful in
its complete unconsciousness of self.  In that supreme moment
all her thought, all her sympathy was for the man--and his
suffering.

To Loder there was a space of incredulity; then his brain
slowly swung to realization.  "You know?" he repeated,
blankly.  "You know?"

Without answering she walked to a cabinet that stood in the
window, unlocked a drawer, and drew out several sheets of
flimsy white paper, crumpled in places and closely covered
with writing.  Without a word she carried them back and held
them out.

He took them in silence, scanned them, then looked up.

In a long, worthless pause their eyes met.  It was as if each
looked speechlessly into the other's heart, seeing the
passions, the contradictions, the shortcomings that went to
the making of both.  In that silence they drew closer together
than they could have done through a torrent of words.  There
was no asking of forgiveness, no elaborate confession on
either side; in the deep, eloquent pause they mutually saw and
mutually understood.

"When I came into the morning-room to-day," Eve said, at last,
"and saw Lillian Astrupp reading that telegram, nothing could
have seemed further from me than the thought that I should
follow her example.  It was not until afterwards; not until
--he came into the room; until I saw that you, as I believed,
had fallen back again from what I respected to what I
despised--that I knew how human I really was.  As I watched
them laugh and talk I felt suddenly that I was alone again
--terribly alone.  I--I think--I believe I was jealous in that
moment--"  She hesitated.

"Eve!" he exclaimed.

But she broke in quickly on the word.  "I felt different in
that moment.  I didn't care about honor--or things like honor.
After they had gone it seemed to me that I had missed
something--something that they possessed.  Oh, you don't know
what a woman feels when she is jealous!"  Again she paused.
"It was then that the telegram, and the thought of Lillian's
amused smile as she had read it, came to my mind.  Feeling as
I did--acting on what I felt--I crossed to the bureau and
picked it up.  In one second I had seen enough to make it
impossible to draw back.  Oh, it may have been dishonorable,
it may have been mean, but I wonder if any woman in the world
would have done otherwise!  I crumpled up the papers just as
they were and carried them to my own room."

From the first to the last word of Eve's story Loder's eyes
never left her face.  Instantly she had finished his voice
broke forth in irrepressible question.  In that wonderful
space of time he had learned many things.  All his deductions,
all his apprehensions had been scattered and disproved.  He
had seen the true meaning of Lillian Astrupp's amused
indifference--the indifference of a variable, flippant nature
that, robbed of any real weapon for mischief, soon tires of a
game that promises to be too arduous.  He saw all this and
understood it with a rapidity born of the moment;
nevertheless, when Eve ceased to speak the question that broke
from him was not connected with this great discovery--was not
even suggestive of it.  It was something quite immaterial to
any real issue, but something that overshadowed every
consideration in the world.

"Eve," he said, "tell me your first thought?  Your first
thought after the shock and the surprise--when you remembered
me?"

There was a fresh pause, but one of very short duration; then
Eve met his glance fearlessly and frankly.  The same pride and
dignity, the same indescribable tenderness that had responded
to his first appeal shone in her face.

"My first thought was a great thankfulness," she said, simply.
"A thankfulness that you--that no man--could ever understand."


XXXIII


As she finished speaking Eve did not lower her eyes.  To her
there was no suggestion of shame in her thoughts or her words;
but to Loder, watching and listening, there was a perilous
meaning contained in both.

"Thankfulness?" he repeated, slowly.  From his newly stirred
sense of responsibility pity and sympathy were gradually
rising.  He had never seen Eve as he saw her now, and his
vision was all the clearer for the long oblivion.  With a
poignant sense of compassion and remorse, the knowledge of her
youth came to him--the youth that some women preserve in the
midst of the world, when circumstances have permitted them to
see much but to experience little.

"Thankfulness?" he said again, incredulously.

A slight smile touched her lips.  "Yes," she answered, softly.
"Thankfulness that my trust had been rightly placed."

She spoke simply and confidently, but the words struck Loder
more sharply than any accusation.  With a heavy sense of
bitterness and renunciation he moved slowly forward.

"Eve," he said, very gently, "you don't know what you say."

She had lowered her eyes as he came towards her; now again she
lifted them in a swift, upward glance.  For the first time
since he had entered the room a slight look of personal doubt
and uneasiness showed in her face.  "Why?" she said.  "I--I
don't understand."

For a moment he answered nothing.  He had found his first
explanation overwhelming; now suddenly it seemed to him that
his present difficulty was more impossible to surmount.  "I
came here to-night to tell you something," he began, at last,
"but so far I have only said half--"

"Half?"

"Yes, half." He repeated the word quickly, avoiding the
question in her eyes.  Then, conscious of the need for
explanation, he plunged into rapid speech.

"A fraud like mine," he said, "has only one safeguard, one
justification--a boundless audacity.  Once shake that audacity
and the whole motive power crumbles.  It was to make the
audacity impossible--to tell you the truth and make it
impossible--that I came to-night.  The fact that you already
knew made the telling easier--but it altered nothing."

Eve raised her head, but he went resolutely on.

"To-night," he said, "I have seen into my own life, into my
own mind, and my ideas have been very roughly shaken into new
places.

"We never make so colossal a mistake as when we imagine that
we know ourselves.  Months ago, when your husband first
proposed this scheme to me, I was, according to my own
conception, a solitary being vastly ill-used by Fate, who,
with a fine stoicism, was leading a clean life.  That was what
I believed; but there, at the very outset, I deceived myself.
I was simply a man who shut himself up because he cherished a
grudge against life, and who lived honestly because he had a
constitutional distaste for vice.  My first feeling when I saw
your husband was one of self-righteous contempt, and that has
been my attitude all along.  I have often marvelled at the flood
of intolerance that has rushed over me at sight of him--the
violent desire that has possessed me to look away from his
weakness and banish the knowledge of it; but now I understand.

"I know now what the feeling meant.  The knowledge came to me
to-night.  It meant that I turned away from his weakness
because deep within myself something stirred in recognition of
it.  Humanity is really much simpler than we like to think,
and human impulses have an extraordinary fundamental
connection.  Weakness is egotism--but so is strength.
Chilcote has followed his vice; I have followed my ambition.
It will take a higher judgment than yours or mine to say which
of us has been the more selfish man."  He paused and looked at
her.

She was watching him intently.  Some of the meaning in his
face had found a pained, alarmed reflection in her own.  But
the awe and wonder of the morning's discovery still colored
her mind too vividly to allow of other considerations
possessing their proper value.  The thrill of exultation with
which the misgivings born of Chilcote's vice had dropped away
from her mental image of Loder was still too absorbing to be
easily dominated.  She loved, and as if by a miracle her love
had been justified!  For the moment the justification was
all-sufficing.  Something of confidence--something of the
innocence that comes not from ignorance of evil but from a
mind singularly uncontaminated--blinded her to the danger of
her position.

Loder, waiting apprehensively for some aid, some expression of
opinion, became gradually conscious of this lack of realization.
Moved by a fresh impulse, he crossed the small space that
divided them and caught her hands.

"Eve," he said, gently, "I have been trying to analyze myself
and give you the results; but I sha'n't try any more; I shall
be quite plain with you.

"From the first moment I took your husband's place I was
ambitious.  You unconsciously aroused the feeling when you
brought me Fraide's message on the first night.  You aroused
it by your words--but more strongly, though more obscurely, by
your underlying antagonism.  On that night, though I did not
know it, I took up my position--I made my determination.  Do
you know what that determination was?"

She shook her head.

"It was the desire to stamp out Chilcote's footmarks with my
own--to prove that personality is the great force capable of
everything.  I forgot to reckon that when we draw largely upon
Fate she generally extorts a crushing interest.

"First came the wish for your respect; then the desire to
stand well with such men as Fraide--to feel the stir of
emulation and competition--to prove myself strong in the one
career I knew myself really fitted for.  For a time the second
ambition overshadowed the first, but the first was bound to
reassert itself; and in a moment of egotism I conceived the
notion of winning your enthusiasm as well as your respect--"

Eve's face, alert and questioning, suddenly paled as a  doubt
crossed her mind.

"Then it was only--only to stand well with me?"

"I believed it was only the desire to stand well with you; I
believed it until the night of my speech--if you can credit
anything so absurd--then on that night, as I came up the
stairs to the gallery and saw you standing there, the
blindness fell away and I knew that I loved you."  As he said
the last words he released her hands and turned aside, missing
the quick wave of joy and color that crossed her face.

"I knew it, but it made no difference; I was only moved to a
higher self-glorification.  I touched supremacy that night.
But as we drove home I experienced the strangest coincidence
of my life.  You remember the block in the traffic at
Piccadilly?"

Again Eve bent her head.

"Well, when I looked out of the carriage window to discover
its cause the first man I saw was--Chilcote."

Eve started slightly.  This swift, unexpected linking of
Chilcote's name with the most exalted moment of her life
stirred her unpleasantly.  Some glimmering of Loder's
intention in so linking it, broke through the web of disturbed
and conflicting thoughts.

"You saw him on that night?"

"Yes; and the sight chilled me.  It was a big drop from
supremacy to the remembrance of--everything."

Involuntarily she put out her hand.

But Loder shook his head.  "No," he said, "don't pity me!  The
sight of him came just in time.  I had a reaction in that
moment, and, such as it was, I acted on it.  I went to him
next morning and told him that the thing must end.  But then
--even then--I shirked being honest with myself.  I had meant
to tell him that it must end because I had grown to love you,
but my pride rose up and tied my tongue.  I could not humiliate
myself.  I put the case before him in another light.  It was a
tussle of wills--and I won; but the victory was not what it
should have been.  That was proved to-day when he returned to
tell me of the loss of this telegram.  It wasn't the fear that
Lady Astrupp had found it; it wasn't to save the position that
I jumped at the chance of coming back; it was to feel the joy
of living, the joy of seeing you--if only for a day!"  For one
second he turned towards her, then as abruptly he turned away
again.

"I was still thinking of myself," he said.  "I was still
utterly self-centred when I came to this room today and
allowed you to talk to me--when I asked you to see me
to-night as we parted at the club.  I sha'n't tell you the
thoughts that unconsciously were in my mind when I asked that
favor.  You must understand without explanation.

"I went to the theatre with Lady Astrupp ostensibly to find
out how the land lay in her direction--really to heighten my
self-esteem.  But there Fate--or the power we like to call by
that name--was lying in wait for me, ready to claim the first
interest in the portion of life I had dared to borrow."  He
said this slowly, as if measuring each word.  He did not
glance towards Eve as he had done in his previous pause.  His
whole manner seemed oppressed by the gravity of what he had
still to say.

"I doubt if a man has ever seen more in half an hour than I
have to-night," he said.  "I'm speaking of mental seeing, of
course.  In this play, 'Other Men's Shoes,' two men change
identities--as Chilcote and I have done--but in doing so they
overlook one fact--The fact that one of them has a wife!  That's
not my way of putting it; it's the way it was put to me by one
of Lady Astrupp's party."

Again Eve looked up.  The doubt and question in her eyes had
grown unmistakably.  As he ceased to speak her lips parted
quickly.

"John," she said, with sudden conviction, "you're trying to
say something--something that's terribly hard."

Without raising his head, Loder answered her.  "Yes," he
answered, "the hardest thing a man ever said--"

His tone was short, almost brusque, but to ears sharpened by
instinct it was eloquent.  Without a word Eve took a step
forward, and, standing quite close to him, laid both hands on
his shoulders.

For a space they stood silent, she with her face lifted, he
with averted eyes.  Then very gently he raised his hands and
tried to unclasp her fingers.  There was scarcely any color
visible in his face, and by a curious effect of emotion it
seemed that lines, never before noticeable, had formed about
his mouth.

"What is it?" Eve asked, apprehensively.  "What is it?"

By a swift, involuntary movement she had tightened the
pressure of her fingers; and, without using force, it was
impossible for Loder to unloose them.  With his hands pressed
irresolutely over hers, he looked down into her face.

"As I sat in the theatre to-night, Eve," he said, slowly, "all
the pictures I had formed of life shifted.  Without desiring
it, without knowing it, my whole point of view was changed.  I
suddenly saw things by the world's search-light instead of by
my own miserable candle.  I suddenly saw things for you
--instead of for myself."

Eve's eyes widened and darkened, but she said nothing.

"I suddenly saw the unpardonable wrong that I have done you
--the imperative duty of cutting it short."  He spoke very
slowly, in a dull, mechanical voice.

Eve--her eyes still wide, her face pained and alarmed
--withdrew her hands from his shoulders.  "You mean," she
said, with difficulty, "that it is going to end?  That you are
going away?  That you are giving everything up?  Oh, but you
can't!  You can't!" she exclaimed, with sudden excitement, her
fears suddenly overmastering her incredulity.  "You can't!
You mustn't!  The only proof that could have interfered--"

"I wasn't thinking of the proof."

"Then of what?  Of what?"

Loder was silent for a moment.  "Of our love," he said,
steadily.

She colored deeply.  "But why?" she stammered; "why?  We
have done no wrong.  We need do no wrong.  We would be
friends--nothing more; and I--oh, I so need a friend!"

For almost the first time in Loder's knowledge of her, her
voice broke, her control deserted her.  She stood before him
in all the pathos of her lonely girlhood--her empty life.

The revelation touched him with sudden poignancy; the real
strength that lay beneath his faults, the chivalry buried
under years of callousness, stirred at the birth of a new
emotion.  The resolution preserved at such a cost, the
sacrifice that had seemed wellnigh impossible, all at once
took on a different shape.  What before had been a barren duty
became suddenly a sacred right.  Holding out his arms, he drew
her to him as if she had been a child.

"Eve," he said, gently, "I have learned to-night how fully a
woman's life is at the mercy of the world--and how scanty that
mercy is.  If circumstances had been different, I believe--I
am convinced--I would have made you a good husband--would have
used my right to protect you as well as a man could use it.
And now that things are different, I want--I should like--"
He hesitated a very little.  "Now that I have no right to
protect you--except the right my love gives--I want to guard
you as closely from all that is sordid as any husband could
guard his wife.

"In life there are really only two broad issues--right and
wrong.  Whatever we may say, whatever we may profess to
believe, we know that our action is always a choice between
right and wrong.  A month ago--a week ago--I would have
despised a man who could talk like this--and have thought
myself strong for despising him.  Now I know that strength is
something more than the trampling of others into the dust that
we ourselves may have a clear road; that it is something much
harder and much less triumphant than that--that it is standing
aside to let somebody else pass on.  Eve," he exclaimed,
suddenly, "I'm trying to do this for you.  Don't you see?
Don't you understand?  The easy course, the happy course,
would be to let things drift.  Every instinct is calling to
me to take that course--to go on as I have gone, trading on
Chilcote's weakness and your generosity.  But I won't do it!
I can't do it!"  With a swift impulse he loosed his arms and
held her away from him.  "Eve, it's the first time I have put
another human being before myself!"

Eve kept her head bent.  Painful, inaudible sobs were shaking
her from head to foot.

"It's something in you--something unconscious--something high
and fine, that holds me back--that literally bars the way.
Eve, can't you see that I'm fighting--fighting hard?"

After he had spoken there was silence--a long, painful
silence--during which Eve waged the battle that so many of her
sex have waged before; the battle in which words are useless
and tears of no account.  She looked very slight, very young,
very forlorn, as she stood there.  Then, in the oppressive
sense of waiting that filled the whole room, she looked up at
him.

Her face was stained with tears, her thick, black lashes were
still wet with them; but her expression, as her eyes met
Loder's, was a strange example of the courage, the firmness,
the power of sacrifice that may be hidden in a fragile vessel.

She said nothing, for in such a moment words do not come
easily, but with the simplest, most submissive, most eloquent
gesture in the world she set his perplexity to rest.

Taking his hand between hers, she lifted it and for a long,
silent space held it against her lips.


XXXIII


For a while there was silence; then Loder, bitterly aware that
he had conquered, poignantly conscious of the appeal that Eve's
attitude made, found further endurance impossible.  Gently
freeing his hand, he moved away from her to the fireplace,
taking up the position that she had first occupied.

"Eve," he said, slowly, "I haven't finished yet.  I haven't
said everything.  I'm going to tax your courage further."

With a touch of pained alarm, Eve lifted her head. "Further?"
she said.

Loder shrank from the expression on her face.  "Yes," he said,
with difficulty.  "There's still another point to be faced.
The matter doesn't end with my going back.  To have the
situation fully saved, Chilcote must return--Chilcote must be
brought to realize his responsibilities."

Eve's lips parted in dumb dismay.

"It must be done," he went on hurriedly, "and we have got to
do it--you and I."  He turned and looked at her.

"I?  I could do nothing.  What could I do?"  Her voice failed.

"Everything," he said, "you could do everything.  He is
morally weak, but he has one sensitive point--the fear of a
public exposure.  Once make it plain to him that you know his
secret, and you can compel him to whatever course of action
you select.  It was to ask you to do this--to beg you to do
this--that I came to you to-night.  I know that it's demanding
more than a woman's resolution--more than a woman's strength.
But you are like no woman in the world!

"Eve!" he cried, with sudden vehemence, "can't you see that
it's imperative--the one thing to save us both?"

He stopped abruptly as he had begun, and again a painful
silence filled the room.  Then, as before, Eve moved
instinctively towards him, but this time her steps were slow
and uncertain.  Nearing his side, she put out her hand as if
for comfort and support; and, feeling his fingers tighten
round it, stood for a moment resting in the contact.

"I understand," she said at last, very slowly.  "I understand.
When will you take me to him?"

For a moment Loder said nothing, not daring to trust his
voice; then he answered, low and abruptly.  "Now!" he said.
"Now, at once!  Now, this moment, if I may.  And--and remember
that I know what it costs you."  As if imbued with fear that
his courage might fail him, he suddenly released her hand,
and, crossing the room to where a long, dark cloak lay as she
had thrown it on her return home, he picked it up, walked to
her side, and silently wrapped it about her.  Then, still
acting automatically, he moved to the door, opened it, and
stood aside while she passed out into the corridor.

In complete silence they descended the stairs and passed to
the hall door.  There Crapham, who had returned to his duties
since Loder's entrance, came quickly forward with an offer of
service.

But Loder dismissed him curtly; and with something of the
confusion bred of Chilcote's regime, the man drew back towards
the staircase.

With a hasty movement Loder stepped forward, and, opening the
door, admitted a breath of chill air.  Then on the threshold
he paused.  It was his first sign of hesitation
--the one instant in which nature rebelled against the
conscience so tardily awakened.  He stood motionless for a
moment, and it is doubtful whether even Eve fully fathomed the
bitterness of his renunciation--the blackness of the night
that stretched before his eyes.

Behind him was everything; before him, nothing.  The
everything symbolized by the luxurious house, the eagerly
attentive servants, the pleasant atmosphere of responsibility;
the nothing represented by the broad public thoroughfare, the
passing figures, each unconscious of and uninterested in his
existence.  As an interloper he had entered this house; as an
interloper--a masquerader--he had played his part, lived his
hour, proved himself; as an interloper he was now passing back
into the dim world of unrealized hopes and unachieved
ambitions.

He stood rigidly quiet, his strong figure silhouetted against
the lighted hall, his face cold and set; then, with a touch of
fatality, Chance cut short his struggle.

An empty hansom wheeled round the corner of the square; the
cabman, seeing him, raised his whip in query, and involuntarily
he nodded an acquiescence.  A moment later he had helped Eve
into the cab.

"Middle Temple Lane!" he directed, pausing on the step.

"Middle Temple Lane is opposite to Clifford's Inn," he
explained as he took his place beside her.  "When we get out
there we have only to cross Fleet Street."

Eve bent her head in token that she understood, and the cab
moved out into the roadway.

Within a few minutes the neighborhood of Grosvenor Square was
exchanged for the noisier and more crowded one of Piccadilly,
but either the cabman was overcautious or the horse was below
the average, for they made but slow progress through the more
crowded streets.  To the two sitting in silence the pace was
wellnigh unbearable.  With every added movement the tension
grew.  The methodical care with which they moved seemed like
the tightening of a string already strained to breaking-point,
yet neither spoke--because neither had the courage necessary
for words.

Once or twice as they traversed the Strand, Loder made a
movement as if to break the silence, but nothing followed it.
He continued to lean forward with a certain dogged stiffness,
his clasped hands resting on the doors of the cab, his eyes
staring straight ahead.  Not once, as they threaded their way,
did he dare to glance at Eve, though every movement, every
stir of her garments, was forced upon his consciousness by his
acutely awakened senses.

When at last they drew up before the dark archway of Middle
Temple Lane, he descended hastily.  And as he mechanically
turned to protect Eve's dress from the wheel, he looked at her
fully for the first time since their enterprise had been
undertaken.  As he looked he felt his heart sink.  He had
expected to see the marks of suffering on her face, but the
expression he saw suggested something more than mere mental
pain.

All the rich color that usually deepened and softened the
charm of her beauty had been erased as if by a long illness;
and against the new pallor of her skin her blue eyes, her
black hair and eyebrows, seemed startlingly dark.  A chill
colder than remorse, a chill that bordered upon actual fear,
touched Loder in that moment.  With the first impulsive
gesture he had allowed himself, he touched her arm.

"Eve--" he began, unsteadily; then the word died off his lips.

Without a sound, almost without a movement, she returned his
glance, and something in her eyes checked what he might have
said.  In that one expressive look he understood all she had
desired, all she had renounced--the full extent of the ordeal
she had consented to, and the motive that had compelled her
consent.  He drew back with the heavy sense that repentance
and pity were equally futile--equally out of place.

Still in silence she stepped to the pavement and stood aside
while Loder dismissed the cab.  To both there was something
symbolic, something prophetic, in the dismissal.  Without
intention and almost unconsciously they drew closer together
as the horse turned, its hoofs clattering on the roadway, its
harness jingling; and, still without realization, they looked
after the vehicle as it moved away down the long, shadowed
thoroughfare towards the lights and the crowds that they had
left.  At last involuntarily they turned towards each other.

"Come!" Loder said, abruptly.  "It's only across the road."

Fleet Street is generally very quiet, once midnight is passed;
and Eve had no need of guidance or protection as they crossed
the pavement, shining like ice in the lamplight.  They crossed
it slowly, walking apart; for the dread of physical contact
that had possessed them in the cab seemed to have fallen on
them again.

Inquisitiveness has little place in the region of the city,
and they gained the opposite footpath unnoticed by the casual
passer-by.  Then, still holding apart, they reached and
entered Clifford's Inn.

Inside the entrance they paused, and Eve shivered involuntarily.
"How gray it is!" she said, faintly.  "And how cold!  Like a
graveyard."

Loder turned to her.  Far one moment control seemed shaken;
his blood surged, his vision clouded; the sense that life and
love were still within his reach filled him overwhelmingly.
He turned towards Eve; he half extended his hands.  Then,
stirred by what impulse, moved by what instinct, it was
impossible to say, he let them drop to his sides again.

"Come!" he said.  "Come!  This is the way.  Keep close to me.
Put your hand on my arm."

He spoke quietly, but his eyes were resolutely averted from
her face as they crossed the dim, silent court.

Entering the gloomy door-way that led to his own rooms, he
felt her fingers tremble on his arm, then tighten in their
pressure as the bare passage and cheerless stairs met her
view; but he set his lips.

"Come!" he repeated, in the same strained voice.  "Come!  It
isn't far--three or four flights."

With a white face and a curious expression in her eyes, Eve
moved forward.  She had released Loder's arm as they crossed
the hall; and now, reaching the stairs, she put out her hand
gropingly and caught the banister.  She had a pained, numb
sense of submission--of suffering that had sunk to apathy.
Moving forward without resistance, she began to mount the
stairs.

The ascent was made in silence.  Loder went first, his
shoulders braced, his head held erect; Eve, mechanically
watchful of all his movements, followed a step or two behind.
With weary monotony one flight of stairs succeeded another;
each, to her unaccustomed eyes, seeming more colorless, more
solitary, more desolate than the preceding one.

Then at last, with a sinking sense of apprehension, she
realized that their goal was reached.

The knowledge broke sharply through her dulled senses; and,
confronted by the closeness of her ordeal, she paused, her
head lifted, her hand still nervously grasping the banister.
Her lips parted as if in sudden demand for aid; but in the
nervous expectation, the pained apprehension, of the moment no
sound escaped them.  Loder, resolutely crossing the landing,
knew nothing of the silent appeal.

For a second she stood hesitating; then her own weakness, her
own shrinking dismay, were submerged in the interest of his
movements.  Slowly mounting the remaining steps, she followed
him as if fascinated towards the door that showed dingily
conspicuous in the light of an unshaded gas-jet.

Almost at the moment that she reached his side he extended his
hand towards the door.  The action was decisive and hurried,
as though he feared to trust himself.

For a space he fumbled with the lock.  And Eve, standing close
behind him, heard the handle creak and turn under his
pressure.  Then he shook the door.

At last, slowly, almost reluctantly, he turned round.  "I'm
afraid things aren't quite quite right," he said, in a low
voice.  "The door is locked and I can see no light."

She raised her eyes quickly.  "But you have a key?" she
whispered.  "Haven't you got a key?"  It was obvious that, to
both, the unexpected check to their designs was fraught with
danger.

"Yes, but--"  He looked towards the door.  "Yes--I have a key.
Yes, you're right!" he added, quickly.  "I'll use it.  Wait,
while I go inside."

Filled with a new nervousness, oppressed by the loneliness,
the silence about her, Eve drew back obediently.  The sense of
mystery conveyed by the closed door weighed upon her.  Her
susceptibilities were tensely alert as she watched Loder
search for his key and insert it in the lock.  With mingled
dread and curiosity she saw the door yield, and gape open like
a black gash in the dingy wall; and with a sudden sense of
desertion she saw him pass through the aperture and heard him
strike a match.

The wait that followed seemed extraordinarily long.  Listening
intently, she heard him move softly from one room to the
other.  And at last, to her acutely nervous susceptibilities,
it seemed that he paused in absolute silence.  In the
intensity of listening, she heard her own faint, irregular
breathing, and the sound filled her with panic.  The quiet,
the solitude, the vague, instinctive apprehension, became
suddenly unendurable.  Then all at once the tension was
relieved..  Loder reappeared.

He paused for a second in the shadowy door-way; then he turned
unsteadily, drew the door to, and locked; it.

Eve stepped forward.  Her glimpse of him had been momentary
--and she had not heard his voice--yet the consciousness of his
bearing filled her with instinctive alarm.  Abruptly, and
without reason, their hands turned cold, her heart began to
beat violently. "John--" she said below her breath.

For answer, he moved towards her.  His face was bereft of
color; there was a look of consternation in his eyes.  "Come!"
he said.  "Come at once!  I must take you home."  He spoke in
a shaken, uneven voice.

Eve, looking up at him, caught his hand.  "Why?  Why?" she
questioned.  Her tone was low and scared.

Without replying, he drew her imperatively towards the stairs.
"Go very softly," he commanded.  "No one must see you here."

In the first moment she obeyed him instinctively; then,
reaching the head of the stairs, she stopped.  With one hand
still clasping his, the other clinging nervously to the
banister, she refused to descend.  "John," she whispered, "I'm
not a child.  What is it?  What has happened?  I must know."

For a moment Loder looked at her uncertainly; then, reading
the expression in her eyes, he yielded to her demand.

"He's dead," he said, in a very low voice.  "Chilcote is
dead,"


XXXIV


To fully appreciate a great announcement we must have time at
our disposal.  At the moment of Loder's disclosure time was
denied to Eve; for scarcely had the words left his lips before
the thought that dominated him asserted its prior claim.
Blind to the incredulity in her eyes, he drew her swiftly
forward, and--half impelling, half supporting her--forced her
to descend the stairs.

Never in after-life could he obliterate the remembrance of
that descent.  Fear, such as he could never experience in his
own concerns, possessed him.  One desire overrode all others
--the desire that Eve's reputation, which he himself had so
nearly imperilled, should remain unimperilled.  In the shadow
of that urgent duty, the despair of the past hours, the
appalling fact so lately realized, the future with its
possible trials, became dark to his imagination.  In his new
victory over self, the question of her protection
predominated.

Moving under this compulsion, he guided her hastily and
silently down the deserted stairs, drawing a breath of deep
relief as, one after another, the landings were successively
passed; and still actuated by the suppressed need of haste, he
passed through the door-way that they had entered under such
different conditions only a few minutes before.

To leave the quiet court, to gain the Strand, to hail a
belated hansom was the work of a moment.  By an odd contrivance
of circumstance, the luck that had attended every phase of
his dual life was again exerted in his behalf.  No one had
noticed their entry into Clifford's Inn; no one was moved to
curiosity by their exit.  With an involuntary thrill of feeling
he gave expression to his relief.

"Thank God, it's over!" he said, as a cab drew up.  "You don't
know what the strain has been."

Moving as if in a dream, Eve stepped into the cab.  As yet the
terrible denouement to their enterprise had made no clear
impression upon her mind.  For the moment all that she was
conscious of, all that she instinctively acknowledged, was the
fact that Loder was still beside her.

In quiet obedience she took her place, drawing aside her
skirts to make room for him; and in the same subdued manner,
he stepped into the vehicle.  Then, with the strange sensation
of reliving their earlier drive, they were aware of the
tightened rein and of the horse's first forward movement.

For several seconds neither spoke.  Eve, shutting out all
other thoughts, sat close to Loder, clinging tenaciously to
the momentary comforting sense of protection; Loder, striving
to marshal his ideas, hesitated before the ordeal of speech.
At last, realizing his responsibility, he turned to her
slowly.

"Eve," he said, in a low voice and with some hesitation, "I
want you to know that in all this--from the moment I saw him
--from the moment I understood--I have had you in my thoughts
--you and no one else."

She raised her eyes to his face.

"Do you realize--?" he began afresh.  "Do you know what this
--this thing means?"

Still she remained silent.

"It means that after to-night there will be no such person in
London as John Loder.  To-morrow the man who was known by that
name will be found in his rooms; his body will be removed, and
at the post-modern examination it will be stated that he died
of an overdose of morphia.  His charwoman will identify him as
a solitary man who lived respectably for years and then
suddenly went down-hill with remarkable speed.  It will be
quite a common case.  Nothing of interest will be found in his
rooms; no relation will claim his body; after the usual time
he will be given the usual burial of his class.  These details
are horrible; but there are times when we must look at the
horrible side of life--because life is incomplete without it.

"These things I speak of are the things that will meet the
casual eye; but in our sight they will have a very different
meaning.

"Eve," he said, more vehemently, "a whole chapter in my life
has been closed to-night, and my first instinct is to shut the
book and throw it away.  But I'm thinking of you.  Remember,
I'm thinking of you!  Whatever the trial, whatever the
difficulty, no harm shall come to you.  You have my word for
that!

"I'll return with you now to Grosvenor Square; I'll remain
there till a reasonable excuse can be given for Chilcote's
going abroad; I will avoid Fraide, I will cut politics
--whatever the cost; then, at the first reasonable moment, I
will do what I would do now, to-night if it were possible.
I'll go away, start afresh; do in another country what I have
done in this."

There was a long silence; then Eve turned to him.  The apathy
of a moment before had left her face.  "In another country?"
she repeated.  "In another country?"

"Yes; a fresh career in a fresh country.  Something clean to
offer you.  I'm not too old to do what other men have done."

He paused, and for a moment Eve looked ahead at the gleaming
chain of lamps; then, still very slowly, she brought her
glance back again.  "No," she said very slowly.  "You are
not too old.  But there are times when age--and things like
age--are not the real consideration.  It seems to me that your
own inclination, your own individual sense of right and wrong,
has nothing to do with the present moment.  The question is
whether you are justified in going away"--she paused, her eyes
fixed steadily upon his--"whether you are free to go away, and
make a new life--whether it is ever justifiable to follow a
phantom light when--when there's a lantern waiting to be
carried."  Her breath caught; she drew away from him,
frightened and elated by her own words.

Loder turned to her sharply.  "Eve!" he exclaimed; then his
tone changed.  "You don't know what you're saying," he added,
quickly; "you don't understand what you're saying."

Eve leaned forward again.  "Yes," she said, slowly, "I do
understand."  Her voice was controlled, her manner convinced.
She was no longer the girl conquered by strength greater than
her own: she was the woman strenuously demanding her right to
individual happiness.

"I understand it all," she repeated.  "I understand every
point.  It was not Chance that made you change your identity,
that made you care for me, that brought about--his death.  I
don't believe it was Chance; I believe it was something much
higher.  You are not meant to go away!"

As Loder watched her the remembrance of his first days as
Chilcote rose again; the remembrance of how he had been dimly
filled with the belief that below her self-possession lay a
strength--a depth--uncommon in woman.  As he studied her now,
the instinctive belief flamed into conviction.  "Eve!" he said
involuntarily.

With a quick gesture she raised her head.  "No!" she
exclaimed.  "No; don't say anything!  You are going to see
things as I see them--you must do so--you have no choice.  No
real man ever casts away the substance for the shadow!"  Her
eyes shone--the color, the glow, the vitality, rushed back
into her face.

"John," she said, softly, "I love you--and I need you--but
there is something with a greater claim--a greater need than
mine.  Don't you know what it is?"

He said nothing; he made no gesture.

"It is the party--the country.  You may put love aside, but
duty is different.  You have pledged yourself.  You are not
meant to draw back."

Loder's lips parted.

"Don't!" she said again.  "Don't say anything!  I know all
that is in your mind.  But, when we sift things right through,
it isn't my love--or our happinees--that's really in the
balance.  It is your future!"

Her voice thrilled.  "You are going to be a great man, and a
great man is the property of his country.  He has no right to
individual action."

Again Loder made an effort to speak, but again she checked
him.

"Wait!" she exclaimed.  "Wait!  You believe you have acted
wrongly, and you are desperately afraid of acting wrongly
again.  But is it really truer, more loyal for us to work out
a long probation in grooves that are already overfilled than
to marry quietly abroad and fill the places that have need of
us?  That is the question I want you to answer.  Is it really
truer and nobler?  Oh, I see the doubt that is in your mind!
You think it finer to go away and make a new life than to live
the life that is waiting you--because one is independent and
the other means the use of another man's name and another
man's money--that is the thought in your mind.  But what is it
that prompts that thought?"  Again her voice caught, but her
eyes did not falter.  "I will tell you.  It is not self-sacrifice
--but pride!"  She said the word fearlessly.

A flush crossed Loder's face.  "A man requires pride," he said
in a low voice.

"Yes, at the right time.  But is this the right time?  Is it
ever right to throw away the substance for the shadow?  You
say that I don't understand--don't realize.  I realize more
to-night than I have realized in all my life.  I know that you
have an opportunity that can never come again--and that it's
terribly possible to let it slip--"

She paused.  Loder, his hands resting on the closed doors of
the cab, sat very silent, with averted eves and bent head.

"Only to-night," she went on, "you told me that everything was
crying to you to take the easy, pleasant way.  Then it was
strong to turn aside; but now it is not strong.  It is far
nobler to fill an empty niche than to carve one for yourself.
John--"  She suddenly leaned forward, laying her hands over
his.  "Mr. Fraide told me to-night that in his new ministry
my--my husband was to be Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs!"

The words fell softly.  So softly that to ears less
comprehending than Loder's their significance might have been
lost--as his rigid attitude and unresponsive manner might have
conveyed lack of understanding to any eyes less observant than
Eve's.

For a long space there was no word spoken.  At last, with a
very gentle pressure, her fingers tightened over his hands.

"John--" she began, gently.  But the word died away.  She drew
back into her seat, as the cab stopped before Chilcote's
house.

Simultaneously as they descended, the hall door was opened and
a flood of warm light poured out reassuringly into the
darkness.

"I thought it was your cab, sir," Crapham explained
deferentially as they passed into the hall.  "Mr. Fraide has
been waiting to see you this half-hour.  I showed him into the
study."  He closed the door; softly and retired.

Then, in the warm light, amid the gravely dignified
surroundings that had marked his first entry into this
hazardous second existence, Eve turned to Loder for the
verdict upon which the future hung.

As she turned, his face was still hidden from her, and his
attitude betrayed nothing.

"John," she said, slowly, "you know why he is here.' You know
that he has come to personally offer you this place; to
personally receive your refusal--or consent."

She ceased to speak; there was a moment of suspense; then
Loder turned.  His face was still pale and grave with the
gravity of a man who has but recently been close to death, but
beneath the gravity was another look--the old expression of
strength and self-reliance, tempered, raised, and dignified by
a new humility.

Moving forward, he held out his hands.

"My consent or refusal," he said, very quietly, "lies with
--my wife."