
"I will come!" cried Poppypink. "I will come!"
   
"Come then," said Wonderwings. She took the
   little fairy's hand, and up they all rose into the clear air,
flying far and far away till they left their fairyland behind and
came at last to the sadder lands where humans lived.'Tis they who walk the highways unsuspected,
   Yet with grim fear for ever at their side,
Who hug the corpse of some sin undetected,
   A corpse no grave or coffin-lid can hide -

'Tis they who are in their own chambers haunted
   By thoughts that like unbidden guests intrude,
And sit down, uninvited and unwanted,
   And make a nightmare of the solitude.


HALF FLEDGED


I feel the stirrings in me of great things.
New half-fledged thoughts rise up and beat their wings,
And tremble on the margin of their nest,
Then flutter back, and hide within my breast.

Beholding space, they doubt their untried strength.
Beholding men, they fear them.  But at length,
Grown all too great and active for the heart
That broods them with such tender mother art,
Forgetting fear, and men, and all, that hour,
Save the impelling consciousness of power
That stirs within them--they shall soar away
Up to the very portals of the Day.

Oh, what exultant rapture thrills me through
When I contemplate all those thoughts may do;
Like snow-white eagles penetrating space,
They may explore full many an unknown place,
And build their nests on mountain heights unseen,
Whereon doth lie that dreamed-of rest serene.
Stay thou a little longer in my breast,
Till my fond heart shall push thee from the nest
Anxious to see thee soar to heights divine -
Oh, beautiful but half-fledged thoughts of mine.


THE YEAR


What can be said in New Year rhymes,
That's not been said a thousand times?

The new years come, the old years go,
We know we dream, we dream we know.

We rise up laughing with the light,
We lie down weeping with the night.

We hug the world until it stings,
We curse it then and sigh for wings.

We live, we love, we woo, we wed,
We wreathe our brides, we sheet our dead.

We laugh, we weep, we hope, we fear,
And that's the burden of the year.


THE UNATTAINED


A vision beauteous as the morn,
   With heavenly eyes and tresses streaming,
Slow glided o'er a field late shorn
   Where walked a poet idly dreaming.
He saw her, and joy lit his face,
   "Oh, vanish not at human speaking,"
He cried, "thou form of magic grace,
   Thou art the poem I am seeking.

"I've sought thee long!  I claim thee now -
   My thought embodied, living, real."
She shook the tresses from her brow.
   "Nay, nay!" she said, "I am ideal.
I am the phantom of desire -
   The spirit of all great endeavour,
I am the voice that says, 'Come higher,'
   That calls men up and up for ever.

"'Tis not alone thy thought supreme
   That here upon thy path has risen;
I am the artist's highest dream,
   The ray of light he cannot prison.
I am the sweet ecstatic note
   Than all glad music gladder, clearer,
That trembles in the singer's throat,
   And dies without a human hearer.

"I am the greater, better yield,
   That leads and cheers thy farmer neighbour,
For me he bravely tills the field
   And whistles gaily at his labour.
Not thou alone, O poet soul,
   Dost seek me through an endless morrow,
But to the toiling, hoping whole
   I am at once the hope and sorrow.

"The spirit of the unattained,
   I am to those who seek to name me,
A good desired but never gained:
   All shall pursue, but none shall claim me."


IN THE CROWD


How happy they are, in all seeming,
   How gay, or how smilingly proud,
How brightly their faces are beaming,
   These people who make up the crowd!
How they bow, how they bend, how they flutter,
   How they look at each other and smile,
How they glow, and what bon mots they utter!
   But a strange thought has found me the while!

It is odd, but I stand here and fancy
   These people who now play a part,
All forced by some strange necromancy
   To speak, and to act, from the heart.
What a hush would come over the laughter!
   What a silence would fall on the mirth!
And then what a wail would sweep after,
   As the night-wind sweeps over the earth!

If the secrets held under and hidden
   In the intricate hearts of the crowd
Were suddenly called to, and bidden
   To rise up and cry out aloud,
How strange one would look to another!
   Old friends of long standing and years -
Own brothers would not know each other,
   Robed new in their sorrows and fears.

From broadcloth, and velvet, and laces,
   Would echo the groans of despair,
And there would be blanching of faces
   And wringing of hands and of hair.
That man with his record of honour,
   That lady down there with the rose,
That girl with Spring's freshness upon her,
   Who knoweth the secrets of those?

Smile on, O ye maskers, smile sweetly!
   Step lightly, bow low and laugh loud!
Though the world is deceived and completely,
   I know ye, O sad-hearted crowd!
I watch you with infinite pity:
   But play on, play ever your part,
Be gleeful, be joyful, be witty!
   'Tis better than showing the heart.


LIFE AND I


Life and I are lovers, straying
   Arm in arm along:
Often like two children Maying,
   Full of mirth and song,

Life plucks all the blooming hours
   Growing by the way;
Binds them on my brow like flowers,
   Calls me Queen of May.

Then again, in rainy weather,
   We sit vis-a-vis,
Planning work we'll do together
   In the years to be.

Sometimes Life denies me blisses,
   And I frown or pout;
But we make it up with kisses
   Ere the day is out.

Woman-like, I sometimes grieve him,
   Try his trust and faith,
Saying I shall one day leave him
   For his rival, Death.

Then he always grows more zealous,
   Tender, and more true;
Loves the more for being jealous,
   As all lovers do.

Though I swear by stars above him,
   And by worlds beyond,
That I love him--love him--love him;
   Though my heart is fond;

Though he gives me, doth my lover,
   Kisses with each breath -
I shall one day throw him over,
   And plight troth with Death.


GUERDON


Upon the white cheek of the Cherub Year
      I saw a tear.
Alas!  I murmured, that the Year should borrow
      So soon a sorrow.
Just then the sunlight fell with sudden flame:
      The tear became
A wondrous diamond sparkling in the light -
      A beauteous sight.

Upon my soul there fell such woeful loss,
      I said, "The Cross
Is grievous for a life as young as mine."
      Just then, like wine,
God's sunlight shone from His high Heavens down;
      And lo! a crown
Gleamed in the place of what I thought a burden -
      My sorrow's guerdon.


SNOWED UNDER


Of a thousand things that the Year snowed under -
   The busy Old Year who has gone away -
How many will rise in the Spring, I wonder,
   Brought to life by the sun of May?
Will the rose-tree branches, so wholly hidden
   That never a rose-tree seems to be,
At the sweet Spring's call come forth unbidden,
   And bud in beauty, and bloom for me?

Will the fair green Earth, whose throbbing bosom
   Is hid like a maid's in her gown at night,
Wake out of her sleep, and with blade and blossom
   Gem her garments to please my sight?
"Nonsense!" she replied, "these are
   crumpled rose leaves. The agency is paying
splendidly. I am making my fortune, and at the
   same time conferring a boon on society.

Why there is no longer a dearth of partners at
   dances, as most girls bring a
Brother. In fact, the agency is doing so
   well that I shall soon have to take larger
premises."
   "Well, Miss Buller," I said, taking up my
hat, "I hardly know how to thank you for
   your courtesy and patience in answering all my questions.

I now thoroughly understand the working
   of your excellent agency, and I am
sure that it is a scheme that will continue to
   flourish."
"Till the Brothers form a Union, and go out
   on strike," replied Miss Buller gaily.
"The demand already exceeds the supply!"
   She rang the bell, and a neat parlourmaid
showed me out.
   

As I walked away, I marvelled that this inspired scheme, which bids
fair to revolutionise modern society, should be the fruit of one
mind.

I also thought with pleasure of my
   next meeting with Grigsby.

   [Illustration]

   _My Own Murderer._
   BY E. J. GOODMAN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. GREIG.
   
-----
   
When I say that my name is Samuel
   Chillip, of course you will know who
   I am. Yes, I am the author--it has
been said the famous author--of "The Poisoned Waterbottle," "Steeped
in Gore," "The Demon Detective," and other highly sensational and
blood-curdling stories.

But though these tales of mine have
   brought me some fame and a fair amount
of profit, I am not particularly
   proud of them. I really don't know
how I, so to speak, drifted into
   crime. I never liked it, and, of
   course, never practised it myself.
I would much rather have written sentimental or moral stories, but
I seemed somehow fated to turn my attention to fraud and violence,
and I could not get away from such subjects.

I am a family man with a wife and
   children, and live the most
domesticated and harmless of lives.
   I rent a small villa at St. John's
Wood, and have got a pretty garden, which
   I cultivate myself. I take my children out
   for walks in the Park, and have even been
known to nurse the baby.

Never was there a man whose mode of
   life was so different from his
mode of getting a living. I burn
   the midnight oil, that is to say,
I do my best work at night. The cares
   of a large family distract me so much
   that I can never concentrate my attention
on my plots and situations in the daytime.

It is only when the wife has retired, and the
   children, the darlings! are put to bed,
that I can sit down quietly and develop
   my deeds of darkness.

   [Illustration: "I BURN THE MIDNIGHT
   OIL."]
Nothing out of the usual course had happened on the memorable evening
of which I am about to tell, and which was destined to have so
marked an influence on my literary career.

I had had tea with my beloved Seraphina and our six children at
seven o'clock, and afterwards we all sat round the fire, and I told
stories--stories not of crime and cruelty, but of good fairies and
enchanted princesses, of boys and girls at school, and innocent
loves and faithful lovers, which always started with "once upon a
time," and ended with "happy ever after."

During the evening my little
   flock gradually melted away till nothing
was left of it but my dear wife and
   our eldest girl, aged fourteen. At ten
o'clock we supped off cold roast pork
and rice pudding, with a little mild ale as a beverage, and then
my beloved ones kissed me, wished me good night, and left me to my
labours.

By half-past ten I was hard at work in
   my study, deep in the most critical chapter of
my new story, "The Chemist's Revenge."
   I rather prided myself on the originality
of the crime committed in this thrilling tale. The
wicked hero had invented a hideous pill, compounded of ingredients
which would explode within a human body and blow it to atoms.

   Somebody ties that hood of blue
   Under the face so fair to see,
Somebody loves her, beside we two,
   Somebody kisses her--why can't we?
Dear Little Blue Hood fresh and fair,
Are you glad we love you, or don't you care?


NO SPRING


Up from the South come the birds that were banished,
   Frightened away by the presence of frost.
Back to the vale comes the verdure that vanished,
   Back to the forest the leaves that were lost.
Over the hillside the carpet of splendour,
   Folded through Winter, Spring spreads down again;
Along the horizon, the tints that were tender,
   Lost hues of Summer-time, burn bright as then.

Only the mountains' high summits are hoary,
   To the ice-fettered river the sun gives a key.
Once more the gleaming shore lists to the story
   Told by an amorous Summer-kissed sea.
All things revive that in Winter time perished,
   The rose buds again in the light o' the sun,
All that was beautiful, all that was cherished,
   Sweet things and dear things and all things--save one.

Late, when the year and the roses were lying
   Low with the ruins of Summer and bloom,
Down in the dust fell a love that was dying,
   And the snow piled over it, and made it a tomb.
Lo! now the roses are budded for blossom -
   Lo! now the Summer is risen again.
Why dost thou bud not, O Love of my bosom?
   Why dost thou rise not, and thrill me as then?

Life without love is a year without Summer,
   Heart without love is a wood without song.
Rise then, revive then, thou indolent comer:
   Why dost thou lie in the dark earth so long?
Rise! ah, thou can'st not! the rose-tree that sheddest
   Its beautiful leaves, in the Springtime may bloom,
But of cold things the coldest, of dead things the deadest,
   Love buried once, rises not from the tomb.
Green things may grow on the hillside and heather,
   Birds seek the forest and build there and sing.
Your son, looking in his mirror, sees but
   himself; I see the sufferings of my people and know what things
they need, and so plainly are these pictures set before me that I
cannot rest till I have used my power to give relief."

"Oh!"

cried the Queen-mother, "now I see why you are
   loved. How can I get such a mirror for
my son?"
   "That I know not," replied the
Queen.
   
Then the Queen-mother returned sad at heart to
   the kingdom of her son, pondering on what she had seen.

Once again she walked in her garden
   alone. "How shall I get such
a mirror?" she wondered. "What should I
   do?"
As once before, a voice replied "I know! I
   know!"
The Queen-mother looked over the garden wall.
   Hobbling along the road was the old woman who had bade her go to
Westroyal.The hopes half shy, and the sighs all tender,
   The dreams and fears of an earlier day,
Under the noontide's royal splendour,
   Droop like roses and wither away.
From the hills of doubt no winds are blowing,
   From the isle of pain no breeze is sent.
Only the sun in a white heat glowing
   Over an ocean of great content.

Sink, O my soul, in this golden glory,
   Die, O my heart, in thy rapture-swoon,
For the Autumn must come with its mournful story,
   And Love's midsummer will fade too soon.


A REMINISCENCE


I saw the wild honey-bee kissing a rose
      A wee one, that grows
Down low on the bush, where her sisters above
      Cannot see all that's done
      As the moments roll on.
Nor hear all the whispers and murmurs of love.

They flaunt out their beautiful leaves in the sun,
      And they flirt, every one,
With the wild bees who pass, and the gay butterflies.
      And that wee thing in pink -
      Why, they never once think
That she's won a lover right under their eyes.

It reminded me, Kate, of a time--you know when!
      You were so petite then,
Your dresses were short, and your feet were so small.
      Your sisters, Maud-Belle
      And Madeline--well,
They BOTH set their caps for me, after that ball.

How the blue eyes and black eyes smiled up in my face!
      'Twas a neck-and-neck race,
Till that day when you opened the door in the hall,
      And looked up and looked down,
      With your sweet eyes of brown,
And YOU seemed so tiny, and _I_ felt so tall.

Your sisters had sent you to keep me, my dear,
      Till they should appear.
"Look closely at my flowers," she said, "and tell
      me which you think
      most beautiful."
The flowers bloomed on every side, in every lovely hue--crimson and
gold and orange, blue and purple and pink and softest lavender.

All were scented, and all were beautiful; but
      there was one plant
that pleased the little fairy more than any
      other. It grew no taller
      than the rest, made no great
show of colour, yet through its stems and leaves there shone a
radiance as if a light hid in them.

Its flowers were clear as crystal--one could see
      quite through them--but the
sunlight falling on them was broken into glowing
      colours, so that every
      blossom was a little
bunch of flashing rainbows.

   He may be near, he may be far,
   Or near or far I cannot see,
But faithful as the morning star
   He yet shall rise and come to me.

What though fate leads us separate ways,
   The world is round, and time is fleet.
A journey of a few brief days,
   And face to face we two shall meet.

Shall meet beneath God's arching skies,
   While suns shall blaze, or stars shall gleam,
And looking in each other's eyes
   Shall hold the past but as a dream.

But round and perfect and complete,
   Life like a star shall climb the height,
As we two press with willing feet
   Together toward the Infinite.

And still behind the space between,
   As back of dawns the sunbeams play,
There shines the face I have not seen,
   Whose smile shall wake my world to-day.


TWO


One leaned on velvet cushions like a queen -
   To see him pass, the hero of an hour,
Whom men called great.  She bowed with languid mien,
   And smiled, and blushed, and knew her beauty's power.

The Children! It is to them we must take our plant. Come,
   let us gather seeds and start at once."
They gathered the golden seeds and carried
   them swiftly down.

In the children's gardens across the world they
   planted them, and everywhere the children
ran to gaze at the wonder of the springing plants,
   and to watch the flowers unclose.

And when through later days they ate and ate
   again of the fragrant golden fruit, Love
filled their veins and they became a new
   race, scorning the littleness of war.One was observed, and lifted up to fame,
   Because the hero smiled upon her! while
One who was shunned and hated, found her shame
   In basking in the death-light of his smile.


SLIPPING AWAY


Slipping away--slipping away!
Out of our brief year slips the May;
And Winter lingers, and Summer flies;
And Sorrow abideth, and Pleasure dies;
And the days are short, and the nights are long;
And little is right, and much is wrong.

Slipping away is the Summer time;
It has lost its rhythm and lilting rhyme -
For the grace goes out of the day so soon,
And the tired head aches in the glare of noon,
And the way seems long to the hills that lie
Under the calm of the western sky.

Slipping away are the friends whose worth
Lent a glow to the sad old earth:
One by one they slip from our sight;
One by one their graves gleam white;
Or we count them lost by the crueller death
Of a trust betrayed, or a murdered faith.

"See where far below men rage, killing
each other. Rivers run red with blood, and
the sorrow of weeping women rises
through the air to where I sit. How can I
dance and sing?"
"It is the world at war," said an older fairy sadly.

"I too have wept in earlier days when men have fought.

But our tears are wasted, little sister.
   Come away."
Fairy Tenderheart looked eagerly at
   her. "You who have watched the world
so many years," she said, "tell me why such
   dreadful deeds are done down there."
oh, the ring was a fetter,
   It was better removed and returned.

But ah, is it done?  In the embers
   Where letters and tokens were cast,
Have you burned up the heart that remembers,
   And treasures its beautiful past?
Do you think in this swift reckless fashion
   To ruthlessly burn and destroy
The months that were freighted with passion,
   The dreams that were drunken with joy?

