I do not propose to take you down into the deep places where Jacob Behmen
dwells and works.  And that for a very good reason.  For I have found no
firm footing in those deep places for my own feet.  I wade in and in to
the utmost of my ability, and still there rise up above me, and stretch
out around me, and sink down beneath me, vast reaches of revelation and
speculation, attainment and experience, before which I can only wonder
and worship.  See Jacob Behmen working with his hands in his solitary
stall, when he is suddenly caught up into heaven till he beholds in
enraptured vision The Most High Himself.  And then, after that, see him
swept down to hell, down to sin, and down into the bottomless pit of the
human heart.  Jacob Behmen, almost more than any other man whatsoever, is
carried up till he moves like a holy angel or a glorified saint among
things unseen and eternal.  Jacob Behmen is of the race of the seers, and
he stands out a very prince among them.  He is full of eyes, and all his
eyes are full of light.  It does not stagger me to hear his disciples
calling him, as HEGEL does, 'a man of a mighty mind,' or, as LAW does,
'the illuminated Behmen,' and 'the blessed Behmen.'  'In speculative
power,' says dry DR. KURTZ, 'and in poetic wealth, exhibited with epic
and dramatic effect, Behmen's system surpasses everything of the kind
ever written.'  Some of his disciples have the hardihood to affirm indeed
that even ISAAC NEWTON ploughed with Behmen's heifer, but had not the
boldness to acknowledge the debt.  I entirely accept it when his
disciples assert it of their master that he had a privilege and a
passport permitted him such as no mortal man has had the like since
JOHN'S eyes closed upon his completed Apocalypse.  After repeated and
prolonged reading of Behmen's amazing books, nothing that has been said
by his most ecstatic disciples about their adored master either
astonishes or offends me.  Dante himself does not beat such a soaring
wing as Behmen's; and all the trumpets that sound in _Paradise Lost_ do
not swell my heart and chase its blood like Jacob Behmen's broken
syllables about the Fall.  I would not wonder to have it pointed out to
me in the world to come that all that Gichtel, and St. Martin, and Hegel,
and Law, and Walton, and Martensen, and Hartmann have said about Jacob
Behmen and his visions of GOD and Nature and Man were all but literally
true.  No doubt,--nay, the thing is certain,--that if you open Jacob
Behmen anywhere as Gregory Richter opened the _Aurora_; if a new idea is
a pain and a provocation to you; if you have any prejudice in your heart
for any reason against Behmen; if you dislike the sound of his name
because some one you dislike has discovered him and praised him, or
because you do not yourself already know him and love him, then, no
doubt, you will find plenty in Behmen at which to stumble, and which will
amply justify you in anything you wish to say against him.  But if you
are a true student and a good man; if you are an open-minded and a humble-
minded man; if you are prepared to sit at any man's feet who will engage
to lead you a single step out of your ignorance and your evil; if you
open Behmen with a predisposition to believe in him, and with the
expectation and the determination to get good out of him,--then, in the
measure of all that; in the measure of your capacity of mind and your
hospitality of heart; in the measure of your humility, seriousness,
patience, teachableness, hunger for truth, hunger for righteousness,--in
that measure you will find Jacob Behmen to be what MAURICE tells us he
found him to be, 'a generative thinker.'  Out of much you cannot
understand,--wherever the blame for that may lie,--out of much slag and
much dross, I am mistaken if you will not lay up some of your finest
gold; and out of much straw and chaff some of the finest of the wheat.
The Divine Nature, human nature, time, space, matter, life, love, sin,
death, holiness, heaven, hell,--Behmen's reader must have lived and moved
all his days among such things as these: he must be at home, as far as
the mind of man can be at home, among such things as these, and then he
will begin to understand Behmen, and will still strive better and better
to understand him; and, where he does not as yet understand him, he will
set that down to his own inattention, incapacity, want of due
preparation, and want of the proper ripeness for such a study.

At the same time let all intending students of Jacob Behmen take warning
that they will have to learn an absolutely new and an unheard-of language
if they would speak with Behmen and have Behmen speak with them.  For
Behmen's books are written neither in German nor in English of any age or
idiom, but in the most original and uncouth Behmenese.  Like John Bunyan,
but never with John Bunyan's literary grace, Behmen will borrow, now a
Latin word or phrase from his reading of learned authors, or, more often,
from the conversations of his learned friends; and then he will take some
astrological or alchemical expression of AGRIPPA, or PARACELSUS, or some
such outlaw, and will, as with his awl and rosin-end, sew together a
sentence, and hammer together a page of the most incongruous and unheard-
of phraseology, till, as we read Behmen's earlier work especially, we
continually exclaim, O for a chapter of John Bunyan's clear, and sweet,
and classical English!  The _Aurora_ was written in a language, if
writing and a language it can be called, that had never been seen written
or heard spoken before, or has since, on the face of the earth.  And as
our students learn Greek in order to read Homer and Plato and Paul and
John, and Latin in order to read Virgil and Tacitus, and Italian to read
Dante, and German to read Goethe, so William Law tells us that he learned
Behmen's Behmenite High Dutch, and that too after he was an old man, in
order that he might completely master the _Aurora_ and its kindred books.
And as our schoolboys laugh and jeer at the outlandish sounds of Greek
and Latin and German, till they have learned to read and love the great
authors who have written in those languages, so WESLEY, and SOUTHEY, and
even HALLAM himself, jest and flout and call names at Jacob Behmen,
because they have not taken the trouble to learn his language, to master
his mind, and to drink in his spirit.  At the same time, and after all
that has been said about Behmen's barbarous style, Bishop Martensen tells
us how the readers of SCHELLING were surprised and enraptured by a wealth
of new expressions and new turns of speech in their mother tongue.  But
all these belonged to Behmen, or were fashioned on the model of his
symbolical language.  As it is, with all his astrology, and all his
alchemy, and all his barbarities of form and expression, I for one will
always take sides with the author of _The Serious Call_, and _The Spirit
of Prayer_, and _The Spirit of Love_, and _The Way to Divine Knowledge_,
in the disputed matter of Jacob Behmen's sanity and sanctity; and I will
continue to believe that if I had only had the scholarship, and the
intellect, and the patience, and the enterprise, to have mastered,
through all their intricacies, the Behmenite grammar and the Behmenite
vocabulary, I also would have found in Behmen all that Freher and Pordage
and Law and Walton found.  Even in the short way into this great man that
I have gone, I have come upon such rare and rich mines of divine and
eternal truth that I can easily believe that they who have dug deeper
have come upon uncounted riches.  'Next to the Scriptures,' writes
William Law, 'my only book is the illuminated Behmen.  For the whole
kingdom of grace and nature was opened in him.  In reading Behmen I am
always at home, and kept close to the kingdom of GOD that is within me.'
'I am not young,' said CLAUDE DE ST. MARTIN, 'being now near my fiftieth
year, nevertheless I have begun to learn German, in order that I may read
this incomparable author in his own tongue.  I have written some not
unacceptable books myself, but I am not worthy to unloose the shoestrings
of this wonderful man.  I advise you to throw yourself into the depths of
Jacob Behmen.  There is such a profundity and exaltation of truth in
them, and such a simple and delicious nutriment.'

The Town Council of Goerlitz, hounded on by their Minister, sentenced
Behmen to be banished, and interdicted him from ever writing any more.
But in sheer shame at what they had done they immediately recalled Behmen
from banishment; only, they insisted that he should confine himself to
his shop, and leave all writing of books alone.  Behmen had no ambition
to write any more, and, as a matter of fact, he kept silence even to
himself for seven whole years.  But as those years went on it came to be
with him, to use his own words, as with so much grain that has been
buried in the earth, and which, in spite of storms and tempests, will,
out of its own life, spring up, and that even when reason says it is now
winter, and that all hope and all power is gone.  And thus it was that,
under the same instigation which had produced the _Aurora_, Behmen at a
rush wrote his very fine if very difficult book, _The Three Principles of
the Divine Essence_.  He calls _The Three Principles_ his A B C, and the
easiest of all his books.  And William Law recommends all beginners in
Behmen to read alone for some sufficient time the tenth and twelfth
chapters of _The Three Principles_.  I shall let Behmen describe the
contents of his easiest book in his own words.  'In this second book,' he
says, 'there is declared what GOD is, what Nature is, what the creatures
are, what the love and meekness of GOD are, what GOD'S will is, what the
wrath of GOD is, and what joy and sorrow are.  As also, how all things
took their beginning: with the true difference between eternal and
transitory creatures.  Specially of man and his soul, what the soul is,
and how it is an eternal creature.  Also what heaven is, wherein GOD and
the holy angels and holy men dwell, and hell wherein the devils dwell:
and how all things were originally created and had their being.  In sum,
what the Essence of all Essences is.  And thus I commit my reader to the
sweet love of GOD.'  _The Three Principles_, according to CHRISTOPHER
WALTON, was the first book of Behmen's that William Law ever held in his
hand.  That, then, was the title-page, and those were the contents, that
threw that princely and saintly mind into such a sweat.  It was a great
day for William Law, and through him it was, and will yet be acknowledged
to have been, a great day for English theology when he chanced, at an old
bookstall, upon _The Three Principles_, Englished by a Barrister of the
Inner Temple.  The picture of that bookstall that day is engraven in
lines of light and love on the heart of every grateful reader of Jacob
Behmen and of William Law's later and richer and riper writings.

In three months after he had finished _The Three Principles_, Behmen had
composed a companion treatise, entitled _The Threefold Life of Man_.
Modest about himself as Behmen always was, he could not be wholly blind
about his own incomparable books.  And he but spoke the simple truth
about his third book when he said of it--as, indeed, he was constantly
saying about all his books--that it will serve every reader just
according to his constellation, his inclination, his disposition, his
complexion, his profession, and his whole condition.  'You will be soon
weary of all contentious books,' he wrote to CASPER LINDERN, 'if you
entertain and get _The Threefold Life of Man_ into your mind and heart.'
'The subject of regeneration,' says Christopher Walton, 'is the pith and
drift of all Behmen's writings, and the student may here be directed to
begin his course of study by mastering the first eight chapters of _The
Threefold Life_, which appear to have been in great favour with Mr. Law.'

