By this time he had identified himself with my fortunes. We had become
a firm whose business it was to carry out the affairs of a single
personality-me. Memba Sasa, among other things, undertook the dignity.
When I walked through a crowd, Memba Sasa zealously kicked everybody out
of my royal path. When I started to issue a command, Memba Sasa finished
it and amplified it and put a snapper on it. When I came into camp,
Memba Sasa saw to it personally that my tent went up promptly and
properly, although that was really not part of his "cazi" at all. And
when somewhere beyond my ken some miserable boy had committed a crime, I
never remained long in ignorance of that fact.

Perhaps I happened to be sitting in my folding chair idly smoking a
pipe and reading a book. Across the open places of the camp would stride
Memba Sasa, very erect, very rigid, moving in short indignant jerks,
his eye flashing fire. Behind him would sneak a very hang-dog boy. Memba
Sasa marched straight up to me, faced right, and drew one side, his
silence sparkling with honest indignation.

"Just look at THAT!" his attitude seemed to say, "Could you believe such
human depravity possible? And against OUR authority?"

He always stood, quite rigid, waiting for me to speak.

"Well, Memba Sasa?" I would inquire, after I had enjoyed the show a
little.

In a few restrained words he put the case before me, always briefly,
always with a scornful dignity. This shenzi has done so-and-so.

We will suppose the case fairly serious. I listened to the man's story,
if necessary called a few witnesses, delivered judgment. All the while
Memba Sasa stood at rigid attention, fairly bristling virtue, like
the good dog standing by at the punishment of the bad dogs. And in his
attitude was a subtle triumph, as one would say: "You see! Fool with my
bwana, will you! Just let anybody try to get funny with US!" Judgment
pronounced-we have supposed the case serious, you remember-Memba Sasa
himself applied the lash. I think he really enjoyed that; but it was a
restrained joy. The whip descended deliberately, without excitement.

The man's devotion in unusual circumstances was beyond praise. Danger
or excitement incite a sort of loyalty in any good man; but humdrum,
disagreeable difficulty is a different matter.

One day we marched over a country of thorn-scrub desert. Since two days
we had been cut loose from water, and had been depending on a small
amount carried in zinc drums. Now our only reasons for faring were a
conical hill, over the horizon, and the knowledge of a river somewhere
beyond. How far beyond, or in what direction, we did not know. We had
thirty men with us, a more or less ragtag lot, picked up anyhow in the
bazaars. So Schefelus was loyal to his Procrus not! Thisbe. Procrus How
Scheflus loves' lieb 'ich thy countenance. Pyramus. O Küss me through
the hole from this garst'gen wall! Thisbe. My only kiss meets the
hole, not your lips edge. Pyramus. Willt du Bey Ninnys grave tonight to
meet me. Thisbe. Sey's alive or Todt, I come when I kan. wall. So I
now mein'n Wall Part gemachet good, And now so does hinwegbegeben wall.
(Geht ab.) Theseus. Scheid For example, the wall between neighbors beyden
suddenly fallen. Demetrius. No wonder Mylord because they were so willing
to up. Hippolita. miserable stuff I've never heard. Theseus. The best in
this type is only the shadow, and the worst is no worse, if his imagination
nachhilft. Hippolita. So there is your imagination Seyn, not theirs.
Theseus. If we do not think worse of them than they of themselves, they
may for People vortrefliche happen. Here zwey noble beasts, in the person
of a man and a lion. (Leo and Mondschein occur.) Lion. My lady, whose
heart is afraid the smallest mouse in monstroser G'stalt does float to
the ground, let IZO undoubtedly tremble and shake, When lion rough
from Wuthe lets out his roar.

So know then that I Schnok Hans, the carpenter'm not evil nor indeed Löw
wife of a lion, because would I as a lion and Harm had in mind, Sun
daurte, my faith! I am only my body g'rader. Theseus. A polite beast,
and quite conscientious. Lysander. This is a perfect lion fox to hearty.
Theseus. That is true, and a goose at Discretion. Demetrius. Not
so, Mylord, because his hearty can not master his discretion, as a
fox of a goose. Theseus. Without doubt, its discretion can not be his
hearty bemeistern because a goose bemeistert no fox. Good! we want to
make it his discretion, and IZT hear what the moon has to say. moonlight.
wolgehörnten The Moon Lantern d'z'erkennen giebt. Demetrius. He should
have the horns on his forehead bear.

Theseus. He is not in increase and its horns Stekene invisible in the
periphery. moonlight. wolgehörnten the moon lantern d'z'erkennen giebt,
I myself the man in the moon, you'll wofern popular. Theseus. This is
still the biggest error of all, it would have been the man in the lantern
Sezen be, how else can he the man in the moons Seyn? Demetrius. He should
not because of the candle, so you see that it is already loud Buzen.
Hippolita. The moon makes me long while, I wanted to, he changed. Theseus.
It looks at his bescheidnen light that he is losing weight, out of
courtesy and to litigation, we must now wait until the end.

Lysander. Come out better, the moon! moonlight. All I have to say
is you to report that the lantern is the moon and I, the man in
the moon, this thorn bush my thorn bush, and this dog, my dog.

Demetrius.

All these things should therefore, in the lantern Seyn.

But silent ways; the point here Thisbe. (Thisbe occurs.) Thisbe.
We were always very ceremonious and dignified in our relations on such
occasions. Memba Sasa would suddenly appear, deposit the rifle in its
place, and stand at attention.

"Well, Memba Sasa?" I would inquire.

"I have found the men; they are in camp."

Then I would give him his reward. It was either the word "assanti," or
the two words "assanti sana," according to the difficulty and importance
of the task accomplished. They mean simply "thank you" and "thank you
very much."

Once or twice, after a particularly long and difficult month or so, when
Memba Sasa has been almost literally my alter ego, I have called him up
for special praise. "I am very pleased with you, Memba Sasa," said I.
"You have done your cazi well. You are a good man."

He accepted this with dignity, without deprecation, and without the
idiocy of spoken gratitude. He agreed perfectly with everything I
said! "Yes" was his only comment. I liked it.

On our ultimate success in a difficult enterprise Memba Sasa set great
store; and his delight in ultimate success was apparently quite apart
from personal considerations. We had been hunting greater kudu for five
weeks before we finally landed one. The greater kudu is, with the bongo,
easily the prize beast in East Africa, and very few are shot. By a piece
of bad luck, for him, I had sent Memba Sasa out in a different direction
to look for signs the afternoon we finally got one. The kill was made
just at dusk. C. and I, with Mavrouki, built a fire and stayed, while
Kongoni went to camp after men. There he broke the news to Memba Sasa
that the great prize had been captured, and he absent. Memba Sasa was
hugely delighted, nor did he in any way show what must have been a great
disappointment to him. After repeating the news triumphantly to every
one in camp, he came out to where we were waiting, arrived quite out of
breath, and grabbed me by the hand in heartiest congratulation.

Memba Sasa went in not at all for personal ornamentation, any more than
he allowed his dignity to be broken by anything resembling emotionalism.
No tattoo marks, no ear ornaments, no rings nor bracelets. He never even
picked up an ostrich feather for his head. On the latter he sometimes
wore an old felt hat; sometimes, more picturesquely, an orange-coloured
fillet. Khaki shirt, khaki "shorts," blue puttees, besides his knife
and my own accoutrements: that was all. In town he was all white clad, a
long fine linen robe reaching to his feet; and one of the lacelike skull
caps he was so very skilful at making.

That will do for a preliminary sketch. If you follow these pages, you
will hear more of him; he is worth it.


VI. THE FIRST GAME CAMP

In the review of "first" impressions with which we are concerned, we
must now skip a week or ten days to stop at what is known in our diaries
as the First Ford of the Guaso Nyero River.

These ten days were not uneventful. We had crossed the wide and
undulating plains, had paused at some tall beautiful falls plunging
several hundred feet into the mysteriousness of a dense forest on
which we looked down. There we had enjoyed some duck, goose and snipe
shooting; had made the acquaintance of a few of the Masai, and had
looked with awe on our first hippo tracks in the mud beside a tiny
ditchlike stream. Here and there were small game herds. In the light of
later experience we now realize that these were nothing at all; but at
the time the sight of full-grown wild animals out in plain sight was
quite wonderful. At the close of the day's march we always wandered out
with our rifles to see what we could find. Everything was new to us,
and we had our men to feed. Our shooting gradually improved until we had
overcome the difficulties peculiar to this new country and were doing as
well as we could do anywhere.

Now, at the end of a hard day through scrub, over rolling bold hills,
and down a scrub brush slope, we had reached the banks of the Guaso
Nyero.

At this point, above the junction of its principal tributary rivers,
it was a stream about sixty or seventy feet wide, flowing swift between
high banks. A few trees marked its course, but nothing like a jungle.
The ford was in swift water just above a deep still pool suspected
of crocodiles. We found the water about waist deep, stretched a rope
across, and forcibly persuaded our eager boys that one at a time was
about what the situation required. On the other side we made camp on
an open flat. Having marched so far continuously, we resolved to settle
down for a while. The men had been without sufficient meat; and we
desired very much to look over the country closely, and to collect a few
heads as trophies.

Perhaps a word might not come amiss as to the killing of game. The case
is here quite different from the condition of affairs at home. Here
animal life is most extraordinarily abundant; it furnishes the main food
supply to the traveller; and at present is probably increasing slightly,
certainly holding its own. Whatever toll the sportsman or traveller take
is as nothing compared to what he might take if he were an unscrupulous
game hog. If his cartridges and his shoulder held out, he could easily
kill a hundred animals a day instead of the few he requires. In that
sense, then, no man slaughters indiscriminately. During the course of
a year he probably shoots from two hundred to two hundred and fifty
beasts, provided he is travelling with an ordinary sized caravan. This,
the experts say, is about the annual toll of one lion. If the traveller
gets his lion, he plays even with the fauna of the country; if he
gets two or more lions, he has something to his credit. This probably
explains why the game is still so remarkably abundant near the road and
on the very outskirts of the town.

We were now much in need of a fair quantity of meat, both for immediate
consumption of our safari, and to make biltong or jerky. Later, in like
circumstances, we should have sallied forth in a businesslike fashion,
dropped the requisite number of zebra and hartebeeste as near camp as
possible, and called it a job. Now, however, being new to the game, we
much desired good trophies in variety. Therefore, we scoured the
country far and wide for desirable heads; and the meat waited upon the
acquisition of the trophy.

This, then, might be called our first Shooting Camp. Heretofore we had
travelled every day. Now the boys settled down to what the native porter
considers the height of bliss: a permanent camp with plenty to eat. Each
morning we were off before daylight, riding our horses, and followed by
the gunbearers, the syces, and fifteen or twenty porters. The country
rose from the river in a long gentle slope grown with low brush and
scattered candlestick euphorbias. This slope ended in a scattered range
of low rocky buttes. Through any one of the various openings between
them, we rode to find ourselves on the borders of an undulating grass
country of low rounded hills with wide valleys winding between them. In
these valleys and on these hills was the game.

Daylight of the day I would tell about found us just at the edge of the
little buttes. Down one of the slopes the growing half light revealed
two oryx feeding, magnificent big creatures, with straight rapier horns
three feet in length. These were most exciting and desirable, so off
my horse I got and began to sneak up on them through the low tufts
of grass. They fed quite calmly. I congratulated myself, and slipped
nearer. Without even looking in my direction, they trotted away.
Somewhat chagrined, I returned to my companions, and we rode on.

Then across a mile-wide valley we saw two dark objects in the tall
grass; and almost immediately identified these as rhinoceroses, the
first we had seen. They stood there side by side, gazing off into space,
doing nothing in a busy morning world. After staring at them through our
glasses for some time, we organized a raid. At the bottom of the valley
we left the horses and porters; lined up, each with his gunbearer at his
elbow; and advanced on the enemy. B. was to have the shot According to
all the books we should have been able, provided we were downwind
and made no noise, to have approached within fifty or sixty yards
undiscovered. However, at a little over a hundred yards they both turned
tail and departed at a swift trot, their heads held well up and their
tails sticking up straight and stiff in the most ridiculous fashion.
No good shooting at them in such circumstances, so we watched them go,
still keeping up their slashing trot, growing smaller and smaller in the
distance until finally they disappeared over the top of a swell.

We set ourselves methodically to following them. It took us over an hour
of steady plodding before we again came in sight of them. They were this
time nearer the top of a hill, and we saw instantly that the curve of
the slope was such that we could approach within fifty yards before
coming in sight at all. Therefore, once more we dismounted, lined up in
battle array, and advanced.

Sensations? Distinctly nervous, decidedly alert, and somewhat
self-congratulatory that I was not more scared. No man can predicate how
efficient he is going to be in the presence of really dangerous game.
Only the actual trial will show. This is not a question of courage at
all, but of purely involuntary reaction of the nerves. Very few men are
physical cowards. They will and do face anything. But a great many men
are rendered inefficient by the way their nervous systems act under
stress. It is not a matter for control by will power in the slightest
degree. So the big game hunter must determine by actual trial whether it
so happens that the great excitement of danger renders his hand shaky or
steady. The excitement in either case is the same. No man is ever "cool"
in the sense that personal danger is of the same kind of indifference
to him as clambering aboard a street car. He must always be lifted
above himself, must enter an extra normal condition to meet extra normal
circumstances. He can always control his conduct; but he can by no
means always determine the way the inevitable excitement will affect his
coordinations. And unfortunately, in the final result it does not matter
how brave a man is, but how closely he can hold. If he finds that his
nervous excitement renders him unsteady, he has no business ever to
tackle dangerous game alone. If, on the other hand, he discovers that
IDENTICALLY THE SAME nervous excitement happens to steady his front
sight to rocklike rigidity-a rigidity he could not possibly attain in
normal conditions-then he will probably keep out of trouble.

To amplify this further by a specific instance: I hunted for a short
time in Africa with a man who was always eager for exciting encounters,
whose pluck was admirable in every way, but whose nervous reaction so
manifested itself that he was utterly unable to do even decent shooting
at any range. Furthermore, his very judgment and power of observation
were so obscured that he could not remember afterward with any accuracy
what had happened-which way the beast was pointing, how many there were
of them, in which direction they went, how many shots were fired, in
short all the smaller details of the affair. He thought he remembered.
After the show was over it was quite amusing to get his version of
the incident. It was almost always so wide of the fact as to be little
recognizable. And, mind you, he was perfectly sincere in his belief, and
absolutely courageous. Only he was quite unfitted by physical make-up
for a big game hunter; and I was relieved when, after a short time, his
route and mine separated.

Well, we clambered up that slope with a fine compound of tension,
expectation, and latent uneasiness as to just what was going to happen,
anyway. Finally, we raised the backs of the beasts, stooped, sneaked a
little nearer, and finally at a signal stood upright perhaps forty yards
from the brutes.

For the first time I experienced a sensation I was destined many times
to repeat-that of the sheer size of the animals. Menagerie rhinoceroses
had been of the smaller Indian variety; and in any case most menagerie
beasts are more or less stunted. These two, facing us, their little eyes
blinking, looked like full-grown ironclads on dry land. The moment we
stood erect B. fired at the larger of the two. Instantly they turned and
were off at a tearing run. I opened fire, and B. let loose his second
barrel. At about two hundred and fifty yards the big rhinoceros suddenly
fell on his side, while the other continued his flight. It was all
over-very exciting because we got excited, but not in the least
dangerous.

The boys were delighted, for here was meat in plenty for everybody. We
measured the beast, photographed him, marvelled at his immense size, and
turned him over to the gunbearers for treatment. In half an hour or so a
long string of porters headed across the hills in the direction of
camp, many miles distant, each carrying his load either of meat, or the
trophies. Rhinoceros hide, properly treated, becomes as transparent as
amber, and so from it can be made many very beautiful souvenirs, such as
bowls, trays, paper knives, table tops, whips, canes, and the like.
And, of course, the feet of one's first rhino are always saved for cigar
boxes or inkstands.

Already we had an admiring and impatient audience. From all directions
came the carrion birds. They circled far up in the heavens; they shot
downward like plummets from a great height with an inspiring roar of
wings; they stood thick in a solemn circle all around the scene of the
kill; they rose with a heavy flapping when we moved in their direction.
Skulking forms flashed in the grass, and occasionally the pointed ears
of a jackal would rise inquiringly.

It was by now nearly noon. The sun shone clear and hot; the heat shimmer
rose in clouds from the brown surface of the hills. In all directions
we could make out small gameherds resting motionless in the heat of the
day, the mirage throwing them into fantastic shapes. While the final
disposition was being made of the defunct rhinoceros I wandered over the
edge of the hill to see what I could see, and fairly blundered on a herd
of oryx at about a hundred and fifty yards range. They looked at me a
startled instant, then leaped away to the left at a tremendous speed.
By a lucky shot, I bowled one over. He was a beautiful beast, with his
black and white face and his straight rapierlike horns nearly three feet
long, and I was most pleased to get him. Memba Sasa came running at the
sound of the shot. We set about preparing the head.

Then through a gap in the hills far to the left we saw a little black
speck moving rapidly in our direction. At the end of a minute we could
make it out as the second rhinoceros. He had run heaven knows how
many miles away, and now he was returning; whether with some idea of
rejoining his companion or from sheer chance, I do not know. At any
rate, here he was, still ploughing along at his swinging trot. His
course led him along a side hill about four hundred yards from where
the oryx lay. When he was directly opposite I took the Springfield and
fired, not at him, but at a spot five or six feet in front of his
nose. The bullet threw up a column of dust. Rhino brought up short with
astonishment, wheeled to the left, and made off at a gallop. I dropped
another bullet in front of him. Again he stopped, changed direction, and
made off. For the third time I hit the ground in front of him. Then he
got angry, put his head down and charged the spot.

Five more shots I expended on the amusement of that rhinoceros; and
at the last had run furiously charging back and forth in a twenty-yard
space, very angry at the little puffing, screeching bullets, but quite
unable to catch one. Then he made up his mind and departed the way he
had come, finally disappearing as a little rapidly moving black speck
through the gap in the hills where we had first caught sight of him.

We finished caring for the oryx, and returned to camp. To our surprise
we found we were at least seven or eight miles out.

In this fashion days passed very quickly. The early dewy start in the
cool of the morning, the gradual grateful warming up of sunrise, and
immediately after, the rest during the midday heats under a shady tree,
the long trek back to camp at sunset, the hot bath after the toilsome
day-all these were very pleasant. Then the swift falling night, and the
gleam of many tiny fires springing up out of the darkness; with each its
sticks full of meat roasting, and its little circle of men, their skins
gleaming in the light. As we sat smoking, we would become aware that
M'ganga, the headman, was standing silent awaiting orders. Some one
would happen to see the white of his eyes, or perhaps he might smile so
that his teeth would become visible. Otherwise he might stand there an
hour, and no one the wiser, for he was respectfully silent, and exactly
the colour of the night.

We would indicate to him our plans for the morrow, and he would
disappear. Then at a distance of twenty or thirty feet from the front
of our tents a tiny tongue of flame would lick up. Dark figures could be
seen manipulating wood. A blazing fire sprang up, against which we could
see the motionless and picturesque figure of Saa-sita (Six o'Clock), the
askari of the first night watch, leaning on his musket. He was a most
picturesque figure, for his fancy ran to original headdresses, and at
the moment he affected a wonderful upstanding structure made of marabout
wings.

At this sign that the night had begun, we turned in. A few hyenas
moaned, a few jackals barked: otherwise the first part of the night was
silent, for the hunters were at their silent business, and the hunted
were "layin' low and sayin' nuffin'."

Day after day we rode out, exploring the country in different
directions. The great uncertainty as to what of interest we would find
filled the hours with charm. Sometimes we clambered about the cliffs of
the buttes trying to find klipspringers; again we ran miles pursuing the
gigantic eland. I in turn got my first rhinoceros, with no more danger
than had attended the killing of B.'s. On this occasion, however, I had
my first experience of the lightning skill of the first-class gunbearer.
Having fired both barrels, and staggered the beast, I threw open the
breech and withdrew the empty cartridges, intending, of course, as my
next move to fish two more out of my belt. The empty shells were hardly
away from the chambers, however, when a long brown arm shot over
my right shoulder and popped two fresh cartridges in the breech. So
astonished was I at this unexpected apparition, that for a second or so
I actually forgot to close the gun.


VII. ON THE MARCH

After leaving the First Game Camp, we travelled many hours and miles
over rolling hills piling ever higher and higher until they broke
through a pass to illimitable plains. These plains were mantled with the
dense scrub, looking from a distance and from above like the nap of soft
green velvet. Here and there this scrub broke in round or oval patches
of grass plain. Great mountain ranges peered over the edge of a horizon.
Lesser mountain peaks of fantastic shapes-sheer Yosemite cliffs, single
buttes, castles-had ventured singly from behind that same horizon
barricade. The course of a river was marked by a meandering line of
green jungle.

It took us two days to get to that river. Our intermediate camp was
halfway down the pass. We ousted a hundred indignant straw-coloured
monkeys and twice as many baboons from the tiny flat above the water
hole. They bobbed away cursing over their shoulders at us. Next day we
debouched on the plains. They were rolling, densely grown, covered with
volcanic stones, swarming with game of various sorts. The men marched
well. They were happy, for they had had a week of meat; and each carried
a light lunch of sun-dried biltong or jerky. Some mistaken individuals
had attempted to bring along some "fresh" meat. We found it advisable to
pass to windward of these; but they themselves did not seem to mind.

It became very hot; for we were now descending to the lower elevations.
The marching through long grass and over volcanic stones was not easy.
Shortly we came out on stumbly hills, mostly rock, very dry, grown with
cactus and discouraged desiccated thorn scrub. Here the sun reflected
powerfully and the bearers began to flag.

Then suddenly, without warning, we pitched over a little rise to the
river.

No more marvellous contrast could have been devised. From the blasted
barren scrub country we plunged into the lush jungle. It was not a very
wide jungle, but it was sufficient. The trees were large and variegated,
reaching to a high and spacious upper story above the ground tangle.
From the massive limbs hung vines, festooned and looped like great
serpents. Through this upper corridor flitted birds of bright hue or
striking variegation. We did not know many of them by name, nor did
we desire to; but were content with the impression of vivid flashing
movement and colour. Various monkeys swung, leaped and galloped slowly
away before our advance; pausing to look back at us curiously, the ruffs
of fur standing out all around their little black faces. The lower half
of the forest jungle, however, had no spaciousness at all, but a certain
breathless intimacy. Great leaved plants as tall as little trees, and
trees as small as big plants, bound together by vines, made up the "deep
impenetrable jungle" of our childhood imagining. Here were rustlings,
sudden scurryings, half-caught glimpses, once or twice a crash as some
greater animal made off. Here and there through the thicket wandered
well beaten trails, wide, but low, so that to follow them one would have
to bend double. These were the paths of rhinoceroses. The air smelt warm
and moist and earthy, like the odour of a greenhouse.

We skirted this jungle until it gave way to let the plain down to the
river. Then, in an open grove of acacias, and fairly on the river's
bank, we pitched our tents.

These acacia trees were very noble big chaps, with many branches and a
thick shade. In their season they are wonderfully blossomed with white,
with yellow, sometimes even with vivid red flowers. Beneath them was
only a small matter of ferns to clear away.

Before us the sodded bank rounded off ten feet the river itself. At this
point far up in its youth it was a friendly river. Its noble width ran
over shallows of yellow sand or of small pebbles. Save for unexpected
deep holes one could wade across it anywhere. Yet it was very wide, with
still reaches of water, with islands of gigantic papyrus, with sand bars
dividing the current, and with always the vista for a greater or lesser
distance down through the jungle along its banks. From our canvas chairs
we could look through on one side to the arid country, and on the other
to this tropical wonderland.

Yes, at this point in its youth it was indeed a friendly river in every
sense of the word. There are three reasons, ordinarily, why one cannot
bathe in the African rivers. In the first place, they are nearly all
disagreeably muddy; in the second place, cold water in a tropical
climate causes horrible congestions; in the third place they swarm
with crocodiles and hippos. But this river was as yet unpolluted by the
alluvial soil of the lower countries; the sun on its shallows had warmed
its waters almost to blood heat; and the beasts found no congenial
haunts in these clear shoals. Almost before our tents were up the men
were splashing. And always my mental image of that river's beautiful
expanse must include round black heads floating like gourds where the
water ran smoothest.

Our tents stood all in a row facing the stream, the great trees at
their backs. Down in the grove the men had pitched their little white
shelters. Happily they settled down to ease. Settling down to ease, in
the case of the African porter, consists in discarding as many clothes
as possible. While on the march he wears everything he owns; whether
from pride or a desire to simplify transportation I am unable to say. He
is supplied by his employer with a blanket and jersey. As supplementals
he can generally produce a half dozen white man's ill-assorted garments:
an old shooting coat, a ragged pair of khaki breeches, a kitchen
tablecloth for a skirt, or something of the sort. If he can raise an
overcoat he is happy, especially if it happen to be a long, thick WINTER
overcoat. The possessor of such a garment will wear it conscientiously
throughout the longest journey and during the hottest noons. But when he
relaxes in camp, he puts away all these prideful possessions and turns
out in the savage simplicity of his red blanket. Draped negligently,
sometimes very negligently, in what may be termed semi-toga fashion,
he stalks about or squats before his little fire in all the glory of a
regained savagery. The contrast of the red with his red bronze or black
skin, the freedom and grace of his movements, the upright carriage of
his fine figure, and the flickering savagery playing in his eyes are
very effective.

Our men occupied their leisure variously and happily. A great deal of
time they spent before their tiny fires roasting meat and talking. This
talk was almost invariably of specific personal experiences. They bathed
frequently and with pleasure. They slept. Between times they fashioned
ingenious affairs of ornament or use: bows and arrows, throwing clubs,
snuff-boxes of the tips of antelope horns, bound prettily with bright
wire, wooden swords beautifully carved in exact imitation of the
white man's service weapon, and a hundred other such affairs. At this
particular time also they were much occupied in making sandals against
the thorns. These were flat soles of rawhide, the edges pounded to make
them curl up a trifle over the foot, fastened by thongs; very ingenious,
and very useful. To their task they brought song. The labour of Africa
is done to song; weird minor chanting starting high in the falsetto to
trickle unevenly down to the lower registers, or where the matter is one
of serious effort, an antiphony of solo and chorus. From all parts
of the camp come these softly modulated chantings, low and sweet,
occasionally breaking into full voice as the inner occasion swells,
then almost immediately falling again to the murmuring undertone of more
concentrated attention.

The red blanket was generally worn knotted from one shoulder or bound
around the waist Malay fashion. When it turned into a cowl, with a
miserable and humpbacked expression, it became the Official Badge of
Illness. No matter what was the matter that was the proper thing to
do-to throw the blanket over the head and to assume as miserable a
demeanour as possible. A sore toe demanded just as much concentrated
woe as a case of pneumonia. Sick call was cried after the day's work was
finished. Then M'ganga or one of the askaris lifted up his voice.

"N'gonjwa! n'gonjwa!" he shouted; and at the shout the red cowls
gathered in front of the tent. Three things were likely to be the
matter: too much meat, fever, or pus infection from slight wounds. To
these in the rainy season would be added the various sorts of colds.
That meant either Epsom salts, quinine, or a little excursion with
the lancet and permanganate. The African traveller gets to be heap big
medicine man within these narrow limits.

All the red cowls squatted miserably, oh, very miserably, in a row.
The headman stood over them rather fiercely. We surveyed the lot
contemplatively, hoping to heaven that nothing complicated was going to
turn up. One of the tent boys hovered in the background as dispensing
chemist.

"Well," said F. at last, "what's the matter with you?"

The man indicated pointed to his head and the back of his neck and
groaned. If he had a slight headache he groaned just as much as
though his head were splitting. F. asked a few questions, and took
his temperature. The clinical thermometer is in itself considered big
medicine, and often does much good.

"Too much meat, my friend," remarked F. in English, and to his boy in
Swahili, "bring the cup."

He put in this cup a triple dose of Epsom salts. The African requires
three times a white man's dose. This, pathologically, was all that was
required: but psychologically the job was just begun. Your African can
do wonderful things with his imagination. If he thinks he is going to
die, die he will, and very promptly, even though he is ailing of the
most trivial complaint. If he thinks he is going to get well, he is
very apt to do so in face of extraordinary odds. Therefore the white
man desires not only to start his patient's internal economy with Epsom
salts, but also to stir his faith. To this end F. added to that triple
dose of medicine a spoonful of Chutney, one of Worcestershire sauce,
a few grains of quinine, Sparklets water and a crystal or so of
permanganate to turn the mixture a beautiful pink. This assortment the
patient drank with gratitude-and the tears running down his cheeks.

"He will carry a load to-morrow," F. told the attentive M'ganga.

The next patient had fever. This one got twenty grains of quinine in
water.

"This man carries no load to-morrow," was the direction, "but he must
not drop behind."

Two or three surgical cases followed. Then a big Kavirondo rose to his
feet.

"Nini?" demanded F.

"Homa-fever," whined the man.

F. clapped his hand on the back of the other's neck.

"I think," he remarked contemplatively in English, "that you're a liar,
and want to get out of carrying your load."

The clinical thermometer showed no evidence of temperature.

"I'm pretty near sure you're a liar," observed F. in the pleasantest
conversational tone and still in English, "but you may be merely a poor
diagnostician. Perhaps your poor insides couldn't get away with that
rotten meat I saw you lugging around. We'll see."

So he mixed a pint of medicine.

"There's Epsom salts for the real part of trouble," observed F., still
talking to himself, "and here's a few things for the fake."

He then proceeded to concoct a mixture whose recoil was the exact
measure of his imagination. The imagination was only limited by the
necessity of keeping the mixture harmless. Every hot, biting, nauseous
horror in camp went into that pint measure.

"There," concluded F., "if you drink that and come back again to-morrow
for treatment, I'll believe you ARE sick."

Without undue pride I would like to record that I was the first to think
of putting in a peculiarly nauseous gun oil, and thereby acquired a
reputation of making tremendous medicine.

So implicit is this faith in white man's medicine that at one of the
Government posts we were approached by one of the secondary chiefs of
the district. He was a very nifty savage, dressed for calling, with his
hair done in ropes like a French poodle's, his skin carefully oiled and
reddened, his armlets and necklets polished, and with the ceremonial
ball of black feathers on the end of his long spear. His gait was the
peculiar mincing teeter of savage conventional society. According to
custom, he approached unsmiling, spat carefully in his palm, and shook
hands. Then he squatted and waited.

"What is it?" we asked after it became evident he really wanted
something besides the pleasure of our company.

"N'dowa-medicine," said he.

"Why do you not go the Government dispensary?" we demanded.

"The doctor there is an Indian; I want REAL medicine, white man's
medicine," he explained.

Immensely flattered, of course, we wanted further to know what ailed
him.

"Nothing," said he blandly, "nothing at all; but it seemed an excellent
chance to get good medicine."

After the clinic was all attended to, we retired to our tents and the
screeching-hot bath so grateful in the tropics. When we emerged, in
our mosquito boots and pajamas, the daylight was gone. Scores of little
blazes licked and leaped in the velvet blackness round about, casting
the undergrowth and the lower branches of the trees into flat planes
like the cardboard of a stage setting. Cheerful, squatted figures sat in
silhouette or in the relief of chance high light. Long switches of
meat roasted before the fires. A hum of talk, bursts of laughter, the
crooning of minor chants mingled with the crackling of thorns. Before
our tents stood the table set for supper. Beyond it lay the pile of
firewood, later to be burned on the altar of our safety against beasts.
The moonlight was casting milky shadows over the river and under the
trees opposite. In those shadows gleamed many fireflies. Overhead were
millions of stars, and a little breeze that wandered through upper
branches.

But in Equatorial Africa the simple bands of velvet black, against the
spangled brightnesses that make up the visual night world, must give way
in interest to the other world of sound. The air hums with an undertone
of insects; the plain and hill and jungle are populous with voices
furtive or bold. In daytime one sees animals enough, in all conscience,
but only at night does he sense the almost oppressive feeling of the
teeming life about him. The darkness is peopled. Zebra bark, bucks blow
or snort or make the weird noises of their respective species; hyenas
howl; out of an immense simian silence a group of monkeys suddenly break
into chatterings; ostriches utter their deep hollow boom; small things
scurry and squeak; a certain weird bird of the curlew or plover sort
wails like a lonesome soul. Especially by the river, as here, are the
boomings of the weirdest of weird bullfrogs, and the splashings and
swishings of crocodile and hippopotamus. One is impressed with the
busyness of the world surrounding him; every bird or beast, the hunter
and the hunted, is the centre of many important affairs. The world
swarms.

And then, some miles away a lion roars, the earth and air vibrating to
the sheer power of the sound. The world falls to a blank dead silence.
For a full minute every living creature of the jungle or of the veldt
holds its breath. Their lord has spoken.

After dinner we sat in our canvas chairs, smoking. The guard fire in
front of our tent had been lit. On the other side of it stood one of our
askaris leaning on his musket. He and his three companions, turn about,
keep the flames bright against the fiercer creatures.

After a time we grew sleepy. I called Saa-sita and entrusted to him my
watch. On the crystal of this I had pasted a small piece of surgeon's
plaster. When the hour hand reached the surgeon's plaster, he must wake
us up. Saa-sita was a very conscientious and careful man. One day I took
some time hitching my pedometer properly to his belt: I could not wear
it effectively myself because I was on horseback. At the end of the
ten-hour march it registered a mile and a fraction. Saa-sita explained
that he wished to take especial care of it, so he had wrapped it in a
cloth and carried it all day in his hand!

We turned in. As I reached over to extinguish the lantern I issued my
last command for the day.

"Watcha kalele, Saa-sita," I told the askari; at once he lifted up
his voice to repeat my words. "Watcha kalele!" Immediately from the
Responsible all over camp the word came back-from gunbearers, from
M'ganga, from tent boys-"kalele! kalele! kalele!"

Thus commanded, the boisterous fun, the croon of intimate talk, the
gently rising and falling tide of melody fell to complete silence. Only
remained the crackling of the fire and the innumerable voices of the
tropical night.


VIII. THE RIVER JUNGLE

We camped along this river for several weeks, poking indefinitely and
happily around the country in all directions to see what we could see.
Generally we went together, for neither B. nor myself had been tried out
as yet on dangerous game-those easy rhinos hardly counted-and I think we
both preferred to feel that we had backing until we knew what our nerves
were going to do with us. Nevertheless, occasionally, I would take Memba
Sasa and go out for a little purposeless stroll a few miles up or down
river. Sometimes we skirted the jungle, sometimes we held as near as
possible to the river's bank, sometimes we cut loose and rambled through
the dry, crackling scrub over the low volcanic hills of the arid country
outside.

Nothing can equal the intense interest of the most ordinary walk in
Africa. It is the only country I know of where a man is thoroughly and
continuously alive. Often when riding horseback with the dogs in my
California home I have watched them in envy of the keen, alert interest
they took in every stone, stick, and bush, in every sight, sound, and
smell. With equal frequency I have expressed that envy, but as something
unattainable to a human being's more phlegmatic make-up. In Africa one
actually rises to continuous alertness. There are dozy moments-except
you curl up in a safe place for the PURPOSE of dozing; again just like
the dog! Every bush, every hollow, every high tuft of grass, every deep
shadow must be scrutinized for danger. It will not do to pass carelessly
any possible lurking place. At the same time the sense of hearing
must be on guard; so that no break of twig or crash of bough can go
unremarked. Rhinoceroses conceal themselves most cannily, and have a
deceitful habit of leaping from a nap into their swiftest stride. Cobras
and puff adders are scarce, to be sure, but very deadly. Lions will
generally give way, if not shot at or too closely pressed; nevertheless
there is always the chance of cubs or too close a surprise. Buffalo lurk
daytimes in the deep thickets, but occasionally a rogue bull lives where
your trail will lead. These things do not happen often, but in the long
run they surely do happen, and once is quite enough provided the beast
gets in.

At first this continual alertness and tension is rather exhausting; but
after a very short time it becomes second nature. A sudden rustle the
other side a bush no longer brings you up all standing with your heart
in your throat; but you are aware of it, and you are facing the possible
danger almost before your slower brain has issued any orders to that
effect.

In rereading the above, I am afraid that I am conveying the idea that
one here walks under the shadow of continual uneasiness. This is not in
the least so. One enjoys the sun, and the birds and the little things.
He cultivates the great leisure of mind that shall fill the breadth of
his outlook abroad over a newly wonderful world. But underneath it all
is the alertness, the responsiveness to quick reflexes of judgment and
action, the intimate correlations to immediate environment which must
characterize the instincts of the higher animals. And it is good to live
these things.

Along the edge of that river jungle were many strange and beautiful
affairs. I could slip along among the high clumps of the thicker bushes
in such a manner as to be continually coming around unexpected bends. Of
such maneouvres are surprises made. The graceful red impalla were here
very abundant. I would come on them, their heads up, their great ears
flung forward, their noses twitching in inquiry of something they
suspected but could not fully sense. When slightly alarmed or suspicious
the does always stood compactly in a herd, while the bucks remained
discreetly in the background, their beautiful, branching, widespread
horns showing over the backs of their harems. The impalla is, in my
opinion, one of the most beautiful and graceful of the African bucks, a
perpetual delight to watch either standing or running. These beasts are
extraordinarily agile, and have a habit of breaking their ordinary fast
run by unexpectedly leaping high in the air. At a distance they give
somewhat the effect of dolphins at sea, only their leaps are higher and
more nearly perpendicular. Once or twice I have even seen one jump over
the back of another. On another occasion we saw a herd of twenty-five or
thirty cross a road of which, evidently, they were a little suspicious.
We could not find a single hoof mark in the dust! Generally these beasts
frequent thin brush country; but I have three or four times seen them
quite out in the open flat plains, feeding with the hartebeeste and
zebra. They are about the size of our ordinary deer, are delicately
fashioned, and can utter the most incongruously grotesque of noises by
way of calls or ordinary conversation.

The lack of curiosity, or the lack of gallantry, of the impalla bucks
was, in my experience, quite characteristic. They were almost always the
farthest in the background and the first away when danger threatened.
The ladies could look out for themselves. They had no horns to save;
and what do the fool women mean by showing so little sense, anyway! They
deserve what they get! It used to amuse me a lot to observe the utter
abandonment of all responsibility by these handsome gentlemen. When it
came time to depart, they departed. Hang the girls! They trailed along
after as fast as they could.

The waterbuck-a fine large beast about the size of our caribou, a
well-conditioned buck resembling in form and attitude the finest
of Landseer's stags-on the other hand, had a little more sense of
responsibility, when he had anything to do with the sex at all. He was
hardly what you might call a strictly domestic character. I have hunted
through a country for several days at a time without seeing a single
mature buck of this species, although there were plenty of does, in
herds of ten to fifty, with a few infants among them just sprouting
horns. Then finally, in some small grassy valley, I would come on the
Men's Club. There they were, ten, twenty, three dozen of them, having
the finest kind of an untramelled masculine time all by themselves.
Generally, however, I will say for them, they took care of their own
peoples. There would quite likely be one big old fellow, his harem of
varying numbers, and the younger subordinate bucks all together in a
happy family. When some one of the lot announced that something was
about, and they had all lined up to stare in the suspected direction,
the big buck was there in the foreground of inquiry. When finally they
made me out, it was generally the big buck who gave the signal. He
went first, to be sure, but his going first was evidently an act of
leadership, and not merely a disgraceful desire to get away before the
rest did.

But the waterbuck had to yield in turn to the plains
gazelles; especially to the Thompson's gazelle, familiarly-and
affectionately-known as the "Tommy." He is a quaint little chap,
standing only a foot and a half tall at the shoulder, fawn colour on
top, white beneath, with a black, horizontal stripe on his side, like
a chipmunk, most lightly and gracefully built. When he was first made,
somebody told him that unless he did something characteristic,
like waggling his little tail, he was likely to be mistaken by the
undiscriminating for his bigger cousin, the Grant's gazelle. He has
waggled his tail ever since, and so is almost never mistaken for a
Grant's gazelle, even by the undiscriminating. Evidently his religion is
Mohammedan, for he always has a great many wives. He takes good care of
them, however. When danger appears, even when danger threatens, he
is the last to leave the field. Here and there he dashes frantically,
seeing that the women and children get off. And when the herd tops the
hill, Tommy's little horns bring up the rear of the procession. I like
Tommy. He is a cheerful, gallant, quaint little person, with the air of
being quite satisfied with his own solution of this complicated world.

Among the low brush at the edge of the river jungle dwelt also the
dik-dik, the tiniest miniature of a deer you could possibly imagine.
His legs are lead pencil size, he stands only about nine inches tall, he
weighs from five to ten pounds; and yet he is a perfect little antelope,
horns and all. I used to see him singly or in pairs standing quite
motionless and all but invisible in the shade of bushes; or leaping
suddenly to his feet and scurrying away like mad through the dry grass.
His personal opinion of me was generally expressed in a loud clear
whistle. But then nobody in this strange country talks the language you
would naturally expect him to talk! Zebra bark, hyenas laugh, impallas
grunt, ostriches boom like drums, leopards utter a plaintive sigh,
hornbills cry like a stage child, bushbucks sound like a cross between
a dog and a squawky toy-and so on. There is only one safe rule of the
novice in Africa: NEVER BELIEVE A WORD THE JUNGLE AND VELDT PEOPLE TELL
YOU.

These two-the impalla and the waterbuck-were the principal buck we would
see close to the river. Occasionally, however, we came on a few oryx,
down for a drink, beautiful big antelope, with white and black faces,
roached manes, and straight, nearly parallel, rapier horns upward of
three feet long. A herd of these creatures, the light gleaming on their
weapons, held all at the same slant, was like a regiment of bayonets in
the sun. And there were also the rhinoceroses to be carefully espied
and avoided. They lay obliterated beneath the shade of bushes, and arose
with a mighty blow-off of steam. Whereupon we withdrew silently, for we
wanted to shoot no more rhinos, unless we had to.

Beneath all these obvious and startling things, a thousand other
interesting matters were afoot. In the mass and texture of the jungle
grew many strange trees and shrubs. One most scrubby, fat and leafless
tree, looking as though it were just about to give up a discouraged
existence, surprised us by putting forth, apparently directly from
its bloated wood, the most wonderful red blossoms. Another otherwise
self-respecting tree hung itself all over with plump bologna sausages
about two feet long and five inches thick. A curious vine hung like a
rope, with Turk's-head knots about a foot apart on its whole length,
like the hand-over-hand ropes of gymnasiums. Other ropes were studded
all over with thick blunt bosses, resembling much the outbreak on one
sort of Arts-and-Crafts door: the sort intended to repel Mail-clad
Hosts.

The monkeys undoubtedly used such obvious highways through the trees.
These little people were very common. As we walked along, they withdrew
before us. We could make out their figures galloping hastily across the
open places, mounting bushes and stubs to take a satisfying backward
look, clambering to treetops, and launching themselves across the
abysses between limbs. If we went slowly, they retired in silence. If
we hurried at all, they protested in direct ratio to the speed of
our advance. And when later the whole safari, loads on heads, marched
inconsiderately through their jungle! We happened to be hunting on a
parallel course a half mile away, and we could trace accurately the
progress of our men by the outraged shrieks, chatterings, appeals to
high heaven for at least elemental justice to the monkey people.

Often, too, we would come on concourses of the big baboons. They
certainly carried on weighty affairs of their own according to a fixed
polity. I never got well enough acquainted with them to master the
details of their government, but it was indubitably built on patriarchal
lines. When we succeeded in approaching without being discovered, we
would frequently find the old men baboons squatting on their heels in a
perfect circle, evidently discussing matters of weight and portent. Seen
from a distance, their group so much resembled the council circles
of native warriors that sometimes, in a native country, we made that
mistake. Outside this solemn council, the women, young men and children
went about their daily business, whatever that was. Up convenient low
trees or bushes roosted sentinels.

We never remained long undiscovered. One of the sentinels barked
sharply. At once the whole lot loped away, speedily but with a curious
effect of deliberation. The men folks held their tails in a proud high
sideways arch; the curious youngsters clambered up bushes to take a
hasty look; the babies clung desperately with all four feet to the thick
fur on their mothers' backs; the mothers galloped along imperturbably
unheeding of infantile troubles aloft. The side hill was bewildering
with the big bobbing black forms.

In this lower country the weather was hot, and the sun very strong. The
heated air was full of the sounds of insects; some of them comfortable,
like the buzzing of bees, some of them strange and unusual to us. One
cicada had a sustained note, in quality about like that of our own
August-day's friend, but in quantity and duration as the roar of a train
to the gentle hum of a good motor car. Like all cicada noises it did not
usurp the sound world, but constituted itself an underlying basis, so
to speak. And when it stopped the silence seemed to rush in as into a
vacuum!

We had likewise the aeroplane beetle. He was so big that he would have
made good wing-shooting. His manner of flight was the straight-ahead,
heap-of-buzz, plenty-busy, don't-stop-a-minute-or-you'll-come-down
method of the aeroplane; and he made the same sort of a hum. His
first-cousin, mechanically, was what we called the wind-up-the-watch
insect. This specimen possessed a watch-an old-fashioned Waterbury,
evidently-that he was continually winding. It must have been hard work
for the poor chap, for it sounded like a very big watch.

All these things were amusing. So were the birds. The African bird is
quite inclined to be didactic. He believes you need advice, and he means
to give it. To this end he repeats the same thing over and over until
he thinks you surely cannot misunderstand. One chap especially whom we
called the lawyer bird, and who lived in the treetops, had four phrases
to impart. He said them very deliberately, with due pause between each;
then he repeated them rapidly; finally he said them all over again with
an exasperated bearing-down emphasis. The joke of it is I cannot now
remember just how they went! Another feathered pedagogue was continually
warning us to go slow; very good advice near an African jungle.
"Poley-poley! Poley-poley!" he warned again and again; which is good
Swahili for "slowly! slowly!" We always minded him. There were many
others, equally impressed with their own wisdom, but the one I remember
with most amusement was a dilatory person who apparently never got
around to his job until near sunset. Evidently he had contracted to
deliver just so many warnings per diem; and invariably he got so busy
chasing insects, enjoying the sun, gossiping with a friend and generally
footling about that the late afternoon caught him unawares with never a
chirp accomplished. So he sat in a bush and said his say over and over
just as fast as he could without pause for breath or recreation. It was
really quite a feat. Just at dusk, after two hours of gabbling, he would
reach the end of his contracted number. With final relieved chirp he
ended.

It has been said that African birds are "songless." This is a careless
statement that can easily be read to mean that African birds are silent.
The writer evidently must have had in mind as a criterion some of our
own or the English great feathered soloists. Certainly the African
jungle seems to produce no individual performers as sustained as our own
bob-o-link, our hermit thrush, or even our common robin. But the African
birds are vocal enough, for all that. Some of them have a richness and
depth of timbre perhaps unequalled elsewhere. Of such is the chime-bird
with his deep double note; or the bell-bird tolling like a cathedral in
the blackness of the forest; or the bottle bird that apparently pours
gurgling liquid gold from a silver jug. As the jungle is exceedingly
populous of these feathered specialists, it follows that the early
morning chorus is wonderful. Africa may not possess the soloists, but
its full orchestrial effects are superb.

Naturally under the equator one expects and demands the "gorgeous
tropical plumage" of the books. He is not disappointed. The sun-birds
of fifty odd species, the brilliant blue starlings, the various parrots,
the variegated hornbills, the widower-birds, and dozens of others whose
names would mean nothing flash here and there in the shadow and in the
open. With them are hundreds of quiet little bodies just as interesting
to one who likes birds. From the trees and bushes hang pear-shaped
nests plaited beautifully of long grasses, hard and smooth as hand-made
baskets, the work of the various sorts of weaver-birds. In the tops of
the trees roosted tall marabout storks like dissipated, hairless old
club-men in well-groomed, correct evening dress.

And around camp gathered the swift brown kites. They were robbers and
villains, but we could not hate them. All day long they sailed back
and forth spying sharply. When they thought they saw their chance, they
stooped with incredible swiftness to seize a piece of meat. Sometimes
they would snatch their prize almost from the hands of its rightful
owner, and would swoop triumphantly upward again pursued by polyglot
maledictions and a throwing stick. They were very skilful on their
wings. I have many times seen them, while flying, tear up and devour
large chunks of meat. It seems to my inexperience as an aviator rather a
nice feat to keep your balance while tearing with your beak at meat held
in your talons. Regardless of other landmarks, we always knew when we
were nearing camp, after one of our strolls, by the gracefully wheeling
figures of our kites.


IX. THE FIRST LION

One day we all set out to make our discoveries: F., B., and I with our
gunbearers, Memba Sasa, Mavrouki, and Simba, and ten porters to bring
in the trophies, which we wanted very much, and the meat, which the men
wanted still more. We rode our horses, and the syces followed. This made
quite a field force-nineteen men all told. Nineteen white men would be
exceedingly unlikely to get within a liberal half mile of anything; but
the native has sneaky ways.

At first we followed between the river and the low hills, but when the
latter drew back to leave open a broad flat, we followed their line. At
this point they rose to a clifflike headland a hundred and fifty feet
high, flat on top. We decided to investigate that mesa, both for the
possibilities of game, and for the chance of a view abroad.

The footing was exceedingly noisy and treacherous, for it was composed
of flat, tinkling little stones. Dried-up, skimpy bushes just higher
than our heads made a thin but regular cover. There seemed not to be a
spear of anything edible, yet we caught the flash of red as a herd of
impalla melted away at our rather noisy approach. Near the foot of the
hill we dismounted, with orders to all the men but the gunbearers to
sit down and make themselves comfortable. Should we need them we could
easily either signal or send word. Then we set ourselves toilsomely to
clamber up that volcanic hill.

It was not particularly easy going, especially as we were trying to walk
quietly. You see, we were about to surmount a skyline. Surmounting a
skyline is always most exciting anywhere, for what lies beyond is at
once revealed as a whole and contains the very essence of the unknown;
but most decidedly is this true in Africa. That mesa looked flat, and
almost anything might be grazing or browsing there. So we proceeded
gingerly, with due regard to the rolling of the loose rocks or the
tinkling of the little pebbles.

But long before we had reached that alluring skyline we were halted by
the gentle snapping of Mavrouki's fingers. That, strangely enough, is a
sound to which wild animals seem to pay no attention, and is therefore
most useful as a signal. We looked back. The three gunbearers were
staring to the right of our course. About a hundred yards away, on
the steep side hill, and partly concealed by the brush, stood two
rhinoceroses.

They were side by side, apparently dozing. We squatted on our heels for
a consultation.

The obvious thing, as the wind was from them, was to sneak quietly by,
saying nuffin' to nobody. But although we wanted no more rhino, we very
much wanted rhino pictures. A discussion developed no really good reason
why we should not kodak these especial rhinos-except that there were two
of them. So we began to worm our way quietly through the bushes in their
direction.

F. and B. deployed on the flanks, their double-barrelled rifles ready
for instant action. I occupied the middle with that dangerous weapon the
3A kodak. Memba Sasa followed at my elbow, holding my big gun.

Now the trouble with modern photography is that it is altogether too
lavish in its depiction of distances. If you do not believe it, take a
picture of a horse at as short a range as twenty-five yards. That equine
will, in the development, have receded to a respectable middle distance.
Therefore it had been agreed that the advance of the battle line was
to cease only when those rhinoceroses loomed up reasonably large in
the finder. I kept looking into the finder, you may be sure. Nearer and
nearer we crept. The great beasts were evidently basking in the sun.
Their little pig eyes alone gave any sign of life. Otherwise they
exhibited the complete immobility of something done in granite. Probably
no other beast impresses one with quite this quality. I suppose it is
because even the little motions peculiar to other animals are with
the rhinoceros entirely lacking. He is not in the least of a nervous
disposition, so he does not stamp his feet nor change his position. It
is useless for him to wag his tail; for, in the first place, the tail is
absurdly inadequate; and, in the second place, flies are not among his
troubles. Flies wouldn't bother you either, if you had a skin two inches
thick. So there they stood, inert and solid as two huge brown rocks,
save for the deep, wicked twinkle of their little eyes.

Yes, we were close enough to "see the whites of their eyes," if they
had had any: and also to be within the range of their limited vision. Of
course we were now stalking, and taking advantage of all the cover.

Those rhinoceroses looked to me like two Dreadnaughts. The African
two-horned rhinoceros is a bigger animal anyway than our circus friend,
who generally comes from India. One of these brutes I measured went five
feet nine inches at the shoulder, and was thirteen feet six inches from
bow to stern. Compare these dimensions with your own height and with the
length of your motor car. It is one thing to take on such beasts in the
hurry of surprise, the excitement of a charge, or to stalk up to within
a respectable range of them with a gun at ready. But this deliberate
sneaking up with the hope of being able to sneak away again was a little
too slow and cold-blooded. It made me nervous. I liked it, but I knew
at the time I was going to like it a whole lot better when it was
triumphantly over.

We were now within twenty yards (they were standing starboard side on),
and I prepared to get my picture. To do so I would either have to step
quietly out into sight, trusting to the shadow and the slowness of my
movements to escape observation, or hold the camera above the bush,
directing it by guess work. It was a little difficult to decide. I knew
what I OUGHT to do--

Without the slightest premonitory warning those two brutes snorted and
whirled in their tracks to stand facing in our direction. After the dead
stillness they made a tremendous row, what with the jerky suddenness of
their movements, their loud snorts, and the avalanche of echoing stones
and boulders they started down the hill.

This was the magnificent opportunity. At this point I should boldly
have stepped out from behind my bush, levelled my trusty 3A, and coolly
snapped the beasts, "charging at fifteen yards." Then, if B.'s and F.'s
shots went absolutely true, or if the brutes didn't happen to smash the
camera as well as me, I, or my executors as the case might be, would
have had a fine picture.

But I didn't. I dropped that expensive 3A Special on some hard rocks,
and grabbed my rifle from Memba Sasa. If you want really to know why, go
confront your motor car at fifteen or twenty paces, multiply him by two,
and endow him with an eagerly malicious disposition.

They advanced several yards, halted, faced us for perhaps five or
six seconds, uttered snort, whirled with the agility of polo ponies,
departed at a swinging trot and with surprising agility along the steep
side hill.

I recovered the camera, undamaged, and we continued our climb.

The top of the mesa was disappointing as far as game was concerned. It
was covered all over with red stones, round, and as large as a man's
head. Thornbushes found some sort of sustenance in the interstices.

But we had gained to a magnificent view. Below us lay the narrow flat,
then the winding jungle of our river, then long rolling desert country,
gray with thorn scrub, sweeping upward to the base of castellated buttes
and one tremendous riven cliff mountain, dropping over the horizon to a
very distant blue range. Behind us eight or ten miles away was the low
ridge through which our journey had come. The mesa on which we stood
broke back at right angles to admit another stream flowing into our own.
Beyond this stream were rolling hills, and scrub country, the hint of
blue peaks and illimitable distances falling away to the unknown Tara
Desert and the sea.

There seemed to be nothing much to be gained here, so we made up our
minds to cut across the mesa, and from the other edge of it to overlook
the valley of the tributary river. This we would descend until we came
to our horses.

Accordingly we stumbled across a mile or so of those round and rolling
stones. Then we found ourselves overlooking a wide flat or pocket where
the stream valley widened. It extended even as far as the upward fling
of the barrier ranges. Thick scrub covered it, but erratically, so that
here and there were little openings or thin places. We sat down, manned
our trusty prism glasses, and gave ourselves to the pleasing occupation
of looking the country over inch by inch.

This is great fun. It is a game a good deal like puzzle pictures.
Re-examination generally develops new and unexpected beasts. We repeated
to each other aloud the results of our scrutiny, always without removing
the glasses from our eyes.

"Oryx, one," said F.; "oryx, two."

"Giraffe," reported B., "and a herd of impalla."

I saw another giraffe, and another oryx, then two rhinoceroses.

The three bearers squatted on their heels behind us, their fierce eyes
staring straight ahead, seeing with the naked eye what we were finding
with six-power glasses.

We turned to descend the hill. In the very centre of the deep shade of
a clump of trees, I saw the gleam of a waterbuck's horns. While I was
telling of this, the beast stepped from his concealment, trotted a short
distance upstream and turned to climb a little ridge parallel to that
by which we were descending. About halfway up he stopped, staring in
our direction, his head erect, the slight ruff under his neck standing
forward. He was a good four hundred yards away. B., who wanted him,
decided the shot too chancy. He and F. slipped backward until they had
gained the cover of the little ridge, then hastened down the bed of
the ravine. Their purpose was to follow the course already taken by the
waterbuck until they should have sneaked within better range. In the
meantime I and the gunbearers sat down in full view of the buck. This
was to keep his attention distracted.

We sat there a long time. The buck never moved but continued to stare
at what evidently puzzled him. Time passes very slowly in such
circumstances, and it seemed incredible that the beast should continue
much longer to hold his fixed attitude. Nevertheless B. and F. were
working hard. We caught glimpses of them occasionally slipping from bush
to bush. Finally B. knelt and levelled his rifle. At once I turned my
glasses on the buck. Before the sound of the rifle had reached me, I saw
him start convulsively, then make off at the tearing run that indicates
a heart hit. Gleaned When Oedipus went to Thebes, and their raids had
killed her father, King Layo, who never knew, and married his
mother, who does not know, were his sons Eteocles and pollinates,
who fought until want to be succumbed by the crown. [35] _Venus_,
goddess of love and beauty, the daughter of Jupiter and Diana, and
others that arose spontaneously from the sea foam. [36] _Cupido_,
god of love, son of Venus and Mars. [37] _Fama_, goddess worshiped
by the pagans, and who disseminates any act of man, good or bad;
unmatched in speed and thundering voice. [38] _Desjarretadera_ or
_Medialuna_, so appointed a flag or banner of the Moors, because
it is painted half moon.

At that time it had
become very hot, and the sun was bearing down on us as with the weight
of a heavy hand. The air had the scorching, blasting quality of an
opened furnace door. Our mouths were getting dry and sticky in that
peculiar stage of thirst on which no luke-warm canteen water in
necessarily limited quantity has any effect. So we turned back, picked
up the men with the waterbuck, and plodded on down the little stream,
or, rather, on the red-hot dry valley bottom outside the stream's
course, to where the syces were waiting with our horses. We mounted with
great thankfulness. It was now eleven o'clock, and we considered our day
as finished.

The best way for a distance seemed to follow the course of the tributary
stream to its point of junction with our river. We rode along, rather
relaxed in the suffocating heat. F. was nearest the stream. At one point
it freed itself of trees and brush and ran clear, save for low papyrus,
ten feet down below a steep eroded bank. F. looked over and uttered a
startled exclamation. I spurred my horse forward to see.

Below us, about fifteen yards away, was the carcass of a waterbuck half
hidden in the foot-high grass. A lion and two lionesses stood upon it,
staring up at us with great yellow eyes. That picture is a very vivid
one in my memory, for those were the first wild lions I had ever seen.
My most lively impression was of their unexpected size. They seemed to
bulk fully a third larger than my expectation.

The magnificent beasts stood only long enough to see clearly what had
disturbed them, then turned, and in two bounds had gained the shelter of
the thicket.

Now the habit in Africa is to let your gunbearers carry all your guns.
You yourself stride along hand free. It is an English idea, and
is pretty generally adopted out there by every one, of whatever
nationality. They will explain it to you by saying that in such a
climate a man should do only necessary physical work, and that a
good gunbearer will get a weapon into your hand so quickly and in so
convenient a position that you will lose no time. I acknowledge the
gunbearers are sometimes very skilful at this, but I do deny that there
is no loss of time. The instant of distracted attention while receiving
a weapon, the necessity of recollecting the nervous correlations
after the transfer, very often mark just the difference between a sure
instinctive snapshot and a lost opportunity. It reasons that the man
with the rifle in his hand reacts instinctively, in one motion, to get
his weapon into play. If the gunbearer has the gun, HE must first react
to pass it up, the master must receive it properly, and THEN, and not
until then, may go on from where the other man began. As for physical
labour in the tropics: if a grown man cannot without discomfort or evil
effects carry an eight-pound rifle, he is too feeble to go out at all.
In a long Western experience I have learned never to be separated from
my weapon; and I believe the continuance of this habit in Africa saved
me a good number of chances.

At any rate, we all flung ourselves off our horses. I, having my
rifle in my hand, managed to throw a shot after the biggest lion as he
vanished. It was a snap at nothing, and missed. Then in an opening on
the edge a hundred yards away appeared one of the lionesses. She was
trotting slowly, and on her I had time to draw a hasty aim. At the shot
she bounded high in the air, fell, rolled over, and was up and into the
thicket before I had much more than time to pump up another shell from
the magazine. Memba Sasa in his eagerness got in the way-the first and
last time he ever made a mistake in the field.

By this time the others had got hold of their weapons. We fronted the
blank face of the thicket.

The wounded animal would stand a little waiting. We made a wide circle
to the other side of the stream. There we quickly picked up the trail of
the two uninjured beasts. They had headed directly over the hill, where
we speedily lost all trace of them on the flint-like surface of the
ground. We saw a big pack of baboons in the only likely direction for
a lion to go. Being thus thrown back on a choice of a hundred other
unlikely directions, we gave up that slim chance and returned to the
thicket.

This proved to be a very dense piece of cover. Above the height of the
waist the interlocking branches would absolutely prevent any progress,
but by stooping low we could see dimly among the simpler main stems to
a distance of perhaps fifteen or twenty feet. This combination at once
afforded the wounded lioness plenty of cover in which to hide, plenty of
room in which to charge home, and placed us under the disadvantage of a
crouched or crawling attitude with limited vision. We talked the matter
over very thoroughly. There was only one way to get that lioness out;
and that was to go after her. The job of going after her needed some
planning. The lion is cunning and exceeding fierce. A flank attack, once
we were in the thicket, was as much to be expected as a frontal charge.

We advanced to the thicket's edge with many precautions. To our relief
we found she had left us a definite trail. B. and I kneeling took up
positions on either side, our rifles ready. F. and Simba crawled by
inches eight or ten feet inside the thicket. Then, having executed this
manoeuvre safely, B. moved up to protect our rear while I, with Memba
Sasa, slid down to join F.

From this point we moved forward alternately. I would crouch, all
alert, my rifle ready, while F. slipped by me and a few feet ahead. Then
he get organized for battle while I passed him. Memba Sasa and Simba,
game as badgers, their fine eyes gleaming with excitement, their
faces shining, crept along at the rear. B. knelt outside the thicket,
straining his eyes for the slightest movement either side of the line of
our advance. Often these wily animals will sneak back in a half circle
to attack their pursuers from behind. Two or three of the bolder porters
crouched alongside B., peering eagerly. The rest had quite properly
retired to the safe distance where the horses stood.

We progressed very, very slowly. Every splash of light or mottled
shadow, every clump of bush stems, every fallen log had to be examined,
and then examined again. And how we did strain our eyes in a vain
attempt to penetrate the half lights, the duskinesses of the closed-in
thicket not over fifteen feet away! And then the movement forward of two
feet would bring into our field of vision an entirely new set of tiny
vistas and possible lurking places.

Speaking for myself, I was keyed up to a tremendous tension. I stared
until my eyes ached; every muscle and nerve was taut. Everything
depended on seeing the beast promptly, and firing quickly. With the
manifest advantage of being able to see us, she would spring to battle
fully prepared. A yellow flash and a quick shot seemed about to size up
that situation. Every few moments, I remember, I surreptitiously
held out my hand to see if the constantly growing excitement and the
long-continued strain had affected its steadiness.

The combination of heat and nervous strain was very exhausting. The
sweat poured from me; and as F. passed me I saw the great drops standing
out on his face. My tongue got dry, my breath came laboriously. Finally
I began to wonder whether physically I should be able to hold out. We
had been crawling, it seemed, for hours. I dared not look back, but we
must have come a good quarter mile. Finally F. stopped.

"I'm all in for water," he gasped in a whisper.

Somehow that confession made me feel a lot better. I had thought that
I was the only one. Cautiously we settled back on our heels. Memba Sasa
and Simba wiped the sweat from their faces. It seemed that they too had
found the work severe. That cheered me up still more.

Simba grinned at us, and, worming his way backward with the sinuousity
of a snake, he disappeared in the direction from which we had come.
F. cursed after him in a whisper both for departing and for taking the
risk. But in a moment he had returned carrying two canteens of blessed
water. We took a drink most gratefully.

I glanced at my watch. It was just under two hours since I had fired
my shot. I looked back. My supposed quarter mile had shrunk to not over
fifty feet!

After resting a few moments longer, we again took up our systematic
advance. We made perhaps another fifty feet. We were ascending a very
gentle slope. F. was for the moment ahead. Right before us the lion
growled; a deep rumbling like the end of a great thunder roll, fathoms
and fathoms deep, with the inner subterranean vibrations of a heavy
train of cars passing a man inside a sealed building. At the same moment
over F.'s shoulder I saw a huge yellow head rise up, the round eyes
flashing anger, the small black-tipped ears laid back, the great fangs
snarling. The beast was not over twelve feet distant. F. immediately
fired. His shot, hitting an intervening twig, went wild. With the utmost
coolness he immediately pulled the other trigger of his double barrel.
The cartridge snapped.

"If you will kindly stoop down-" said I, in what I now remember to be
rather an exaggeratedly polite tone. As F.'s head disappeared, I placed
the little gold bead of my 405 Winchester where I thought it would do
the most good, and pulled trigger. She rolled over dead.

The whole affair had begun and finished with unbelievable swiftness.
From the growl to the fatal shot I don't suppose four seconds elapsed,
for our various actions had followed one another with the speed of the
instinctive. The lioness had growled at our approach, had raised her
head to charge, and had received her deathblow before she had released
her muscles in the spring. There had been no time to get frightened.

We sat back for a second. A brown hand reached over my shoulder.

"Mizouri-mizouri sana!" cried Memba Sasa joyously. I shook the hand.

"Good business!" said F. "Congratulate you on your first lion."

We then remembered B., and shouted to him that all was over. He and the
other men wriggled in to where we were lying. He made this distance in
about fifteen seconds. It had taken us nearly an hour.

We had the lioness dragged out into the open. She was not an especially
large beast, as compared to most of the others I killed later, but at
that time she looked to me about as big as they made them. As a matter
of fact she was quite big enough, for she stood three feet two inches
at the shoulder-measure that against the wall-and was seven feet and
six inches in length. My first bullet had hit her leg, and the last had
reached her heart.

Every one shook me by the hand. The gunbearers squatted about the
carcass, skilfully removing the skin to an undertone of curious crooning
that every few moments broke out into one or two bars of a chant. As the
body was uncovered, the men crouched about to cut off little pieces of
fat. These they rubbed on their foreheads and over their chests, to make
them brave, they said, and cunning, like the lion.

We remounted and took up our interrupted journey to camp. It was
a little after two, and the heat was at its worst. We rode rather
sleepily, for the reaction from the high tension of excitement had set
in. Behind us marched the three gunbearers, all abreast, very military
and proud. Then came the porters in single file, the one carrying the
folded lion skin leading the way; those bearing the waterbuck trophy
and meat bringing up the rear. They kept up an undertone of humming in
a minor key; occasionally breaking into a short musical phrase in full
voice.

We rode an hour. The camp looked very cool and inviting under its wide
high trees, with the river slipping by around the islands of papyrus. A
number of black heads bobbed about in the shallows. The small fires sent
up little wisps of smoke. Around them our boys sprawled, playing simple
games, mending, talking, roasting meat. Their tiny white tents gleamed
pleasantly among the cool shadows.

I had thought of riding nonchalantly up to our own tents, of dismounting
with a careless word of greeting--

"Oh, yes," I would say, "we did have a good enough day. Pretty hot. Roy
got a fine waterbuck. Yes, I got a lion." (Tableau on part of Billy.)

But Memba Sasa used up all the nonchalance there was. As we entered camp
he remarked casually to the nearest man.

"Bwana na piga simba-the master has killed a lion."

The man leaped to his feet.

"Simba! simba! simba!" he yelled. "Na piga simba!"

Every one in camp also leaped to his feet, taking up the cry. From the
water it was echoed as the bathers scrambled ashore. The camp broke into
pandemonium. We were surrounded by a dense struggling mass of men. They
reached up scores of black hands to grasp my own; they seized from me
everything portable and bore it in triumph before me-my water bottle,
my rifle, my camera, my whip, my field glasses, even my hat, everything
that was detachable. Those on the outside danced and lifted up their
voices in song, improvised for the most part, and in honor of the day's
work. In a vast swirling, laughing, shouting, triumphant mob we swept
through the camp to where Billy-by now not very much surprised-was
waiting to get the official news. By the measure of this extravagant joy
could we gauge what the killing of a lion means to these people who have
always lived under the dread of his rule.


X. LIONS

A very large lion I killed stood three feet and nine inches at the
withers, and of course carried his head higher than that. The top of
the table at which I sit is only two feet three inches from the floor.
Coming through the door at my back that lion's head would stand over
a foot higher than halfway up. Look at your own writing desk; your own
door. Furthermore, he was nine feet and eleven inches in a straight line
from nose to end of tail, or over eleven feet along the contour of the
back. If he were to rise on his hind feet to strike a man down, he would
stand somewhere between seven and eight feet tall, depending on how
nearly he straightened up. He weighed just under six hundred pounds, or
as much as four well-grown specimens of our own "mountain lion." I tell
you this that you may realize, as I did not, the size to which a wild
lion grows. Either menagerie specimens are stunted in growth, or their
position and surroundings tend to belittle them, for certainly until a
man sees old Leo in the wilderness he has not understood what a fine old
chap he is.

This tremendous weight is sheer strength. A lion's carcass when the skin
is removed is a really beautiful sight. The great muscles lie in ropes
and bands; the forearm thicker than a man's leg, the lithe barrel banded
with brawn; the flanks overlaid by the long thick muscles. And this
power is instinct with the nervous force of a highly organized being.
The lion is quick and intelligent and purposeful; so that he brings to
his intenser activities the concentration of vivid passion, whether of
anger, of hunger or of desire.

So far the opinions of varied experience will jog along together. At
this point they diverge.

Just as the lion is one of the most interesting and fascinating of
beasts, so concerning him one may hear the most diverse opinions. This
man will tell you that any lion is always dangerous. Another will hold
the king of beasts in the most utter contempt as a coward and a skulker.

In the first place, generalization about any species of animal is an
exceedingly dangerous thing. I believe that, in the case of the higher
animals at least, the differences in individual temperament are quite
likely to be more numerous than the specific likenesses. Just as
individual men are bright or dull, nervous or phlegmatic, cowardly or
brave, so individual animals vary in like respect. Our own hunters will
recall from their personal experiences how the big bear may have sat
down and bawled harmlessly for mercy, while the little unconsidered
fellow did his best until finished off: how one buck dropped instantly
to a wound that another would carry five miles: how of two equally
matched warriors of the herd one will give way in the fight, while
still uninjured, before his perhaps badly wounded antagonist. The casual
observer might-and often does-say that all bears are cowardly, all bucks
are easily killed, or the reverse, according as the god of chance has
treated him to one spectacle or the other. As well try to generalize
on the human race-as is a certain ecclesiastical habit-that all men are
vile or noble, dishonest or upright, wise or foolish.

The higher we go in the scale the truer this individualism holds. We
are forced to reason not from the bulk of observations, but from their
averages. If we find ten bucks who will go a mile wounded to two who
succumb in their tracks from similar hurts, we are justified in saying
tentatively that the species is tenacious of life. But as experience
broadens we may modify that statement; for strange indeed are runs of
luck.

For this reason a good deal of the wise conclusion we read in
sportsmen's narratives is worth very little. Few men have experience
enough with lions to rise to averages through the possibilities of luck.
ESPECIALLY is this true of lions. No beast that roams seems to go more
by luck than felis leo. Good hunters may search for years without seeing
hide nor hair of one of the beasts. Selous, one of the greatest, went to
East Africa for the express purpose of getting some of the fine beasts
there, hunted six weeks and saw none. Holmes of the Escarpment has lived
in the country six years, has hunted a great deal and has yet to kill
his first. One of the railroad officials has for years gone up and down
the Uganda Railway on his handcar, his rifle ready in hopes of the lion
that never appeared; though many are there seen by those with better
fortune. Bronson hunted desperately for this great prize, but failed.
Rainsford shot no lions his first trip, and ran into them only three
years later. Read Abel Chapman's description of his continued bad luck
at even seeing the beasts. MacMillan, after five years' unbroken good
fortune, has in the last two years failed to kill a lion, although he
has made many trips for the purpose. F. told me he followed every rumour
of a lion for two years before he got one. Again, one may hear the most
marvellous of yarns the other way about-of the German who shot one from
the train on the way up from Mombasa; of the young English tenderfoot
who, the first day out, came on three asleep, across a river, and potted
the lot; and so on. The point is, that in the case of lions the element
of sheer chance seems to begin earlier and last longer than is the case
with any other beast. And, you must remember, experience must thrust
through the luck element to the solid ground of averages before it can
have much value in the way of generalization. Before he has reached that
solid ground, a man's opinions depend entirely on what kind of lions
he chances to meet, in what circumstances, and on how matters happen to
shape in the crowded moments.

But though lack of sufficiently extended experience has much to do with
these decided differences of opinion, I believe that misapprehension
has also its part. The sportsman sees lions on the plains. Likewise the
lions see him, and promptly depart to thick cover or rocky butte. He
comes on them in the scrub; they bound hastily out of sight. He may even
meet them face to face, but instead of attacking him, they turn to right
and left and make off in the long grass. When he follows them, they
sneak cunningly away. If, added to this, he has the good luck to kill
one or two stone dead at a single shot each, he begins to think there is
not much in lion shooting after all, and goes home proclaiming the king
of beasts a skulking coward.

After all, on what grounds does he base this conclusion? In what way
have circumstances been a test of courage at all? The lion did not
stand and fight, to be sure; but why should he? What was there in it
for lions? Behind any action must a motive exist. Where is the possible
motive for any lion to attack on sight? He does not-except in unusual
cases-eat men; nothing has occurred to make him angry. The obvious thing
is to avoid trouble, unless there is a good reason to seek it. In that
one evidences the lion's good sense, but not his lack of courage. That
quality has not been called upon at all.

But if the sportsman had done one of two or three things, I am quite
sure he would have had a taste of our friend's mettle. If he had shot at
and even grazed the beast; if he had happened upon him where an exit was
not obvious; or IF HE HAD EVEN FOLLOWED THE LION UNTIL THE LATTER HAD
BECOME TIRED OF THE ANNOYANCE, he would very soon have discovered that
Leo is not all good nature, and that once on his courage will take him
in against any odds. Furthermore, he may be astonished and dismayed
to discover that of a group of several lions, two or three besides the
wounded animal are quite likely to take up the quarrel and charge too.
In other words, in my opinion, the lion avoids trouble when he can, not
from cowardice but from essential indolence or good nature; but does not
need to be cornered* to fight to the death when in his mind his dignity
is sufficiently assailed.

     * This is an important distinction in estimating the inherent
     courage of man or beast. Even a mouse will fight when
     cornered.

For of all dangerous beasts the lion, when once aroused, will alone face
odds to the end. The rhinoceros, the elephant, and even the buffalo can
often be turned aside by a shot. A lion almost always charges home.*
Slower and slower he comes, as the bullets strike; but he comes, until
at last he may be just hitching himself along, his face to the enemy,
his fierce spirit undaunted. When finally he rolls over, he bites the
earth in great mouthfuls; and so passes fighting to the last. The death
of a lion is a fine sight.

     * I seem to be generalizing here, but all these conclusions
     must be understood to take into consideration the liability
     of individual variation.

No, I must confess, to me the lion is an object of great respect; and
so, I gather, he is to all who have had really extensive experience.
Those like Leslie Tarleton, Lord Delamere, W. N. MacMillan, Baron von
Bronsart, the Hills, Sir Alfred Pease, who are great lion men, all
concede to the lion a courage and tenacity unequalled by any other
living beast. My own experience is of course nothing as compared to that
of these men. Yet I saw in my nine months afield seventy-one lions. None
of these offered to attack when unwounded or not annoyed. On the other
hand, only one turned tail once the battle was on, and she proved to be
a three quarters grown lioness, sick and out of condition.

It is of course indubitable that where lions have been much shot they
become warier in the matter of keeping out of trouble. They retire to
cover earlier in the morning, and they keep more than a perfunctory
outlook for the casual human being. When hunters first began to go into
the Sotik the lions there would stand imperturbable, staring at the
intruder with curiosity or indifference. Now they have learned that
such performances are not healthy-and they have probably satisfied
their curiosity. But neither in the Sotik, nor even in the plains around
Nairobi itself, does the lion refuse the challenge once it has been put
up to him squarely. Nor does he need to be cornered. He charges in quite
blithely from the open plain, once convinced that you are really an
annoyance.

As to habits! The only sure thing about a lion is his originality. He
has more exceptions to his rules than the German language. Men who have
been mighty lion hunters for many years, and who have brought to their
hunting close observation, can only tell you what a lion MAY do in
certain circumstances. Following very broad principles, they may even
predict what he is APT to do, but never what he certainly WILL do. That
is one thing that makes lion hunting interesting.

In general, then, the lion frequents that part of the country where feed
the great game herds. From them he takes his toll by night, retiring
during the day into the shallow ravines, the brush patches, or the rocky
little buttes. I have, however, seen lions miles from game, slumbering
peacefully atop an ant hill. Indeed, occasionally, a pack of lions likes
to live high in the tall-grass ridges where every hunt will mean for
them a four- or five-mile jaunt out and back again. He needs water,
after feeding, and so rarely gets farther than eight or ten miles from
that necessity.

He hunts at night. This is as nearly invariable a rule as can be
formulated in regard to lions. Yet once, and perhaps twice, I saw
lionesses stalking through tall grass as early as three o'clock in
the afternoon. This eagerness may, or may not, have had to do with the
possession of hungry cubs. The lion's customary harmlessness in the
daytime is best evidenced, however, by the comparative indifference of
the game to his presence then. From a hill we watched three of these
beasts wandering leisurely across the plains below. A herd of kongonis
feeding directly in their path, merely moved aside right and left, quite
deliberately, to leave a passage fifty yards or so wide, but otherwise
paid not the slightest attention. I have several times seen this
incident, or a modification of it. And yet, conversely, on a number of
occasions we have received our first intimation of the presence of lions
by the wild stampeding of the game away from a certain spot.

However, the most of his hunting is done by dark. Between the hours of
sundown and nine o'clock he and his comrades may be heard uttering the
deep coughing grunt typical of this time of night. These curious, short,
far-sounding calls may be mere evidences of intention, or they may be
a sort of signal by means of which the various hunters keep in touch.
After a little they cease. Then one is quite likely to hear the
petulant, alarmed barking of zebra, or to feel the vibrations of many
hoofs. There is a sense of hurried, flurried uneasiness abroad on the
veldt.

The lion generally springs on his prey from behind or a little off the
quarter. By the impetus his own weight he hurls his victim forward,
doubling its head under, and very neatly breaking its neck. I have never
seen this done, but the process has been well observed and attested; and
certainly, of the many hundreds of lion kills I have taken the pains
to inspect, the majority had had their necks broken. Sometimes, but
apparently more rarely, the lion kills its prey by a bite in the back of
the neck. I have seen zebra killed in this fashion, but never any of the
buck. It may be possible that the lack of horns makes it more difficult
to break a zebra's neck because of the corresponding lack of leverage
when its head hits the ground sidewise; the instances I have noted may
have been those in which the lion's spring landed too far back to throw
the victim properly; or perhaps they were merely examples of the great
variability in the habits of felis leo.

Once the kill is made, the lion disembowels the beast very neatly
indeed, and drags the entrails a few feet out of the way. He then eats
what he wants, and, curiously enough, seems often to be very fond of the
skin. In fact, lacking other evidence, it is occasionally possible
to identify a kill as being that of a lion by noticing whether any
considerable portion of the hide has been devoured. After eating he
drinks. Then he is likely to do one of two things: either he returns
to cover near the carcass and lies down, or he wanders slowly and with
satisfaction toward his happy home. In the latter case the hyenas,
jackals, and carrion birds seize their chance. The astute hunter can
often diagnose the case by the general actions and demeanour of these
camp followers. A half dozen sour and disgusted looking hyenas seated
on their haunches at scattered intervals, and treefuls of mournfully
humpbacked vultures sunk in sadness, indicate that the lion has decided
to save the rest of his zebra until to-morrow and is not far away.
On the other hand, a grand flapping, snarling Kilkenny-fair of an
aggregation swirling about one spot in the grass means that the
principal actor has gone home.

It is ordinarily useless to expect to see the lion actually on his prey.
The feeding is done before dawn, after which the lion enjoys stretching
out in the open until the sun is well up, and then retiring to the
nearest available cover. Still, at the risk of seeming to be perpetually
qualifying, I must instance finding three lions actually on the stale
carcass of a waterbuck at eleven o'clock in the morning of a piping
hot day! In an undisturbed country, or one not much hunted, the early
morning hours up to say nine o'clock are quite likely to show you lions
sauntering leisurely across the open plains toward their lairs. They
go a little, stop a little, yawn, sit down a while, and gradually work
their way home. At those times you come upon them unexpectedly face to
face, or, seeing them from afar, ride them down in a glorious gallop.
Where the country has been much hunted, however, the lion learns to
abandon his kill and seek shelter before daylight, and is almost never
seen abroad. Then one must depend on happening upon him in his cover.

In the actual hunting of his game the lion is apparently very clever.
He understands the value of cooperation. Two or more will manoeuvre
very skilfully to give a third the chance to make an effective spring;
whereupon the three will share the kill. In a rough country, or
one otherwise favourable to the method, a pack of lions will often
deliberately drive game into narrow ravines or cul de sacs where the
killers are waiting.

At such times the man favoured by the chance of an encampment within
five miles or so can hear a lion's roar.

Otherwise I doubt if he is apt often to get the full-voiced, genuine
article. The peculiar questioning cough of early evening is resonant and
deep in vibration, but it is a call rather than a roar. No lion is fool
enough to make a noise when he is stalking. Then afterward, when full
fed, individuals may open up a few times, but only a few times, in
sheer satisfaction, apparently, at being well fed. The menagerie row at
feeding time, formidable as it sounds within the echoing walls, is only
a mild and gentle hint. But when seven or eight lions roar merely to
see how much noise they can make, as when driving game, or trying to
stampede your oxen on a wagon trip, the effect is something tremendous.
The very substance of the ground vibrates; the air shakes. I can only
compare it to the effect of a very large deep organ in a very small
church. There is something genuinely awe-inspiring about it; and when
the repeated volleys rumble into silence, one can imagine the veldt
crouched in a rigid terror that shall endure.


XI. LIONS AGAIN

As to the dangers of lion hunting it is also difficult to write. There
is no question that a cool man, using good judgment as to just what
he can or cannot do, should be able to cope with lion situations. The
modern rifle is capable of stopping the beast, provided the bullet goes
to the right spot. The right spot is large enough to be easy to hit, if
the shooter keeps cool. Our definition of a cool man must comprise the
elements of steady nerves under super-excitement, the ability to think
quickly and clearly, and the mildly strategic quality of being able to
make the best use of awkward circumstances. Such a man, barring sheer
accidents, should be able to hunt lions with absolute certainty for
just as long as he does not get careless, slipshod or over-confident.
Accidents-real accidents, not merely unexpected happenings-are hardly to
be counted. They can occur in your own house.

But to the man not temperamentally qualified, lion shooting is dangerous
enough. The lion, when he takes the offensive, intends to get his
antagonist. Having made up his mind to that, he charges home, generally
at great speed. The realization that it is the man's life or the beast's
is disconcerting. Also the charging lion is a spectacle much more
awe-inspiring in reality than the most vivid imagination can predict.
He looks very large, very determined, and has uttered certain rumbling,
blood-curdling threats as to what he is going to do about it. It
suddenly seems most undesirable to allow that lion to come any closer,
not even an inch! A hasty, nervous shot misses--

An unwounded lion charging from a distance is said to start rather
slowly, and to increase his pace only as he closes. Personally I have
never been charged by an unwounded beast, but I can testify that the
wounded animal comes very fast. Cuninghame puts the rate at about seven
seconds to the hundred yards. Certainly I should say that a man charged
from fifty yards or so would have little chance for a second shot,
provided he missed the first. A hit seemed, in my experience, to the
animal, by sheer force of impact, long enough to permit me to throw in
another cartridge. A lioness thus took four frontal bullets starting at
about sixty yards. An initial miss would probably have permitted her to
close.

Here, as can be seen, is a great source of danger to a flurried or
nervous beginner. He does not want that lion to get an inch nearer; he
fires at too long a range, misses, and is killed or mauled before he can
reload. This happened precisely so to two young friends of MacMillan.
They were armed with double-rifles, let them off hastily as the beast
started at them from two hundred yards, and never got another chance. If
they had possessed the experience to have waited until the lion had
come within fifty yards they would have had the almost certainty of
four barrels at close range. Though I have seen a lion missed clean well
inside those limits.

From such performances are so-called lion accidents built. During my
stay in Africa I heard of six white men being killed by lions, and a
number of others mauled. As far as possible I tried to determine the
facts of each case. In every instance the trouble followed either
foolishness or loss of nerve. I believe I should be quite safe in
saying that from identically the same circumstances any of the good lion
men-Tarleton, Lord Delamere, the Hills, and others-would have extricated
themselves unharmed.

This does not mean that accidents may not happen. Rifles jam, but
generally because of flurried manipulation! One may unexpectedly meet
the lion at too close quarters; a foot may slip, or a cartridge prove
defective. So may one fall downstairs or bump one's head in the dark.
Sufficient forethought and alertness and readiness would go far in
either case to prevent bad results.

The wounded beast, of course, offers the most interesting problem to the
lion hunter. If it sees the hunter, it is likely to charge him at once.
If hit while making off, however, it is more apt to take cover. Then one
must summon all his good sense and nerve to get it out. No rules can be
given for this; nor am I trying to write a text book for lion hunters.
Any good lion hunter knows a lot more about it than I do. But always
a man must keep in mind three things: that a lion can hide in cover so
short that it seems to the novice as though a jack-rabbit would find
scant concealment there; that he charges like lightning, and that he
can spring about fifteen feet. This spring, coming unexpectedly from an
unseen beast, is about impossible to avoid. Sheer luck may land a fatal
shot; but even then the lion will probably do his damage before he dies.
The rush from a short distance a good quick shot ought to be able to
cope with.

Therefore the wise hunter assures himself of at least twenty
feet-preferably more-of neutral zone all about him. No matter how long
it takes, he determines absolutely that the lion is not within that
distance. The rest is alertness and quickness.

As I have said, the amount of cover necessary to conceal a lion is
astonishingly small. He can flatten himself out surprisingly; and
his tawny colour blends so well with the brown grasses that he is
practically invisible. A practised man does not, of course, look for
lions at all. He is after unusual small patches, especially the black
ear tips or the black of the mane. Once guessed at, it is interesting to
see how quickly the hitherto unsuspected animal sketches itself out in
the cover.

I should, before passing on to another aspect of the matter, mention the
dangerous poisons carried by the lion's claws. Often men have died
from the most trivial surface wounds. The grooves of the claws carry
putrefying meat from the kills. Every sensible man in a lion country
carries a small syringe, and either permanganate or carbolic. And those
mild little remedies he uses full strength!

The great and overwhelming advantage is of course with the hunter. He
possesses as deadly a weapon: and that weapon will kill at a distance.
This is proper, I think. There are more lions than hunters; and, from
our point of view, the man is more important than the beast. The game is
not too hazardous. By that I mean that, barring sheer accident, a man is
sure to come out all right provided he does accurately the right thing.
In other words, it is a dangerous game of skill, but it does not possess
the blind danger of a forest in a hurricane, say. Furthermore, it is a
game that no man need play unless he wants to. In the lion country he
may go about his business-daytime business-as though he were home at the
farm.

Such being the case, may I be pardoned for intruding one of my own small
ethical ideas at this point, with the full realization that it depends
upon an entirely personal point of view. As far as my own case goes,
I consider it poor sportsmanship ever to refuse a lion-chance merely
because the advantages are not all in my favour. After all, lion hunting
is on a different plane from ordinary shooting: it is a challenge to
war, a deliberate seeking for mortal combat. Is it not just a little
shameful to pot old felis leo at long range, in the open, near his kill,
and wherever we have him at an advantage-nine times, and then to back
out because that advantage is for once not so marked? I have so often
heard the phrase, "I let him (or them) alone. It was not good enough,"
meaning that the game looked a little risky.

Do not misunderstand. I am not advising that you bull ahead into the
long grass, or that alone you open fire on a half dozen lions in easy
range. Kind providence endowed you with strategy, and certainly you
should never go in where there is no show for you to use your weapon
effectively. But occasionally the odds will be against you and you will
be called upon to take more or less of a chance. I do not think it is
quite square to quit playing merely because for once your opponent has
been dealt the better cards. If here are too many of them see if you
cannot manoeuvre them; if the grass is long, try every means in your
power to get them out. Stay with them. If finally you fail, you will
at least have the satisfaction of knowing that circumstances alone have
defeated you. If you do not like that sort of a game, stay out of it
entirely.


XII. MORE LIONS

Nor do the last remarks of the preceding chapter mean that you shall not
have your trophy in peace. Perhaps excitement and a slight doubt as
to whether or not you are going to survive do not appeal to you; but
nevertheless you would like a lion skin or so. By all means shoot one
lion, or two, or three in the safest fashion you can. But after that you
ought to play the game.

The surest way to get a lion is to kill a zebra, cut holes in him, fill
the holes with strychnine, and come back next morning. This method is
absolutely safe.

The next safest way is to follow the quarry with a pack of especially
trained dogs. The lion is so busy and nervous over those dogs that you
can walk up and shoot him in the ear. This method has the excitement of
riding and following, the joy of a grand and noisy row, and the fun of
seeing a good dog-fight. The same effect can be got chasing wart-hogs,
hyenas, jackals-or jack-rabbits. The objection is that it wastes a
noble beast in an inferior game. My personal opinion is that no man is
justified in following with dogs any large animal that can be captured
with reasonable certainty without them. The sport of coursing is another
matter; but that is quite the same in essence whatever the size of the
quarry. If you want to kill a lion or so quite safely, and at the same
time enjoy a glorious and exciting gallop with lots of accompanying row,
by all means follow the sport with hounds. But having killed one or two
by that method, quit. Do not go on and clean up the country. You can do
it. Poison and hounds are the SURE methods of finding any lion there may
be about; and AFTER THE FIRST FEW, one is about as justifiable as the
other. If you want the undoubtedly great joy of cross country pursuit,
send your hounds in after less noble game.

The third safe method of killing a lion is nocturnal. You lay out a kill
beneath a tree, and climb the tree. Or better, you hitch out a pig or
donkey as live bait. When the lion comes to this free lunch, you try to
see him; and, if you succeed in that, you try to shoot him. It is not
easy to shoot at night; nor is it easy to see in the dark. Furthermore,
lions only occasionally bother to come to bait. You may roost up that
tree many nights before you get a chance. Once up, you have to stay up;
for it is most decidedly not safe to go home after dark. The tropical
night in the highlands is quite chilly. Branches seem to be quite as
cramping and abrasive under the equator as in the temperate zones.
Still, it is one method.

Another is to lay out a kill and visit it in the early morning. There is
more to this, for you are afoot, must generally search out your beast
in nearby cover, and can easily find any amount of excitement in the
process.

The fourth way is to ride the lion. The hunter sees his quarry returning
home across the plains, perhaps; or jumps it from some small bushy
ravine. At once he spurs his horse in pursuit. The lion will run but a
short distance before coming to a stop, for he is not particularly long
either of wind or of patience. From this stand he almost invariably
charges. The astute hunter, still mounted, turns and flees. When the
lion gets tired of chasing, which he does in a very short time, the
hunter faces about. At last the lion sits down in the grass, waiting for
the game to develop. This is the time for the hunter to dismount and to
take his shot. Quite likely he must now stand a charge afoot, and drop
his beast before it gets to him.

This is real fun. It has many elements of safety, and many of danger.

To begin with, the hunter at this game generally has companions to back
him: often he employs mounted Somalis to round the lion up and get it
to stand. The charging lion is quite apt to make for the conspicuous
mounted men-who can easily escape-ignoring the hunter afoot. As the game
is largely played in the open, the movements of the beast are easily
followed.

On the other hand, there is room for mistake. The hunter, for example,
should never follow directly in the rear of his lion, but rather at a
parallel course off the beast's flank. Then, if the lion stops suddenly,
the man does not overrun before he can check his mount. He should never
dismount nearer than a hundred and fifty yards from the embayed
animal; and should never try to get off while the lion is moving in
his direction. Then, too, a hard gallop is not conducive to the best of
shooting. It is difficult to hold the front bead steady; and it is still
more difficult to remember to wait, once the lion charges, until he has
come near enough for a sure shot. A neglect in the inevitable excitement
of the moment to remember these and a dozen other small matters may
quite possibly cause trouble.

Two or three men together can make this one of the most exciting mounted
games on earth; with enough of the give and take of real danger and
battle to make it worth while. The hunter, however, who employs a dozen
Somalis to ride the beast to a standstill, after which he goes to
the front, has eliminated much of the thrill. Nor need that man's
stay-at-home family feel any excessive uneasiness over Father Killing
Lions in Africa.

The method that interested me more than any other is one exceedingly
difficult to follow except under favourable circumstances. I refer to
tracking them down afoot. This requires that your gunbearer should be
an expert trailer, for, outside the fact that following a soft-padded
animal over all sorts of ground is a very difficult thing to do, the
hunter should be free to spy ahead. It is necessary also to possess much
patience and to endure under many disappointments. But on the other
hand there is in this sport a continuous keen thrill to be enjoyed in no
other; and he who single handed tracks down and kills his lion thus, has
well earned the title of shikari-the Hunter.

And the last method of all is to trust to the God of Chance. The secret
of success is to be always ready to take instant advantage of what the
moment offers.

An occasional hunting story is good in itself: and the following will
also serve to illustrate what I have just been saying.

We were after that prize, the greater kudu, and in his pursuit had
penetrated into some very rough country. Our hunting for the time being
was over broad bench, perhaps four or five miles wide, below a range
of mountains. The bench itself broke down in sheer cliffs some fifteen
hundred feet, but one did not appreciate that fact unless he stood
fairly on the edge of the precipice. To all intents and purposes we
were on a rolling grassy plain, with low hills and cliffs, and a most
beautiful little stream running down it beneath fine trees.

Up to now our hunting had gained us little beside information: that kudu
had occasionally visited the region, that they had not been there for a
month, and that the direction of their departure had been obscure. So we
worked our way down the stream, trying out the possibilities. Of other
game there seemed to be a fair supply: impalla, hartebeeste, zebra,
eland, buffalo, wart-hog, sing-sing, and giraffe we had seen. I had
secured a wonderful eland and a very fine impalla, and we had had a
gorgeous close-quarters fight with a cheetah.* Now C. had gone out, a
three weeks' journey, carrying to medical attendance a porter injured in
the cheetah fracas. Billy and I were continuing the hunt alone.

     * This animal quite disproved the assertion that cheetahs
     never assume the aggressive. He charged repeatedly.

We had marched two hours, and were pitching camp under a single tree
near the edge of the bench. After seeing everything well under way, I
took the Springfield and crossed the stream, which here ran in a deep
canyon. My object was to see if I could get a sing-sing that had bounded
away at our approach. I did not bother to take a gunbearer, because I
did not expect to be gone five minutes.

The canyon proved unexpectedly deep and rough, and the stream up to my
waist. When I had gained the top, I found grass growing patchily from
six inches to two feet high; and small, scrubby trees from four to ten
feet tall, spaced regularly, but very scattered. These little trees
hardly formed cover, but their aggregation at sufficient distance
limited the view.

The sing-sing had evidently found his way over the edge of the bench. I
turned to go back to camp. A duiker-a small grass antelope-broke from a
little patch of the taller grass, rushed, head down headlong after their
fashion, suddenly changed his mind, and dashed back again. I stepped
forward to see why he had changed his mind-and ran into two lions!

They were about thirty yards away, and sat there on their haunches, side
by side, staring at me with expressionless yellow eyes. I stared back.
The Springfield is a good little gun, and three times before I had been
forced to shoot lions with it, but my real "lion gun" with which I had
done best work was the 405 Winchester. The Springfield is too light
for such game. Also there were two lions, very close. Also I was quite
alone.

As the game stood, it hardly looked like my move; so I held still and
waited. Presently one yawned, they looked at each other, turned quite
leisurely, and began to move away at a walk.

This was a different matter. If I had fired while the two were facing
me, I should probably have had them both to deal with. But now that
their tails were turned toward me, I should very likely have to do with
only the one: at the crack of the rifle the other would run the way he
was headed. So I took a careful bead at the lioness and let drive.

My aim was to cripple the pelvic bone, but, unfortunately, just as I
fired, the beast wriggled lithely sidewise to pass around a tuft of
grass, so that the bullet inflicted merely a slight flesh wound on
the rump. She whirled like a flash, and as she raised her head high to
locate me, I had time to wish that the Springfield hit a trifle harder
blow. Also I had time to throw another cartridge in the barrel.

The moment she saw me she dropped her head and charged. She was
thoroughly angry and came very fast. I had just enough time to steady
the gold bead on her chest and to pull trigger.

At the shot, to my great relief, she turned bottom up, and I saw her
tail for an instant above the grass-an almost sure indication of a bad
hit. She thrashed around, and made a tremendous hullabaloo of snarls and
growls. I backed out slowly, my rifle ready. It was no place for me, for
the grass was over knee high.

Once at a safe distance I blazed a tree with my hunting knife and
departed for camp, well pleased to be out of it. At camp I ate lunch and
had a smoke; then with Memba Sasa and Mavrouki returned to the scene
of trouble. I had now the 405 Winchester, a light and handy weapon
delivering a tremendous blow.

We found the place readily enough. My lioness had recovered from the
first shock and had gone. I was very glad I had gone first.

The trail was not very plain, but it could be followed a foot or so at a
time, with many faults and casts back. I walked a yard to one side while
the men followed the spoor. Owing to the abundance of cover it was
very nervous work, for the beast might be almost anywhere, and would
certainly charge. We tried to keep a neutral zone around ourselves by
tossing stones ahead of and on both sides of our line of advance. My own
position was not bad, for I had the rifle ready in my hand, but the men
were in danger. Of course I was protecting them as well as I could, but
there was always a chance that the lioness might spring on them in such
a manner that I would be unable to use my weapon. Once I suggested that
as the work was dangerous, they could quit if they wanted to.

"Hapana!" they both refused indignantly.

We had proceeded thus for half a mile when to our relief, right ahead of
us, sounded the commanding, rumbling half-roar, half-growl of the lion
at bay.

Instantly Memba Sasa and Mavrouki dropped back to me. We all peered
ahead. One of the boys made her out first, crouched under a bush
thirty-two yards away. Even as I raised the rifle she saw us and
charged. I caught her in the chest before she had come ten feet. The
heavy bullet stopped her dead. Then she recovered and started forward
slowly, very weak, but game to the last. Another shot finished her.

The remarkable point of this incident was the action of the little
Springfield bullet. Evidently the very high velocity of this bullet
from its shock to the nervous system had delivered a paralyzing blow
sufficient to knock out the lioness for the time being. Its damage to
tissue, however, was slight. Inasmuch as the initial shock did not cause
immediate death, the lioness recovered sufficiently to be able, two
hours later, to take the offensive. This point is of the greatest
interest to the student of ballistics; but it is curious to even the
ordinary reader.

That is a very typical example of finding lions by sheer chance.
Generally a man is out looking for the smallest kind of game when he
runs up against them. Now happened to follow an equally typical example
of tracking.

The next day after the killing of the lioness Memba Sasa, Kongoni and I
dropped off the bench, and hunted greater kudu on a series of terraces
fifteen hundred feet below. All we found were two rhino, some sing-sing,
a heard of impalla, and a tremendous thirst. In the meantime, Mavrouki
had, under orders, scouted the foothills of the mountain range at the
back. He reported none but old tracks of kudu, but said he had seen
eight lions not far from our encounter of the day before.

Therefore, as soon next morning as we could see plainly, we again
crossed the canyon and the waist-deep stream. I had with me all three of
the gun men, and in addition two of the most courageous porters to help
with the tracking and the looking.

About eight o'clock we found the first fresh pad mark plainly outlined
in an isolated piece of soft earth. Immediately we began that most
fascinating of games-trailing over difficult ground. In this we could
all take part, for the tracks were some hours old, and the cover scanty.
Very rarely could we make out more than three successive marks. Then we
had to spy carefully for the slightest indication of direction. Kongoni
in especial was wonderful at this, and time and again picked up a broken
grass blade or the minutest inch-fraction of disturbed earth. We moved
slowly, in long hesitations and castings about, and in swift little
dashes forward of a few feet; and often we went astray on false scents,
only to return finally to the last certain spot. In this manner we
crossed the little plain with the scattered shrub trees and arrived at
the edge of the low bluff above the stream bottom.

This bottom was well wooded along the immediate bank of the stream
itself, fringed with low thick brush, and in the open spaces grown to
the edges with high, green, coarse grass.

As soon as we had managed to follow without fault to this grass, our
difficulties of trailing were at an end. The lions' heavy bodies
had made distinct paths through the tangle. These paths went forward
sinuously, sometimes separating one from the other, sometimes
intertwining, sometimes combining into one for a short distance. We
could not determine accurately the number of beasts that had made them.

"They have gone to drink water," said Memba Sasa.

We slipped along the twisting paths, alert for indications; came to the
edge of the thicket, stooped through the fringe, and descended to the
stream under the tall trees. The soft earth at the water's edge was
covered with tracks, thickly overlaid one over the other. The boys felt
of the earth, examined, even smelled, and came to the conclusion that
the beasts must have watered about five o'clock. If so, they might be
ten miles away, or as many rods.

We had difficulty in determining just where the party left this place,
until finally Kongoni caught sight of suspicious indications over the
way. The lions had crossed the stream. We did likewise, followed the
trail out of the thicket, into the grass, below the little cliffs
parallel to the stream, back into the thicket, across the river once
more, up the other side, in the thicket for a quarter mile, then out
into the grass on that side, and so on. Inside and outside my home unhappy
betrayal prevails, goodness and merit lie thrown, suffocated in the pit
of torment and anguish. 15. A good upbringing was shackled in the
depths of anxiety and go, to the was honored and buried without a
coffin burial. 16.

But the treacherous and despicable sits on the throne of honor,
and bestial nature of each truffle is flavored with SAHUM pebete.
17.

While the wicked traitors stand head and arrogant, good ride
crestfallen and ashamed, the reason lies in holy ground, broken,
and tears slipped only 18..

The lips that display words of truth and justice, the point is cleft
asunder and gagged with sword death ignominiosísima. 19. Oh treasonous
desire for wealth and power! Oh yearning for honor which dissipates
air! You are the cause of all evil and those who brought me to
this very pitiful. 20.

Perhaps the crown Linceo king and the duke my father's wealth , Count
Adolf was dared to sow evils of the kingdom of Albania. [11] 21. All
this, merciful heavens, what you see: how is it suffering?

Source you're all good and all reason, and let a desalmado supplant
the 22. Move your powerful right hand, wielding the sword of indignation,
and the kingdom of Albania do feel your vengeance against the evil. 23.
Why, God, you're deaf to me, and my heartfelt prayers flies? Is it true
that for an sycophants, all ears are your ears? 24. but who will
penetrate your ineffable mysteries, God Almighty? Nothing is in the crust
of the earth that was not your design. 25. Woe , where to go now! Where
my tears miss, if the sky today and refused to hear the cry of my
aching voice!

26. If your desire is suffering, ¡sky high! Thy will be done, but let
the heart of Laura palpitations, occasionally, by me. 27. And in this
ocean of adversity, as I have ford immensity, the memory of lost love
Laura then, my chest is the only joy. 28.

His memory will be levísimo immense joy for me than the fatigue and
torment imposed by the fallacious and inmisericordioso. 29. If I thought
my tether, I feel stiff and cold in deep sleep, and cried for it is my
pleasure and joy, awakening to life seem endless. 30. If you dig through
the apices of intelligence our loves of my beloved, his tears when
he was traded sorrow into joy my grievances. 31. Mas, ¡me unhappy!
Wrong! Luck! What worth such love affairs and, yes, still, my one
love and rest in the arms of another? 32. In the lap of Count Adolfo
see my beloved Laura.

Death, where is your pride for former I free myself from this torment?
33. Here, with fear, he fainted, he paid to assault the heart of
pain, his head bent and tears shed, watering the tree where he was tied
up. 34. From head to toe pain sculpting their sound, giving then
jealousy and Tirana Artera death. 35.

The harshest condition of your eyes soften, and tears that derramaría
forcing himself to mercy. 36. show only the trace of who was able
to mute their sorrows, presto invite the heart to mourn, and if,
in the eyes, tears fled. 37.

What mercy did not feel the chest of the man of goodwill, if the prayers
and hear complaints after the accident that was the very image
regret?

38. Nearly all the forest was strewn with groans tristis, still repeating
and answering the echo resounded in the background. 39. Oh, Laura idolatrada!
Why gave me another love promised and betrayed the loyal heart, who
shed tears? 40. Do not swore in front of the sky would not be unfair to
my love? And I trust that this chest without Barruntar that to stop
this! 41. I thought your beautiful piece of heaven was unbreakable,
your true heart, without fear that infidelity dwelt on the beauty.
42.

Do not believe the tears that despreciarías made by me, nor of the
sweet remoquete I would be the beloved, and my face balsam your
tribulations. 43.

Was it not true, or mine, that when ordered to invade the king your
father any city, when I worked my shield, your two eyes distilled
pearls? 44. When my feathers tied to your finger coral, your cravings
came and went with the oscillations of spun gold. 45. How often, Laura,
me, still soaked in tears, the band would use, and gave acongojadísima,
fearful that the fight hiriese me! 46. Volante and did not allow tocasen
respect and conform to my body, without desherrumbrarlos, fearful
that my clothing stains. 47. consider its strength and brightness that
cuts slipping, and not even remotely cejaban your repairs so that,
in the midst of the army, the point is distinct. 48.

If you follow a lion to a small hill,
it is well to go around that hill on the side opposite to that taken by
your quarry. You are quite likely to meet him for he is clever enough
thus to try to get in your rear. He will lie until you have actually
passed him before breaking off. He will circle ahead, then back to
confuse his trail. And when you catch sight of him in the distance, you
would never suspect that he knew of your presence at all. He saunters
slowly, apparently aimlessly, along pausing often, evidently too bored
to take any interest in life. You wait quite breathlessly for him to
pass behind cover. Then you are going to make a very rapid advance, and
catch his leisurely retreat. But the moment old Leo does pass behind the
cover, his appearance of idle stroller vanishes. In a dozen bounds he is
gone.

That is what makes lion hunting delightful. There are some regions,
very near settlements, where it is perhaps justifiable to poison these
beasts. If you are a true sportsman you will confine your hound-hunting
to those districts. Elsewhere, as far as playing fair with a noble
beast is concerned, you may as well toss a coin to see which you shall
take-your pack or a strychnine bottle.


XIII. ON THE MANAGING OF A SAFARI

We made our way slowly down the river. As the elevation dropped, the
temperature rose. It was very hot indeed during the day, and in the
evening the air was tepid and caressing, and musical with the hum of
insects. We sat about quite comfortably in our pajamas, and took our
fifteen grains of quinine per week against the fever.

The character of the jungle along the river changed imperceptibly, the
dhum palms crowding out the other trees; until, at our last camp, were
nothing but palms. The wind in them sounded variously like the patter
or the gathering onrush of rain. On either side the country remained
unchanged, however. The volcanic hills rolled away to the distant
ranges. Everywhere grew sparsely the low thornbrush, opening sometimes
into clear plains, closing sometimes into dense thickets. One morning
we awoke to find that many supposedly sober-minded trees had burst into
blossom fairly over night. They were red, and yellow and white that
before were green, a truly gorgeous sight.

Then we turned sharp to the right and began to ascend a little tributary
brook coming down the wide flats from a cleft in the hills. This was
prettily named the Isiola, and, after the first mile or so, was not
big enough to afford the luxury of a jungle of its own. Its banks were
generally grassy and steep, its thickets few, and its little trees
isolated in parklike spaces. To either side of it, and almost at its
level, stretched plains, but plains grown with scattered brush and
shrubs so that at a mile or two one's vista was closed. But for all its
scant ten feet of width the Isiola stood upon its dignity as a stream.
We discovered that when we tried to cross. The men floundered waist-deep
on uncertain bottom; the syces received much unsympathetic comment
for their handling of the animals, and we had to get Billy over by a
melodramatic "bridge of life" with B., F., myself, and Memba Sasa in the
title roles.

Then we pitched camp in the open on the other side, sent the horses back
from the stream until after dark, in fear of the deadly tsetse fly, and
prepared to enjoy a good exploration of the neighbourhood. Whereupon
M'ganga rose up to his gaunt and terrific height of authority, stretched
forth his bony arm at right angles, and uttered between eight and nine
thousand commands in a high dynamic monotone without a single pause for
breath. These, supplemented by about as many more, resulted in (a) a
bridge across the stream, and (b) a banda.

A banda is a delightful African institution. It springs from nothing in
about two hours, but it takes twenty boys with a vitriolic M'ganga back
of them to bring it about. Some of them carry huge backloads of grass,
or papyrus, or cat-tail rushes, as the case may be; others lug in poles
of various lengths from where their comrades are cutting them by means
of their panga. A panga, parenthetically, is the safari man's substitute
for axe, shovel, pick, knife, sickle, lawn-mower, hammer, gatling
gun, world's library of classics, higher mathematics, grand opera, and
toothpicks. It looks rather like a machete with a very broad end and
a slight curved back. A good man can do extraordinary things with
it. Indeed, at this moment, two boys are with this apparently clumsy
implement delicately peeling some of the small thorn trees, from the
bared trunks of which they are stripping long bands of tough inner bark.

With these three raw materials-poles, withes, and grass-M'ganga and
his men set to work. They planted their corner and end poles, they laid
their rafters, they completed their framework, binding all with the
tough withes; then deftly they thatched it with the grass. Almost before
we had settled our own affairs, M'ganga was standing before us smiling.
Gone now was his mien of high indignation and swirling energy.

"Banda naquisha," he informed us.

And we moved in our table and our canvas chairs; hung up our water
bottles; Billy got out her fancy work. Nothing could be pleasanter
nor more appropriate to the climate than this wide low arbour, open at
either end to the breezes, thatched so thickly that the fierce sun could
nowhere strike through.

The men had now settled down to a knowledge of what we were like; and
things were going smoothly. At first the African porter will try it on
to see just how easy you are likely to prove. If he makes up his mind
that you really are easy, then you are in for infinite petty annoyance,
and possibly open mutiny. Therefore, for a little while, it is necessary
to be extremely vigilant, to insist on minute performance in all
circumstances where later you might condone an omission. For the same
reason punishment must be more frequent and more severe at the outset.
It is all a matter of watching the temper of the men. If they are
cheerful and willing, you are not nearly as particular as you would
be were their spirit becoming sullen. Then the infraction is not so
important in itself as an excuse for the punishment. For when your men
get sulky, you watch vigilantly for the first and faintest EXCUSE to
inflict punishment.

This game always seemed to me very fascinating, when played right. It is
often played wrong. People do not look far enough. Because they see
that punishment has a most salutary effect on morale, and is sometimes
efficacious in getting things done that otherwise would lag, they jump
to the conclusion that the only effective way to handle a safari is
by penalties. By this I do not at all mean that they act savagely, or
punish to brutal excess. Merely they hold rigidly to the letter of the
work and the day's discipline. Because it is sometimes necessary
to punish severely slight infractions when the men's tempers need
sweetening, they ALWAYS punish slight infractions severely.

And in ordinary circumstances this method undoubtedly results in a very
efficient safari. Things are done smartly, on time, with a snap. The
day's march begins without delay; there is a minimum of straggling; on
arrival the tents are immediately got up and the wood and water fetched.
But in a tight place, men so handled by invariable rule are very apt
to sit down apathetically, and put the whole thing up to the white man.
When it comes time to help out they are not there. The contrast with a
well-disposed safari cannot be appreciated by one who has not seen both.

The safari-man loves a master. He does not for a moment understand any
well-meant but misplaced efforts on your part to lighten his work below
the requirements of custom. Always he will beg you to ease up on him,
to accord him favour; and always he will despise you if you yield. The
relations of man to man, of man to work, are all long since established
by immemorial distauri-custom-and it is not for you or him to change
them lightly. If you know what he should or can do, and hold him rigidly
to it, he will respect and follow you.

But in order to keep him up to the mark, it is not always advisable to
light into him with a whip, necessary as the whip often is. If he
is sullen, or inclined to make mischief, then that is the crying
requirement. But if he is merely careless, or a little slow, or tired,
you can handle him in other ways. Ridicule before his comrades is very
effective: a sort of good-natured guying, I mean. "Ah! very tired!"
uttered in the right tone of voice has brought many a loiterer to his
feet as effectively as the kick some men feel must always be bestowed,
and quite without anger, mind you! For days at a time we have kept our
men travelling at good speed by commenting, as though by the way, after
we had arrived in camp, on which tribe happened to come in at the head.

"Ah! Kavirondos came in first to-night," we would remark. "Last night
the Monumwezis were ahead."

And once, actually, by this method we succeeded in working up such a
feeling of rivalry that the Kikuyus, the unambitious, weak and despised
Kikuyus, led the van!

But the first hint of insubordination, of intended insolence, of willful
shirking must be met by instant authority. Occasionally, when the
situation is of the quick and sharp variety, the white man may have to
mix in the row himself. He must never hesitate an instant; for the only
reason he alone can control so many is that he has always controlled
them. F. had a very effective blow, or shove, which I found well worth
adopting. It is delivered with the heel of the palm to the man's chin,
and is more of a lifting, heaving shove than an actual blow. Its effect
is immediately upsetting. Impertinence is best dealt with in this manner
on the spot. Evidently intended slowness in coming when called is also
best treated by a flick of the whip-and forgetfulness. And so with a
half dozen others. But any more serious matter should be decided from
the throne of the canvas chair, witness should be heard, judgment
formally pronounced, and execution intrusted to the askaris or
gunbearers.

It is, as I have said, a most interesting game. It demands three sorts
of knowledge: first what a safari man is capable of doing; second, what
he customarily should or should not do; third, an ability to read the
actual intention or motive back of his actions. When you are able to
punish or hold your hand on these principles, and not merely because
things have or have not gone smoothly or right, then you are a good
safari manager. There are mighty few of them.

As for punishment, that is quite simply the whip. The average writer
on the country speaks of this with hushed voice and averted face as a
necessity but as something to be deprecated and passed over as quickly
as possible. He does this because he thinks he ought to. As a matter of
fact, such an attitude is all poppycock. In the flogging of a white man,
or a black who suffers from such a punishment in his soul as well as his
body, this is all very well. But the safari man expects it, it
doesn't hurt his feelings in the least, it is ancient custom. As well
sentimentalize over necessary schoolboy punishment, or over father
paddy-whacking little Willie when little Willie has been a bad boy. The
chances are your porter will leap to his feet, crack his heels together
and depart with a whoop of joy, grinning from ear to ear. Or he may draw
himself up and salute you, military fashion, again with a grin. In any
case his "soul" is not "scared" a little bit, and there is no sense in
yourself feeling about it as though it were.

At another slant the justice you will dispense to your men differs from
our own. Again this is because of the teaching long tradition has made
part of their mental make-up. Our own belief is that it is better to let
two guilty men go than to punish one innocent. With natives it is the
other way about. If a crime is committed the guilty MUST be punished.
Preferably he alone is to be dealt with; but in case it is impossible to
identify him, then all the members of the first inclusive unit must be
brought to account. This is the native way of doing things; is the only
way the native understands; and is the only way that in his mind true
justice is answered. Thus if a sheep is stolen, the thief must be caught
and punished. Suppose, however it is known to what family the thief
belongs, but the family refuses to disclose which of its members
committed the theft: then each member must be punished for sheep
stealing; or, if not the family, then the tribe must make restitution.
But punishment MUST be inflicted.

There is an essential justice to recommend this, outside the fact that
it has with the native all the solidity of accepted ethics, and
it certainly helps to run the real criminal to earth. The innocent
sometimes suffers innocently, but not very often; and our own records
show that in that respect with us it is the same. This is not the place
to argue the right or wrong of the matter from our own standpoint but to
recognize the fact that it is right from theirs, and to act accordingly.
Thus in cast of theft of meat, or something that cannot be traced, it
is well to call up the witnesses, to prove the alibis, and then to place
the issue squarely up to those that remain. There may be but two, or
there may be a dozen.

"I know you did not all steal the meat," you must say, "but I know that
one of you did. Unless I know which one that is by to-morrow morning, I
will kiboko all of you. Bass!"

Perhaps occasionally you may have to kiboko the lot, in the full
knowledge that most are innocent. That seems hard; and your heart will
misgive you. Harden it. The "innocent" probably know perfectly well who
the guilty man is. And the incident builds for the future.

I had intended nowhere to comment on the politics or policies of the
country. Nothing is more silly than the casual visitor's snap judgments
on how a country is run. Nevertheless, I may perhaps be pardoned for
suggesting that the Government would strengthen its hand, and aid its
few straggling settlers by adopting this native view of retributions.
For instance, at present it is absolutely impossible to identify
individual sheep and cattle stealers. They operate stealthily and at
night. If the Government cannot identify the actual thief, it gives the
matter up. As a consequence a great hardship is inflicted on the settler
and an evil increases. If, however, the Government would hold the
village, the district, or the tribe responsible, and exact just
compensation from such units in every case, the evil would very suddenly
come to an end. And the native's respect for the white man would climb
in the scale.

Once the safari man gets confidence in his master, that confidence is
complete. The white man's duties are in his mind clearly defined. His
job is to see that the black man is fed, is watered, is taken care of
in every way. The ordinary porter considers himself quite devoid of
responsibility. He is also an improvident creature, for he drinks all
his water when he gets thirsty, no matter how long and hot the journey
before him; he eats his rations all up when he happens to get hungry,
two days before next distribution time; he straggles outrageously at
times and has to be rounded up; he works three months and, on a whim,
deserts two days before the end of his journey, thus forfeiting all his
wages. Once two porters came to us for money.

"What for?" asked C.

"To buy a sheep," said they.

For two months we had been shooting them all the game meat they could
eat, but on this occasion two days had intervened since the last kill.
If they had been on trading safari they would have had no meat at all.
A sheep cost six rupees in that country, and they were getting but ten
rupees a month as wages. In view of the circumstances, and for their
own good, we refused. Another man once insisted on purchasing a cake
of violet-scented soap for a rupee. Their chief idea of a wild time in
Nairobi, after return from a long safari, is to SIT IN A CHAIR and drink
tea. For this they pay exorbitantly at the Somali so-called "hotels."
It is a strange sight. But then, I have seen cowboys off the range or
lumberjacks from the river do equally extravagant and foolish things.

On the other hand they carry their loads well, they march tremendously,
they know their camp duties and they do them. Under adverse
circumstances they are good-natured. I remember C. and I, being belated
and lost in a driving rain. We wandered until nearly midnight. The four
or five men with us were loaded heavily with the meat and trophy of a
roan. Certainly they must have been very tired; for only occasionally
could we permit them to lay down their loads. Most of the time we were
actually groping, over boulders, volcanic rocks, fallen trees and all
sorts of tribulation. The men took it as a huge joke, and at every pause
laughed consumedly.

In making up a safari one tries to mix in four or five tribes. This
prevents concerted action in case of trouble, for no one tribe will help
another. They vary both in tribal and individual characteristics, of
course. For example, the Kikuyus are docile but mediocre porters; the
Kavirondos strong carriers but turbulent and difficult to handle. You
are very lucky if you happen on a camp jester, one of the sort that
sings, shouts, or jokes while on the march. He is probably not much as a
porter, but he is worth his wages nevertheless. He may or may not aspire
to his giddy eminence. We had one droll-faced little Kavirondo whose
very expression made one laugh, and whose rueful remarks on the
harshness of his lot finally ended by being funny. His name got to be a
catchword in camp.

"Mualo! Mualo!" the men would cry, as they heaved their burdens to their
heads; and all day long their war cry would ring out, "Mualo!" followed
by shrieks of laughter.

Of the other type was Sulimani, a big, one-eyed Monumwezi, who had a
really keen wit coupled with an earnest, solemn manner. This man was no
buffoon, however; and he was a good porter, always at or near the head
of the procession. In the great jungle south of Kenia we came upon
Cuninghame. When the head of our safari reached the spot Sulimani
left the ranks and, his load still aloft danced solemnly in front of
Cuninghame, chanting something in a loud tone of voice. Then with a
final deep "Jambo!" to his old master he rejoined the safari. When
the day had stretched to weariness and the men had fallen to a sullen
plodding, Sulimani's vigorous song could always set the safari sticks
tapping the sides of the chop boxes.

He carried part of the tent, and the next best men were entrusted with
the cook outfit and our personal effects. It was a point of honour
with these men to be the first in camp. The rear, the very extreme
and straggling rear, was brought up by worthless porters with loads of
cornmeal-and the weary askaris whose duty it was to keep astern and herd
the lot in.


XIV. A DAY ON THE ISIOLA

Early one morning-we were still on the Isiola-we set forth on our horses
to ride across the rolling, brush-grown plain. Our intention was to
proceed at right angles to our own little stream until we had reached
the forest growth of another, which we could dimly make out eight or
ten miles distant. Billy went with us, so there were four a-horseback.
Behind us trudged the gunbearers, and the syces, and after them
straggled a dozen or fifteen porters.

The sun was just up, and the air was only tepid as yet. From patches of
high grass whirred and rocketed grouse of two sorts. They were so much
like our own ruffed grouse and prairie chicken that I could with no
effort imagine myself once more a boy in the coverts of the Middle West.
Only before us we could see the stripes of trotting zebra disappearing;
and catch the glint of light on the bayonets of the oryx. Two giraffes
galumphed away to the right. Little grass antelope darted from clump
to clump of grass. Once we saw gerenuk-oh, far away in an impossible
distance. Of course we tried to stalk them; and as usual we failed. The
gerenuk we had come to look upon as our Lesser Hoodoo.

The beast is a gazelle about as big as a black-tailed deer. His
peculiarity is his excessively long neck, a good deal on the giraffe
order. With it he crops browse above high tide mark of other animals,
especially when as often happens he balances cleverly on his hind legs.
By means of it also he can, with his body completely concealed, look
over the top of ordinary cover and see you long before you have made
out his inconspicuous little head. Then he departs. He seems to have
a lamentable lack of healthy curiosity about you. In that respect he
should take lessons from the kongoni. After that you can follow him as
far as you please; you will get only glimpses at three or four hundred
yards.

We remounted sadly and rode on. The surface of the ground was rather
soft, scattered with round rocks the size of a man's head, and full of
pig holes.

"Cheerful country to ride over at speed," remarked Billy. Later in the
day we had occasion to remember that statement.

The plains led us ever on. First would be a band of scattered brush
growing singly and in small clumps: then a little open prairie; then
a narrow, long grass swale; then perhaps a low, long hill with small
single trees and rough, volcanic footing. Ten thousand things kept us
interested. Game was everywhere, feeding singly, in groups, in herds,
game of all sizes and descriptions. The rounded ears of jackals pointed
at us from the grass. Hundreds of birds balanced or fluttered about us,
birds of all sizes from the big ground hornbill to the littlest hummers
and sun birds. Overhead, across the wonderful variegated sky of Africa
the broad-winged carrion hunters and birds of prey wheeled. In all our
stay on the Isiola we had not seen a single rhino track, so we rode
quite care free and happy.

Finally, across a glade, not over a hundred and fifty yards away, we
saw a solitary bull oryx standing under a bush. B. wanted an oryx. We
discussed this one idly. He looked to be a decent oryx, but nothing
especial. However, he offered a very good shot; so B., after some
hesitation, decided to take it. It proved to be by far the best specimen
we shot, the horns measuring thirty-six and three fourths inches! Almost
immediately after, two of the rather rare striped hyenas leaped from the
grass and departed rapidly over the top of a hill. We opened fire, and
F. dropped one of them. By the time these trophies were prepared, the
sun had mounted high in the heavens, and it was getting hot.

Accordingly we abandoned that still distant river and swung away in a
wide circle to return to camp.

Several minor adventures brought us to high noon and the heat of the
day. B. had succeeded in drawing a prize, one of the Grevy's or mountain
zebra. He and the gunbearers engaged themselves with that, while we sat
under the rather scanty shade of a small thorn tree and had lunch.
Here we had a favourable chance to observe that very common, but always
wonderful phenomenon, the gathering of the carrion birds. Within five
minutes after the stoop of the first vulture above the carcass, the sky
immediately over that one spot was fairly darkened with them. They were
as thick as midges-or as ducks used to be in California. All sizes were
there from the little carrion crows to the great dignified vultures and
marabouts and eagles. The small fry flopped and scolded, and rose and
fell in a dense mass; the marabouts walked with dignified pace to and
fro through the grass all about. As far as the eye could penetrate the
blue, it could make out more and yet more of the great soarers stooping
with half bent wings. Below we could see uncertainly through the shimmer
of the mirage the bent forms of the men.

We ate and waited; and after a little we dozed. I was awakened suddenly
by a tremendous rushing roar, like the sound of a not too distant
waterfall. The group of men were plodding toward us carrying burdens.
And like plummets the birds were dropping straight down from the
heavens, spreading wide their wings at the last moment to check their
speed. This made the roaring sound that had awakened me.

A wide spot in the shimmer showed black and struggling against the
ground. I arose and walked over, meeting halfway B. and the men carrying
the meat. It took me probably about two minutes to reach the place where
the zebra had been killed. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of the great
birds were standing idly about; a dozen or so were flapping and
scrambling in the centre. I stepped into view. With a mighty commotion
they all took wing clumsily, awkwardly, reluctantly. A trampled, bloody
space and the larger bones, picked absolutely clean, was all that
remained! In less than two minutes the job had been done!

"You're certainly good workmen!" I exclaimed, "but I wonder how you all
make a living!"

We started the men on to camp with the meat, and ourselves rested
under the shade. The day had been a full and interesting one; but we
considered it as finished. Remained only the hot journey back to camp.

After a half hour we mounted again and rode on slowly. The sun was very
strong and a heavy shimmer clothed the plain. Through this shimmer we
caught sight of something large and black and flapping. It looked like a
crow-or, better, a scare-crow-crippled, half flying, half running, with
waving wings or arms, now dwindling, now gigantic as the mirage caught
it up or let it drop. As we watched, it developed, and we made it out
to be a porter, clad in a long, ragged black overcoat, running zigzag
through the bushes in our direction.

The moment we identified it we spurred our horses forward. As my horse
leaped, Memba Sasa snatched the Springfield from my left hand and forced
the 405 Winchester upon me. Clever Memba Sasa! He no more than we knew
what was up, but shrewdly concluded that whatever it was it needed a
heavy gun.

As we galloped to meet him, the porter stopped. We saw him to be a very
long-legged, raggedy youth whom we had nicknamed the Marabout because of
his exceedingly long, lean legs, the fact that his breeches were white,
short and baggy, and because he kept his entire head shaved close. He
called himself Fundi, which means The Expert, a sufficient indication of
his confidence in himself.

He awaited us leaning on his safari stick, panting heavily, the sweat
running off his face in splashes. "Simba!"* said he, and immediately
set off on a long, easy lope ahead of us. We pulled down to a trot and
followed him.

     * Lion

At the end of a half mile we made out a man up a tree. Fundi, out of
breath, stopped short and pointed to this man. The latter, as soon as he
had seen us, commenced to scramble down. We spurred forward to find out
where the lions had been last seen.

Then Billy covered herself with glory by seeing them first. She apprised
us of that fact with some excitement. We saw the long, yellow bodies of
two of them disappearing in the edge of the brush about three hundred
yards away. With a wild whoop we tore after them at a dead run.

Then began a wild ride. Do you remember Billy's remark about the nature
of the footing? Before long we closed in near enough to catch occasional
glimpses of the beasts, bounding easily along. At that moment B.'s horse
went down in a heap. None of us thought for a moment of pulling up. I
looked back to see B. getting up again, and thought I caught fragments
of encouraging-sounding language. Then my horse went down. I managed to
hold my rifle clear, and to cling to the reins. Did you ever try to
get on a somewhat demoralized horse in a frantic hurry, when all your
friends were getting farther away every minute, and so lessening your
chances of being in the fun? I began to understand perfectly B.'s
remarks of a moment before. However, on I scrambled, and soon overtook
the hunt.

We dodged in and out of bushes, and around and over holes. Every few
moments we would catch a glimpse of one of those silently bounding
lions, and then we would let out a yell. Also every few moments one
or the other of us would go down in a heap, and would scramble up and
curse, and remount hastily. Billy had better luck. She had no gun, and
belonged a little in the rear anyway, but was coming along game as a
badger for all that.

My own horse had the legs of the others quite easily, and for that
reason I was ahead far enough to see the magnificent sight of five lions
sideways on, all in a row, standing in the grass gazing at me with a
sort of calm and impersonal dignity. I wheeled my horse immediately so
as to be ready in case of a charge, and yelled to the others to hurry
up. While I sat there, they moved slowly off one after the other, so
that by the time the men had come, the lions had gone. We now had
no difficulty in running into them again. Once more my better animal
brought me to the lead, so that for the second time I drew up facing the
lions, and at about one hundred yards range. One by one they began to
leave as before, very leisurely and haughtily, until a single old maned
fellow remained. He, however, sat there, his great round head peering
over the top of the grass.

"Well," he seemed to say, "here I am, what do you intend to do about
it?"

The others arrived, and we all dismounted. B. had not yet killed his
lion, so the shot was his. Billy very coolly came up behind and held
his horse. I should like here to remark that Billy is very terrified of
spiders. F. and I stood at the ready, and B. sat down.

Riding fast an exciting mile or so, getting chucked on your head two or
three times, and facing your first lion are none of them conducive to
steady shooting. The first shot therefore went high, but the second hit
the lion square in the chest, and he rolled over dead.

We all danced a little war dance, and congratulated B. and turned to get
the meaning of a queer little gurgling gasp behind us. There was Fundi!
That long-legged scarecrow, not content with running to get us and then
back again, had trailed us the whole distance of our mad chase over
broken ground at terrific speed in order to be in at the death. And he
was just about all in at the death. He could barely gasp his breath, his
eyes stuck out; he looked close to apoplexy.

"Bwana! bwana!" was all he could say. "Master! master!"

We shook hands with Fundi.

"My son," said I, "you're a true sport, and you'll surely get yours
later."

He did not understand me, but he grinned. The gunbearers began to drift
in, also completely pumped. They set up a feeble shout when they saw
the dead lion. It was a good maned beast, three feet six inches at the
shoulder, and nine feet long.

We left Fundi with the lion, instructing him to stay there until some
of the other men came up. We remounted and pushed on slowly in hopes of
coming on one of the others.

Here and there we rode, our courses interweaving, looking eagerly. And
lo! through a tiny opening in the brush we espied one of those elusive
gerenuk standing not over one hundred yards away. Whereupon I dismounted
and did some of the worst shooting I perpetrated in Africa, for I let
loose three times at him before I landed. But land I did, and there was
one Lesser Hoodoo broken. Truly this was our day.

We measured him and started to prepare the trophy, when to us came
Mavrouki and a porter, quite out of breath, but able to tell us that
they had been scouting around and had seen two of the lions. Then,
instead of leaving one up a tree to watch, both had come pell-mell to
tell us all about it. We pointed this out to them, and called their
attention to the fact that the brush was wide, that lions are not
stationary objects, and that, unlike the leopard, they can change their
spots quite readily. However, we remounted and went to take a look.

Of course there was nothing. So we rode on, rather aimlessly, weaving
in and out of the bushes and open spaces. I think we were all a little
tired from the long day and the excitement, and hence a bit listless.
Suddenly we were fairly shaken out of our saddles by an angry roar just
ahead. Usually a lion growls, low and thunderous, when he wants, to
warn you that you have gone about far enough; but this one was angry all
through at being followed about so much, and he just plain yelled at us.

He crouched near a bush forty yards away, and was switching his tail. I
had heard that this was a sure premonition of an instant charge, but I
had not before realized exactly what "switching the tail" meant. I had
thought of it as a slow sweeping from side to side, after the manner
of the domestic cat. This lion's tail was whirling perpendicularly from
right to left, and from left to right with the speed and energy of a
flail actuated by a particularly instantaneous kind of machinery. I
could see only the outline of the head and this vigorous tail; but I
took instant aim and let drive. The whole affair sank out of sight.

We made a detour around the dead lion without stopping to examine him,
shouting to one of the men to stay and watch the carcass. Billy alone
seemed uninfected with the now prevalent idea that we were likely to
find lions almost anywhere. Her skepticism was justified. We found no
more lions; but another miracle took place for all that. We ran across
the second imbecile gerenuk, and B. collected it! These two were
the only ones we ever got within decent shot of, and they sandwiched
themselves neatly with lions. Truly, it WAS our day.

After a time we gave it up, and went back to measure and photograph our
latest prize. It proved to be a male, maneless, two inches shorter than
that killed by B., and three feet five and one half inches tall at the
shoulder. My bullet had reached the brain just over the left eye.

Now, toward sunset, we headed definitely toward camp. The long shadows
and beautiful lights of evening were falling across the hills far the
other side the Isiola. A little breeze with a touch of coolness breathed
down from distant unseen Kenia. We plodded on through the grass quite
happily, noting the different animals coming out to the cool of the
evening. The line of brush that marked the course of the Isiola came
imperceptibly nearer until we could make out the white gleam of the
porters' tents and wisps of smoke curling upward.

Then a small black mass disengaged itself from the camp and came slowly
across the prairie in our direction. As it approached we made it out
to be our Monumwezis, twenty strong. The news of the lions had reached
them, and they were coming to meet us. They were huddled in a close
knot, their heads inclined toward the centre. Each man carried upright
a peeled white wand. They moved in absolute unison and rhythm, on a
slanting zigzag in our direction: first three steps to the right, then
three to the left, with a strong stamp of the foot between. Their bodies
swayed together. Sulimani led them, dancing backward, his wand upheld.

"Sheeka!" he enunciated in a piercing half whistle.

And the swaying men responded in chorus, half hushed, rumbling, with
strong aspiration.

"Goom zoop! goom zoop!"

When fifty yards from us, however, the formation broke and they rushed
us with a yell. Our horses plunged in astonishment, and we had hard work
to prevent their bolting, small blame to 'em! The men surrounded us,
shaking our hands frantically. At once they appropriated everything we
or our gunbearers carried. One who got left otherwise insisted on having
Billy's parasol. Then we all broke for camp at full speed, yelling like
fiends, firing our revolvers in the air. It was a grand entry, and a
grand reception. The rest of the camp poured out with wild shouts. The
dark forms thronged about us, teeth flashing, arms waving. And in the
background, under the shadows of the trees were the Monumwezis, their
formation regained, close gathered, heads bent, two steps swaying to
the right-stamp! two steps swaying to the left-stamp!-the white wands
gleaming, and the rumble of their lion song rolling in an undertone:

"Goom zoop! goom zoop!"


XV. THE LION DANCE

We took our hot baths and sat down to supper most gratefully, for we
were tired. The long string of men, bearing each a log of wood, filed in
from the darkness to add to our pile of fuel. Saa-sita and Shamba knelt
and built the night fire. In a moment the little flame licked up through
the carefully arranged structure. We finished the meal, and the boys
whisked away the table.

Then out in the blackness beyond our little globe of light we became
aware of a dull confusion, a rustling to and fro. Through the shadows
the eye could guess at movement. The confusion steadied to a kind of
rhythm, and into the circle of the fire came the group of Monumwezis.
Again they were gathered together in a compact little mass; but now they
were bent nearly double, and were stripped to the red blankets about
their waists. Before them writhed Sulimani, close to earth, darting
irregularly now to right, now to left, wriggling, spreading his arms
abroad. He was repeating over and over two phrases; or rather the same
phrase in two such different intonations that they seemed to convey
quite separate meanings.

"Ka soompeele?" he cried with a strongly appealing interrogation.

"Ka soompeele!" he repeated with the downward inflection of decided
affirmation.

And the bent men, their dark bodies gleaming in the firelight, stamping
in rhythm every third step, chorused in a deep rumbling bass:

"Goom zoop! goom zoop!"

Thus they advanced; circled between us and the fire, and withdrew to the
half darkness, where tirelessly they continued the same reiterations.

Hardly had they withdrawn when another group danced forward in their
places. These were the Kikuyus. They had discarded completely their
safari clothes, and now came forth dressed out in skins, in strips of
white cloth, with feathers, shells and various ornaments. They carried
white wands to represent spears, and they sang their tribal lion song.
A soloist delivered the main argument in a high wavering minor and was
followed by a deep rumbling emphatic chorus of repetition, strongly
accented so that the sheer rhythm of it was most pronounced:

"An-gee a Ka ga An-gee a Ka ga An-gee a Ka ga Ki ya Ka ga Ka ga an gee
ya!"

Solemnly and loftily, their eyes fixed straight before them they made
the circle of the fire, passed before our chairs, and withdrew to the
half light. There, a few paces from the stamping, crouching Monumwezis,
they continued their performance.

The next to appear were the Wakambas. These were more histrionic. They
too were unrecognizable as our porters, for they too had for the lion
discarded their work-a-day garments in favour of savage. They produced a
pantomime of the day's doings, very realistic indeed, ending with a half
dozen of dark swaying bodies swinging and shuddering in the long grass
as lions, while the "horses" wove in and out among the crouching forms,
all done to the beat of rhythm. Past us swept the hunt, and in its turn
melted into the half light.

The Kavirondos next appeared, the most fantastically caparisoned of the
lot, fine big black men, their eyes rolling with excitement. They had
captured our flag from its place before the big tent, and were rallied
close about this, dancing fantastically. Before us they leaped and
stamped and shook their spears and shouted out their full-voiced song,
while the other three tribes danced each its specialty dimly in the
background.

The dance thus begun lasted for fully two hours. Each tribe took a
turn before us, only to give way to the next. We had leisure to notice
minutiae, such as the ingenious tail one of the "lions" had constructed
from a sweater. As time went on, the men worked themselves to a frenzy.
From the serried ranks every once in a while one would break forth with
a shriek to rush headlong into the fire, to beat the earth about him
with his club, to rush over to shake one of us violently by the hand,
or even to seize one of our feet between his two palms. Then with equal
abruptness back he darted to regain his place among the dancers. Wilder
and wilder became the movements, higher rose the voices. The mock lion
hunt grew more realistic, and the slaughter on both sides something
tremendous. Lower and lower crouched the Monumwezi, drawing apart with
their deep "goom"; drawing suddenly to a common centre with the sharp
"zoop!" Only the Kikuyus held their lofty bearing as they rolled forth
their chant, but the mounting excitement showed in their tense muscles
and the rolling of their eyes. The sweat glistened on naked black and
bronze bodies. Among the Monumwezi to my astonishment I saw Memba Sasa,
stripped like the rest, and dancing with all abandon. The firelight
leaped high among the logs that eager hands cast on it; and the shadows
it threw from the swirling, leaping figures wavered out into a great,
calm darkness.

The night guard understood a little of the native languages, so he stood
behind our chairs and told us in Swahili the meaning of some of the
repeated phrases.

"This has been a glorious day; few safaris have had so glorious a day."

"The masters looked upon the fierce lions and did not run away."

"Brave men without other weapons will nevertheless kill with a knife."

"The masters' mothers must be brave women, the masters are so brave."

"The white woman went hunting, and so were many lions killed."

The last one pleased Billy. She felt that at last she was appreciated.

We sat there spellbound by the weird savagery of the spectacle-the great
licking fire, the dancing, barbaric figures, the rise and fall of the
rhythm, the dust and shuffle, the ebb and flow of the dance, the dim,
half-guessed groups swaying in the darkness-and overhead the calm tropic
night.

At last, fairly exhausted, they stopped. Some one gave a signal. The men
all gathered in one group, uttered a final yell, very like a cheer, and
dispersed.

We called up the heroes of the day-Fundi and his companion-and made a
little speech, and bestowed appropriate reward. Then we turned in.


XVI. FUNDI

Fundi, as I have suggested, was built very much on the lines of the
marabout stork. He was about twenty years old, carried himself very
erect, and looked one straight in the eye. His total assets when he came
to us were a pair of raggedy white breeches, very baggy, and an old mesh
undershirt, ditto ditto. To this we added a jersey, a red blanket, and a
water bottle. At the first opportunity he constructed himself a pair of
rawhide sandals.

Throughout the first part of the trip he had applied himself to business
and carried his load. He never made trouble. Then he and his companion
saw five lions; and the chance Fundi had evidently long been awaiting
came to his hand. He ran himself almost into coma, exhibited himself
game, and so fell under our especial and distinguished notice. After
participating whole-heartedly in the lion dance he and his companion
were singled out for Our Distinguished Favour, to the extent of five
rupees per. Thus far Fundi's history reads just like the history of any
ordinary Captain of Industry.

Next morning, after the interesting ceremony of rewarding the worthy, we
moved on to a new camp. When the line-up was called for, lo! there stood
Fundi, without a load, but holding firmly my double-barrelled rifle.
Evidently he had seized the chance of favour-and the rifle-and intended
to be no longer a porter but a second gunbearer.

This looked interesting, so we said nothing. Fundi marched the day
through very proudly. At evening he deposited the rifle in the proper
place, and set to work with a will at raising the big tent.

The day following he tried it again. It worked. The third day he marched
deliberately up past the syce to take his place near me. And the fourth
day, as we were going hunting, Fundi calmly fell in with the rest.
Nothing had been said, but Fundi had definitely grasped his chance to
rise from the ranks. In this he differed from his companion in glory.
That worthy citizen pocketed his five rupees and was never heard from
again; I do not even remember his name nor how he looked.

I killed a buck of some sort, and Memba Sasa, as usual, stepped forward
to attend to the trophy. But I stopped him.

"Fundi," said I, "if you are a gunbearer, prepare this beast."

He stepped up confidently and set to work. I watched him closely. He
did it very well, without awkwardness, though he made one or two minor
mistakes in method.

"Have you done this before?" I inquired.

"No, bwana."

"How did you learn to do it?"

"I have watched the gunbearers when I was a porter bringing in meat."*

     * Except in the greatest emergencies a gunbearer would never
     think of carrying any sort of a burden.

This was pleasing, but it would never do, at this stage of the game,
to let him think so, neither on his own account nor that of the real
gunbearers.

"You will bring in meat today also," said I, for I was indeed a
little shorthanded, "and you will learn how to make the top incision
straighter."

When we had reached camp I handed him the Springfield.

"Clean this," I told him.

He departed with it, returning it after a time for my inspection. It
looked all right. I catechized him on the method he had employed-for
high velocities require very especial treatment-and found him letter
perfect.

"You learned this also by watching?"

"Yes, bwana, I watched the gunbearers by the fire, evenings."

Evidently Fundi had been preparing for his chance.

Next day, as he walked alongside, I noticed that he had not removed the
leather cap, or sight protector, that covers the end of the rifle and is
fastened on by a leather thong. Immediately I called a halt.

"Fundi," said I, "do you know that the cover should be in your pocket?
Suppose a rhinoceros jumps up very near at hand: how can you get time to
unlace the thong and hand me the rifle?"

He thrust the rifle at me suddenly. In some magical fashion the sight
cover had disappeared!

"I have thought of this," said he, "and I have tied the thong, so, in
order that it come away with one pull; and I snatch it off, so, with my
left hand while I am giving you the gun with my right hand. It seemed
good to keep the cover on, for there are many branches, and the sight is
very easy to injure."

Of course this was good sense, and most ingenious; Fundi bade fair to be
quite a boy, but the native African is very easily spoiled. Therefore,
although my inclination was strongly to praise him, I did nothing of the
sort.

"A gunbearer carries the gun away from the branches," was my only
comment.

Shortly after occurred an incident by way of deeper test. We were all
riding rather idly along the easy slope below the foothills. The grass
was short, so we thought we could see easily everything there was to
be seen; but, as we passed some thirty yards from a small tree, an
unexpected and unnecessary rhinoceros rose from an equally unexpected
and unnecessary green hollow beneath the tree, and charged us. He made
straight for Billy. Her mule, panic-stricken, froze with terror in spite
of Billy's attack with a parasol. I spurred my own animal between her
and the charging brute, with some vague idea of slipping off the other
side as the rhino struck. F. and B. leaped from their own animals, and
F., with a little.28 calibre rifle, took a hasty shot at the big brute.
Now, of course a.28 calibre rifle would hardly injure a rhino, but the
bullet happened to catch his right shoulder just as he was about to come
down on his right foot. The shock tripped him up as neatly as though he
had been upset by a rope. At the same instant Billy's mule came to its
senses and bolted, whereupon I too jumped off. The whole thing took
about two finger snaps of time. At the instant I hit the ground, Fundi
passed the double rifle across the horse's back to me.

Note two things to the credit of Fundi: in the first place, he had not
bolted; in the second place, instead of running up to the left side of
my mount and perhaps colliding with and certainly confusing me, he had
come up on the right side and passed the rifle to me ACROSS the horse.
I do not know whether or not he had figured this out beforehand, but it
was cleverly done.

The rhinoceros rolled over and over, like a shot rabbit, kicked for a
moment, and came to his feet. We were now all ready for him, in battle
array, but he had evidently had enough. He turned at right angles and
trotted off, apparently-and probably-none the worse for the little
bullet in his shoulder.

Fundi now began acquiring things that he supposed befitting to his
dignity. The first of these matters was a faded fez, in which he stuck
a long feather. From that he progressed in worldly wealth. How he got
it all, on what credit, or with what hypnotic power, I do not know.
Probably he hypothecated his wages, certainly he had his five rupees.

At any rate he started out with a ragged undershirt and a pair of white,
baggy breeches. He entered Nairobi at the end of the trip with a cap,
a neat khaki shirt, two water bottles, a cartridge belt, a sash with a
tassel, a pair of spiral puttees, an old pair of shoes, and a personal
private small boy, picked up en route from some of the savage tribes,
to carry his cooking pot, make his fires, draw his water,
and generally perform his lordly behests. This was indeed
"more-than-oriental-splendour!"

From now on Fundi considered himself my second gunbearer. I had no use
for him, but Fundi's development interested me, and I wanted to give
him a chance. His main fault at first was eagerness. He had to be rapped
pretty sharply and a good number of times before he discovered that
he really must walk in the rear. His habit of calling my attention to
perfectly obvious things I cured by liberal sarcasm. His intense desire
to take his own line as perhaps opposed to mine when we were casting
about on trail, I abated kindly but firmly with the toe of my boot. His
evident but mistaken tendency to consider himself on an equality with
Memba Sasa we both squelched by giving him the hard and dirty work to
do. But his faults were never those of voluntary omission, and he came
on surprisingly; in fact so surprisingly that he began to get quite
cocky over it. Not that he was ever in the least aggressive or
disrespectful or neglectful-it would have been easy to deal with that
sort of thing-but he carried his head pretty high, and evidently began
to have mental reservations. Fundi needed a little wholesome discipline.
He was forgetting his porter days, and was rapidly coming to consider
himself a full-fledged gunbearer.

The occasion soon arose. We were returning from a buffalo hunt and ran
across two rhinoceroses, one of which carried a splendid horn. B.
wanted a well developed specimen very much, so we took this chance. The
approach was easy enough, and at seventy yards or so B. knocked her flat
with a bullet from his.465 Holland. The beast was immediately afoot, but
was as promptly smothered by shots from us all. So far the affair was
very simple, but now came complication. The second rhinoceros refused to
leave. We did not want to kill it, so we spent a lot of time and pains
shooing it away. We showered rocks and clods of earth in his direction;
we yelled sharply and whistled shrilly. The brute faced here and there,
his pig eyes blinking, his snout upraised, trying to locate us, and
declining to budge. At length he gave us up as hopeless, and trotted
away slowly. We let him go, and when we thought he had quite departed,
we approached to examine B.'s trophy.

Whereupon the other craftily returned; and charged us, snorting like
an engine blowing off steam. This was a genuine premeditated charge,
as opposed to a blind rush, and it is offered as a good example of the
sort.

The rhinoceros had come fairly close before we got into action. He
headed straight for F. and myself, with B. a little to one side. Things
happened very quickly. F. and I each planted a heavy bullet in his head;
while B. sent a lighter Winchester bullet into the ribs. The rhino went
down in a heap eleven yards away, and one of us promptly shot him in the
spine to finish him.

Personally I was entirely concentrated in the matter at hand-as is
always the way in crises requiring action-and got very few impressions
from anything outside. Nevertheless I imagined, subconsciously that I
had heard four shots. F. and B. disclaimed more than one apiece, so I
concluded myself mistaken, exchanged my heavy rifle with Fundi for the
lighter Winchester, and we started for camp, leaving all the boys
to attend to the dead rhinos. At camp I threw down the lever of my
Winchester-and drew out an exploded shell!

Here was a double crime on Fundi's part. In the first place, he
had fired the gun, a thing no bearer is supposed ever to do in any
circumstances short of the disarmament and actual mauling of his master.
Naturally this is so, for the white man must be able in an emergency to
depend ABSOLUTELY on his second gun being loaded and ready for his need.
In the second place, Fundi had given me an empty rifle to carry home.
Such a weapon is worse than none in case of trouble; at least I could
have gone up a tree in the latter case. I would have looked sweet
snapping that old cartridge at anything dangerous!

Therefore after supper we stationed ourselves in a row before the fire,
seated in our canvas chairs, and with due formality sent word that we
wanted all the gunbearers. They came and stood before us. Memba Sasa
erect, military, compact, looking us straight in the eye; Mavrouki
slightly bent forward, his face alive with the little crafty,
calculating smile peculiar to him; Simba, tall and suave, standing with
much social ease; and Fundi, a trifle frightened, but uncertain as to
whether or not he had been found out.

We stated the matter in a few words.

"Gunbearers, this man Fundi, when the rhinoceros charged, fired Winchi.
Was this the work of a gunbearer?"

The three seasoned men looked at each other with shocked astonishment
that such depravity could exist.

"And being frightened, he gave back Winchi with the exploded cartridge
in her. Was that the work of a gunbearer?"

"No, bwana," said Fundi humbly.

"You, the gunbearers, have been called because we wish to know what
should be done with this man Fundi."

It should be here explained that it is not customary to kiboko, or flog,
men of the gunbearer class. They respect themselves and their calling,
and would never stand that sort of punishment. When one blunders, a
sarcastic scolding is generally sufficient; a more serious fault may
be punished on the spot by the white man's fist; or a really bad
dereliction may cause the man's instant degradation from the post. With
this in mind we had called the council of gunbearers. Memba Sasa spoke.

"Bwana," said he, "this man is not a true gunbearer. He is no longer
a true porter. He carries a gun in the field, like a gunbearer; and he
knows much of the duty of gunbearer. Also he does not run away nor climb
trees. But he carries in the meat; and he is not a real gunbearer. He is
half porter and half gunbearer."

"What punishment shall he have?"

"Kiboko," said they.

"Thank you. Bass!"

They went, leaving Fundi. We surveyed him, quietly.

"You a gunbearer!" said we at last. "Memba Sasa says you are half
gunbearer. He was wrong. You are all porter; and you know no more than
they do. It is in our mind to put you back to carrying a load. If you do
not wish to taste the kiboko, you can take a load to-morrow."

"The kiboko, bwana," pleaded Fundi, very abashed and humble.

"Furthermore," we added crushingly, "you did not even hit the
rhinoceros!"

So with all ceremony he got the kiboko. The incident did him a lot of
good, and toned down his exuberance somewhat. Nevertheless he still
required a good deal of training, just as does a promising bird dog in
its first season. Generally his faults were of over-eagerness. Indeed,
once he got me thoroughly angry in face of another rhinoceros by dancing
just out of reach with the heavy rifle, instead of sticking close to me
where I could get at him. I temporarily forgot the rhino, and advanced
on Fundi with the full intention of knocking his fool head off.
Whereupon this six feet something of most superb and insolent pride
wilted down to a small boy with his elbow before his face.

"Don't hit, bwana! Don't hit!" he begged.

The whole thing was so comical, especially with Memba Sasa standing
by virtuous and scornful, that I had hard work to keep from laughing.
Fortunately the rhinoceros behaved himself.

The proud moment of Fundi's life was when safari entered Nairobi at the
end of the first expedition. He had gone forth with a load on his head,
rags on his back, and his only glory was the self-assumed one of the
name he had taken-Fundi, the Expert. He returned carrying a rifle,
rigged from top to toe in new garments and fancy accoutrements, followed
by a toro, or small boy, he had bought from some of the savage tribes to
carry his blanket and cooking pot for him. To the friends who darted out
to the line of march, he was gracious, but he held his head high, and
had no time for mere persiflage.

I did not take Fundi on my second expedition, for I had no real use for
a second gunbearer. Several times subsequently I saw him on the streets
of Nairobi. Always he came up to greet me, and ask solicitously if I
would not give him a job. This I was unable to do. When we paid off, I
had made an addition to his porter's wages, and had written him a chit.
This said that the boy had the makings of a gunbearer with further
training. It would have been unfair to possible white employers to have
said more. Fundi was, when I left the country, precisely in the position
of any young man who tries to rise in the world. He would not again take
a load as porter, and he was not yet skilled enough or known enough to
pick up more than stray jobs as gunbearer. Thisbe. O wall, often you
have heard the sighs of mine Mein'n Pyramus beautiful because you disconnect
from me My mouth is often red geküsset your stone, your 'stone' with
hair and glue geküttet on in you. Pyramus. A 'vote' thu I see, I want
to slit 'and see if I can not hear mein'r Thisbe Antliz clear. Thisbe!
Thisbe. Diss is my Schaz! Mein Liebchen ists! indeed.

Pyramus. willt what you think, it's me, you ensure kanst trust me.

And I'm like lemon faithful in my duty.
Only lately, the night of the lion dance,
one of the Wanderobo-the forest hunters-had drifted in to tell us of
buffalo and to get some meat. He was a simple soul, small and capable,
of a beautiful red-brown, with his hair done up in a tight, short queue.
He wore three skewers about six inches long thrust through each of his
ears, three strings of blue beads on his neck, a bracelet tight around
his upper arm, a bangle around his ankle, a pair of rawhide sandals, and
about a half yard of cotton cloth which he hung from one shoulder.
As weapons he carried a round-headed, heavy club, or runga, and a
long-bladed spear. He led us to buffalo, accepted a thirty-three cent
blanket, and made fire with two sticks in about thirty seconds. The only
other evidences of human life we had come across were a few beehives
suspended in the trees. These were logs, bored hollow and stopped at
either end. Some of them were very quaintly carved. They hung in the
trees like strange fruits.

Now, however, after leaving the Isiola, we were to quit the game country
and for days travel among the swarming millions of the jungle.

A few preliminary and entirely random observations may be permitted me
by way of clearing the ground for a conception of these people. These
observations do not pretend to be ethnological, nor even common logical.

The first thing for an American to realize is that our own negro
population came mainly from the West Coast, and differed utterly from
these peoples of the highlands in the East. Therefore one must first of
all get rid of the mental image of our own negro "dressed up" in savage
garb. Many of these tribes are not negro at all-the Somalis, the Nandi,
and the Masai, for example-while others belong to the negroid and
Nilotic races. Their colour is general cast more on the red-bronze than
the black, though the Kavirondos and some others are black enough. The
texture of their skin is very satiny and wonderful. This perfection is
probably due to the constant anointing of the body with oils of various
sorts. As a usual thing they are a fine lot physically. The southern
Masai will average between six and seven feet in height, and are almost
invariably well built. Of most tribes the physical development is
remarkably strong and graceful; and a great many of the women will
display a rounded, firm, high-breasted physique in marked contrast to
the blacks of the lowlands. Of the different tribes possibly the Kikuyus
are apt to count the most weakly and spindly examples: though some of
these people, perhaps a majority, are well made.

Furthermore, the native differentiates himself still further in
impression from our negro in his carriage and the mental attitude that
lies behind it. Our people are trying to pattern themselves on white
men, and succeed in giving a more or less shambling imitation thereof.
The native has standards, ideas, and ideals that perfectly satisfy him,
and that antedated the white man's coming by thousands of years. The
consciousness of this reflects itself in his outward bearing. He does
not shuffle; he is not either obsequious or impudent. Even when he
acknowledges the white man's divinity and pays it appropriate respect,
he does not lose the poise of his own well-worked-out attitude toward
life and toward himself.

We are fond of calling these people primitive. In the world's standard
of measurement they are primitive, very primitive indeed. But ordinarily
by that term, we mean also undeveloped, embryonic. In that sense we are
wrong. Instead of being at the very dawn of human development, these
people are at the end-as far as they themselves are concerned. The
original racial impulse that started them down the years toward
development has fulfilled its duty and spent its force. They have worked
out all their problems, established all their customs, arranged the
world and its phenomena in a philosophy to their complete satisfaction.
They have lived, ethnologists tell us, for thousands, perhaps hundreds
of thousands of years, just as we find them to-day. From our standpoint
that is in a hopeless intellectual darkness, for they know absolutely
nothing of the most elementary subjects of knowledge. From their
standpoint, however, they have reached the highest DESIRABLE pinnacle
of human development. Nothing remains to be changed. Their customs,
religions, and duties have been worked out and immutably established
long ago; and nobody dreams of questioning either their wisdom or their
imperative necessity. They are the conservatives of the world.

Nor must we conclude-looking at them with the eyes of our own
civilization-that the savage is, from his standpoint, lazy and idle.
His life is laid out more rigidly than ours will be for a great many
thousands of years. From childhood to old age he performs his every act
in accord with prohibitions and requirements. He must remember them all;
for ignorance does not divert consequences. He must observe them all; in
pain of terrible punishments. For example, never may he cultivate on
the site of a grave; and the plants that spring up from it must never
be cut.* He must make certain complicated offerings before venturing to
harvest a crop. On crossing the first stream of a journey he must touch
his lips with the end of his wetted bow, wade across, drop a stone on
the far side, and then drink. If he cuts his nails, he must throw the
parings into a thicket. If he drink from a stream, and also cross it,
he must eject a mouthful of water back into the stream. He must be
particularly careful not to look his mother-in-law in the face. Hundreds
of omens by the manner of their happening may modify actions, as, on
what side of the road a woodpecker calls, or in which direction a hyena
or jackal crosses the path, how the ground hornbill flies or alights,
and the like. He must notice these things, and change his plans
according to their occurrence. If he does not notice them, they exercise
their influence just the same. This does not encourage a distrait
mental attitude. Also it goes far to explain otherwise unexplainable
visitations. Truly, as Hobley says in his unexcelled work on the
A-Kamba, "the life of a savage native is a complex matter, and he is
hedged round by all sorts of rules and prohibitions, the infringement
of which will probably cause his death, if only by the intense belief he
has in the rules which guide his life."

     * Customs are not universal among the different tribes. I am
     merely illustrating.

For these rules and customs he never attempts to give a reason. They
are; and that is all there is to it. A mere statement: "This is the
custom" settles the matter finally. There is no necessity, nor passing
thought even, of finding any logical cause. The matter was worked out
in the mental evolution of remote ancestors. At that time, perhaps,
insurgent and Standpatter, Conservative and Radical fought out the
questions of the day, and the Muckrakers swung by their tails and
chattered about it. Those days are all long since over. The questions
of the world are settled forever. The people have passed through the
struggles of their formative period to the ultimate highest perfection
of adjustment to material and spiritual environment of which they were
capable under the influence of their original racial force.

Parenthetically, it is now a question whether or not an added impulse
can be communicated from without. Such an impulse must (a) unsettle all
the old beliefs, (b) inspire an era of skepticism, (c) reintroduce the
old struggle of ideas between the Insurgent and the Standpatter, and
Radical and the Conservative, (d) in the meantime furnish, from the
older civilization, materials, both in the thought-world and in the
object-world, for building slowly a new set of customs more closely
approximating those we are building for ourselves. This is a longer
and slower and more complicated affair than teaching the native to wear
clothes and sing hymns; or to build houses and drink gin; but it is what
must be accomplished step by step before the African peoples are really
civilized. I, personally, do not think it can be done.

Now having, a hundred thousand years or so ago, worked out the highest
good of the human race, according to them, what must they say to
themselves and what must their attitude be when the white man has come
and has unrolled his carpet of wonderful tricks? The dilemma is evident.
Either we, as black men, must admit that our hundred-thousand-year-old
ideas as to what constitutes the highest type of human relation to
environment is all wrong, or else we must evolve a new attitude toward
this new phenomena. It is human nature to do the latter. Therefore the
native has not abandoned his old gods; nor has he adopted a new. He
still believes firmly that his way is the best way of doing things, but
he acknowledges the Superman.

To the Superman, with all races, anything is possible. Only our Superman
is an idea, and ideal. The native has his Superman before him in the
actual flesh.

We will suppose that our own Superman has appeared among us,
accomplishing things that apparently contravene all our established
tenets of skill, of intellect, of possibility. It will be readily
acknowledged that such an individual would at first create some
astonishment. He wanders into a crowded hotel lobby, let us say,
evidently with the desire of going to the bar. Instead of pushing
laboriously through the crowd, he floats just above their heads, gets
his drink, and floats out again! That is levitation, and is probably
just as simple to him as striking a match is to you and me. After we
get thoroughly accustomed to him and his life, we are no longer vastly
astonished, though always interested, at the various manifestations
of his extraordinary powers. We go right along using the marvellous
wireless, aeroplanes, motor cars, constructive machinery, and the
like that make us confident-justly, of course-in that we are about the
smartest lot of people on earth. And if we see red, white, and blue
streamers of light crossing the zenith at noon, we do not manifest any
very profound amazement. "There's that confounded Superman again," we
mutter, if we happen to be busy. "I wonder what stunt he's going to do
now!"

A consideration of the above beautiful fable may go a little way toward
explaining the supposed native stolidity in the face of the white man's
wonders. A few years ago some misguided person brought a balloon to
Nairobi. The balloon interested the white people a lot, but everybody
was chiefly occupied wondering what the natives would do when they saw
THAT! The natives did not do anything. They gathered in large numbers,
and most interestedly watched it go up, and then went home again. But
they were not stricken with wonder to any great extent. So also with
locomotives, motor cars, telephones, phonographs-any of our modern
ingenuities. The native is pleased and entertained, but not astonished.
"Stupid creature, no imagination," say we, because our pride in showing
off is a wee bit hurt.

Why should he be astonished? His mental revolution took place when he
saw the first match struck. It is manifestly impossible for any one to
make fire instantaneously by rubbing one small stick. When for the first
time he saw it done, he was indeed vastly astounded. The immutable had
been changed. The law had been transcended. The impossible had been
accomplished. And then, as logical sequence, his mind completed the
syllogism. If the white man can do this impossibility, why not all the
rest? To defy the laws of nature by flying in the air or forcing great
masses of iron to transport one, is no more wonderful than to defy
them by striking a light. Since the white man can provedly do one, what
earthly reason exists why he should not do anything else that hits his
fancy? There is nothing to get astonished at.

This does not necessarily mean that the native looks on the white man
as a god. On the contrary, your African is very shrewd in the reading of
character. But indubitably white men possess great magic, uncertain in
its extent.

That is as far as I should care to go, without much deeper acquaintance,
into the attitude of the native mind toward the whites. A superficial
study of it, beyond the general principals I have enunciated, discloses
many strange contradictions. The native respects the white man's warlike
skill, he respects his physical prowess, he certainly acknowledges
tacitly his moral superiority in the right to command. In case of
dispute he likes the white man's adjudication; in case of illness the
man's medicine; in case of trouble the white man's sustaining hand. Yet
he almost never attempts to copy the white man's appearance or ways of
doing things. His own savage customs and habits he fulfils with as much
pride as ever in their eternal fitness. Once I was badgering Memba Sasa,
asking him whether he thought the white skin or the black skin the more
ornamental. "You are not white," he retorted at last. "That," pointing
to a leaf of my notebook, "is white. You are red. I do not like the
looks of red people."

They call our speech the "snake language," because of its hissing sound.
Once this is brought to your attention, indeed, you cannot help noticing
the superabundance of the sibilants.

A queer melange the pigeonholes of an African's brain must contain-fear
and respect, strongly mingled with clear estimate of intrinsic character
of individuals and a satisfaction with his own standards.

Nor, I think, do we realize sufficiently the actual fundamental
differences between the African and our peoples. Physically they must
be in many ways as different from our selves as though they actually
belonged to a different species. The Masai are a fine big race,
enduring, well developed and efficient. They live exclusively on cow's
milk mixed with blood; no meat, no fruit, no vegetables, no grain;
just that and nothing more. Obviously they must differ from us most
radically, or else all our dietetic theories are wrong. It is a
well-known fact that any native requires a triple dose of white man's
medicine. Furthermore a native's sensitiveness to pain is very much
less than the white man's. This is indubitable. For example, the Wakamba
file-or, rather, chip, by means of a small chisel-all their front
teeth down to needle points, When these happen to fall out, the warrior
substitutes an artificial tooth which he drives down into the socket.
If the savage got the same effects from such a performance that a white
man's dental system would arouse, even "savage stoicism" would hardly
do him much good. There is nothing to be gained by multiplying examples.
Every African traveller can recall a thousand.

Incidentally, and by the way, I want to add to the milk-and-blood joke
on dietetics another on the physical culturists. We are all familiar
with the wails over the loss of our toe nails. You know what I mean;
they run somewhat like this: shoes are the curse of civilization; if
we wear them much longer we shall not only lose the intended use of our
feet, but we shall lose our toe nails as well; the savage man, etc.,
etc., etc. Now I saw a great many of said savage men in Africa, and I
got much interested in their toe nails, because I soon found that our
own civilized "imprisoned" toe nails were very much better developed. In
fact, a large number of the free and untramelled savages have hardly any
toe nails at all! Whether this upsets a theory, nullifies a sentimental
protest, or merely stands as an exception, I should not dare guess. But
the fact is indubitable.


XVIII. IN THE JUNGLE (a) THE MARCH TO MERU

Now, one day we left the Isiola River and cut across on a long upward
slant to the left. In a very short time we had left the plains, and were
adrift in an ocean of brown grass that concealed all but the bobbing
loads atop the safari, and over which we could only see when mounted. It
was glorious feed, apparently, but it contained very few animals for all
that. An animal could without doubt wax fat and sleek therein: but only
to furnish light and salutary meals to beasts of prey. Long grass makes
easy stalking. We saw a few ostriches, some giraffe, and three or
four singly adventurous oryx. The ripening grasses were softer than a
rippling field grain; and even more beautiful in their umber and browns.
Although apparently we travelled a level, nevertheless in the extreme
distance the plains of our hunting were dropping below, and the far off
mountains were slowly rising above the horizon. On the other side were
two very green hills, looking nearly straight up and down, and through a
cleft the splintered snow-clad summit of Mt. Kenia.

At length this gentle foothill slope broke over into rougher country.
Then, in the pass, we came upon many parallel beaten paths, wider and
straighter than the game trails-native tracks. That night we camped in
a small, round valley under some glorious trees, with green grass around
us; a refreshing contrast after the desert brown. In the distance ahead
stood a big hill, and at its base we could make out amid the tree-green,
the straight slim smoke of many fires and the threads of many roads.

We began our next morning's march early, and we dropped over the hill
into a wide, cultivated valley. Fields of grain, mostly rape, were
planted irregularly among big scattered trees. The morning air, warming
under the sun, was as yet still, and carried sound well. The cooing,
chattering and calling of thousands of birds mingled with shouts and the
clapping together of pieces of wood. As we came closer we saw that every
so often scaffolds had been erected overlooking the grain, and on these
scaffolds naked boys danced and yelled and worked clappers to scare the
birds from the crops. They seemed to put a great deal of rigour into the
job; whether from natural enthusiasm or efficient direful supervision I
could not say. Certainly they must have worked in watches, however; no
human being could keep up that row continuously for a single day, let
alone the whole season of ripening grain. As we passed they fell silent
and stared their fill.

On the banks of a boggy little stream that we had to flounder across we
came on a gentleman and lady travelling. They were a tall, well formed
pair, mahogany in colour, with the open, pleasant expression of most of
these jungle peoples. The man wore a string around his waist into which
was thrust a small leafy branch; the woman had on a beautiful skirt made
by halving a banana leaf, using the stem as belt, and letting the leaf
part hang down as a skirt. Shortly after meeting these people we turned
sharp to the right on a well beaten road.

For nearly two weeks we were to follow this road, so it may be as well
to get an idea of it. Its course was a segment of about a sixth of the
circle of Kenia's foothills. With Kenia itself as a centre, this road
swung among the lower elevations about the base of that great mountain.
Its course was mainly down and up hundreds of the canyons radiating from
the main peak, and over the ridges between them. No sooner were we down,
than we had to climb up; and no sooner were we up, than once more down
we had to plunge. At times, however, we crossed considerable plateaus.
Most of this country was dense jungle, so dense that we could not see
on either side more than fifteen or twenty feet. Occasionally, atop the
ridges, however, we would come upon small open parks. In these jungles
live millions of human beings.

At once, as soon as we had turned into the main road, we began to meet
people. In the grain fields of the valley we saw only the elevated boys,
and a few men engaged in weaving a little house perched on stilts. We
came across some of these little houses all completed, with conical
roofs. They were evidently used for granaries. As we mounted the slope
on the other side, however, the trees closed in, and we found ourselves
marching down the narrow aisle of the jungle itself.

It was a dense and beautiful jungle, with very tall trees and the
deepest shade; and the impenetrable tangle to the edge of the track.
Among the trees were the broad leaves of bananas and palms, the fling
of leafy vines. Over the track these leaned, so that we rode through
splashing and mottling shade. Nothing could have seemed wilder than
this apparently impenetrable and yet we had ridden but a short distance
before we realized that we were in fact passing through cultivated land.
It was, again, only a difference in terms. Native cultivation in this
district rarely consists of clearing land and planting crops in due
order, but in leaving the forest proper as it is, and in planting
foodstuffs haphazard wherever a tiny space can be made for even three
hills of corn or a single banana. Thus they add to rather than subtract
from the typical density of the jungle. At first, we found, it took some
practice to tell a farm when we saw it.

From the track narrow little paths wound immediately out of sight.
Sometimes we saw a wisp of smoke rising above the undergrowth and
eddying in the tops of the trees. Long vine ropes swung from point to
point, hung at intervals with such matters as feathers, bones, miniature
shields, carved sticks, shells and clappers: either as magic or to keep
off the birds. From either side the track we were conscious always of
bright black eyes watching us. Sometimes we caught a glimpse of their
owners crouched in the bush, concealed behind banana leaves, motionless
and straight against a tree trunk. When they saw themselves observed
they vanished without a sound.

The upper air was musical with birds, and bright with the flutter of
their wings. Rarely did we see them long enough to catch a fair idea of
their size and shape. They flashed from shade to shade, leaving only
an impression of brilliant colour. There were some exceptions: as the
widower-bird, dressed all in black, with long trailing wing-plumes of
which he seemed very proud; and the various sorts of green pigeons and
parrots. There were many flowering shrubs and trees, and the air was
laden with perfume. Strange, too, it seemed to see tall trees with
leaves three or four feet long and half as many wide.

We were riding a mile or so ahead of the safari. At first we were
accompanied only by our gunbearers and syces. Before long, however, we
began to accumulate a following.

This consisted at first of a very wonderful young man, probably a
chief's son. He carried a long bright spear, wore a short sword thrust
through a girdle, had his hair done in three wrapped queues, one over
each temple and one behind, and was generally brought to a high state
of polish by means of red earth and oil. About his knee he wore a little
bell that jingled pleasingly at every step. From one shoulder hung a
goat-skin cloak embroidered with steel beads. A small package neatly
done up in leaves probably contained his lunch. He teetered along with a
mincing up and down step, every movement, and the expression of his face
displaying a fatuous self-satisfaction. When we looked back again this
youth had magically become two. Then appeared two women and a white
goat. All except the goat were dressed for visiting, with long chains of
beads, bracelets and anklets, and heavy ornaments in the distended ear
lobes. The manner people sprang apparently out of the ground was very
disconcerting. It was a good deal like those fairy-story moving pictures
where a wave of the wand produces beautiful ladies. By half an hour
we had acquired a long retinue-young warriors, old men, women and
innumerable children. After we had passed, the new recruits stepped
quietly from the shadow of the jungle and fell in. Every one with
nothing much to do evidently made up his mind he might as well go to
Meru now as any other time.

Also we met a great number of people going in the other direction. Women
were bearing loads of yams. Chiefs' sons minced along, their spears
poised in their left hands at just the proper angle, their bangles
jingling, their right hands carried raised in a most affected manner.
Their social ease was remarkable, especially in contrast with the
awkwardness of the lower poverty-stricken or menial castes. The latter
drew one side to let us pass, and stared. Our chiefs' sons, on the other
hand, stepped springingly and beamingly forward; spat carefully in their
hands (we did the same); shook hands all down the line: exchanged
a long-drawn "moo-o-ga!" with each of us; and departed at the same
springing rapid gait. The ordinary warriors greeted us, but did not
offer to shake hands, thank goodness! There were a great many of them.
Across the valleys and through the open spaces the sun, as it struck
down the trail, was always flashing back from distant spears. Twice we
met flocks of sheep being moved from one point to another. Three or four
herdsmen and innumerable small boys seemed to be in charge. Occasionally
we met a real chief or headman of a village, distinguished by the
fact that he or a servant carried a small wooden stool. With these
dignitaries we always stopped to exchange friendly words.

These comprised the travelling public. The resident public also showed
itself quite in evidence. Once our retainers had become sufficiently
numerous to inspire confidence, the jungle people no longer hid. On
the contrary, they came out to the very edge of the track to exchange
greetings. They were very good-natured, exceedingly well-formed, and
quite jocular with our boys. Especially did our suave and elegant Simba
sparkle. This resident public, called from its daily labours and duties,
did not always show as gaudy a make-up as did the dressed-up travelling
public. Banana leaves were popular wear, and seemed to us at once pretty
and fresh. To be sure some had rather withered away; but even wool will
shrink. We saw some grass skirts, like the Sunday-school pictures.

At noon we stopped under a tree by a little stream for lunch. Before
long a dozen women were lined up in front of us staring at Billy with
all their might. She nodded and smiled at them. Thereupon they sent
one of their number away. The messenger returned after a few moments
carrying a bunch of the small eating bananas which she laid at our feet.
Billy fished some beads out of her saddle bags, and presented them.
Friendly relations having been thus fully established, two or three of
the women scurried hastily away, to return a few moments later each with
her small child. To these infants they carefully and earnestly pointed
out Billy and her wonders, talking in a tongue unknown to us. The
admonition undoubtedly ran something like this:

"Now, my child, look well at this: for when you get to be a very old
person you will be able to look back at the day when with your own
eyes you beheld a white woman. See all the strange things she wears-and
HASN'T she a funny face?"

We offered these bung-eyed and totally naked youngsters various bribes
in the way of beads, the tinfoil from chocolate, and even a small piece
of the chocolate itself. Most of them howled and hid their faces against
their mothers. The mothers looked scandalized, and hypocritically
astounded, and mortified.

They made remarks, still in an unknown language, but which much past
experience enabled me to translate very readily:

"I don't know what has got into little Willie," was the drift of it. "I
have never known him to act this way before. Why, only yesterday I was
saying to his father that it really seemed as though that child NEVER
cried-"

It made me feel quite friendly and at home.

Now at last came two marvellous and magnificent personages before
whom the women and children drew back to a respectful distance. These
potentates squatted down and smiled at us engagingly. Evidently this was
a really important couple, so we called up Simba, who knew the language,
and had a talk.

They were old men, straight, and very tall, with the hawk-faced,
high-headed dignity of the true aristocrat. Their robes were voluminous,
of some short-haired skins, beautifully embroidered. Around their arms
were armlets of polished buffalo horn. They wore most elaborate ear
ornaments, and long cased marquise rings extending well beyond the first
joints of the fingers. Very fine old gentlemen. They were quite unarmed.

After appropriate greetings, we learned that these were the chief
and his prime minister of a nearby village hidden in the jungle. We
exchanged polite phrases; then offered tobacco. This was accepted.
From the jungle came a youth carrying more bananas. We indicated our
pleasure. The old men arose with great dignity and departed, sweeping
the women and children before them.

We rode on. Our acquired retinue, which had waited at a respectful
distance, went on too. I suppose they must have desired the prestige
of being attached to Our Persons. In the depths of the forest Billy
succumbed to the temptation to bargain, and made her first trade. Her
prize was a long water gourd strapped with leather and decorated with
cowry shells. Our boys were completely scandalized at the price she paid
for it, so I fear the wily savage got ahead of her.

About the middle of the afternoon we sat down to wait for the safari to
catch up. It would never do to cheat our boys out of their anticipated
grand entrance to the Government post at Meru. We finally debouched
from the forest to the great clearing at the head of a most impressive
procession, flags flying, oryx horns blowing, boys chanting and beating
the sides of their loads with the safari sticks. As there happened to be
gathered, at this time, several thousand of warriors for the purpose
of a council, or shauri, with the District Commissioner we had just the
audience to delight our barbaric hearts.

(b) MERU

The Government post at Meru is situated in a clearing won from the
forest on the first gentle slopes of Kenia's ranges. The clearing is a
very large one, and on it the grass grows green and short, like a lawn.
It resembles, as much as anything else, the rolling, beautiful downs
of a first-class country club, and the illusion is enhanced by the
Commissioner's house among some trees atop a hill. Well-kept roadways
railed with rustic fences lead from the house to the native quarters
lying in the hollow and to the Government offices atop another hill.
Then also there are the quarters of the Nubian troops; round low houses
with conical grass roofs.

These, and the presence everywhere of savages, rather take away from
the first country-club effect. A corral seemed full of a seething mob of
natives; we found later that this was the market, a place of exchange.
Groups wandered idly here and there across the greensward; and other
groups sat in circles under the shade of trees, each man's spear stuck
in the ground behind him. At stated points were the Nubians, fine, tall,
black, soldierly men, with red fez, khaki shirt, and short breeches,
bare knees and feet, spiral puttees, and a broad red sash of webbing.
One of these soldiers assigned us a place to camp. We directed our
safari there, and then immediately rode over to pay our respects to the
Commissioner.

The latter, Horne by name, greeted us with the utmost cordiality, and
offered us cool drinks. Then we accompanied him to a grand shauri or
council of chiefs.

Horne was a little chap, dressed in flannels and a big slouch hat,
carrying only a light rawhide whip, with very little of the dignity and
"side" usually considered necessary in dealing with wild natives. The
post at Meru had been established only two years, among a people that
had always been very difficult, and had only recently ceased open
hostilities. Nevertheless in that length of time Horne's personal
influence had won them over to positive friendliness. He had, moreover,
done the entire construction work of the post itself; and this we now
saw to be even more elaborate than we had at first realized. Irrigating
ditches ran in all directions brimming with clear mountain water; the
roads and paths were rounded, graded and gravelled; the houses were
substantial, well built and well kept; fences, except of course the
rustic, were whitewashed; the native quarters and "barracks" were well
ranged and in perfect order. The place looked ten years old instead of
only two.

We followed Horne to an enclosure, outside the gate of which were
stacked a great number of spears. Inside we found the owners of those
spears squatted before the open side of a small, three-walled building
containing a table and a chair. Horne placed himself in the chair,
lounged back, and hit the table smartly with his rawhide whip. From the
centre of the throng an old man got up and made quite a long speech.
When he had finished another did likewise. All was carried out with the
greatest decorum. After four or five had thus spoken, Horne, without
altering his lounging attitude, spoke twenty or thirty words, rapped
again on the table with his rawhide whip, and immediately came over to
us.

"Now," said he cheerfully, "we'll have a game of golf."

That was amusing, but not astonishing. Most of us have at one time or
another laid out a scratch hole or so somewhere in the vacant lot. We
returned to the house, Horne produced a sufficiency of clubs, and we
sallied forth. Then came the surprise of our life! We played eighteen
holes-eighteen, mind you-over an excellently laid-out and kept-up
course! The fair greens were cropped short and smooth by a well-managed
small herd of sheep; the putting greens were rolled, and in perfect
order; bunkers had been located at the correct distances; there
were water hazards in the proper spots. In short, it was a genuine,
scientific, well-kept golf course. Over it played Horne, solitary except
on the rare occasions when he and his assistant happened to be at the
post at the same time. The nearest white man was six days' journey;
the nearest small civilization 196 miles.* The whole affair was most
astounding.

     * Which was, in turn, over three hundred miles from the
     next.

Our caddies were grinning youngsters a good deal like the Gold
Dust Twins. They wore nothing but our golf bags. Afield were other
supernumerary caddies: one in case we sliced, one in case we pulled,
and one in case we drove straight ahead. Horne explained that unlimited
caddies were easier to get than unlimited golf balls. I can well believe
it.

F. joined forces with Horne against B. and me for a grand international
match. I regret to state that America was defeated by two holes.

We returned to find our camp crowded with savages. In a short time we
had established trade relations and were doing a brisk business. Two
years before we should have had to barter exclusively; but now, thanks
to Horne's attempt to collect an annual hut tax, money was some good. We
had, however, very good luck with bright blankets and cotton cloth.
Our beads did not happen here to be in fashion. Probably three months
earlier or later we might have done better with them. The feminine mind
here differs in no basic essential from that of civilization. Fashions
change as rapidly, as often and as completely in the jungle as in Paris.
The trader who brings blue beads when blue beads have "gone out" might
just as well have stayed at home. We bought a number of the pretty
"marquise" rings for four cents apiece (our money), some war clubs or
rungas for the same, several spears, armlets, stools and the like. Billy
thought one of the short, soft skin cloaks embroidered with steel beads
might be nice to hang on the wall. We offered a youth two rupees for
one. This must have been a high price, for every man in hearing of the
words snatched off his cloak and rushed forward holding it out. As that
reduced his costume to a few knick-knacks, Billy retired from the busy
mart until we could arrange matters.

We dined with Horne. His official residence was most interesting. The
main room was very high to beams and a grass-thatched roof, with a
well-brushed earth floor covered with mats. It contained comfortable
furniture, a small library, a good phonograph, tables, lamps and the
like. When the mountain chill descended, Horne lit a fire in a coal-oil
can with a perforated bottom. What little smoke was produced by the
clean burning wood lost itself far aloft. Leopard skins and other
trophies hung on the wall. We dined in another room at a well-appointed
table. After dinner we sat up until the unheard of hour of ten o'clock
discussing at length many matters that interested us. Horne told us of
his personal bodyguard consisting of one son from each chief of his wide
district. These youths were encouraged to make as good an appearance
as possible, and as a consequence turned out in the extreme of savage
gorgeousness. Horne spoke of them carelessly as a "matter of policy in
keeping the different tribes well disposed," but I thought he was at
heart a little proud of them. Certainly, later and from other sources,
we heard great tales of their endurance, devotion and efficiency. Also
we heard that Horne had cut in half his six months' leave (earned
by three years' continuous service in the jungle) to hurry back from
England because he could not bear the thought of being absent from the
first collection of the hut tax! He is a good man.

We said good-night to him and stepped from the lighted house into
the vast tropical night. The little rays of our lantern showed us the
inequalities of the ground, and where to step across the bubbling,
little irrigation streams. But thousands of stars insisted on a
simplification. The broad, rolling meadows of the clearing lay half
guessed in the dim light; and about its edge was the velvet band of
the forest, dark and mysterious, stretching away for leagues into the
jungle. From it near at hand, far away, came the rhythmic beating of
solemn great drums, and the rising and falling chants of the savage
peoples.

(C) THE CHIEFS

We left Meru well observed by a very large audience, much to the delight
of our safari boys, who love to show off. We had acquired fourteen more
small boys, or totos, ranging in age from eight to twelve years. These
had been fitted out by their masters to alleviate their original shenzi
appearance of savagery. Some had ragged blankets, which they had already
learned to twist turban wise around their heads; others had ragged
old jerseys reaching to their knees, or the wrecks of full-grown
undershirts; one or two even sported baggy breeches a dozen sizes too
large. Each carried his little load, proudly, atop his head like a real
porter, sufurias or cooking pots, the small bags of potio, and the like.
Inside a mile they had gravitated together and with the small boy's
relish for imitation and for playing a game, had completed a miniature
safari organization of their own. Thenceforth they marched in a compact
little company, under orders of their "headman." They marched very well,
too, straight and proud and tireless. Of course we inspected their loads
to see that they were not required to carry too much for their strength;
but, I am bound to say, we never discovered an attempt at overloading.
In fact, the toto brigade was treated very well indeed. M'ganga
especially took great interest in their education and welfare. One of
my most vivid camp recollections is that of M'ganga, very benign and
didactic, seated on a chop box and holding forth to a semicircle of
totos squatted on the ground before him. On reaching camp totos had
several clearly defined duties: they must pick out good places for their
masters' individual camps, they must procure cooking stones, they must
collect kindling wood and start fires, they must fill the sufurias with
water and set them over to boil. In the meantime, their masters were
attending to the pitching of the bwana's camp. The rest of the time the
toto played about quite happily, and did light odd jobs, or watched most
attentively while his master showed him small details of a safari-boy's
duty, or taught him simple handicraft. Our boys seemed to take great
pains with their totos and to try hard to teach them.

Also at Meru we had acquired two cocks and four hens of the ridiculously
small native breed. These rode atop the loads: their feet were tied to
the cords and there they swayed and teetered and balanced all day long,
apparently quite happy and interested. At each new camp site they were
released and went scratching and clucking around among the tents. They
lent our temporary quarters quite a settled air of domesticity. We named
the cocks Gaston and Alphonse and somehow it was rather fine, in
the blackness before dawn, to hear these little birds crowing
stout-heartedly against the great African wilderness. Neither Gaston,
Alphonse nor any of their harem were killed and eaten by their owners;
but seemed rather to fulfil the function of household pets.

Along the jungle track we met swarms of people coming in to the post.
One large native safari composed exclusively of women were transporting
loads of trade goods for the Indian trader. They carried their burdens
on their backs by means of a strap passing over the top of the head; our
own "tump line" method. The labour seemed in no way to have dashed their
spirits, for they grinned at us, and joked merrily with our boys. Along
the way, every once in a while, we came upon people squatted down behind
small stocks of sugarcane, yams, bananas, and the like. With these our
boys did a brisk trade. Little paths led mysteriously into the jungle.
Down them came more savages to greet us. Everybody was most friendly and
cheerful, thanks to Horne's personal influence. Two years before this
same lot had been hostile. From every hidden village came the headmen
or chiefs. They all wanted to shake hands-the ordinary citizen never
dreamed of aspiring to that honour-and they all spat carefully into
their palms before they did so. This all had to be done in passing; for
ordinary village headmen it was beneath Our Dignity to draw rein. Once
only we broke over this rule. That was in the case of an old fellow with
white hair who managed to get so tangled up in the shrubbery that he
could not get to us. He was so frantic with disappointment that we made
an exception and waited.

About three miles out, we lost one of our newly acquired totos. Reason:
an exasperated parent who had followed from Meru for the purpose of
reclaiming his runaway offspring. The latter was dragged off howling.
Evidently he, like some of his civilized cousins, had "run away to join
the circus." As nearly as we could get at it, the rest of the totos, as
well as the nine additional we picked up before we quitted the jungle,
had all come with their parents' consent. In fact, we soon discovered
that we could buy any amount of good sound totos, not house broke
however, for an average of half a rupee (16-1/2 cents) apiece.

The road was very much up and down hill over the numerous ridges that
star-fish out from Mt. Kenia. We would climb down steep trails from 200
to 800 feet (measured by aneroid), cross an excellent mountain stream of
crystalline dashing water, and climb out again. The trails of course had
no notion of easy grades. It was very hard work, especially for men with
loads; and it would have been impossible on account of the heat were
it not for the numerous streams. On the slopes and in the bottoms
were patches of magnificent forest; on the crests was the jungle, and
occasionally an outlook over extended views. The birds and the strange
tropical big-leaved trees were a constant delight-exotic and strange.
Billy was in a heaven of joy, for her specialty in Africa was plants,
seeds and bulbs, for her California garden. She had syces, gunbearers
and tent boys all climbing, shaking branches, and generally pawing
about.

This idiosyncracy of Billy's puzzled our boys hugely. At first they
tried telling her that everything was poisonous; but when that did not
work, they resigned themselves to their fate. In fact, some of the most
enterprising like Memba Sasa, Kitaru, and, later, Kongoni used of their
own accord to hunt up and bring in seeds and blossoms. They did not in
the least understand what it was for; and it used to puzzle them
hugely until out of sheer pity for their uneasiness, I implied that the
Memsahib collected "medicine." That was rational, so the wrinkled brow
of care was smoothed. From this botanical trait, Billy got her native
name of "Beebee Kooletta"-"The Lady Who Says: Go Get That." For in
Africa every white man has a name by which he is known among the native
people. If you would get news of your friends, you must know their local
cognomens-their own white man names will not do at all. For example,
I was called either Bwana Machumwani or Bwana N'goma. The former means
merely Master Four-eyes, referring to my glasses. The precise meaning of
the latter is a matter much disputed between myself and Billy. An N'goma
is a native dance, consisting of drum poundings, chantings, and hoppings
around. Therefore I translate myself (most appropriately) as the
Master who Makes Merry. On the other hand, Billy, with true feminine
indirectness, insists that it means "The Master who Shouts and Howls." I
leave it to any fairminded reader.

About the middle of the morning we met a Government runner, a proud
youth, young, lithe, with many ornaments and bangles; his red skin
glistening; the long blade of his spear, bound around with a red strip
to signify his office, slanting across his shoulder; his buffalo hide
shield slung from it over his back; the letter he was bearing stuck in
a cleft stick and carried proudly before him as a priest carries a cross
to the heathen-in the pictures. He was swinging along at a brisk pace,
but on seeing us drew up and gave us a smart military salute.

At one point where the path went level and straight for some distance,
we were riding in an absolute solitude. Suddenly from the jungle on
either side and about fifty yards ahead of us leaped a dozen women. They
were dressed in grass skirts, and carried long narrow wooden shields
painted white and brown. These they clashed together, shrieked shrilly,
and charged down on us at full speed. When within a few yards of
our horses noses they came to a sudden halt, once more clashed their
shields, shrieked, turned and scuttled away as fast as their legs
could carry them. At a hundred yards they repeated the performance; and
charged back at us again. Thus advancing and retreating, shrieking high,
hitting the wooden shields with resounding crash, they preceded our slow
advance for a half mile or so. Then at some signal unperceived by us
they vanished abruptly into the jungle. Once more we rode forward in
silence and in solitude. Why they did it I could not say.

Of this tissue were our days made. At noon our boys plucked us each two
or three banana leaves which they spread down for us to lie on. Then
we dozed through the hot hours in great comfort, occasionally waking to
blue sky through green trees, or to peer idly into the tangled jungle.
At two o'clock or a little later we would arouse ourselves reluctantly
and move on. The safari we had dimly heard passing us an hour before.
In this country of the direct track we did not attempt to accompany our
men.

The end of the day's march found us in a little clearing where we could
pitch camp. Generally this was atop a ridge, so that the boys had some
distance to carry water; but that disadvantage was outweighed by the
cleared space. Sometimes we found ourselves hemmed in by a wall of
jungle. Again we enjoyed a broad outlook. One such in especial took in
the magnificent, splintered, snow-capped peak of Kenia on the right, a
tremendous gorge and rolling forested mountains straight ahead, and a
great drop to a plain with other and distant mountains to the left. It
was as fine a panoramic view as one could imagine.

Our tents pitched, and ourselves washed and refreshed, we gave audience
to the resident chief, who had probably been waiting. With this
potentate we conversed affably, after the usual expectoratorial
ceremonies. Billy, being a mere woman, did not always come in for this;
but nevertheless she maintained what she called her "quarantine gloves,"
and kept them very handy. We had standing orders with our boys for
basins of hot water to be waiting always behind our tents. After the
usual polite exchanges we informed the chief of our needs-firewood,
perhaps, milk, a sheep or the like. These he furnished. When we left we
made him a present of a few beads, a knife, a blanket or such according
to the value of his contribution.

To me these encounters were some of the most interesting of our many
experiences, for each man differed radically from every other in his
conceptions of ceremony, in his ideas, and in his methods. Our coming
was a good deal of an event, always, and each chief, according to his
temperament and training, tried to do things up properly. And in
that attempt certain basic traits of human nature showed in the very
strongest relief. Thus there are three points of view to take in running
any spectacle: that of the star performer, the stage manager, or the
truly artistic. We encountered well-marked specimens of each. I will
tell you about them.

The star performer knew his stagecraft thoroughly; and in the exposition
of his knowledge he showed incidentally how truly basic are the
principles of stagecraft anywhere.

We were seated under a tree near the banks of a stream eating our lunch.
Before us appeared two tall and slender youths, wreathed in smiles,
engaging, and most attentive to the small niceties of courtesy. We
returned their greeting from our recumbent positions, whereupon they
made preparation to squat down beside us.

"Are you sultans?" we demanded sternly, "that you attempt to sit in Our
Presence," and we lazily kicked the nearest.

Not at all abashed, but favourably impressed with our transcendent
importance-as we intended-they leaned gracefully on their spears and
entered into conversation. After a few trifles of airy persiflage they
got down to business.

"This," said they, indicating the tiny flat, "is the most beautiful
place to camp in all the mountains."

We doubted it.

"Here is excellent water."

We agreed to that.

"And there is no more water for a journey."

"You are liars," we observed politely.

"And near is the village of our chief, who is a great warrior, and will
bring you many presents; the greatest man in these parts."

"Now you're getting to it," we observed in English; "you want trade."
Then in Swahili, "We shall march two hours longer."

After a few polite phrases they went away. We finished lunch, remounted,
and rode up the trail. At the edge of the canyon we came to a wide
clearing, at the farther side of which was evidently the village in
question. But the merry villagers, down to the last toro, were drawn up
at the edge of the track in a double line through which we rode. They
were very wealthy savages, and wore it all. Bright neck, arm, and leg
ornaments, yards and yards of cowry shells in strings, blue beads of
all sizes (blue beads were evidently "in"), odd scraps and shapes of
embroidered skins, clean shaves and a beautiful polish characterized
this holiday gathering. We made our royal progress between the
serried ranks. About eight or ten seconds after we had passed the last
villager-just the proper dramatic pause, you observe-the bushes parted
and a splendid, straight, springy young man came into view and stepped
smilingly across the space that separated us. And about eight or ten
seconds after his emergence-again just the right dramatic pause-the
bushes parted again to give entrance to four of the quaintest little
dolls of wives. These advanced all abreast, parted, and took up
positions two either side the smiling chief. This youth was evidently
in the height of fashion, his hair braided in a tight queue bound with
skin, his ears dangling with ornaments, heavy necklaces around his neck,
and armlets etc., ad lib. His robe was of fine monkey skin embroidered
with rosettes of beads, and his spear was very long, bright and keen. He
was tall and finely built carried himself with a free, lithe swing. As
the quintette came to halt, the villagers fell silent and our shauri
began.

We drew up and dismounted. We all expectorated as gentlemen.

"These," said he proudly, "are my beebees."

We replied that they seemed like excellent beebees and politely inquired
the price of wives thereabout, and also the market for totos. He gave us
to understand that such superior wives as these brought three cows and
twenty sheep apiece, but that you could get a pretty good toto for half
a rupee.

"When we look upon our women," he concluded grandly, "we find them
good; but when we look upon the white women they are as nothing!"
He completely obliterated the poor little beebees with a magnificent
gesture. They looked very humble and abashed. I was, however, a bit
uncertain as to whether this was intended as a genuine tribute to Billy,
or was meant to console us for having only one to his four.

Now observe the stagecraft of all this: entrance of diplomats,
preliminary conversation introducing the idea of the greatness of
N'Zahgi (for that was his name), chorus of villagers, and, as climax,
dramatic entrance of the hero and heroines. It was pretty well done.

Again we stopped about the middle of the afternoon in an opening on the
rounded top of a hill. While waiting for the safari to come up, Billy
wandered away fifty or sixty yards to sit under a big tree. She did not
stay long. Immediately she was settled, a dozen women and young girls
surrounded her. They were almost uproariously good-natured, but Billy
was probably the first white woman they had ever seen, and they intended
to make the most of her. Every item of her clothes and equipment they
examined minutely, handled and discussed. When she told them with great
dignity to go away, they laughed consumedly, fairly tumbling into each
other's arms with excess of joy. Billy tried to gather her effects for a
masterly retreat, but found the press of numbers too great. At last she
had to signal for help. One of us wandered over with a kiboko with which
lightly he flicked the legs of such damsels as he could reach. They
scattered like quail, laughing hilariously. Billy was escorted back to
safety.

Shortly after the Chief and his Prime Minister came in. He was a little
old gray-haired gentleman, as spry as a cricket, quite nervous, and very
chatty. We indicated our wants to him, and he retired after enunciating
many words. The safari came in, made camp. We had tea and a bath. The
darkness fell; and still no Chief, no milk, no firewood, no promises
fulfilled. There were plenty of natives around camp, but when we
suggested that they get out and rustle on our behalf, they merely
laughed good-naturedly. We seriously contemplated turning the whole lot
out of camp.

Finally we gave it up, and sat down to our dinner. It was now quite
dark. The askaris had built a little campfire out in front.

Then, far in the distance of the jungle's depths, we heard a faint
measured chanting as of many people coming nearer. From another
direction this was repeated. The two processions approached each other;
their paths converged; the double chanting became a chorus that grew
moment by moment. We heard beneath the wild weird minors the rhythmic
stamping of feet, and the tapping of sticks. The procession debouched
from the jungle's edge into the circle of the firelight. Our old chief
led, accompanied by a bodyguard in all the panoply of war: ostrich
feather circlets enclosing the head and face, shields of bright
heraldry, long glittering spears. These were followed by a dozen of the
quaintest solemn dolls of beebees dressed in all the white cowry shells,
beads and brass the royal treasury afforded, very earnest, very much
on inspection, every little head uplifted, singing away just as hard as
ever they could. Each carried a gourd of milk, a bunch of bananas, some
sugarcane, yams or the like. Straight to the fire marched the pageant.
Then the warriors dividing right and left, drew up facing each other
in two lines, struck their spears upright in the ground, and stood at
attention. The quaint brown little women lined up to close the end of
this hollow square, of which our group was, roughly speaking, the
fourth side. Then all came to attention. The song now rose to a wild
and ecstatic minor chanting. The beebees, still singing, one by one cast
their burdens between the files and at our feet in the middle of the
hollow square. Then they continued their chant, singing away at the tops
of their little lungs, their eyes and teeth showing, their pretty bodies
held rigidly upright. The warriors, very erect and military, stared
straight ahead.

And the chief? Was he the centre of the show, the important leading man,
to the contemplation of whom all these glories led? Not at all! This
particular chief did not have the soul of a leading man, but rather the
soul of a stage manager. Quite forgetful of himself and his part in the
spectacle, his brow furrowed with anxiety, he was flittering from one to
another of the performers. He listened carefully to each singer in turn,
holding his hand behind his ear to catch the individual note, striking
one on the shoulder in admonition, nodding approval at another. He
darted unexpectedly across to scrutinize a warrior, in the chance of
catching a flicker of the eyelid even. Nary a flicker! They did their
stage manager credit, and stood like magnificent bronzes. He even ran
across to peer into our own faces to see how we liked it.

With a sudden crescendo the music stopped. Involuntarily we broke
into handclapping. The old boy looked a bit startled at this, but we
explained to him, and he seemed very pleased. We then accepted formally
the heap of presents, by touching them-and in turn passed over a
blanket, a box of matches, and two needles, together with beads for the
beebees. Then F., on an inspiration, produced his flashlight. This made
a tremendous sensation. The women tittered and giggled and blinked as
its beams were thrown directly into their eyes; the chief's sons grinned
and guffawed; the chief himself laughed like a pleased schoolboy, and
seemed never to weary of the sudden shutting on and off of the switch.
But the trusty Spartan warriors, standing still in their formation
behind their planted spears, were not to be shaken. They glared straight
in front of them, even when we held the light within a few inches of
their eyes, and not a muscle quivered!

"It is wonderful! wonderful!" the old man repeated. "Many Government men
have come here, but none have had anything like that! The bwanas must be
very great sultans!"

After the departure of our friends, we went rather grandly to bed. We
always did after any one had called us sultans.

But our prize chief was an individual named M'booley.* Our camp here
also was on a fine cleared hilltop between two streams. After we had
traded for a while with very friendly and prosperous people M'booley
came in. He was young, tall, straight, with a beautiful smooth lithe
form, and his face was hawklike and cleverly intelligent. He carried
himself with the greatest dignity and simplicity, meeting us on an easy
plane of familiarity. I do not know how I can better describe his manner
toward us than to compare it to the manner the member of an exclusive
golf club would use to one who is a stranger, but evidently a guest. He
took our quality for granted; and supposed we must do the same by him,
neither acting as though he considered us "great white men," nor yet
standing aloof and too respectful. And as the distinguishing feature of
all, he was absolutely without personal ornament.

     * Pronounce each o separately.

Pause for a moment to consider what a real advance in esthetic taste
that one little fact stands for. All M'booley's attendants were the
giddiest and gaudiest savages we had yet seen, with more colobus fur,
sleighbells, polished metal, ostrich plumes, and red paint than would
have fitted out any two other royal courts of the jungle. The women too
were wealthy and opulent without limit. It takes considerable perception
among our civilized people to realize that severe simplicity amid ultra
magnificence makes the most effective distinguishing of an individual.
If you do not believe it, drop in at the next ball to which you are
invited. M'booley had fathomed this, and what was more he had the
strength of mind to act on it. Any savage loves finery for its own
sake. His hair was cut short, and shaved away at the edges to leave what
looked like an ordinary close-fitting skull cap. He wore one pair of
plain armlets on his left upper arm and small simple ear-rings. His robe
was black. He had no trace of either oil or paint, nor did he even carry
a spear.

He greeted us with good-humoured ease, and inquired conversationally if
we wanted anything. We suggested wood and milk, whereupon still
smiling, he uttered a few casual words in his own language to no one in
particular. There was no earthly doubt that he was chief. Three of the
most gorgeous and haughty warriors ran out of camp. Shortly long
files of women came in bringing loads of firewood; and others carrying
bananas, yams, sugarcane and a sheep. Truly M'booley did things on a
princely scale. We thanked him. He accepted the thanks with a casual
smile, waved his hand and went on to talk of something else. In due
order our M'ganga brought up one of our best trade blankets, to which we
added a half dozen boxes of matches and a razor.

Now into camp filed a small procession: four women, four children, and
two young men. These advanced to where M'booley was standing smoking
with great satisfaction one of B's tailor-made cigarettes. M'booley
advanced ten feet to meet them, and brought them up to introduce them
one by one in the most formal fashion. These were of course his family,
and we had to confess that they "saw" N'Zahgi's outfit of ornaments and
"raised" him beyond the ceiling. We gave them each in turn the handshake
of ceremony, first with the palms as we do it, and then each grasping
the other's upright thumb. The "little chiefs" were proud, aristocratic
little fellows, holding themselves very straight and solemn. I think one
would have known them for royalty anywhere.

It was quite a social occasion. None of our guests was in the least ill
at ease; in fact, the young ladies were quite coy and flirtatious. We
had a great many jokes. Each of the little ladies received a handful
of prevailing beads. M'booley smiled benignly at these delightful
femininities. After a time he led us to the edge of the hill and showed
us his houses across the cation, perched on a flat about halfway up the
wall. They were of the usual grass-thatched construction, but rather
larger and neater than most. Examining them through the glasses we saw
that a little stream had been diverted to flow through the front
yard. M'booley waved his hand abroad and gave us to understand that he
considered the outlook worth looking at. It was; but an appreciation of
that fact is foreign to the average native. Next morning, when we rode
by very early, we found the little flat most attractively cleared
and arranged. M'booley was out to shake us by the hand in farewell,
shivering in the cold of dawn. The flirtatious and spoiled little
beauties were not in evidence.

One day after two very deep canyons we emerged from the forest jungle
into an up and down country of high jungle bush-brush. From the top
of a ridge it looked a good deal like a northern cut-over pine country
grown up very heavily to blackberry vines; although, of course, when
we came nearer, the "blackberry vines" proved to be ten or twenty feet
high. This was a district of which Horne had warned us. The natives
herein were reported restless and semi-hostile; and in fact had never
been friendly. They probably needed the demonstration most native tribes
seem to require before they are content to settle down and be happy. At
any rate safaris were not permitted in their district; and we ourselves
were allowed to go through merely because we were a large party, did not
intend to linger, and had a good reputation with natives.

It is very curious how abruptly, in Central Africa, one passes from one
condition to another, from one tribe or race to the next. Sometimes, as
in the present case, it is the traversing of a deep cation; at others
the simple crossing of a tiny brook is enough. Moreover the line of
demarcation is clearly defined, as boundaries elsewhere are never
defined save in wartime.

Thus we smiled our good-bye to a friendly numerous people, descended a
hill, and ascended another into a deserted track. After a half mile we
came unexpectedly on to two men carrying each a load of reeds. These
they abandoned and fled up the hillside through the jungle, in spite of
our shouted assurances. A moment later they reappeared at some distance
above us, each with a spear he had snatched from somewhere; they were
unarmed when we first caught sight of them. Examined through the glasses
they proved to be sullen looking men, copper coloured, but broad across
the cheekbones, broad in the forehead, more decidedly of the negro type
than our late hosts.

Aside from these two men we travelled through an apparently deserted
jungle. I suspect, however, that we were probably well watched; for when
we stopped for noon we heard the gunbearers beyond the screen of leaves
talking to some one. On learning from our boys that these were some of
the shenzis, we told them to bring the savages in for a shauri; but in
this our men failed, nor could they themselves get nearer than fifty
yards or so to the wild people. So until evening our impression remained
that of two distant men, and the indistinct sound of voices behind a
leafy screen.

We made camp comparatively early in a wide open space surrounded by low
forest. Almost immediately then the savages commenced to drift in,
very haughty and arrogant. They were fully armed. Besides the spear and
decorated shield, some of them carried the curious small grass spears.
These are used to stab upward from below, the wielder lying flat in the
grass. Some of these men were fantastically painted with a groundwork
ochre, on which had been drawn intricate wavy designs on the legs,
like stockings, and varied stripes across the face. One particularly
ingenious individual, stark naked, had outlined a roughly entire
skeleton! He was a gruesome object! They stalked here and there through
the camp, looking at our men and their activities with a lofty and
silent contempt.

You may be sure we had our arrangements, though they did not appear on
the surface. The askaris, or native soldiers, were posted here and there
with their muskets; the gunbearers also kept our spare weapons by them.
The askaris could not hit a barn, but they could make a noise. The
gunbearers were fair shots.

Of course the chief and his prime minister came in. They were
evil-looking savages. To them we paid not the slightest attention, but
went about our usual business as though they did not exist. At the end
of an hour they of their own initiative greeted us. We did not hear
them. Half an hour later they disappeared, to return after an interval,
followed by a string of young men bearing firewood. Evidently our
bearing had impressed them, as we had intended. We then unbent far
enough to recognize them, carried on a formal conversation for a few
moments, gave them adequate presents and dismissed them. Then we ordered
the askaris to clear camp and to keep it clear. No women had appeared.
Even the gifts of firewood had been carried by men, a most unusual
proceeding.

As soon as dark fell the drums began roaring in the forest all about our
clearing, and the chanting to rise. We instructed our men to shoot first
and inquire afterward, if a shenzi so much as showed himself in the
clearing. This was not as bad as it sounded; the shenzi stood in no
immediate danger. Then we turned in to a sleep rather light and broken
by uncertainty. I do not think we were in any immediate danger of a
considered attack, for these people were not openly hostile; but there
was always a chance that the savages might by their drum pounding and
dancing work themselves into a frenzy. Then we might have to do a little
rapid shooting. Not for one instant the whole night long did those
misguided savages cease their howling and dancing. At any rate we cost
them a night's sleep.

Next morning we took up our march through the deserted tracks once more.
Not a sign of human life did we encounter. About ten o'clock we climbed
down a tremendous gash of a box canyon with precipitous cliffs. From
below we looked back to see, perched high against the skyline, the
motionless figures of many savages watching us from the crags. So we had
had company after all, and we had not known it. This canyon proved to
be the boundary line. With the same abruptness we passed again into
friendly country.

(d) OUT THE OTHER SIDE

We left the jungle finally when we turned on a long angle away from
Kenia. At first the open country of the foothills was closely cultivated
with fields of rape and maize. We saw some of the people breaking new
soil by means of long pointed sticks. Of the 34 verses that make up your
_awit_, 22 are of six syllables, 7, 5, 4, 7, and only 1 of 8 syllables.
This agrees with the practice followed by Tagalog in the determinations
of the syllabic quantities, because in the Pinpín, things may change.
Do not forget that true worship was Pinpín Castilian, and combined uses
Spanish and Tagalog on final syllables, and sinalefas hiatus, with a
kind of debauchery metric inherent in any transition period. Under
this view, while the song is a romancerillo in Pinpín for ladinos
hexasílabos for not ladinos, Tagalog or mass, is a combination of
rhymes, 6, 5, 7 and 8 syllables. To find another such conspicuous and
most prestigious poetic Pinpín (Friend of White San Jose, Pedro and
Pedro de San Buenaventura Herrera, and whose work was printer)
need to set foot in liminares eighteenth century.

Open this century in 1703 with the name of the venerable Gaspar Aquino
de Belén, author of the first poem of religious _Pasión_. His book
consists of two parts, prose and verse, the prose is a translation of
the recommendation of the soul of the Jesuit Thomas Villacastín, prose
that rivals the prose of _Barlaan_ he edited in 1712, and the verse
is _Pasión_, poem in half a century had five editions and was
translated almost all the dialects. It is not known whether before or
after the poem by Aquino de Belén, was first published in the _Pasión_
D. Luis Guide. Jesuit Delgado, who had to know the poem by Aquino
de Belén, not mint, however, on _Pasiones_, more than the guide, which
describes Excellency, and was re-printed in 1750 or 51. He had be it
in Quintillan of eight syllables, the poem Aquino of Bethlehem and
all the passions Tagalog.

D. Felipe de Jesus, but not more than its quoted _awit_ to _Barlaan_
(1712) 46 octosyllable quartets, will not lag behind Aquino de Belén,
and lyrically, it excels. If not as a poet, and lexicographer, but as
pilgrim learned critic literary expression, descuella on all its predecessors
in its genre, the Jesuit Lúcar San filipino. His work, according to its
critics, especially the Tagalog disciple of St.

Lúcar the Augustinian Friar Juan Serrano (who the P. Mesquida said in
approving _Meditaciones_ that "if Mussa would speak in Tagalog, Havi
price over Tagalog Serranas by Style "), was higher than the Nile
Nile Vocabulario Mong lalang ay nilalaloan and, as a vast river,
was to tax all the gear and vocabularies of the major talents of
the four religious orders, notably the Dominican and the Ignatian.

Fuel San Lúcar given to the glory of making the top three times in secular
works of the Spanish and the entire nation Tagalog "which" consists of
Comintang and because of Ting, and the Tagalog of Court, "according the
San Lúcar. Blancas de San José said that the nation is composed Tagalog:
"COMINT, Laguna, and Tagalog." According to Gaspar de San Agustin:
"COMINT (the) Laguna and Batangas provinces," and Sunday as the Saints,
"the tinge is from the mountains of San Pablo by Nacarlan until Calaylayan
which was formerly the seat of Tayabas, and there are the Mountains
of Cabintí until Bilingbiling, which is top of Mabitac, "but adds
that" there is much to repair this, because they are many who,
although of Monti, understood in the lagoon, and Manila.

They are therefore of Tagalog _Corte_, or Tagalog, the Manila, Bulacan,
Bataan and Cavite. So are certain regions whose ways of speaking were
registered in San _Vocabulario_ Lúcar. The incomparable modesty of this
holy man, "a San Francisco Xavier in the fervor of their missions,
and a St. Francis of Assisi in a detachment things this world "for Fr
They had
already occasioned considerable damage; the rape heads were bent and
destroyed for a space of perhaps ten feet from the outer edge of the
field. As this grain probably constituted the old man's food supply
for a season, I did not wonder at the vehemence with which he shook his
spear at his enemies, nor the apparent flavour of his language, though I
did marvel at his physical endurance. As for the birds, they had become
cynical and impudent; they barely fluttered out of the way.

I halted the old gentleman and hastened to explain that I was neither a
pirate, a robber, nor an oppressor of the poor. This as counter-check to
his tendency to flee, leaving me in sole charge. He understood a little
Swahili, and talked a few words of something he intended for that
language. By means of our mutual accomplishment in that tongue, and
through a more efficient sign language, I got him to understand the plan
of campaign. It was very simple. I squatted down inside the rape, while
he went around the other side to scare them up.

The white birds uttered their peculiarly derisive cackle at the old man
and flapped over to my side. Then they were certainly an astonished
lot of birds. I gave them both barrels and dropped a pair; got two more
shots as they swung over me and dropped another pair, and brought down a
straggling single as a grand finale. The flock, with shrill, derogatory
remarks, flew in an airline straight away. They never deviated, as far
as I could follow them with the eye. Even after they had apparently
disappeared, I could catch an occasional flash of white in the sun.

Now the old gentleman came whooping around with long, undignified bounds
to fall on his face and seize my foot in an excess of gratitude. He rose
and capered about, he rushed out and gathered in the slain one by one
and laid them in a pile at my feet. Then he danced a jig-step around
them and reviled them, and fell on his face once more, repeating the
word "Bwana! bwana! bwana!" over and over-"Master! master! master!" We
returned to camp together, the old gentleman carrying the birds, and
capering about like a small boy, pouring forth a flood of his sort of
Swahili, of which I could understand only a word here and there. Memba
Sasa, very dignified and scornful of such performances, met us halfway
and took my gun. He seemed to be able to understand the old fellow's
brand of Swahili, and said it over again in a brand I could understand.
From it I gathered that I was called a marvellously great sultan, a
protector of the poor, and other Arabian Nights titles.

The birds proved to be white egrets. Now at home I am strongly against
the killing of these creatures, and have so expressed myself on many
occasions. But, looking from the beautiful white plumage of these
villainous mauraders, to the wrinkled countenance of the grateful weary
old savage, I could not fan a spark of regret. And from the straight
line of their retreating flight I like to think that the rest of the
flock never came back, but took their toll from the wider fields of the
plateau above.

Next day we reentered the game-haunted wilderness, nor did we see any
more native villages until many weeks later we came into the country of
the Wakamba.


XIX. THE TANA RIVER

Our first sight of the Tana River was from the top of a bluff. It flowed
below us a hundred feet, bending at a sharp elbow against the cliff
on which we stood. Out of the jungle it crept sluggishly and into the
jungle it crept again, brown, slow, viscid, suggestive of the fevers and
the lurking beasts by which, indeed, it was haunted. From our elevation
we could follow its course by the jungle that grew along its banks.
At first this was intermittent, leaving thin or even open spaces at
intervals, but lower down it extended away unbroken and very tall. The
trees were many of them beginning to come into flower.

Either side of the jungle were rolling hills. Those to the left made up
to the tremendous slopes of Kenia. Those to the right ended finally in
a low broken range many miles away called the Ithanga Hills. The country
gave one the impression of being clothed with small trees; although
here and there this growth gave space to wide grassy plains. Later we
discovered that the forest was more apparent than real. The small trees,
even where continuous, were sparse enough to permit free walking in all
directions, and open enough to allow clear sight for a hundred yards or
so. Furthermore, the shallow wide valleys between the hills were almost
invariably treeless and grown to very high thick grass.

Thus the course of the Tana possessed advantages to such as we. By
following in general the course of the stream we were always certain
of wood and water. The river itself was full of fish-not to speak of
hundreds of crocodiles and hippopotamuses. The thick river jungle gave
cover to such animals as the bushbuck, leopard, the beautiful colobus,
some of the tiny antelope, waterbuck, buffalo and rhinoceros. Among
the thorn and acacia trees of the hillsides one was certain of impalla,
eland, diks-diks, and giraffes. In the grass bottoms were lions,
rhinoceroses, a half dozen varieties of buck, and thousands and
thousands of game birds such as guinea fowl and grouse. On the plains
fed zebra, hartebeeste, wart-hog, ostriches, and several species of the
smaller antelope. As a sportsman's paradise this region would be hard to
beat.

We were now afoot. The dreaded tsetse fly abounded here, and we had
sent our horses in via Fort Hall. F. had accompanied them, and hoped to
rejoin us in a few days or weeks with tougher and less valuable mules.
Pending his return we moved on leisurely, camping long at one spot,
marching short days, searching the country far and near for the special
trophies of which we stood in need.

It was great fun. Generally we hunted each in his own direction and
according to his own ideas. The jungle along the river, while not the
most prolific in trophies, was by all odds the most interesting. It was
very dense, very hot, and very shady. Often a thorn thicket would fling
itself from the hills right across to the water's edge, absolutely and
hopelessly impenetrable save by way of the rhinoceros tracks. Along
these then we would slip, bent double, very quietly and gingerly,
keeping a sharp lookout for the rightful owners of the trail. Again
we would wander among lofty trees through the tops of which the sun
flickered on festooned serpent-like vines. Every once in a while we
managed a glimpse of the sullen oily river through the dense leaf screen
on its banks. The water looked thick as syrup, of a deadly menacing
green. Sometimes we saw a loathsome crocodile lying with his nose just
out of water, or heard the snorting blow of a hippopotamus coming up for
air. Then the thicket forced us inland again. We stepped very slowly,
very alertly, our ears cocked for the faintest sound, our eyes roving.
Generally, of course, the creatures of the jungle saw us first. We
became aware of them by a crash or a rustling or a scamper. Then we
stood stock listening with all our ears for some sound distinguishing
to the species. Thus I came to recognize the queer barking note of the
bushbuck, for example, and to realize how profane and vulgar that and
the beautiful creature, the impalla, can be when he forgets himself. As
for the rhinoceros, he does not care how much noise he makes, nor how
badly he scares you.

Personally, I liked very well to circle out in the more open country
until about three o'clock, then to enter the river jungle and work
my way slowly back toward camp. At that time of day the shadows were
lengthening, the birds and animals were beginning to stir about. In
the cooling nether world of shadow we slipped silently from thicket
to thicket, from tree to tree; and the jungle people fled from us, or
withdrew, or gazed curiously, or cursed us as their dispositions varied.

While thus returning one evening I saw my first colobus. He was swinging
rapidly from one tree to another, his long black and white fur shining
against the sun. I wanted him very much, and promptly let drive at him
with the 405 Winchester. I always carried this heavier weapon in the
dense jungle. Of course I missed him, but the roar of the shot so
surprised him that he came to a stand. Memba Sasa passed me the
Springfield, and I managed to get him in the head. At the shot another
flashed into view, high up in the top of a tree. Again I aimed and
fired. The beast let go and fell like a plummet. "Good shot," said I to
myself. Fifty feet down the colobus seized a limb and went skipping away
through the branches as lively as ever. In a moment he stopped to look
back, and by good luck I landed him through the body. When we retrieved
him we found that the first shot had not hit him at all!

At the time I thought he must have been frightened into falling; but
many subsequent experiences showed me that this sheer let-go-all-holds
drop is characteristic of the colobus and his mode of progression. He
rarely, as far as my observation goes, leaps out and across as do
the ordinary monkeys, but prefers to progress by a series of slanting
ascents followed by breath-taking straight drops to lower levels. When
closely pressed from beneath, he will go as high as he can, and will
then conceal himself in the thick leaves.

the kingdom of Albania, percibióse deaf people in the movement, which
rumor climbed the palace. 376. But there was no way to define the
changing fortunes of the deaf rumors, which badly of unpredictable source
and location for the wise physician. 377.On the other hand, a man could not, save by sheer good
fortune, rely on stalking near enough to use a shotgun. Therefore we
evolved a method productive of the maximum noise, row, barked shins,
thorn wounds, tumbles, bruises-and colobus! It was very simple. We took
about twenty boys into the jungle with us, and as soon as we caught
sight of a colobus we chased him madly. That was all there was to it.

And yet this method, simple apparently to the point of imbecility,
had considerable logic back of it after all; for after a time somebody
managed to get underneath that colobus when he was at the top of a tree.
Then the beast would hide.

Consider then a tumbling riotous mob careering through the jungle as
fast as the jungle would let it, slipping, stumbling, falling flat,
getting tangled hopelessly, disentangling with profane remarks, falling
behind and catching up again, everybody yelling and shrieking. Ahead of
us we caught glimpses of the sleek bounding black and white creature,
running up the long slanting limbs, and dropping like a plummet into the
lower branches of the next tree. We white men never could keep up with
the best of our men at this sort of work, although in the open country I
could hold them well enough. We could see them dashing through the thick
cover at a great rate of speed far ahead of us. After an interval came
a great shout in chorus. By this we knew that the quarry had been
definitely brought to a stand. Arriving at the spot we craned our heads
backward, and proceeded to get a crick in the neck trying to make out
invisible colobus in the very tops of the trees above us. For gaudily
marked beasts the colobus were extraordinarily difficult to see. This
was in no sense owing to any far-fetched application of protective
colouration; but to the remarkable skill the animals possessed
in concealing themselves behind apparently the scantiest and most
inadequate cover. Fortunately for us our boys' ability to see them was
equally remarkable. Indeed, the most difficult part of their task was to
point the game out to us. We squinted, and changed position, and tried
hard to follow directions eagerly proffered by a dozen of the men.
Finally one of us would, by the aid of six power-glasses, make out,
or guess at a small tuft of white or black hair showing beyond the
concealment of a bunch of leaves. We would unlimber the shotgun and send
a charge of BB into that bunch. Then down would plump the game, to
the huge and vociferous delight of all the boys. Or, as occasionally
happened, the shot was followed merely by a shower of leaves and a
chorus of expostulations indicating that we had mistaken the place, and
had fired into empty air.

In this manner we gathered the twelve we required between us. At noon
we sat under the bank, with the tangled roots of trees above us, and the
smooth oily river slipping by. You may be sure we always selected a
spot protected by very shoal water, for the crocodiles were numerous. I
always shot these loathsome creatures whenever I got a chance, whenever
the sound of a shot would not alarm more valuable game. Generally they
were to be seen in midstream, just the tip of their snouts above water,
and extraordinarily like anything but crocodiles. Often it took several
close scrutinies through the glass to determine the brutes. This
required rather nice shooting. More rarely we managed to see them on the
banks, or only half submerged. In this position, too, they were all but
undistinguishable as living creatures. I think this is perhaps because
of their complete immobility. The creatures of the woods, standing quite
still, are difficult enough to see; but I have a notion that the eye,
unknown to itself, catches the sum total of little flexings of the
muscles, movements of the skin, winkings, even the play of wind and
light in the hair of the coat, all of which, while impossible of
analysis, together relieve the appearance of dead inertia. The vitality
of a creature like the crocodile, however, seems to have withdrawn into
the inner recesses of its being. It lies like a log of wood, and for a
log of wood it is mistaken.

Nevertheless the crocodile has stored in it somewhere a fearful
vitality. The swiftness of its movements when seizing prey is most
astonishing; a swirl of water, the sweep of a powerful tail, and the
unfortunate victim has disappeared. For this reason it is especially
dangerous to approach the actual edge of any of the great rivers, unless
the water is so shallow that the crocodile could not possibly approach
under cover, as is its cheerful habit. We had considerable difficulty in
impressing this elementary truth on our hill-bred totos until one day,
hearing wild shrieks from the direction of the river, I rushed down
to find the lot huddled together in the very middle of a sand spit
that-reached well out into the stream. Inquiry developed that while
paddling in the shallows they had been surprised by the sudden
appearance of an ugly snout and well drenched by the sweep of an eager
tail. The stroke fortunately missed. We stilled the tumult, sat down
quietly to wait, and at the end of ten minutes had the satisfaction of
abating that croc.

Generally we killed the brutes where we found them and allowed them to
drift away with the current. Occasionally however we wanted a piece of
hide, and then tried to retrieve them. One such occasion showed very
vividly the tenacity of life and the primitive nervous systems of these
great saurians.

I discovered the beast, head out of water, in a reasonable sized pool
below which were shallow rapids. My Springfield bullet hit him fair,
whereupon he stood square on his head and waved his tail in the air,
rolled over three or four times, thrashed the water, and disappeared.
After waiting a while we moved on downstream. Returning four hours later
I sneaked up quietly. There the crocodile lay sunning himself on the
sand bank. I supposed he must be dead; but when I accidentally broke a
twig, he immediately commenced to slide off into the water. Thereupon
I stopped him with a bullet in the spine. The first shot had smashed
a hole in his head, just behind the eye, about the size of an ordinary
coffee cup. In spite of this wound, which would have been instantly
fatal to any warm-blooded animal, the creature was so little affected
that it actually reacted to a slight noise made at some distance from
where it lay. Of course the wound would probably have been fatal in the
long run.

The best spot to shoot at, indeed, is not the head but the spine
immediately back of the head.

These brutes are exceedingly powerful. They are capable of taking down
horses and cattle, with no particular effort. This I know from my
own observation. Mr. Fleischman, however, was privileged to see
the wonderful sight of the capture and destruction of a full-grown
rhinoceros by a crocodile. The photographs he took of this most
extraordinary affair leave no room for doubt. Crossing a stream was
always a matter of concern to us. The boys beat the surface of the water
vigorously with their safari sticks. On occasion we have even let loose
a few heavy bullets to stir up the pool before venturing in.

A steep climb through thorn and brush would always extricate us from the
river jungle when we became tired of it. Then we found ourselves in a
continuous but scattered growth of small trees. Between the trunks of
these we could see for a hundred yards or so before their numbers closed
in the view. Here was the favourite haunt of numerous beautiful impalla.
We caught glimpses of them, flashing through the trees; or occasionally
standing, gazing in our direction, their slender necks stretched high,
their ears pointed for us. These curious ones were generally the does.
The bucks were either more cautious or less inquisitive. A herd or so
of eland also liked this covered country; and there were always a
few waterbuck and rhinoceroses about. Often too we here encountered
stragglers from the open plains-zebra or hartebeeste, very alert and
suspicious in unaccustomed surroundings.

A great deal of the plains country had been burned over; and a
considerable area was still afire. The low bright flames licked their
way slowly through the grass in a narrow irregular band extending
sometimes for miles. Behind it was blackened soil, and above it rolled
dense clouds of smoke. Always accompanied it thousands of birds wheeling
and dashing frantically in and out of the murk, often fairly at the
flames themselves. The published writings of a certain worthy and
sentimental person waste much sympathy over these poor birds dashing
frenziedly about above their destroyed nests. As a matter of fact they
are taking greedy advantage of a most excellent opportunity to get
insects cheap. Alegría, tournament or just or Bure, instead of
anger, rage, anger, etc.. This verse and the next, says: "Bureo began
to dance, because of music and poetry that alternative." _Gali_, Word
is very pure, indigenous speaking. So D.
Far overhead wheeled a few thousand more assorted
soarers who either had no appetite or had satisfied it.

The utter indifference of the animals to the advance of a big
conflagration always impressed me. One naturally pictures the beasts as
fleeing wildly, nostrils distended, before the devouring element. On
the contrary I have seen kongoni grazing quite peacefully with flames on
three sides of them. The fire seems to travel rather slowly in the tough
grass; although at times and for a short distance it will leap to a wild
and roaring life. Beasts will then lope rapidly away to right or left,
but without excitement.

