Produced by Irma Spehar and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net. (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/Canadian Libraries)


THE DISCIPLINE OF WAR


_Nine Addresses on the Lessons of the War in Connection with Lent_

FROM ASH WEDNESDAY to EASTER SUNDAY

WITH AN APPENDIX CONTAINING

SUGGESTED SUBJECT FOR MEDITATION, AND SUITABLE PASSAGE OF SCRIPTURE,
FOR EACH DAY IN LENT


BY THE REV.

J. HASLOCH POTTER, M.A.

_Hon. Canon of Southwark and Vicar of St. Mark's, Surbiton, Surrey_


  London
  SKEFFINGTON & SON
  34, Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.
  _Publishers to His Majesty the King_

  1915


AUTHOR'S PREFACE


The war has introduced into countless lives new conditions, and has
strangely modified, or emphasised, those already existing. These
Addresses, prepared under much stress of other work, are intended to
supply, in very simple fashion, hints for conduct and points for thought
along the lines of our fresh or deepened responsibilities. An Appendix
gives a suggested subject and a passage of Scripture for each day during
Lent. May God the Holy Ghost, without Whom man's best labours are in
vain, bless this little book to its purpose. Please say a prayer for the
writer, who, as much as any, needs grace that he may try to practise
what he preaches.

  J. HASLOCH POTTER.

  Surbiton.
    The Conversion of St. Paul. 1915.


FOREWORD


  Kingston House,
    Clapham Common.

  _January 19th, 1915._

My dear Canon,--

You have invited me to say a few words introductory to the little book
you are putting forth, and of which you have sent me the advance proofs.

From the great excellence of that which I have read, I am convinced
that your Lenten meditations on the Discipline of War, will be of
pre-eminently spiritual value in a time when publications on the
subject are multiplied. That the war is to leave us on a higher
plane of self-discipline, and with higher ideals of citizen life and
responsibility, every Christian must acknowledge. Your little Lenten
scheme is just that which is needed to give reality and action to what
might otherwise be left in the realm of theory. May the Holy Spirit make
use of your work to the benefit of us all and for the Glory of God.

  Your sincere friend,

  CECIL HOOK,
    _Bishop._


CONTENTS


  I
                                        PAGE

  The Discipline of the Will              1

  II

  The Discipline of the Body              9

  III

  The Discipline of the Soul             18

  IV

  The Discipline of the Spirit           27

  V

  Discipline through Obedience           35

  VI

  The Discipline of Sorrow               44

  VII

  Discipline through bereavement         52

  VIII

  Discipline through Self-sacrifice      62

  IX

  Discipline through Victory             70

         *       *       *       *       *

  Appendix                               81


THE DISCIPLINE OF WAR

I

=The Discipline of the Will=

ASH WEDNESDAY

Isaiah lviii. 6

  "Is not this the fast that I have chosen?"


Discipline is the central idea of the observance of Lent. An
opportunity, rich in its splendid possibilities, comes before us this
year. Much of the discipline of this Lent is settled for us by those
tragic circumstances in which we find ourselves placed.

God seems to be saying to us, in no uncertain tones, "Is not this the
fast that I have chosen?"

Our amusements are already to a large extent curtailed, maybe by our own
individual sorrows or anxieties; maybe by the feeling of the incongruity
of enjoying ourselves while anguish and hardship reign supreme around
us.

Our self-denials are already in operation, under the stress of
straitened means, or the vital necessity of helping others less favoured
than ourselves.

Our devotions have already been increased in frequency and in
earnestness, for the call upon our prayers has come with an insistence
and an imperiousness that brook no denial.

To this extent, and further in many directions, our Lent has been taken
out of our own hands; ordered and pre-arranged by that inscrutable, yet
loving, Providence which has permitted the War to come about.

Thus, at the very outset, we are brought into harmony with the central
idea of discipline--not my will, but God's will.

Broadly, discipline is defined as "Mental and moral training, under
one's own guidance or under that of another": the two necessarily
overlap, and therefore we shall speak of God's discipline, acting upon
us from outside, and of our own co-operation with divine purposes, which
is our discipline of self from within.

In the forefront of the subject, and including every aspect of it upon
which we shall touch, stands that tremendous word--_will_.

Have you ever attempted to gauge the mystery, to sound the depth of
meaning implied in the simple sentence "I will"?

First of all what is the significance of "I"? You are the only one who
can say it of yourself. Any other must speak of you as "he" or "she";
but "I" is your own inalienable possession.

This is the mystery of personality. That accumulation of experience,
that consciousness of identity which you possess as absolutely, uniquely
your own; which none other can share with you in the remotest degree. "A
thing we consider to be unconscious, an animal to be conscious, a person
to be self-conscious."

This leads on to a further mystery, alike concerned with so apparently
simple a matter that its real complexity escapes us.

The king thanked him for this work, and he got much fame therefor,
both in England and far and wide elsewhere.

In the spring, when ships sailed from land to land, Gunnlaug prayed
King Ethelred for leave to sail somewhither; the king asks what he
was about then.

Gunnlaug said, "I would fulfil what I have given my word to do," and sang
this stave withal:--
"My ways must I be wending Three kings' walls to see yet, And earls twain,
as I promised Erewhile to land-sharers.
Neither will I wend me Back, the worms'-bed lacking, By war-lord's
son, the wealth-free, For work done gift well given."

"So be it, then, skald," said the king, and withal he gave him a ring that
weighed six ounces; "but," said he, "thou shalt give me thy word to come
back next autumn, for I will not let thee go altogether, because of thy
great prowess."

CHAPTER VIII. Of Gunnlaug in Ireland.

Thereafter Gunnlaug sailed from England with chapmen north to Dublin.
In those days King Sigtrygg Silky-beard, son of King Olaf Kvaran
and Queen Kormlada, ruled over Ireland; and he had then borne sway
but a little while.

Gunnlaug went before the king, and greeted him well and worthily.
The king received him as was meet.

Then Gunnlaug said, "I have made a song on thee, and I would fain have
silence therefor."
The king answered, "No men have before now come forward with songs for
me, and surely will I hearken to thine." Then Gunnlaug brought the song,
whereof this is the burden,--
"Swaru's steed Doth Sigtrygg feed."
And this is therein also:--
"Praise-worth I can Well measure in man, And kings, one by one-- Lo here,
Kvararis son!

Gruageth the king Gift of gold ring?
I, singer, know His wont to bestow.
Let the high king say, Heard he or this day, Song drapu-measure Dearer a
treasure?"
The king thanked him for the song, and called his treasurer to him, and
said, "How shall the song be rewarded?"

"What hast thou will to give, lord?" says he.

"How will it be rewarded if I give him two ships for it?" said the
king.

Then said the treasurer, "This is too much, lord; other kings give in
regard of songs good keepsakes, fair swords, or golden rings."
So the king gave him his own raiment of new scarlet, a gold-embroidered
kirtle, and a cloak lined with choice furs, and a gold ring which
weighed a mark.

Gunnlaug thanked him well.

He dwelt a short time here, and then went thence to the Orkneys.

Then was lord in Orkney, Earl Sigurd, the son of Hlodver; he was
friendly to Icelanders. Now Gunnlaug greeted the earl well, and said he
had a song to bring him. The earl said he would listen thereto,
since he was of such great kin in Iceland.

Then Gunnlaug brought the song; it was a shorter lay, and well done. The
earl gave him for lay-reward a broad axe, all inlaid with silver, and
bade him abide with him.

Gunnlaug thanked him both for his gift and his offer, but said he
was bound east for Sweden; and thereafter he went on board ship
with chapmen who sailed to Norway.

In the autumn they came east to King's Cliff, Thorkel, his kinsman, being
with him all the time. From King's Cliff they got a guide up to West
Gothland, and came upon a cheaping-stead, called Skarir: there
ruled an earl called Sigurd, a man stricken in years.

Gunnlaug went before him, and told him he had made a song on him; the
earl gave a willing ear hereto, and Gunnlaug brought the song, which
was a shorter lay.

The earl thanked him, and rewarded the song well, and bade him abide
there that winter.

Earl Sigurd had a great Yule-feast in the winter, and on Yule-eve came
thither men sent from Earl Eric of Norway, twelve of them together,
and brought gifts to Earl Sigurd.

The earl made them good cheer, and bade them sit by Gunnlaug
through the Yule-tide; and there was great mirth at drinks.

Now the Gothlanders said that no earl was greater or of more fame
than Earl Sigurd; but the Norwegians thought that Earl Eric was by
far the foremost of the two.

Hereon would they bandy words, till they both took Gunnlaug to be
umpire in the matter.

Then he sang this stave:--
"Tell ye, staves of spear-din, How on sleek-side sea-horse Oft this
earl hath proven Over-toppling billows; But Eric, victory's ash-tree, Oft
hath seen in east-seas More of high blue billows Before the bows
a-roaring."

Both sides were content with his finding, but the Norwegians the
best.
But after Yule-tide those messengers left with gifts of goodly
things, which Earl Sigurd sent to Earl Eric.

Now they told Earl Eric of Gunnlaug's finding: the earl thought that
he had shown upright dealing and friendship to him herein, and let
out some words, saying that Gunnlaug should have good peace throughout
his land.

What the earl had said came thereafter to the ears of Gunnlaug.

But now Earl Sigurd gave Gunnlaug a guide east to Tenthland, in
Sweden, as he had asked.

CHAPTER IX. Of the Quarrel between Gunnlaug and Raven before the Swedish
King.

In those days King Olaf the Swede, son of King Eric the Victorious, and
Sigrid the High-counselled, daughter of Skogul Tosti, ruled over
Sweden.
He was a mighty king and renowned, and full fain of fame.

Gunnlaug came to Upsala towards the time of the Thing of the Swedes
in spring-tide; and when he got to see the king, he greeted him.

The king took his greeting well, and asked who he was. He said he was an
Iceland-man.

Then the king called out: "Raven," says he, "what man is he in Iceland?"

Then one stood up from the lower bench, a big man and a stalwart, and
stepped up before the king, and spake: "Lord," says he, "he is of
good kin, and himself the most stalwart of men."
"Let him go, then, and sit beside thee," said the king.

Then Gunnlaug said, "I have a song to set forth before thee, king, and I
would fain have peace while thou hearkenest thereto."

"Go ye first, and sit ye down," says the king, "for there is no leisure
now to sit listening to songs."
So they did as he bade them.

Now Gunnlaug and Raven fell a-talking together, and each told each
of his travels.

Raven said that he had gone the summer before from Iceland to Norway,
and had come east to Sweden in the forepart of winter.

They soon got friendly together.

But one day, when the Thing was over, they were both before the
king, Gunnlaug and Raven.

Then spake Gunnlaug, "Now, lord, I would that thou shouldst hear
the song."

  "That I may do now," said the king.

"My song too will I set forth now," says Raven.

"Thou mayst do so," said the king.

Then Gunnlaug said, "I will set forth mine first if thou wilt have
it so, king."
"Nay," said Raven, "it behoveth me to be first, lord, for I myself
came first to thee."

"Whereto came our fathers forth, so that my father was the little boat
towed behind? Whereto, but nowhere?" says Gunnlaug. "And in likewise
shall it be with us."
Raven answered, "Let us be courteous enough not to make this a matter
of bandying of words. Let the king rule here."
The king said, "Let Gunnlaug set forth his song first, for he will not
be at peace till he has his will."
Then Gunnlaug set forth the song which he had made to King Olaf,
and when it was at an end the king spake.

"Raven," says he, "how is the song done?"
"Right well," he answered; "it is a song full of big words and
little beauty; a somewhat rugged song, as is Gunnlaug's own mood."

"Well, Raven, thy song," said the king.

Raven gave it forth, and when it was done the king said, "How is this
song made, Gunnlaug?"

"Well it is, lord," he said; "this is a pretty song, as is Raven himself
to behold, and delicate of countenance. But why didst thou make a
short song on the king, Raven?

Didst thou perchance deem him unworthy of a long one?"
Raven answered, "Let us not talk longer on this; matters will be
taken up again, though it be later."

And thereat, they parted.

Soon after Raven became a man of King Olaf's, and asked him leave
to go away.

This the king granted him. And when Raven was ready to go, he spake to
Gunnlaug, and said, "Now shall our friendship be ended, for that
thou must needs shame me here before great men; but in time to come
I shall cast on thee no less shame than thou hadst will to cast on
me here."

Gunnlaug answers: "Thy threats grieve me nought. Nowhere are we likely
to come where I shall be thought less worthy than thou."
King Olaf gave to Raven good gifts at parting, and thereafter.

CHAPTER X.

How Raven came home to Iceland, and asked for Helga to Wife.

Now this spring Raven came from the east to Thrandheim, and fitted out
his ship, and sailed in the summer to Iceland. He brought his ship to
Leiruvag, below the Heath, and his friends and kinsmen were right fain
of him. That winter he was at home with his father, but the summer after
he met at the Althing his kinsman, Skapti the law-man.

Then said Raven to him, "Thine aid would I have to go a-wooing to Thorstein
Egilson, to bid Helga his daughter."
Skapti answered, "But is she not already vowed to Gunnlaug Worm-tongue?"

Said Raven, "Is not the appointed time of waiting between them passed
by? And far too wanton is he withal, that he should hold or heed it
aught."
"Let us then do as thou wouldst," said Skapti.

Thereafter they went with many men to the booth of Thorstein Egilson,
and he greeted them well.

Then Skapti spoke: "Raven, my kinsman, is minded to woo thy daughter
Helga. Thou knowest well his blood, his wealth, and his good manners, his
many mighty kinsmen and friends."
Thorstein said, "She is already the vowed maiden of Gunnlaug, and
with him shall I hold all words spoken."

Skapti said, "Are not the three winters worn now that were named between
you?"
"Yes," said Thorstein; "but the summer is not yet worn, and he may
still come out this summer."

Then Skapti said, "But if he cometh not this summer, what hope may we
have of the matter then?"
Thorstein answered, "We are like to come here next summer, and then
may we see what may wisely be done, but it will not do to speak hereof
longer as at this time."
Thereon they parted. And men rode home from the Althing.

But this talk of Raven's wooing of Helga was nought hidden.

That summer Gunnlaug came not out.

The next summer, at the Althing, Skapti and his folk pushed the
wooing eagerly, and said that Thorstein was free as to all matters
with Gunnlaug.

Thorstein answered, "I have few daughters to see to, and fain am I
that they should not be the cause of strife to any man.

Now I will first see Illugi the Black." And so he did. .

And when they met, he said to Illugi, "Dost thou not think that I am free
from all troth with thy son Gunnlaug?"

Illugi said, "Surely, if thou wiliest it. Little can I say herein,
as I do not know clearly what Gunnlaug is about."
Then Thorstein went to Skapti, and a bargain was struck that the wedding
should be at Burg, about winter-nights, if Gunnlaug did not come out
that summer; but that Thorstein should be free from all troth with
Raven if Gunnlaug should come and fetch his bride.

After this men ride home from the Thing, and Gunnlaug's coming was
long drawn out. But Helga thought evilly of all these redes.

CHAPTER XI. Of how Gunnlaug must needs abide away from Iceland.

Now it is to be told of Gunnlaug that he went from Sweden the same
summer that Raven went to Iceland, and good gifts he had from King Olaf
at parting.

King Ethelred welcomed Gunnlaug worthily, and that winter he was
with the king, and was held in great honour.

In those days Knut the Great, son of Svein, ruled Denmark, and had
new-taken his father's heritage, and he vowed ever to wage war on
England, for that his father had won a great realm there before
he died west in that same land.

And at that time there was a great army of Danish men west there,
whose chief was Heming, the son of Earl Strut-Harald, and brother
to Earl Sigvaldi, and he held for King Knut that land that Svein
had won.

Now in the spring Gunnlaug asked the king for leave to go away, but
he said, "It ill beseems that thou, my man, shouldst go away now,
when all bodes such mighty war in the land."

  Gunnlaug said, "Thou shalt rule,
    lord; but give me leave next summer to
  depart, if the Danes come not."
    The king answered, "Then we shall see."

  Now this summer went by, and the
    next winter, but no Danes came;
  and after midsummer Gunnlaug got his
    leave to depart from the king, and went thence east to Norway, and
found Earl Eric in Thrandheim, at Hladir, and the earl greeted him
well, and bade him abide with him.

  Gunnlaug thanked him for his offer, but
    said he would first go out to Iceland,
  to look to his promised maiden.
    

  The earl said, "Now all ships bound
    for Iceland have sailed."
  Then said one of the court, "Here
    lay, yesterday, Hallfred Troublous-Skald, out tinder Agdaness."

  The earl answered, "That may well be; he
    sailed hence five nights ago."
  Then Earl Eric had Gunnlaug rowed put to
    Hallfred, who greeted him with joy; and forthwith a fair wind bore
them from land, and they were right merry.

  This was late in the summer: but now
    Hallfred said to Gunnlaug, "Hast
  thou heard of how Raven, the
    son of Onund, is wooing Helga the Fair?"

  Gunnlaug said he had heard
    thereof but dimly. Hallfred tells
  him all he knew of it, and therewith,
    too, that it was the talk of many men that Raven was in nowise
less brave a man than Gunnlaug.

Then Gunnlaug sang this stave:--
"Light the weather wafteth; But if this east wind drifted Week-long,
wild upon us Little were I recking; More this word I mind of Me
with Raven mated, Than gain for me the gold-foe Of days to make me
grey-haired."

Then Hallfred said, "Well, fellow, may'st thou fare better in thy strife
with Raven than I did in mine. I brought my ship some winters ago into
Leiruvag, and had to pay a half-mark in silver to a house-carle of
Raven's, but I held it back from him. So Raven rode at us with
sixty men, and cut the moorings of the ship, and she was driven up
on the shallows, and we were bound for a wreck. Then I had to give
selfdoom to Raven, and a whole mark I had to pay; and that is the tale
of my dealings with him."

Then they two talked together alone of Helga the Fair, and Gunnlaug
praised her much for her goodliness; and Gunnlaug sang:--
"He who brand of battle Beareth over-wary, Never love shall let him
Hold the linen-folded; For we when we were younger In many a way
were playing On the outward nesses From golden land outstanding."

"Well sung!" said Hallfred.

CHAPTER XII. Of Gunnlaug's landing, and how he found Helga wedded to
Raven.

They made land north by Fox-Plain, in Hraunhaven, half a month before
winter, and there unshipped their goods. Now there was a man called
Thord, a bonder's son of the Plain, there. He fell to wrestling with
the chapmen, and they mostly got worsted at his hands.

Then a wrestling was settled between him and Gunnlaug.

The night before Thord made vows to Thor for the victory; but the next
day, when they met, they fell-to wrestling. Then Gunnlaug tripped both
feet from under Thord, and gave him a. great fall; but the foot
that Gunnlaug stood on was put out of joint, and Gunnlaug fell together
with Thord.

Then said Thord, "Maybe that other things go no better for thee."
"What then?" says Gunnlaug.

"Thy dealings with Raven, if he wed Helga the Fair at winter-nights. I
was anigh at the Thing when that was settled last summer."

Gunnlaug answered naught thereto.

Now the foot was swathed, and put into joint again, and it swelled
mightily; but he and Hallfred ride twelve in company till they come to
Gilsbank, in Burg-firth, the very Saturday night when folk sat at
the wedding at Burg.

Illugi was fain of his son Gunnlaug and his fellows; but Gunnlaug
said he would ride then and there down to Burg. Illugi said it was not
wise to do so, and to all but Gunnlaug that seemed good. But
Gunnlaug was then unfit to walk, because of his foot, though he would
not let that be seen. Therefore there was no faring to Burg.

On the morrow Hallfred rode to Hreda-water, in North-water dale,
where Galti, his brother and a brisk man, managed their matters.

CHAPTER XIII. Of the Winter-Wedding at Skaney, and how Gunnlaug gave
the Kings Cloak to Helga.

Tells the tale of Raven, that he sat at his weddings-feast at Burg,
and it was the talk of most men that the bride was but drooping;
for true is the saw that saith, "Long we remember what youth gained
us," and even so it was with her now.

But this new thing befell at the feast, that Hungerd, the daughter
of Thorod and Jofrid, was wooed by a man named Sverting, the son of
Hafr-Biorn, the son of Mold-Gnup, and the wedding was to come off
that winter after Yule, at Skaney, where dwelt Thorkel, a kinsman
of Hungerd, and son of Torn Valbrandsson; and the mother of Torn
was Thorodda, the sister of Odd of the Tongue.

Now Raven went home to Mossfell with Helga his wife. When they had been
there a little while, one morning early before they rose up, Helga
was awake, but Raven slept, and fared ill in his sleep.

And when he woke Helga asked him what he had dreamt. Then Raven sang:--

"In thine arms, so dreamed I, Hewn was I, gold island!

Bride, in blood I bled there, Bed of thine was reddened.

Never more then mightst thou, Mead-bowl'spourer speedy, Bind my
gashes bloody-- Lind-leek-bough thou likst it."

Helga spake: "Never shall I weep therefor," quoth she; "ye have
evilly beguiled me, and Gunnlaug has surely come out."

And therewith she wept much.

  But, a little after, Gunnlaug's coming was bruited about, and
  Helga became so hard with Raven, that he could not keep her at
home at Mossfell; so that back they had to go to Burg, and Raven
got small share of her company.

Now men get ready for the winter-wedding. Thorkel of Skaney bade Illugi
the Black and his sons. But when master Illugi got ready, Gunnlaug sat
in the hall, and stirred not to go.

Illugi went up to him and said, "Why dost thou not get ready, kinsman?"
Gunnlaug answered, "I have no mind to go."
Says Illugi, "Nay, but certes thou shalt go, kinsman," says he;
"and cast thou not grief over thee by yearning for one woman. Make
as if thou knewest nought of it, for women thou wilt never lack."

Now Gunnlaug did as his father bade him; so they came to the wedding,
and Illugi and his sons were set down in the high seat; but Thorstein
Egilson, and Raven his son-in-law, and the bridegroom's following,
were set in the other high seat, over against Illugi.
The women sat on the dais, and Helga the Fair sat next to the
bride.
Oft she turned her eyes on Gunnlaug, thereby proving the saw, "Eyes
will bewray if maid love man."
Gunnlaug was well arrayed, and had on him that goodly raiment that
King Sigtrygg had given him; and now he was thought far above all
other men, because of many things, both strength, and goodliness,
and growth.
There was little mirth among folk at this wedding. But on the day
when all men were making ready to go away the women stood up and
got ready to go home.Suffice it to say that when S. Paul speaks of the "body, soul and
spirit" (1 Thess. v. 23), he takes the two latter as different faculties
of the invisible part of man.

Soul ([Greek: psychê]) is the lower attribute which man has in common
with the animals; spirit ([Greek: pneuma]) the higher one which they do
not possess, and which makes man capable of religion.

In this sense, then, the soul would mean the life the man or woman is
leading, in the home, the business, the pleasures, the relaxations, as
distinct from the definite exercise of devotion or worship.

Of course it is absolutely impossible to draw a hard and fast line
between sacred and secular. All secular affairs, rightly conducted, have
their sacred side; and conversely all sacred matters have their secular
side, for they form part of the life the man is living "in the age."

It is the neglect of this truth which is responsible for much of the
moral and religious failure of the day.

Business is secular, prayer is sacred, and so they have no practical
connection each with other.

Amusement is secular (often vastly too much so, in the very lowest sense
of the word); Holy Communion is sacred; therefore there is no link
between them. Whereas the prayer and the Communion should be the
ennobling and sanctifying power alike of work and play.

Bearing this caution in mind, we shall to-day look at certain features
of the so-called secular life of the day in which discipline needs to be
strongly exercised.

No doubt about it, the soul of the nation has been growing sick, sick
"nigh unto death."

Luxury has been increasing with giant strides; the mad race for pleasure
has helped to empty our Churches, to rob our Charities, to diminish the
number of our Candidates for Holy Orders, to make countless ears deaf to
the call which the country, through that magnificent Christian soldier,
Lord Roberts, and many others, has been making to manhood of the land.
Week-ending, meals in restaurants, turning night into day, have robbed
home-life of its grace and power, and produced a generation of young
folk _blasé_ and discontented before they are out of girlhood and
boyhood.

With this has come, inevitably, the loss of sense of responsibility. So
long as I can enjoy myself and get my own way, why should I vex myself
with the outworn question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" No! That has gone
into the limbo of effete superstition.

And further, loss of the sense of proportion. There are some to whom it
causes no moral shock to wear a dress costing a hundred guineas, while a
vast number of seamstresses, shirtmakers, artificial flower makers,
boot-closers, and the like, are working seventy hours for 5s. to 8s. a
week. One mantle-presser, in Dalston, receives 1/2_d._ per mantle;
she is most respectable, has four children, and earns from 5_s._
6_d._ to 7_s._ a week!

We do not grumble at the hundred guineas being spent upon the dress, or
a thousand guineas even, if the money went in due proportion all round
to supply the _full living wage to each one engaged in its production_:
and if the wearer interested herself keenly in social problems, and used
her means wisely and well to afford relief where it was needed. This,
alas! does not happen when the sense of proportion is lacking.

Take another case--alas! a fearfully common one. Men and women will
gamble recklessly at Bridge, lose heavily, pay up, at whatever cost,
because it is _a debt of honour_. All the while a hard-pressed
tailor, a famished dressmaker and her children are kept out of their
money, because it is only _a debt of commerce_. Could there be a
more ghastly parody on the word honour?

Yet once more--the lack of seriousness. By seriousness we do not mean
gloominess, nor withdrawal from society, or anything of the kind. We
mean the flippant attitude towards life, the lack of serious, sustained
interest in literature, in music, in art, in the legitimate drama;
witness the theatres being turned into cinema shows, and the terrible
paucity of sound, strong plays. Everything must be scrappy, light, and
if a little (or more than a little) risky, so much the better.

We do not for a moment say that these evils are universal, God forbid,
but none can deny that they have eaten deep into a large part of
society, using the word in its broadest, not in its technical sense.

The soul of the nation needed discipline, and it has come suddenly,
sharply, but, who shall dare to say, not mercifully?

And even in its very coming it brought a tremendous opportunity, for we
were not compelled to make war, notice that!

We had an option. The temptation was subtle. You have no concern with
Servia, throw over Belgium, let France take care of itself.

For a time, probably a very short time, we should have avoided war and
its horrors. The bait was held out by some peddling politicians that we
should have stood in a magnificent position to obtain trade, to control
markets, to dictate prices to the rest of the world. Magnificent
prospect! We went to war, and, by a strange paradox, secured peace with
honour: peace of the national conscience. Had we forsaken Belgium we
could never again have held up our heads among civilised honourable
nations. Thus the very circumstances under which the War came about
formed an appeal to the soul of the nation as embodied in its
legislature; the Government rang true, and the nation, as one man,
endorsed its decision.

And now the discipline has commenced.

Who can be flippant and careless with our coast towns liable to
bombardment, and over a hundred lives already sacrificed in this little
island, which we have always deemed to be the one absolutely secure spot
in the whole world? Five months ago an earthquake in London would have
seemed a far more likely event than the bombardment of Hartlepool,
Scarborough, Whitby, and the dropping of shells on Yarmouth foreshore,
or of bombs at Dover and Southend.

Who can be unconcerned when our ships are liable at any moment, and
apparently in almost any place, to be sent headlong to the bottom of the
sea by torpedoes or mines; possibly sometimes by those very mines we
have been compelled to lay, and which happen to have broken loose?

This is one of the unavoidable hazards of war under modern conditions.
It does not make us ignore the magnificent work of our Fleet, nor
tremble for the ultimate issue.

Who can be giddy and careless with darkened streets, trains, trams, all
telling of the awful possibilities of the new development of aerial
warfare?

Who, even among those not directly touched by anxiety or bereavement,
can go on just as usual in luxury, self-indulgence, and ease amid the
crushing mass of suffering around them on all sides?

Thank God that, though we may have erred very grievously through
softness of living, we are not a callous people, but we needed a strong,
stern discipline of the national soul; some stirring and trumpet-tongued
appeal to the national life, and in the righteous mercy of God it has
come.

Some of the immediate effects are obvious; but what are the lasting
results to be?

The _Guardian_, of a few weeks back, thus soundly comments upon the
matter:--

  "It is true that the outbreak of war put a sudden end to much that
  was thoughtless, stupid, and even base in contemporary life. 'Tango
  teas' and afternoon Bridge among women have receded almost as far
  into ancient history as dinners at Ranelagh or suppers at Cremorne.
  But human nature is easily frightened into propriety by a crisis;
  it is not so easy to maintain the new way of life when the fright
  is safely over. The things that are amiss in our national life, and
  above all that lack of seriousness which so many observers have
  lamented during the last few years, can be amended only by a clear
  conviction of the inherent unsoundness of our outlook, and a firm
  determination to rebuild it upon new and more stable foundations."


The soul of the nation needs discipline, and that can only come through
the effort of the individual to discipline his own life.

There is a ceaseless temptation to echo the cry of the disciples in
regard to the few loaves and fishes: "What are they among so many?"

Of what value or power is my feeble little life among the teeming
millions that go to make up the nation?

Put away the thought, for it is a direct temptation of the Devil.

It was just when, in the very depths of his human despair, Elijah cried
out, "I, I only am left," that God revealed to him the seven thousand
men who had not bowed the knee to Baal.

It was because Athanasius was content to stand _contra mundum_,
against the world, that the Catholic faith was preserved to the Church.

Let us very seriously examine ourselves as to the use we are making of
our life with regard to other people.

We have considered that life, in various details, in respect to
ourselves, and only incidentally as it affects others, but now let us
put away all thought of self.

Take the one absolute standard of life as set in the text, "I came down
from Heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of Him that sent me."

The result was a life entirely devoted, from the first moment to the
last, to one stupendous cause: the lifting up of humanity to the very
throne of God.

You and I cannot reach even a fraction of the way towards that perfect
standard; but it is our pattern, our plummet, our measuring-line.

Very practically, then, we must ask ourselves such questions as these:

What proportion of my time is spent for others?

Have I any method of employing time or any stated hours that I give to
philanthropic or religious work; or do I just, in a casual way, let
other people have odd moments, when I happen to think of it?

Similar questions should be asked as to money. Many people, especially
those who do not keep accounts (which everyone ought to do), would be
shocked if at the end of a year they could see the enormous
disproportion between the vast amount they have frittered away on self,
and the pitiful little doles they have handed out in the cause of
charity.

One man, who kept three cars for private use, reduced an already paltry
allowance made to a dependent because the price of petrol had gone up!

It is not that people cannot give; it is often only that they do not
think. Look at the vast sums being poured into the Relief Funds. Why has
not some proportion of it gone long ago to Hospitals obliged to close
their wards, Waifs and Strays Societies compelled to refuse poor little
outcasts? The money was there; it could have been spared then as well as
now, but it needed some great shock to wake its owners up to the sense
of proportion, the realisation of responsibilities.

And so in regard to such gifts as music, painting, acting, mechanics,
stitchery; even such simple things as reading and writing. Have you ever
read a book to, or written a letter for, anyone else? We might multiply
these questions indefinitely, but enough has been said to enable us
seriously to take in hand the disciplining of the soul, remembering that
this life of ours is a precious loan entrusted to us by God the Father,
redeemed for us by God the Son, sanctified in us by God the Holy Ghost,
to be used by us, in due proportion, for our neighbours and ourselves.

_For suggested meditations during the week, see Appendix_.


IV

=The Discipline of the Spirit=

THIRD SUNDAY IN LENT

St. Luke vi. 12.

  "He continued all night in Prayer to God."


Last week we looked at the soul as that faculty of life which, to a
certain extent, we share with animals; to-day we pass on to consider,
under the title of spirit, the higher endowment by which man is enabled
to look up and, in the fullest exercise of his whole being, to say
"my God."

A man without religion is undeveloped in regard to the highest part of
his complex nature. In attaining to self-consciousness, and the special
powers it brings, he has gone one step further than the animal, but
has utterly failed of his true purpose. The supreme object of the
self-consciousness, which reveals to him his personality, is that it
should disclose its own origin in the personality of God.

One very striking effect of the War has been to produce a vast amount of
testimony to the fact that man is, broadly speaking, religious by
nature.

The services in the places of worship all over the land have been
multiplied, intercession is becoming a felt reality, congregations have
grown.

It is asserted, by those who have the best means of knowing, that by
far the majority of the letters from the front contain references to
religion, such as acknowledgments of God's providence, prayer for His
help, or requests for the prayers of others. Sometimes, in the strange
double-sidedness of human nature, accompanied by expletives obviously
profane. Mention is often made of the bowed heads, and the prayer, in
which both sides join, at the time of a joint burial during a temporary
truce.

All these things show that the deeps of the fountains of natural
religion have been broken up in wondrous fashion.

Our question to-day is: How shall we discipline that spirit which
enables us to realise religion as a fact?

Let us try to get to the root of the matter.

There are two chief derivations of the word religion. One comes from the
verb which means "to go through, or over again, in reading, speech, or
thought." Hence religion is the regular or constant habit of revering
the gods, and would be represented by the word devotion--an aspect most
important to bear in mind.

The other derivation, and the more usual, derives religion from the idea
of binding together, and tells of communion between man and God. For us
Christians this thought finds its highest ideal and fulfilment in the
Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The great characteristic action of religion is prayer; varying in its
methods and degrees from merely mechanical performances, like the
praying wheels of the Chinese up to the heart devotion of the Christian,
poured out when commemorating, in the Holy Communion, the death and
resurrection of His Lord.

The first essential of any prayer which is to be of value in the
discipline of the spirit is regularity. No words can exaggerate the
importance of morning prayer. Yet, alas! tens of thousands of professing
Christians are content with evening prayer alone. The one who goes forth
in the morning prayerless is just as ill-equipped to do his duty, and
meet his temptations, as the foodless man is to perform physical work.

The whole story of the saintly life, alike in the Old Testament, the New
Testament, and the Church, is that of diligence in prayer. It was to
promote that spirit that the Church of Christ, following on the lines of
the Jewish Church, from very early days adopted special hours for stated
devotions, with the daily offering of the Holy Eucharist linking the
whole system together.

The lowest standard to aim at is private prayer morning and evening,
midday too if possible, and regular attendances at God's House on
Sundays and Feast Days. The guiding principle, to be kept ever in mind,
is not what my own inclinations suggest, but what the glory of God
demands. Were this always the case, what magnificent congregations there
would be.

Prayer represents a real business of the spirit into which we put the
whole endowment of our being, intellect, memory, emotion, will.

Oh! those wandering thoughts, how they do distress us; and just in
proportion as we wish to pray and are learning to pray, so we feel our
deficiencies the more keenly.

A few moments before we commence our prayers spent in saying very
quietly, "Thou God seest me," or "In the name of the Father and of the
Son and of the Holy Ghost," coupled with a simple yet earnest act of the
realisation of God's presence, will be of infinite use.

The railway train coming into a station does not draw up with a jerk,
but gradually slows down. So with us; we cannot come out of our rushing
lives all in a moment into the quiet of God's presence; we need to slow
down.

But much of the wandering in prayer is the direct result of the habit of
wandering in life. Flitting from one subject, one book, one occupation
to another; scrappy reading, talking, thinking; then, as a natural
consequence, scrappy praying. A great master of the spiritual life used
to say, "You will get far more help in your prayers by leading a more
useful life, than by making tremendous efforts after concentration when
you are actually at prayer."

The one who tries to keep alive the habitual sense of God's presence
makes his whole life a prayer, of which the stated devotions only form a
natural part. It is comparatively easy for such a one to concentrate his
thought and to keep his attention fixed when engaged in his prayers.

Just a word or two about books of devotion. They serve a most useful
purpose, especially in preparation and thanksgiving for Confession or
Communion, but should never be allowed to take the entire place of the
Christian's glorious privilege of pleading the "Abba Father," and
speaking to God in his own words, day by day.

Be careful not to use prayers which are manifestly beyond your own
standpoint or out of harmony with your own feeling. The mere repetition
of phrases that do not represent your inner attitude towards truth only
tends to formality; the effort to force a kind of artificial conformity,
because you think you ought to feel this or that, invariably ends in
unreality. Given these cautions, devotional books may be of great use,
even for regular daily prayer, and often help to call back the thoughts
which are flying off at a tangent.

To speak of discipline without touching upon Confession would be to omit
one of its most essential features. Nightly self-examination must be
performed, and that not perfunctorily, but with real intention of
repentance and strictness of living. Self-examination is nothing more
nor less than spiritual account-keeping; without it the man has no real
idea of how the business of his soul stands.

When it reveals the fact that sin is making headway and the spirit
losing ground, then the wise teaching of the Prayer Book should be
followed; "the grief"--for such it ought to be--opened in Confession to
God, before one of God's ministers, and the benefit of absolution
secured.

Much of the terrible prejudice felt against this practice arises from
the mistaken idea that the priest professes to forgive us our sins. The
words of the Absolution in the Visitation of the Sick, in our own Prayer
Book, put the matter on its true footing:--"Our Lord Jesus Christ, Who
hath left power to His Church to absolve, ... _forgive_ thee ... and
by His authority ... I _absolve_ thee." The source of all pardon and
the right to exercise it rest in God alone, but the message declaring
the fact is part of the "ministry of reconciliation," committed, in the
infinite condescension of God, to the "earthen vessels." An illustration
may be taken from the pardon of a criminal condemned to death; the Home
Secretary recommends it, but the King, on his sole authority, grants it,
and then the message, the _absolvo te_, which lets the man go free,
is delivered by the governor of the gaol.

Penitents, especially after a first confession at some crisis in mature
life, often bear witness to the fact that it seemed to bring them
straight into the presence of Jesus Christ; to make them feel the
reality of His pardoning blood in a way they never could have believed
possible. How strange that the very thing which by so many pious and
thoroughly honest souls is dreaded because it is supposed to bring a man
in between God and the soul, should yet so often be used by the Holy
Spirit to give a wondrous and precious vision of Christ the Saviour.

Thus far we have spoken only of that kind of occasional Confession which
is obviously contemplated by the Prayer Book; we have no time to dwell
on its habitual use.

Suffice it to quote some words from the first English Prayer Book:--

  "Requiring such as shall be satisfied with a general confession, not
  to be offended with them that do use, to their further satisfying,
  the auricular and secret confession to the priest; nor those which
  think needful or convenient to open their sins to the priest to be
  offended with them that are satisfied with their humble confession
  to God, and the general confession to the Church."


That staunch Evangelical Churchman, Bishop Thorold, who was strongly
opposed to habitual Confession in our Communion, once said, "We cannot
ignore the fact that the giants of old owed much of that saintliness,
which we of the present day can only wonder at but cannot reproduce, to
the practice of Confession."

If you should be in doubt about it for yourself, consult some
spiritually-minded person who possesses experience in the matter. Not,
on the one hand, the man who will tell you that it is the greatest curse
the Church has ever known; nor, on the other, the one who would have it
practised by everybody.

Surely for us sober Church folk there must be a loyal middle course,
which leaves absolute freedom, so long as the individual "follows and
keeps the rule of charity, and is satisfied with his own conscience."

Last, but most important of all, in the discipline of the spirit comes
the Holy Communion, about which we shall speak next week.

As our closing thought, let us go back to what we said just now. The
object of religion is God's glory, not man's enjoyment. See how this
puts feelings down into their right, and subordinate, place. They are
sometimes very delightful, sometimes very depressing, but always liable
to be misleading. A great saint of old used to say:--"If God never gave
me another moment of sensible devotion in prayer, I would go on praying,
because His glory demands it."

Religion has to do with facts: the facts of what God the Father, God the
Son, and God the Holy Ghost have done, and are doing, for us; the facts
of what we have to do, to make the finished work of Christ our own.

Here, as always, our Lord Himself gives us the highest illustration.
Neither as God, nor yet as perfect Man, was there an actual need for Him
to pray; yet His whole life was punctuated with prayer: first because
the glory of the Father required it, and next because His chosen
Apostles must be taught by example as well as precept.

Let the same mind dwell in us. It is for the glory of God that I should
have salvation; therefore by the help of God I will discipline my
spirit.

_For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix._


V

=Discipline through Obedience=

FOURTH SUNDAY IN LENT

St. Luke xxii. 19

  "This do in remembrance of Me."


Our subject of to-day flows quite naturally out of what we said last
week. Religion rests on facts, and its object is God's glory, not merely
our profit. Our duty, therefore, is an absolute submission to those
facts--in other words, implicit obedience.

This is being illustrated on all sides in regard to the War.

The facts are indisputable. Lord Selborne put the matter in a nutshell
when he said: "The task in front of us is colossal. We are fighting for
nothing less than our lives, in circumstances which make it the duty of
every Englishman to put everything in the world he possesses, everything
that he values, into the scale to ensure success, and I am sure there is
not one of us, whatever his position, who would flinch in the slightest
from the duty he owes to his country and to his deepest self."

The response to the facts has been obedience, immediate and
unquestioning, on the part of a vast number. True, not all have yet been
reached who ought to come forward, and some are even now crying out for
that compulsory service which may yet prove inevitable. They forget that
the obedience of one free man is worth more than the forced submission
of many. Let us wait hopefully, energetically; losing no opportunity of
pressing the stern logic of facts wherever we may.

And those who have joined the services have come at once under a
discipline totally different from that of the sternest school or the
strictest house of business. The surrender has been made voluntarily,
and it has placed the whole life in each detail under the claim of an
absolute obedience.

The disposal of every moment of time belongs to the authorities. The
private in high social position must obey the orders of a young
lance-corporal just as exactly as he expected his own commands to be
carried out in his business or his household.

Who can estimate the immense development of moral fibre that surely must
take place in succeeding generations from the fact that so vast a
number, in all ranks of society, are now under obedience? Not because
they were driven to it, but because they embraced it by an initial act
of obedience.

    --Thus they answered,--hoping, fearing,
      Some in faith, and doubting some,
    Till a trumpet-voice proclaiming,
      Said, "My chosen people, come!"
          Then the drum,
          Lo! was dumb,
  For the great heart of the nation throbbing,
      Answered, "Lord we come."[2]


[Footnote 2: _The Reveille_, Bret Harte.]

Let us apply this thought to the command in our text, "Do this in
remembrance of Me." The facts are undisputed. Our Lord Jesus Christ, in
the tenderness of His compassion, instituted an ordinance by which we
might remember Him and feed upon Him.

Further than this we cannot go on the ground of universal consent.
Strangely enough, that rite which is the same in its central act,
whether celebrated by the nonconformist in his ordinary dress, or the
priest clad in costly vestments, whether in the humble room or the
stately cathedral, which is, on the one hand, the well-nigh universal
mark of all who profess and call themselves Christians, is yet the
battle-ground of fierce dispute and bitter disagreement.

The present crisis is undoubtedly deepening in our minds the exceeding
value of this blessed gift of Christ to His Church.

It is deeply suggestive of the spirit of our young officers that a group
of old public-school boys, just about to leave for the front, should
have begged their late schoolmaster--now a Bishop--to give them a
Celebration of Holy Communion in his own private Chapel on their last
Sunday in England. What a beautiful send-off!

Then, turning to the scene of operations itself, we find a touching
witness in the simple record sent by Admiral Sir John Jellicoe to his
brother at Southampton. "We spent our Christmas Day waiting for the
Germans, who did not appear. But we managed to find time for church and
for three celebrations of Holy Communion, although the whole time we
were cleared for action and the men were at their guns."

Who can contemplate unmoved that spectacle of the men, not gathered in
the peaceful security of the House of God, but out upon the ocean,
expecting attack, realising the possible nearness of the end, leaving
their guns but for the moment, then back again, strengthened for life or
death by the sacred Body and Blood.

Or take the witness of Rev. E.R. Day, one of our Senior Army Chaplains
serving with the Expeditionary Force. While home on a few days' leave he
preached at Lichfield Cathedral, and, touching upon the efficacy of
prayer, testified how enormously it was valued by our soldiers now
serving at the front. The Holy Communion was especially appreciated. On
Christmas Day there were no fewer than seven hundred communicants from
one regiment and four hundred from another, and the service was held in
a ploughed field with a packing-case for an altar. He had conducted
these services sometimes in the back-parlour of a public-house, in a
stable, in a loft, in a lean-to shed, and in the open; anywhere, in
fact, where room could be found. Out on the battlefield there was hardly
any need for a compulsory parade service; the men had only to hear that
a service was to be held and they would crowd to it.

Most of the reasons given by those who stop away from Communion centre
in self.

"I am not worthy." Of course not, nor is the priest who celebrates, nor
is any member of the congregation. We sadly misread that caution of S.
Paul about receiving "unworthily."

Let us take a homely illustration. Our good Queen Victoria was very fond
of visiting cottagers in the Highlands and reading the Scriptures to
them. You can imagine how one of them might say, "I am not worthy of
such an honour; this little place is so poor and mean." Quite true, yet
she could tidy up the home, mend her frock, make everything neat and
clean, so as to receive the Queen "worthily." Until you realise the
fact--

  "I am not worthy, gracious Lord,"

you will never receive Him worthily. No one who examines himself,
confesses his sins, and firmly purposes to amend, ever yet came to
Communion unworthily.

"I don't feel inclined to come." Because you have not realised in its
full meaning two facts: yourself as a great sinner, Christ as a great
Saviour. Feelings have nothing to do with duty. If they had, our army
would be about half the size it is. Do you suppose that all those who
are joining the Services like leaving home, wife, friends, comforts?
Feelings have been sacrificed to facts.

"I'm too great a sinner." Then you are not fit to die. Repent, turn to
the Saviour, and then in His holy ordinance you will find the very
strength you need to keep you from falling back.

"I have such terrible temptations." So we all have, priest and people
alike. Temptations are not sins; they are the enemies on the
battlefield, and if you never meet them, you--the Christian soldier
enlisted at your Baptism--will never have the chance of winning a
victory. The one who stays away from Communion because of temptations or
sins, which he is really trying to resist, is like the sick man who
looks at the bottle of medicine and says, "I will take it when I get
well."

"So many communicants are hypocrites." That shows that you know enough
about the Christian life to be able to judge your fellow creatures. Are
you making things any better by neglecting your duty?

"I have got an enemy." Have you honestly tried to be reconciled; are you
willing to forgive and bury the past? "Yes, but he is not." All the more
need then for you to come to the Communion and pray for his heart to be
changed.

It was said of one great saint that some people might never have had the
blessing of his prayers for them but that they were his enemies.

All these excuses centre in self. They could not do otherwise, for no
one has ever yet found in Christ any reason why they should stay away
from Him.

Obedience forms so large a part of discipline--nay, is almost identical
with discipline--because it takes us out of self.

Our Lord Who has bidden us "do this" knows exactly what is best for us.
In putting aside feelings, fancies, unworthy scruples, and casting
ourselves unreservedly upon His boundless mercy, we shall taste of the
treasures of His grace and be satisfied.

One important part of the discipline of this obedience is making a
special and very careful preparation before, and thanksgiving after,
each Communion.

Preparation which consists first of all of real self-examination and
repentance, using fearlessly the "ministry of reconciliation" when
necessary, and then of special prayers which help to put us into the
attitude of hopeful, grateful anticipation.

Thanksgiving; definite prayers and praises, continued for a day or two,
unless we are very frequent communicants, so that we may lose none of
the preciousness of the blessing by our own forgetfulness or
ingratitude.

In this, as we said last week, books can _help_, but that is all;
they cannot make the preparation or the thanksgiving for us.

Early Communion, quite apart from the doctrinal question of fasting
reception, is a useful feature of the discipline of obedience. It is a
custom which comes from primitive times, and is universal in the greater
part of the Catholic Church.

To give the early hours of the day to our Blessed Lord is surely more in
accordance with what His great love requires than to choose our own time
and come when it suits us best: that is when it requires less effort and
self-denial, and when our minds have been distracted by the cares of the
advancing day.

The coming on of old age or sickness may necessarily debar us from the
privilege and joy of early Communion, but, while we can, let us make the
most of the blessed morning hours, when in all the freshness of our
newly awakened life we draw near to Him Who ceaselessly watches over us.

The question is often asked: "How often ought I to receive the Holy
Communion?" The answer depends upon so large a number of considerations
that no general rules can possibly be given. Spiritual capacities vary
infinitely.

One broad principle we can lay down: Do not receive so often that you
begin to neglect preparation and thanksgiving. Better by far six
Communions a year, which have meant real, living intercourse between
yourself and your Saviour, than a weekly one which has degenerated into
a perfunctory form.

It is to be remembered that there is nothing to prevent your attending
the service whenever you wish, joining in the praises and prayers, even
though for some good reason you are not going to receive.

Now, I have unravelled thy dream, and I think things will befall
as I have said."

Thorstein answered: "In evil and unfriendly wise is the dream
interpreted, nor do I deem thee fit for the work of unriddling
dreams."
Then Eastman said, "Thou shalt find how it will come to pass."
But Thorstein estranged himself from the Eastman thenceforward, and
he left that summer, and now he is out of the tale.

CHAPTER III. Of the Birth and Fostering of Helga the Fair.

This summer Thorstein got ready to ride to the Thing, and spake to Jofrid
his wife before he went from home.

"So is it," he says, "that thou art with child now, but thy child shall
be cast forth if thou bear a woman; but nourished if it be a man."

Now, at this time when all the land was heathen, it was somewhat the
wont of such men as had little wealth, and were like to have many
young children on their hands, to have them cast forth, but an
evil deed it was always deemed to be.

And now, when Thorstein had said this, Jofrid answers, "This is a word all
unlike thee, such a man as thou art, and surely to a wealthy man
like thee it will not seem good that this should be done."

Thorstein answered: "Thou knowest my mind, and that no good will hap
if my will be thwarted."
So he rode to the Thing; but while he was gone Jofrid gave birth
to a woman-child wondrous fair.

The women would fain show her to the mother; she said there was
little need thereof, but had her shepherd Thorvard called to her,
and spake to him:--
"Thou shalt take my horse and saddle it, and bring this child west
to Herdholt, to Thorgerd, Egil's daughter, and pray her to nourish
it secretly, so that Thorstein may not know thereof.

For with such looks of love do I behold this child, that surely I
cannot bear to have it cast forth.

Here are three marks of silver, have them in reward of thy work;
but west there Thorgerd will get thee fare and food over the sea."

Then Thorvard did her bidding; he rode with the child to Herdholt,
and gave it into Thorgerd's hands, and she had it nourished at a
tenant's of hers who dwelt at Freedmans-stead up in Hvamfirth; but
she got fare for Thorvard north in Steingrims-firth, in Shell-creek,
and gave him meet outfit for his sea-faring: he went thence abroad,
and is now out of the story.

Now when Thorstein came home from the Thing, Jofrid told him that
the child had been cast forth according to his word, but that the
herdsman had fled away and stolen her horse.

  Thorstein said she had done well, and got himself another herdsman.
  So six winters passed, and this matter was nowise wotted of.

Now in those days Thorstein rode to Herdholt, being bidden there as
guest of his brother-in-law, Olaf Peacock, the son of Hoskuld, who was
then deemed to be the chief highest of worth among all men west there.

Good cheer was made Thorstein, as was like to be; and one day at
the feast it is said that Thorgerd sat in the high seat talking
with her brother Thorstein, while Olaf was talking to other men;
but on the bench right over against them sat three little maidens.

Then said Thorgerd,--
"How dost thou, brother, like the look of these three little maidens
sitting straight before us?"

"Right well," he answers, "but one is by far the fairest; she has all the
goodliness of Olaf, but the whiteness and the countenance of us,
the Mere-men."
Thorgerd answered: "Surely this is true, brother, wherein thou sayest that
she has the fairness and countenance of us Mere-folk, but the
goodliness of Olaf Peacock she has not got, for she is not his
daughter."

It stretches forth into the future, with regard to which we have
parables, promises, visions, warnings, all pointing to a continuously
progressive growth till the perfect manifestation of the Kingdom of
Christ be reached.

Thus the Incarnation supplies the unifying principle, and in its light
we catch some ray of hope on the dark problem of suffering.

In consequence of sin our Lord was a sufferer, even in some mysterious
sense was "made perfect through suffering" (Heb. ii. 10).

The climax came in the "full, perfect, and complete sacrifice, oblation,
and satisfaction for the sins of the whole world" made upon the Cross.

It is suggestive that these words should occur in the Consecration
Prayer of the Holy Communion Service, as if to remind us that our true
spiritual and commemorative sacrifice draws all its validity, power, and
preciousness from the one offering of Christ made by Himself in His
death.

Thus we see that most essential act for our salvation was not one of
victory, triumph, or glory, as the world reckons these things. Oh, no!
It was one of absolute self-surrender, involving untold anguish of soul
and body. The results of the sufferings of our Lord have justified their
tremendous cost.

Its efficacy consisted not in the physical pains, but in the entire
yielding up of the will. Thus it represents for us that victory over
self which is the only path to eternal life.

But this victory, even now in these emphatically feather-bed days, is
always more or less painful. In the early times it meant persecution,
poverty, isolation, death, for the sake of Jesus Christ.

It is always so; the greatest deeds the world has ever known,
nationally, or individually, have been wrought out by suffering; because
suffering, more than any other agent, deepens character.

Look around among your friends and acquaintances. Who are the morally
strongest? To whom do you turn in your times of difficulty, doubt,
trouble? Not to those whose lives have been easy, to whom the lines have
fallen in pleasant places, to whom success has come without effort! No!
You turn to the one who has fought his way through the doubt, the
difficulty, the trouble, and you find a tower of strength. There is the
secret of Charles Kingsley's power as a counsellor; once he did not
believe that there was a God; he went through the agonies of doubt.

There is the secret of the wondrous force of Archbishop Temple. Rough,
rugged, almost discourteous at times; hating shams and penetrating
them with an unerring instinct, but tenderness itself to the really
distressed. He knew what it was as a lad to do field labour in poor
clothes and with insufficient food. In later years, when up at College,
he was wont to study by the light in the passage, because he could not
afford oil for his own lamp.

Yet another illustration, showing the directly spiritual influence
of suffering--those countless cases of bed-ridden invalids, often in
intense pain, who develop an intense, fervent, yet restful piety, seldom
attained even by the most devout in active life.

Those who have had experience in missions or dealing with individual
souls know how constantly suffering--especially in middle life--lays the
foundations of conversion. Ay, and lays them strong and deep. The soul
in trouble feels its need of God, turns to Him, and then gets to know
the fulness of His mercy, even in and through the affliction.

And now, how stands it in regard to the War? We need not repeat in
detail those various points on which we have already dwelt. Spite of
all the ghastly sufferings the War is bringing in its train, nay, in a
sense, because of them, it has linked together the Empire in the closest
bonds, allayed political and polemical strife, evoked a wealth of
heroism, self-sacrifice, prayer, and benevolence, and braced up the
moral fibre of countless lives.

Yet all this does not explain the existence of suffering, the why and
the wherefore still lie hidden in that region of the infinite which we,
finite beings, cannot penetrate. We can see, from its results, that
suffering is no more incompatible with the eternal love of God, than the
surgeon's knife is inconsistent with the tenderness of his heart. "Whom
the Lord loveth He chasteneth," "God dealeth with you as with sons"
(Heb. xii., 6, etc.). Our great mistake is to look upon trouble as
punishment, inflicted by an angry God, and to rebel under the chastening
hand. When God sees that His child, whether the nation or the
individual, needs discipline He sends it, and there is no more lack of
love than there is on the part of the wise earthly parent, when he
corrects his child and makes him suffer pain. Nay, it is the very love
that prompts the discipline.

Once more, let us look at suffering in its power of producing sympathy.

The Incarnation was the greatest act of sympathy the world has ever
known. The Word made flesh, our Saviour born as a babe, that He might
enter into all the experiences of our human nature; that He might not
simply feel _for_ us, but feel _with_ us.

Here is the essence of the word; take it in Latin, compassion; take it
in Greek, sympathy--alike it means feeling with. And in the wondrous
mystery of the Church, the spiritual body of Christ, the same great
principle is still working itself out.

Very strange, very mysterious, yet real with the essence of reality, is
the connection between the suffering Christ and the suffering Church,
"inasmuch as ye have ministered to one of the least of these My
brethren, ye have done it unto Me." And yet it is the Christ Who helps
and sustains us from on high. The same Christ Who was here upon earth,
suffering in His martyr Stephen was yet standing at the Father's right
hand to succour him.

The same Christ Who flashed the wondrous vision of Himself on the eyes
of S. Paul, was yet so intimately present in and with His infant Church
that he "thundered" forth the question, "Saul, Saul, why persecutest
thou Me?"

It is just this thought of Christ still present in the person of His
suffering children, that gives the glow of enthusiasm to philanthropic
work of a definitely Christian character. But may we not go a step
further and try to see Christ, in a measure, in all suffering, even that
of the animals? He came to redeem the world, and we in our little view
are apt to narrow down the purposes, and limit the possibilities within
very contracted lines.

The War is opening up to us opportunities boundless in their character
and scope. Probably to-day tens of thousands who have hitherto spent
aimless lives; whose time, means, gifts have gone in the shallow channel
of self, now know something at least of the joy of launching out on to
the broad stream of living, loving sympathy. This has been because,
though in some instances unconsciously to themselves, Christ, in the
power of His Holy Spirit, has touched their lives.

If anguish has come to our hearts let it work its discipline upon us in
and through Christ, by the opening out of ourselves to Him, that we may
take in the full measure of His priceless sympathy. Let us try to lose
ourselves in ministering to others, one of the surest anodynes for grief
and pain.

But if we have, as yet, passed unscathed, let us be all the more
diligent, tender, and loving in our care for others.

There is no need to go into details. Wherever your lot be cast you have
only just to look around and you will find there are individuals, wives
at home, soldiers at the front, whose lot you can brighten in very
simple yet very real ways; perhaps institutions, such as Red Cross
Homes, Hospitals, Belgian Hostels, to which you can render practical
service; Funds to which you can send your money; all these are means
through which you may enter into the glorious discipline of opportunity
that comes through suffering.

Have you ever thought how infinitely poorer the world would be in all
that is highest and purest in its life, were there no suffering to call
forth the tender ministry of sympathy?

And now let us summarise what we have been saying. Suffering is a
great mystery, but two facts throw light upon it--the hereafter, the
Incarnation; suffering does discipline character, therefore, judging by
results, it is not incompatible with the love of God, even though its
existence be still a problem; suffering presents us with the splendid
possibility of sympathy, to be exercised in the power of the loving
Christ.

Can we close better than with the thought of the saints in Paradise?

On earth they lived in the always realised consciousness of a personal
Christ. When the Apostles were persecuted and beaten, they departed from
the Council "rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for
His name." So it has been all down the long story of the ages. And the
saints are those "who have washed their robes and made them white in the
blood of the Lamb"; their sufferings sanctified by, and borne in, the
power of Him Who was made perfect by the things which He endured. Their
"light affliction, which was but for a moment, has worked out for them
the exceeding abundant and eternal weight of glory."

Thus the Incarnation, the eternal counsel of the past, that embraced
them while they were on earth, is still enfolding them, while they,
with us, wait and pray for its final consummation, in the coming of
the Kingdom.

Let us so use our opportunities for discipline now, that the uplifting
of character shall be permanent; not a mere spasm of passing enthusiasm,
but a real growth into the character and likeness of Him Who suffered
death upon the Cross, that all might live unto Him.

he said. "A scarlet poppy on the sands!"

He walked on, until his rapid stride brought him to the centre of
the cliff above Horseshoe Cove.

Then--"Good Lord!"

said Jim Airth, and stood still.

He had caught sight of Lady Ingleby's white skirt reposing on the
sand, beyond the scarlet parasol.

  "Good Lord!" said Jim Airth.
  

Then he scanned the horizon. Not a boat to be seen.

His quick eye travelled along the cliff, the way he had come.

Not a living thing in sight.

On to the fishing village. Faint threads of ascending vapour indicated
chimneys. "Two miles at least," muttered Jim Airth. "I could not run it
and get back with a boat, under three quarters of an hour."
Then he looked down into the cove.

"Both ends cut off. The water will reach her feet in ten minutes; will
sweep the base of the cliff, in twenty."
Exactly beneath the spot where he stood, more than half way down, was
a ledge about six feet long by four feet wide.

Letting himself over the edge, holding to tufts of grass, tiny
shrubs, jutting stones, cracks in the surface of the sandstone, he
managed to reach this narrow ledge, dropping the last ten feet, and
landing on it by an almost superhuman effort of balance.

One moment he paused; carefully took its measure; then, leaning over,
looked down. Sixty feet remained, a precipitous slope, with nothing to
which foot could hold, or hand could cling.

Jim Airth buttoned his Norfolk jacket, and tightened his belt. Then
slipping, feet foremost off the ledge, he glissaded down on his back,
bending his knees at the exact moment when his feet thudded heavily on
to the sand.

For a moment the shock stunned him. Then he got up and looked around.

He stood, within ten yards of the scarlet parasol, on the small strip of
sand still left uncovered by the rapidly advancing sweep of the rising
tide.

  CHAPTER X
  "YEO HO, WE GO!"

"A cameo chaperonage," murmured Lady Ingleby, and suddenly opened her
eyes.

Sky and sea were still there, but between them, closer than sea or sky,
looking down upon her with a tense light in his blue eyes, stood Jim
Airth.

"Why, I have been asleep!" said Lady Ingleby.

"You have," said Jim Airth; "and meanwhile the sun has set, and--the
tide has come up.

Allow me to assist you to rise."
Lady Ingleby put her hand into his, and he helped her to her feet. She
stood beside him gazing, with wide startled eyes, at the expanse of
sea, the rushing waves, the tiny strip of sand.

"The tide seems very high," said Lady Ingleby.

"Very high," agreed Jim Airth. He stood close beside her, but his eyes
still eagerly scanned the water. If by any chance a boat came round the
point there would still be time to hail it.
"We seem to be cut off," said Lady Ingleby.
"We _are_ cut off," replied Jim Airth, laconically.
"Then I suppose we must have a boat," said Lady Ingleby.
"An excellent suggestion," replied Jim Airth, drily, "if a boat
were to be had. But, unfortunately, we are two miles from the hamlet,
and this is not a time when boats pass in and out; nor would they
come this way. When I saw you, from the top of the cliff, I calculated
the chances as to whether I could reach the boats, and be back here
in time. But, before I could have returned with a boat, you would
have--been very wet," finished Jim Airth, somewhat lamely.
He looked at the lovely face, close to his shoulder. It was pale
and serious, but showed no sign of fear.
He glanced at the point of cliff beyond. Twenty feet above its rocky
base the breakers were dashing; but round that point would be
safety.

"Can you swim?" asked Jim Airth, eagerly.
Myra's calm grey eyes met his, steadily. A gleam of amusement dawned
in them.
"If you put your hand under my chin, and count 'one--two! one--two!'
very loud and quickly, I can swim nearly ten yards," she said.
Jim Airth laughed. His eyes met hers, in sudden comprehending
comradeship. "By Jove, you're plucky!" they seemed to say. But what
he really said was: "Then swimming is no go.""If Christ hath not been raised, your
faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen
asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hoped in
Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (1 Cor. xv. 17). Then out of
this fact of the resurrection flows a consequence: the dead, as we call
them, "sleep in Jesus," and will be His immediate companions at the last
day. We cannot enter into a discussion as to the exact conditions of
what is called "Hades" or the "intermediate state"; suffice it to say
that one great feature of it is nearness to Jesus, "having a desire to
depart and be with Christ" (Phil. i. 23); "absent from the body, present
with the Lord" (2 Cor. v. 8). Herein consists the blessed hope set
before us in regard to the faithful departed; the crucified, risen,
ascended Jesus has them in His keeping; we and they alike are parts of
the one great Church, knit into the "Communion of Saints" by the mystic
bond of the sacred bread, linked each to the other by mutual prayer;
they for us and we for them.

Very beautifully and tenderly does the Archbishop of Canterbury deal
with this thought in one of his late sermons:--

  "As with bowed head and quivering lip we commend their souls into
  the hands of a faithful Creator and most merciful Saviour we feel
  how the very passing of those brave and buoyant lives into the
  world beyond pierces the flimsy barrier between the things which
  are seen and temporal and the things which are unseen and eternal,
  and again we can and do give thanks. God is not the God of the dead,
  but of the living:--


  "Nor dare to sorrow with increase of grief
  When they who go before
  Go furnished, or because their span was brief.
  For doubt not but that in the worlds above
  There must be other offices of love,
  That other tasks and ministries there are,
  Since it is promised that His servants there
  Shall serve him still. Therefore be strong, be strong,
  Ye that remain, nor fruitlessly revolve,
  Darkling, the riddles which ye cannot solve,
  But do the works that unto you belong."


Here is the magnificent prospect of hope for those who mourn: that
the Incarnation of our Lord is still working itself out in all its
beneficent purposes. 

- The young fellow, said the landlord, is beloved by all the town, and
there is scarce a corner in Montreuil where the want of him will
not be felt: he has but one misfortune in the world, continued he,
"he is always in love."The saints on earth and those
in Paradise are equally in the hands of the Lord, though the latter have
clearer vision and nearer sense of the fact than the former. By some
this is used as an argument against the practice of prayer for the
departed, but surely this thought of the unity of the whole body leads
in exactly the opposite direction. No argument can be adduced against
this most ancient and primitive custom, observed by the Jews long before
the coming of Christ, but what equally applies to any petition for an
absent friend still on earth. In each case they are in the keeping of
Him Who knows best and will do right, yet for those still here we pray,
believing that in His own way God will take account of our prayers and
knit them up into His own dealings, so that they become part of His
eternal purposes. Thorstein dwelt at Burg in Burg-firth; he was rich
of fee, and a great chief, a wise man, meek and of measure in all wise.
He was nought of such wondrous growth and strength as his father Egil
had been; yet was he a right mighty man, and much beloved of all
folk.

Thorstein was goodly to look on, flaxen-haired, and the best-eyed of men;
and so say men of lore that many of the kin of the Mere-men, who
are come of Egil, have been the goodliest folk; yet, for all that,
this kindred have differed much herein, for it is said that some
of them have been accounted the most ill-favoured of men: but in
that kin have been also many men of great prowess in many wise,
such as Kiartan, the son of Olaf Peacock, and Slaying-Bardi, and
Skuli, the son of Thorstein.

Some have been great bards, too, in that kin, as Biorn, the champion
of Hit-dale, priest Einar Skulison, Snorri Sturluson, and many others.

Now, Thorstein had to wife Jofrid, the daughter of Gunnar, the son
of Hlifar.

This Gunnar was the best skilled in weapons, and the lithest of limb
of all bonderfolk who have been in Iceland; the second was Gunnar of
Lithend; but Steinthor of Ere was the third. Jofrid was eighteen
winters old when Thorstein wedded her; she was a widow, for Thorodd,
son of Odd of Tongue, had had her to wife aforetime. Their daughter was
Hungerd, who was brought up at Thorstein's at Burg. Jofrid was a very
stirring woman; she and Thorstein had many children betwixt them, but
few of them come into this tale. Skuli was the eldest of their sons,
Kollsvein the second, Egil the third.

CHAPTER II. Of Thorsteins Dream.

One summer, it is said, a ship came from over the main into Gufaros.

Bergfinn was he hight who was the master thereof, a Northman of kin,
rich in goods, and somewhat stricken in years, and a wise man he was
withal.

Now, goodman Thorstein rode to the ship, as it was his wont mostly to
rule the market, and this he did now. The Eastmen got housed, but Thorstein
took the master to himself, for thither he prayed to go.

Bergfinn was of few words throughout the winter, but Thorstein treated
him well The Eastman had great joy of dreams.

One day in spring-tide Thorstein asked Bergfinn if he would ride with
him up to Hawkfell, where at that time was the Thing-stead of the
Burg-firthers; for Thorstein had been told that the walls of his booth
had fallen in. The Eastman said he had good will to go, so that
day they rode, some three together, from home, and the house-carles
of Thorstein withal, till they came up under Hawkfell to a farmstead
called Foxholes.
There dwelt a man of small wealth called Atli, who was Thorstein's tenant
Thorstein bade him come and work with them, and bring with him hoe and
spade. This he did, and when they came to the tofts of the booth, they
set to work all of them, and did out the walls.

The weather was hot with sunshine that day, and Thorstein and the
Eastman grew heavy; and when they had moved out the walls, those
two sat down within the tofts, and Thorstein slept, and fared ill
in his sleep.The doctrine was developed and materialised till it resulted
in those corruptions which were so largely responsible for the
Reformation. In their zeal to root out error, the Reformers fell into
the opposite extreme and abolished the idea of the intermediate state
altogether. Hence arose the popular notion, unknown to the Catholic
Church till then, of Heaven or Hell as the immediate issue of death.

Of course, the Church's teaching had regard to the condition of its own
members after death, and we cannot press it into an argument as to those
not dying, technically, in a state of grace; but at least this much we
may say: Surely no intelligent person can contemplate the thought of
these vast hosts being hurried off into eternal perdition, and at the
same time retain his reason or his faith in a God of love. Whatever the
possibilities of the world to come, they are but the extension of the
boundless love of God in Christ, and hold out no promise for us if we
wilfully neglect our day of grace.

But now to pass on to one further source of consolation which comes
in its measure to all the bereaved alike; the chastened joy from the
thought of the splendid sacrifice the dear one has been privileged
to make.

Take an illustration--a letter from Major-General Allenby to Lady de
Crespigny on the death of her son:--


  "Dear Lady de Crespigny,--I and the whole of the Cavalry
  Division sympathise with you, and we feel deeply for Norman's loss.
  But I must tell you that he died a hero's death. The brigade was hotly
  engaged, and on the Bays fell the brunt of the fighting on September
  1st. Norman, with a few men, was holding an important tactical point,
  and he held it till every man was killed or wounded. No man could have
  done more, few would have done so much.

  "With deepest sympathy, yours sincerely,

  "E.H.H. Allenby."


How the bereaved hearts in the midst of crushing grief must have lit up
with gladness at such a record as that!

But to close. The discipline of bereavement consists essentially in the
trial of faith, yet at the same time brings with it the power of faith.
In bereavement, above all other forms of sorrow, comes the felt need of
God; it has been so with countless souls. The answer to the need is the
revelation that God makes of Himself in Christ; then comes the peace of
God, which passeth all understanding, which dries the tears and heals
the broken heart.

_Note_.--The question of prayer in connection with God's foreknowledge
is so admirably treated in "Some Elements of Religion" (Liddon) that we
append an extract:--


  "What if prayers and actions, to us at the moment perfectly spontaneous,
  are eternally foreseen and included within the all-embracing
  Predestination of God, as factors and causes, working out that final
  result which, beyond all dispute, is the product of His Good Pleasure?

  "Whether I open my mouth or lift my hand is, before my doing it,
  strictly within the jurisdiction and power of my personal will: but
  however I may decide, my decision, so absolutely free to me, will have
  been already incorporated by the All-seeing, All-controlling Being as an
  integral part, however insignificant, of His one all-embracing purpose,
  leading on to effects and causes beyond itself. Prayer, too, is only a
  foreseen action of man which, together with its results, is embraced in
  the eternal Predestination of God. To us this or that blessing may be
  strictly contingent on our praying for it; but our prayer is
  nevertheless so far from necessarily introducing change into the purpose
  of the Unchangeable, that it has been all along taken, so to speak, into
  account by Him. If, then, with 'the Father of Lights' there is in this
  sense 'no variableness, neither shadow of turning,' it is not therefore
  irrational to pray for specific blessings, as we do in the Litany,
  because God works out His plans not merely in us but by us; and we may
  dare to say that that which is to us a free self-determination, may be
  not other than a foreseen element of His work."

_For suggested Meditations during the week see Appendix._


VIII

=Discipline through Self-sacrifice=

GOOD FRIDAY

1 Tim. ii. 6

  "Christ Jesus, Who gave Himself a ransom for all."


To-day we reach the solemn climax which embraces in itself the whole
idea of discipline under each of those aspects upon which we have
touched. Will, body, soul, spirit, obedience, suffering, death, all
summed up in the tremendous self-sacrifice declared by the Cross of
Christ.

The principle of sacrifice is one of those deep mysteries which seem,
as it were, to be rooted in the very nature of our being. It begins
in the initial fact by which man's existence is maintained upon
earth--motherhood, a vast vicarious sacrifice. Yet borne with gratitude,
readiness, ay, even with joy because of the dignity, the love, the
delights it brings with it. One of the surest signs of the decadence
of a nation is when its women, through desire of merely living for
themselves, begin to rebel against the high privilege of motherhood, or
to neglect the duties it should entail. This attitude of mind poisons
life at its fountain-head.

Time would fail us, nor indeed would it be profitable, to enter upon a
discussion as to the exact theological bearing of the death of Christ
upon the forgiveness of sins. This is a matter which may rightly occupy
the attention of theologians and scholars who endeavour, so far as
infinite verities can be expressed in finite language, to give a reason
for the hope that is in them. Such books as Liddon's Bampton Lectures,
Dale on the Atonement, or Illingworth on Personality, will be found most
valuable by those who have the time and the capacity for studying them.
It is a good thing, especially in these days, that the intellect of the
Christian should be well-equipped, so that he may silence the taunts of
those who say Christianity is purely a matter of emotion.

The personal acceptance of Christ as a personal Saviour rests, not so
much on arguments, as on a sense of need; when this is accompanied by
strong intellectual grip of truth then the influence of the Christian
upon others becomes a great missionary factor. The beauty of the Gospel
story lies in its wonderful adaptability. It is the same in its power to
a Pascal, a Butler, a Liddon, as it is to the unlettered peasant, who
can neither read nor write.

Scripture declares quite plainly that the death of Christ was "for us";
how far this may be pressed to mean "instead of us" is a very grave
question. The words will bear that interpretation, no doubt, but we must
remember that they do not necessarily involve any more than "in our
behalf," that is, for our benefit.

It has been the forcing of the words into an unnatural and immoral
theory of substitution, the notion of an angry God claiming a victim,
that has done such terrible harm to the cause of Christianity, and has
led many thoughtful minds to give it up in disgust or despair. Probably
in a wise commingling of the two lines of thought we shall arrive most
nearly at the truth. We all agree that our Blessed Lord's death was "in
behalf of us"; that is for our everlasting welfare; in a very real sense
this was "instead of us," since His sufferings were endured so that we
might not lose the blessing of salvation.

Very beautifully is the matter summed up by a modern writer: "In the
death of the Lord Jesus Christ as a Sacrifice and Propitiation for the
sins of the world, the moral perfections of God find their highest
expression, and the deepest necessities of man's moral and spiritual
life their only complete satisfaction."[3]

[Footnote 3: Dale on the Atonement.]

The death of Christ was not only typically but, in a certain sense,
actually the offering up of our bodies on the Cross. Notice very
carefully the words of St. Paul, "I have been crucified with Christ"
(Gal. ii., 20 R.V.). Not simply, as in the old Authorised Version,
"I am crucified with Christ," but something much more definite and exact.
When Christ ascended the Cross He took up with Him our human nature
collectively, as bound up in Himself by virtue of His Incarnation. Hence
it follows that you, the individual, have been crucified with Him; just
as you, the individual, have been buried with Him, and raised with Him
in your Baptism (Rom. vi., 4). How completely this takes the sting out
of the reproach brought against Christianity, on the ground of the
immorality of the Crucifixion! It is no longer the Innocent one
suffering instead of the guilty, but it is the sinless One taking upon
Himself human nature, with all its guilt and consequent punishment, and
"in His own body on the tree," offering that human nature up to God. He
in us, we in Him, that the redemption of human nature may be complete.
Canon Liddon thus puts it in one of his University sermons, "The
substitution of the suffering Christ arose directly out of the terms of
the Incarnation. The human nature which our Lord assumed was none other
than the very nature of the sinner, only without its sin. Therefore He
becomes the Redeemer of our several persons, because He is already the
Redeemer of this our common nature, which He has made for ever His own."

We have already noticed that it was not the sufferings of Christ which
were acceptable to God the Father. To think this would be to fall back
into the very crudest and most repulsive idea of substitution. No, it
was the offering up of the will of Christ that formed the essence of the
sacrifice. If we may presume to attempt a mere earthly illustration of
so tremendous a matter, let us take the case of a General whose son
meets with a terrible death while leading a forlorn hope. The father's
heart is torn with anguish both for the death and the circumstances of
it; but at the same time the father's heart swells with pride, ay, even
with joy, that his son should have been true to the highest thing in the
world--duty.

PARIS.

When I got home to my hotel, La Fleur told me I had been enquired
after by the Lieutenant de Police.

--The deuce take it! said I,--I know the reason. It is time the reader
should know it, for in the order of things in which it happened,
it was omitted: not that it was out of my head; but that had I
told it then it might have been forgotten now;--and now is the time
I want it.

I had left London with so much precipitation, that it never
enter'd my mind that we were at war with France; and had reached
Dover, and looked through my glass at the hills beyond Boulogne,
before the idea presented itself; and with this in its train, that
there was no getting there without a passport.

Go but to the end of a street, I have a mortal aversion for
returning back no wiser than I set out; and as this was one of the
greatest efforts I had ever made for knowledge, I could less bear
the thoughts of it: so hearing the Count de--had hired the packet,
I begg'd he would take me in his suite.

  The Count had some little knowledge of me, so made little or no
  difficulty,--only said, his inclination to serve me could reach no
  farther than Calais, as he was to return by way of Brussels to Paris;
  however, when I had once pass'd there, I might get to Paris without
  interruption; but that in Paris I must make friends and shift for
  myself.--Let me get to Paris, Monsieur le Count, said I,--and I shall
  do very well.

So I embark'd, and never thought more of the matter.

When La Fleur told me the Lieutenant de Police had been enquiring
after me,--the thing instantly recurred;--and by the time La Fleur
had well told me, the master of the hotel came into my room to tell
me the same thing, with this addition to it, that my passport had
been particularly asked after: the master of the hotel concluded
with saying, He hoped I had one.

--Not I, faith! said I.

The master of the hotel retired three steps from me, as from an infected
person, as I declared this;--and poor La Fleur advanced three steps
towards me, and with that sort of movement which a good soul makes
to succour a distress'd one: --the fellow won my heart by it; and
from that single trait I knew his character as perfectly, and could
rely upon it as firmly, as if he had served me with fidelity for
seven years.

Mon seigneur! cried the master of the hotel; but recollecting
himself as he made the exclamation, he instantly changed the tone
of it.--If Monsieur, said he, has not a passport (apparemment) in
all likelihood he has friends in Paris who can procure him one.-- Not
that I know of, quoth I, with an air of indifference.--Then certes,
replied he, you'll be sent to the Bastile or the Chatelet au moins.--Poo!
said I, the King of France is a good natur'd soul:
--he'll hurt nobody.--Cela n'empeche pas, said he--you will certainly be
sent to the Bastile to-morrow morning.--But I've taken your lodgings
for a month, answer'd I, and I'll not quit them a day before the time for
all the kings of France in the world. La Fleur whispered in my ear, That
nobody could oppose the king of France.

Pardi! said my host, ces Messieurs Anglois sont des gens tres
extraordinaires;--and, having both said and sworn it,--he went
out.

  THE PASSPORT. THE HOTEL AT PARIS.
  
  
  I could not find in my heart to torture La Fleur's with a serious
look upon the subject of my embarrassment, which was the reason I
had treated it so cavalierly: and to show him how light it lay upon
my mind, I dropt the subject entirely; and whilst he waited upon
me at supper, talk'd to him with more than usual gaiety about Paris,
and of the Opera Comique

.
For all the conscious failures ask pardon, but do not give up
striving.

Standing under the Cross of Christ, as we do to-day, we have a standard
for the measuring of ourselves which makes our little efforts at
discipline look very poor indeed. Yet He remembers our frame, He knows
whereof we are made; He can and will accept the feeblest struggles of
our will towards His. Perhaps some progress in the life of grace may
have been made, then thank Him and take courage.

Let us just cast our minds back. The discipline of the will means,
laying ourselves open to listen to the voice of the living God. The
discipline of the body means, never letting it get the upper hand of the
real self. The discipline of the soul means the taking a very serious
view of the responsibility of life. The discipline of the spirit means,
a close approach to God by every channel of worship. The discipline of
obedience means, that we put self in the background, so that we may
exalt the person of Christ. The discipline of sorrow means, that Christ
is still present in His suffering ones, and there is our opportunity.
The discipline of bereavement means, the trial of our faith that it may
enter into the realities of the spiritual kingdom.

Then comes the crown and climax, the discipline of self-sacrifice.
Place steadily before you the thought of Christ crucified, see there the
culmination of all possibility of the offering up of self for others.
No element of completeness was wanting. The sacrifice was voluntary,
was made for enemies, brought no return to self.

Strong in His strength go forth ready to spend and be spent, if only by
the discipline of self-sacrifice you can lighten the load borne by any
one of your fellow-creatures.


  What hast Thou done for me, O
    Mighty Friend,
    Who lovest to the end?
  Reveal Thyself that I may now behold
    Thy love unknown, untold,
  Bearing the curse and made a curse for me
    That blessed and made a blessing I might be.

  Wounded for my transgressions, stricken sore,
    That I might sin no more,
  Weak, that I might be always strong in Thee:
    Bound, that I might be free;
  Acquaint with grief that I might only know
    Fulness of joy, in everlasting flowThen said Gunnlaug, "I must needs know what thou wilt answer me
about the wooing."

       Thorstein answers: "I heed not thy vain talk," says he.

Gunnlaug says, "This is my whole mind, and no vain words."

Thorstein says, "Thou shouldst first know thine own will.

Art thou not bound to fare abroad?

and yet thou makest as if thou wouldst go marry.

Neither art thou an even match for Helga while thou art so unsettled,
and therefore this cannot so much as be looked at."

  Gunnlaug says, "Where lookest thou for a match for thy daughter,
if thou wilt not give her to the son of Illugi the Black; or who
are they throughout Burg-firth who are of more note than he?"

Thorstein answered: "I will not play at men-mating," says he, "but if
thou wert such a man as he is, thou wouldst not be turned away."
We celebrate to-day the grandest victory the world has ever known: a
victory which sprang out of the depths of an apparently complete defeat.
"We trusted that it was He which should have redeemed Israel." Vain
confidence, for how could One Who had died as a malefactor, Who could
not save Himself, rescue His nation from the tyranny of the Roman power?
And then He, this stranger Whom they knew not, opened to them the
Scriptures; showed them the necessity of the sufferings, and the great
climax, in the Resurrection. The ears were dull, the hearts unconvinced,
as they generally are by mere argument, till he revealed Himself in "the
breaking of bread." The eyes of love could not be deceived and sorrow
gave place to joy.

Some dispute has arisen as to whether we ought to pray for victory in
this War. The matter is well put by an anonymous writer: "If we are only
to pray in matters wherein there is no difference of opinion our prayers
will be few, and if we cannot pray for the triumph of honour over
falsehood, of respect for treaties over unscrupulousness, of order
over cruelty and outrage, for what are we ever to pray? We must pray
according to the light we have. The awful conflagrations had not taken
place when I arrived in London from a large school in one of the midland
counties in England, for the Midsummer vacation. So many of my
school-fellows resided in the metropolis, or in a part of the country
requiring a passage through London, that three or four closely-packed
post-chaises were necessary; and to accomplish the journey in good
time for the youngsters to be met by their friends, the journey was
begun as near to four o'clock A.M. as was possible.

The chaises, well crowned with boxes, and filled with joyous youth, were
received at the Castle and Falcon, then kept by a Mr. Dupont, a
celebrated wine merchant, and the friend of our estimable tutor. The
whole of my schoolmates had been met by their respective friends, and
my brother and I alone remained at the inn, when at length my mother
arrived in a hackney-coach to fetch us, and from her we learned that
the streets were so crowded that she could hardly make her way to us. No
time was lost, and we were soon on our way homewards. We passed through
Newgate Street and the Old Bailey without interruption or delay; but when
we came into Ludgate Hill the case was far different; the street was full
and the people noisy, permitting no carriage to pass unless the
coachman took off his hat and acknowledged his respect for them and
the object for which they had congregated.

"Hat off, coachee!" was their cry. Our coachman would not obey their
noisy calls, and there we were fixed. Long might we have remained in
that unpleasant predicament had not my foreseeing parent sagaciously
provided herself with a piece of ribbon of the popular colour, which
she used to good effect by making it up into a bow with a long, streamer
and pinning it to a white handkerchief, which she courageously flourished
out of the window of the hackney-coach. Huzzas {274} and "Go on,
coachee!"

  were shouted from the crowd and
    with no other obstruction than the full streets presented, we
reached Beaufort Buildings, in the Strand, the street in which we
resided.

"Oh, but that's only
one little hill; the Germans will have it back soon enough." Surely
this kind of pessimism, except where the victim of it is not really
responsible, must be as offensive to God as it is exasperating to man.

But now to turn to our chief thought for the day, that is, the
permanence of the victory of Easter Day, "Christ dieth no more." That
is why He is called "The first fruits of them that are asleep." Several
resurrections are recorded both in the Old and New Testaments, but these
are cases of those who were raised by others, and then died again.
Christ raised Himself and death hath no more dominion over Him. The
resurrection is permanent and keeps on perpetuating and extending itself
in the life of the whole universal Church. It was not an isolated act,
but part of a wondrous plan. Not only does it possess doctrinal
significance in that plan, but vital force for the carrying of it out.
"He died for our sins," but "He was raised for our justification."

  Yes, death's last hope, his strongest fort and prison,
    Is shattered, never to be built again;
  And He, the mighty Captive, He is risen,
    Leaving behind the gate, the bar, the chain.


We are praying constantly, earnestly, that we "may be brought through
strife to a lasting peace"; and that "the nations of the world may be
united in a firmer fellowship for the promotion of Thy glory and the
good of all mankind." No conditions of peace are worth accepting unless
they will, humanly speaking, secure this result. Germany on the one
side, and the Allies on the other, both realise that this is a "fight to
a finish." Singularly enough the object of both sides is similar--to
render another great European war impossible: but the ideals in respect
to its attainment are by no means the same; one looks to the setting up
of a world dominion; the other, to the establishment of a state of
balanced power and mutual interests among European nations. We are
fighting essentially for the principle of "live and let live," and
therefore have to face unflinchingly all the sacrifice that still lies
before us. When peace is concluded it must be upon terms which will make
results permanent! Should Germany, in the mysterious providence of God,
be allowed to become supreme, there will be peace, but, alas! only the
peace of desolation and the numbness of despair. But, as we have already
said, it seems disloyal to all our deepest instincts, all our truest
feelings, even to contemplate such a possibility.

But when the Allies triumph, what then?--the discipline of victory.
Think for one moment of what the victory of Christ meant, as the
ratification of the treaty signed upon the Cross, in the very hour of
apparent defeat. It meant for you and me all that is included in the
words "the redemption of the world by our Lord Jesus Christ; the means
of grace and the hope of glory." The resurrection puts the seal to the
great charter, commenced at Bethlehem, indited page by page through the
wondrous life of three and thirty years, closed, as to its earthly side,
on Calvary, sealed, signed and delivered on Easter morning. In the power
of that treaty of peace you and I live, day by day; secure except for
our own carelessness; beyond all possibility of hurt from spiritual
enemies, unless by our own traitorous dealings with them. The victory
was complete! "He hath put all enemies under His feet"; the victory is
permanent, for, "death hath no more dominion over Him."

In these Addresses we have said much about those large results which God
is allowing us already to see as obviously coming out of the war; on our
Day of "Humble Prayer to Almighty God" we solemnly thanked Him:


  For the laying aside of controversies at home, and for the unity of
  the Nation and Empire;

  For the loyal and loving response of our fellow-subjects beyond the
  seas;

  For the full harmony between our Allies and ourselves, and for the
  success which has already been granted to our common efforts;

  For the devotion of those who have laid down their lives for their
  country;

  For the revelation in danger, in suffering, and in death, of the power
  of the Cross and the benefits of the Lord's Passion.


Now remains the question, Are the results to be permanent? That entirely
depends upon our attitude towards the discipline of victory; or how we
are going to behave ourselves in the hour of success. It is written
concerning Israel, "The Lord saved them from the hand of them that hated
them: and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. Then believed they
His words, they sang His praise. --Stay where you are, I beseech you,
Monsieur le Marquis, said I.--Les Messieurs Anglois can scarce get a
kind look from them as it is.--The Marquis invited me to supper.

Monsieur P-, the farmer-general, was just as inquisitive about our
taxes. They were very considerable, he heard.--If we knew but how to
collect them, said I, making him a low bow.

I could never have been invited to Mons. P-'s concerts upon any other
terms.

I had been misrepresented to Madame de Q- as an esprit.--Madame de Q- was
an esprit herself: she burnt with impatience to see me, and hear me talk.
I had not taken my seat, before I saw she did not care a sous whether
I had any wit or no;--I was let in, to be convinced she had. I
call heaven to witness I never once opened the door of my lips.

Madame de V- vow'd to every creature she met--"She had never had a more
improving conversation with a man in her life."
There are three epochas in the empire of a French woman.--She is
coquette,--then deist,--then devote: the empire during these
is never lost,--she only changes her subjects when thirty-five years and
more have unpeopled her dominion of the slaves of love, she re- peoples
it with slaves of infidelity,--and then with the slaves of the church.

Madame de V- was vibrating betwixt the first of those epochas: the colour
of the rose was fading fast away;--she ought to have been a deist five
years before the time I had the honour to pay my first visit.

She placed me upon the same sofa with her, for the sake of disputing
the point of religion more closely.

--In short Madame de V- told me she believed nothing.--I told Madame
de V- it might be her principle, but I was sure it could not be her
interest to level the outworks, without which I could not conceive
how such a citadel as hers could be defended;--that there was not
a more dangerous thing in the world than for a beauty to be a
deist;--that it was a debt I owed my creed not to conceal it from
her;--that I had not been five minutes sat upon the sofa beside
her, but I had begun to form designs;--and what is it, but the
sentiments of religion, and the persuasion they had excited in her
breast, which could have check'd them as they rose up?To be forewarned
is to be forearmed, let us look out for this, expect it, then we shall
not be afraid to meet it. "Christ being raised from the dead dieth no
more"; think what the permanency of that victory has meant all down the
ages of the past in the triumphs of the saints, in the deaths of the
martyrs, in the splendid story of the Church of Christ. Think what it
means to-day in the lives of millions of the faithful; in all the deeds
of charity which are brightening homes, cheering hearts, giving hope to
the hopeless, healing to the sick, and soundness to the maimed: think of
all it means in rest and refreshment to the souls in Paradise; think of
all it still will mean in the growth of the Church of Christ up to the
fulness of its destined and glorious completion; think of all it may
mean for you in your individual life, right up to the day when you shall
be like Him, for you shall see Him as He is.

In the permanence of the victory of Christ, may we each one of us so use
the discipline of victory that it may redound to the glory of Him, in
Whom we live, and move, and have our being.


APPENDIX

GIVING A SPECIAL THOUGHT AND PASSAGE FOR
MEDITATION FOR EACH DAY IN LENT
SUGGESTED BY THE ADDRESSES.


APPENDIX

A SUGGESTED THOUGHT FOR DAILY MEDITATION

_N.B.--You will find it useful to look up references in a reference
Bible._


Ash Wednesday: God wishes that we should be saved.--1 Tim. ii. 3, 4; 2
Pet. iii. 9.

Thursday: Our natural will is in conflict with God's will.--Rom. vii.
21-25.

Friday: God the Holy Ghost assists us by illuminating the will.--S. John
xvi. 13-15.

Saturday: What is the guiding principles of our lives?--Ps. xxxix. 7; S.
Matt. vi. 19-24.


1st Sunday in Lent: The Incarnation the mission of Christ to the
body.--S. John i. 1-14; Eph. v. 23.

Monday: The body in its physical aspect wonderfully suited to its
purposes.--Gen. i. 26-28; ii., 7; Ps. cxxxix. 14.

Tuesday: The body the external means by which we receive the
Sacraments.--Heb. x. 22; Acts viii. 14-17; 1 Cor. xi. 26.

Wednesday: The body in its ultimate destiny.--1 Cor. xv. 42-49; 1 John
iii. 2, 3.

Thursday: Disciplining the body braces the will.--2 Tim. ii. 3; Heb. xi.
32-40.

Friday: The corporate life of the Church in its bearing on influence and
conduct.--1 Cor. xii. 12-27.

Saturday: The duty of example in respect of the temperance question.--1
Cor. viii. 7-13; 2 Cor. viii. 9.


2nd Sunday in Lent: The inner value of our life.--S. Mark viii. 34-38.

Monday: The deadening effect of prosperity.--S. James v. 1-6.

Tuesday: Our Lord's example of single-mindedness.--S. Mark vii. 37; S.
Matt. xxvi. 39-44.

Wednesday: The need for seriousness in thought.--S. Matt. xv. 10-20;
Phil. iv. 8.

Thursday: The need for seriousness in word.--S. James iii. 1-11.

Friday: The need for seriousness in deed.--S. James iii. 13-18; 1 Pet.
v. 8.

Saturday: The need for perseverance, lest we forfeit our blessings.--Rom
ii. 4-7; Rev. ii. 18-29.


3rd Sunday in Lent: Man seeking after God.--Ps. xlii.

Monday: The Incarnation the means by which the union between God and man
is brought about.--S. John xvii. 17-26.

Tuesday: Prayer the characteristic act of religion.--S. Matt. vii. 7-12;
Eph. vi. 18.

Wednesday: The importance of self-examination as leading to
self-knowledge.--Gal. vi. 3-5.

Thursday: Confession of sins to God the only condition of
forgiveness.--1 John i. 5-10.

Friday: Forgiveness of sins comes from God through the blood of
Christ.--Eph. i. 3-12.

Saturday: The ministry of reconciliation committed to the ministers, as
Christ's ambassadors.--2 Cor. v. 18; S. John xx. 22, 23.


4th Sunday in Lent: The natural body of Christ the source of
healings.Now it is to be said of Raven that he fitted out his ship in Leiruvag;
two men are named that went with him, sisters' sons of his father
Onund, one hight Grim, the other Olaf, doughty men both.

All the kinsmen of Raven thought it great scathe when he went away,
but he said he had challenged Gunnlaug to the holmgang because he
could have no joy soever of Helga; and he said, withal, that one
must fall before the other.

So Raven put to sea, when he had wind at will, and brought his
ship to Thrandheim, and was there that winter and heard nought of
Gunnlaug that winter through; there lie abode him the summer
following: and still another winter was he in Thrandheim, at a place
called Lifangr.

Wednesday: Devotion to Christ the power of endurance.--Acts v. 40-42;
Rom. viii. 35-39.

Thursday: Christ succouring those who suffer for Him.--Acts vii. 54-60;
xxvii. 21-26.

Friday: Character disciplined by suffering.--Heb. x. 32-36; xii. 4-11.

Saturday: Suffering giving opportunity for sympathy.--Heb. xii. 12, 13;
S. James i. 27; ii. 14-16.


6th Sunday in Lent: The resurrection of Christ, the basis of hope.--1
Thess. iv. 13-18.

Monday: The Holy Spirit the power of the risen life, here and
hereafter.--Rom. viii. 5-11.

Tuesday: The communion of Saints in the one body of Christ.--Heb. xii.
1, 2, and 22-24.

Wednesday: The departed remembering us.--S. Luke xvi. 19-31; esp. v. 24;
Rev. vi. 9.

Thorstein said: "I cannot blame you two for having done this; most
things will fall as they are fated, and well have ye covered over
my folly: so look I on this maiden that I deem it great good luck
to have so fair a child.

But now, what is her name?"


       *       *       *       *       *

  PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY R. CLAY AND SONS, LTD.,
  BRUNSWICK STREET, STAMFORD STREET, S.E., AND BUNGAY, SUFFOLK.