Memoranda: _Lincoln choir is an example of Early English or First
Pointed, which can generally be told from something else by bold
projecting buttresses and dog-tooth moulding round the abacusses._ (The
plural is my own, and it does not look right.) _Lincoln Castle was the
scene of many prolonged sieges, and was once taken by Oliver Cromwell._

       *       *       *       *       *


_He_

    York, _June 26_,
        The Black Swan.


Kitty Schuyler is the concentrated essence of feminine witchery.
Intuition strong, logic weak, and the two qualities so balanced as to
produce an indefinable charm; will-power large, but docility equal, if
a man is clever enough to know how to manage her; knowledge of facts
absolutely _nil_, but she is exquisitely intelligent in spite of it. She
has a way of evading, escaping, eluding, and then gives you an
intoxicating hint of sudden and complete surrender. She is divinely
innocent, but roguishness saves her from insipidity. Just below the
south aisle is the Dacre tomb, the richest and most striking in the
church. It contains two life-size effigies of Lord and Lady Dacre lying
under a canopy which is supported by two pillars with gilded capitals;
above is a semicircular arch. The whole interior of the arch and the
background is most richly carved and gilded. Above the arch are the Dacre
coat-of-arms and two shields, while two smaller pillars, wedge-shaped
like Cleopatra's Needles, rise at each corner.

       At the feet of the figures lie two dogs, and the effigy of a small
child lies on a marble slab below the level of its parents.

By Lady Dacre's will certain presentations to some almshouses in Westminster
are left to the parish on condition of the tombs being kept in good
repair. The tomb was redecorated and restored in 1868.

The south and west walls are covered with monuments, and careless feet
tread on inscribed stones in the aisle. On the northern wall
below the north aisle is a monument which immediately attracts
attention from its great size and striking design. It is that of
Lady Jane Cheyne, daughter of William, Duke of Newcastle.

It is an effigy of Lady Jane in white marble, larger than life-size;
she lies in a half-raised position. Below is a black marble tomb
with lighter marble pillars. Overhead is a canopy supported by two
Corinthian columns.

The inscription, which states it was with her money her husband
bought the Manor of Chelsea, is on a black marble slab at the back.

The monument is by Bernini.

All these tombs, with their wealth of carving and bold design, give a
rich and furnished look to the dark old church, an effect enhanced
by the tattered colours hanging overhead. The principal one of these
colours was executed by Queen Victoria and her daughters for the
volunteers at Chelsea when an invasion was expected. The shelf of chained
books by a southern window is interesting. These formerly stood against
the west wall, but were removed here for better preservation. They include
a "Vinegar" Bible, date 1717, a desk Prayer-Book, and Foxe's "Book of
Martyrs." The Communion-rails and pulpit are of oak, and the font of
white marble of a peculiarly graceful design.

       Outside in the south-east corner of the churchyard is Sir Hans
Sloane's monument.

    
        My taste is so bad! I just begin to realize it, and I am feeling my
'growing pains,' like Gwendolen in 'Daniel Deronda.' I admired the
stained glass in the Lincoln Cathedral the other day, especially the
Nuremberg window. I thought Mr. Copley looked pained, but he said
nothing. When I went to my room, I consulted a book and found that all
the glass in that cathedral is very modern and very bad, and the
Nuremberg window is the worst of all. Aunt Celia says she hopes that it
will be a warning to me to read before I speak; but Mr. Copley says no,
that the world would lose more in one way than it would gain in the
other. I tried my quotations this morning, and stuck fast in the middle
of the first.

Mr. Copley thinks I have been feeing the vergers too liberally, so I
wrote a song about it called 'The Ballad of the Vergers and the Foolish
Virgin,' which I sang to my guitar. Mr. Copley thinks it is cleverer
than anything he ever did with his pencil. Of course, he says that only
to be agreeable; but really, whenever he talks to me in that way, I can
almost hear myself purring with pleasure.

We go to two services a day in the minster, and sometimes I sit quite
alone in the nave drinking in the music as it floats out from behind the
choir-screen. The Litany and the Commandments are so beautiful heard in
this way, and I never listen to the fresh, young voices chanting 'Write
all these Thy laws in our hearts, we beseech Thee,' without wanting
passionately to be good. I love, too, the joyful burst of music in the
_Te Deum_: 'Thou didst open the kingdom of heaven to all believers.' I
like that word 'all'; it takes in foolish me, as well as wise Aunt
Celia.

And yet, with all its pomp and magnificence, the service does not help
me quite so much nor stir up the deep places, in me so quickly as dear
old Dr. Kyle's simpler prayers and talks in the village meeting-house
where I went as a child. Mr. Copley has seen it often, and made a little
picture of it for me, with its white steeple and the elm-tree branches
hanging over it. If I ever have a husband I should wish him to have
memories like my own. It would be very romantic to marry an Italian
marquis or a Hungarian count, but must it not be a comfort to two people
to look back on the same past?

       *       *       *       *       *

We all went to an evening service last night. It was an 'occasion,' and
a famous organist played the Minster organ.

I wonder why choir-boys are so often playful and fidgety and
uncanonical in behaviour? Does the choirmaster advertise 'Naughty boys
preferred,' or do musical voices commonly exist in unregenerate bodies?
With all the opportunities they must have outside of the cathedral to
exchange those objects of beauty and utility usually found in boys'
pockets, there is seldom a service where they do not barter penknives,
old coins, or tops, generally during the Old Testament reading. A dozen
little black-surpliced 'probationers' sit together in a seat just
beneath the choir-boys, and one of them spent his time this evening in
trying to pull a loose tooth from its socket. The task not only engaged
all his own powers, but made him the centre of attraction for the whole
probationary row.

Coming home, Aunt Celia walked ahead with Mrs. Benedict, who keeps
turning up at the most unexpected moments. She's going to build a
Gothicky memorial chapel somewhere, and is making studies for it. I
don't like her in the least, but four is certainly a more comfortable
number than three. I scarcely ever have a moment alone with Mr. Copley,
for, go where I will and do what I please, as Aunt Celia has the most
perfect confidence in my indiscretion, she is always _en évidence_.

Just as we were turning into the quiet little street where we are
lodging, I said:

'Oh dear, I wish that I really knew something about architecture!'

'If you don't know anything about it, you are certainly responsible for
a good deal of it,' said Mr. Copley.

'I? How do you mean?' I asked quite innocently, because I couldn't see
how he could twist such a remark as that into anything like sentiment.

'I have never built so many castles in my life as since I've known you,
Miss Schuyler,' he said.

'Oh,' I answered as lightly as I could, 'air-castles don't count.'

'The building of air-castles is an innocent amusement enough, I
suppose,' he said; 'but I'm committing the folly of living in mine. I--'

Then I was frightened. When, all at once, you find you have something
precious that you only dimly suspected was to be yours, you almost wish
it hadn't come so soon. But just at that moment Mrs. Benedict called to
us, and came tramping back from the gate, and hooked her supercilious,
patronizing arm in Mr. Copley's, and asked him into the sitting-room to
talk over the 'lady-chapel' in her new memorial church. Then Aunt Celia
told me they would excuse me, as I had had a wearisome day; and there
was nothing for me to do but to go to bed, like a snubbed child, and
wonder if I should ever know the end of that sentence. And I listened
at the head of the stairs, shivering, but all that I could hear was that
Mrs. Benedict asked Mr. Copley to be her own architect. Her architect,
indeed! That woman ought not to be at large--so rich and good-looking
and unconscientious!

       *       *       *       *       *


_He_

    York, _July 5_.


I had just established myself comfortably near to Miss Van Tyck's hotel,
and found a landlady after my own heart in Mrs. Pickles, No. 6,
Micklegate, when Miss Van Tyck, aided and abetted, I fear, by the
romantic Miss Schuyler, elected to change her quarters, and I, of
course, had to change too. Mine is at present a laborious (but not
unpleasant) life. The causes of Miss Schuyler's removal, as I have been
given to understand by the lady herself, were some particularly pleasing
window-boxes in a lodging in High Petergate Street; boxes overflowing
with pink geraniums and white field-daisies. No one (she explains) could
have looked at this house without desiring to live in it; and when she
discovered, during a somewhat exhaustive study of the premises, that the
maid's name was Susan Strangeways, and that she was promised in marriage
to a brewer's apprentice called Sowerbutt, she went back to her
conventional hotel and persuaded her aunt to remove without delay. If
Miss Schuyler were offered a room at the Punchbowl Inn in the
Gillygate and a suite at the Grand Royal Hotel in Broad Street, she
would choose the former unhesitatingly; just as she refused refreshment
at the best caterer's this afternoon and dragged Mrs. Benedict and me
into 'The Little Snug,' where an alluring sign over the door announced
'A Homely Cup of Tea for Twopence.' But she would outgrow all that; or,
if she didn't, I have common-sense enough for two; or if I hadn't, I
shouldn't care a hang.

Is it not a curious dispensation of Providence that, just when Aunt
Celia is confined to her room with a cold, Mrs. Benedict should join our
party and spend her days in our company? She drove to the Merchants'
Hall and the Cavalry Barracks with us, she walked on the city walls with
us, she even dared the 'homely' tea at 'The Little Snug'; and at that
moment I determined I wouldn't build her memorial church for her, even
at a most princely profit.

On crossing Lendal Bridge we saw the river Ouse running placidly through
the town, and a lot of little green boats moored at a landing-stage.

'How delightful it would be to row for an hour!' exclaimed Miss
Schuyler.

'Oh, do you think so, in those tippy boats on a strange river?'
remonstrated Mrs. Benedict.

The moment I suspected she was afraid of the water, I lured her to the
landing-stage and engaged a boat.

'It's a pity that that large flat one has a leak, otherwise it would
have held three nicely; but I dare say we can be comfortable in one of
the little ones,' I said doubtfully.

'Shan't we be too heavy for it?' Mrs. Benedict inquired timidly.

'Oh, I don't think so. We'll get in and try it. If we find it sinks
under our weight we won't risk it,' I replied, spurred on by such
twinkles in Miss Schuyler's eyes as blinded me to everything else.

'I really don't think your aunt would like you to venture, Miss
Schuyler,' said the marplot.

'Oh, as to that, she knows I am accustomed to boating,' replied Miss
Schuyler.

'And Miss Schuyler is such an excellent swimmer,' I added.

Whereupon the marplot and killjoy remarked that if it were a question
of swimming she should prefer to remain at home, as she had large
responsibilities devolving upon her, and her life was in a sense not her
own to fling away as she might like.

I assured her solemnly that she was quite, quite right, and pushed off
before she could change her mind.

After a long interval of silence, Miss Schuyler observed in the voice,
accompanied by the smile and the glance of the eye, that 'did' for me
the moment I was first exposed to them:

'You oughtn't to have said that about my swimming, because I can't a
bit, you know.'

'I was justified,' I answered gloomily. 'I have borne too much to-day,
and if she had come with us and had fallen overboard, I might have been
tempted to hold her down with the oar.'

Whereupon Miss Schuyler gave way to such whole-hearted mirth that she
nearly upset the boat. I almost wish she had! I want to swim, sink, die,
or do any other mortal thing for her.

We had a heavenly hour. It was only an hour, but it was the first time I
have had any real chance to direct hot shot at the walls of the maiden
castle. I regret to state that they stood remarkably firm. Of course, I
don't wish to batter them down; I want them to melt under the warmth of
my attack.


_She_

    York, _July 5_.


We had a lovely sail on the river Ouse this afternoon. Mrs. Benedict was
timid about boating, and did not come with us. As a usual thing, I hate
a cowardly woman, but her lack of courage is the nicest trait in her
whole character; I might almost say the only nice trait.

Mr. Copley tried in every way, short of asking me a direct question, to
find out whether I had received the marked copy of 'Persuasion' in Bath,
but I evaded the point.

Just as we were at the door of my lodging, and he was saying good-bye, I
couldn't resist the temptation of asking:

'Why, before you knew us at all, did you put "Miss Van Tyck: Reserved,"
on the window of the railway carriage at Bath?'

He was embarrassed for a moment, and then he said:

'Well, she _is_, you know, if you come to that; and, besides, I didn't
dare tell the guard the placard I really wanted to put on.'

'I shouldn't think a lack of daring your most obvious fault,' I said
cuttingly.

'Perhaps not; but there are limits to most things, and I hadn't the
pluck to paste on a pink paper with "Miss Schuyler: Engaged," on it.'

He disappeared suddenly just then, as if he wasn't equal to facing my
displeasure, and I am glad he did, for I was too embarrassed for words.

Memoranda: _In the height of roofs, nave, and choir, York is first of
English cathedrals._


_She_

    Durham, _July something or other_,
        At Farmer Hendry's.


We left York this morning, and arrived in Durham about eleven o'clock.
It seems there is some sort of an election going on in the town, and
there was not a single fly at the station. Mr. Copley looked about in
every direction, but neither horse nor vehicle was to be had for love or
money. At last we started to walk to the village, Mr. Copley so laden
with our hand-luggage that he resembled a pack mule.

We called first at the Three Tuns, where they still keep up the old
custom of giving a wee glass of cherry-brandy to each guest on his
arrival; but, alas! they were crowded, and we were turned from the
hospitable door. We then made a tour of the inns, but not a single room
was to be had, not for that night, nor for two days ahead, on account of
that same election.

'Hadn't we better go on to Edinburgh, Aunt Celia?' I asked, as we were
resting in the door of the Jolly Sailor.

'Edinburgh? Never!' she replied. 'Do you suppose that I would
voluntarily spend a Sunday in those bare Presbyterian churches until the
memory of these past ideal weeks has faded a little from my memory?
What! leave out Durham and spoil the set?' (In her agitation and
disappointment she spoke of the cathedrals as if they were souvenir
spoons.) 'I intended to stay here for a week or more, and write up a
record of our entire trip from Winchester while the impressions were
fresh in my mind.'

'And I had intended doing the same thing,' said Mr. Copley. 'That is, I
hoped to finish off my previous sketches, which are in a frightful state
of incompletion, and spend a good deal of time on the interior of this
cathedral, which is unusually beautiful.'

The church was built on the old burial-ground, and the tombstones which
were removed in the course of erection are placed in long rows round a
low wall. The building is of Bath stone, and has flying buttresses
and a high square tower.She is gathering
statistics, but as the barmaids can never collect their thoughts while
they are drawing ale, Aunt Celia proceeds slowly.

'For my part,' said I, with mock humility, 'I am a docile person, who
never has any intentions of her own, but who yields herself sweetly to
the intentions of other people in her immediate vicinity.'

'Are you?' asked Mr. Copley, taking out his pencil.

'Yes, I said so. What are you doing?'

'Merely taking note of your statement, that's all. Now, Miss Van Tyck'
(of course Aunt Celia appeared at this delightful moment), 'I have a
plan to propose. I was here last summer with a couple of Harvard men,
and we lodged at a farmhouse about a mile distant from the cathedral. If
you will step into the coffee-room for an hour, I'll walk up to Farmer
Hendry's and see if they will take us in. I think we might be fairly
comfortable.'

'Can Aunt Celia have Apollinaris and black coffee after her morning
bath?' I asked.

'I hope, Katharine,' said Aunt Celia majestically--'I hope that I can
accommodate myself to circumstances. If Mr. Copley can secure
apartments for us, I shall be more than grateful.'

So here we are, all lodging together in an ideal English farmhouse.
There is a thatched roof on one of the old buildings, and the
dairy-house is covered with ivy, and Farmer Hendry's wife makes a real
English curtsey, and there are herds of beautiful sleek Durham cattle,
and the butter and cream and eggs and mutton are delicious, and I never,
never want to go home any more. I want to live here for ever and wave
the American flag on Washington's birthday.

I am so happy that I feel as if something were going to spoil it all.
Twenty years old to-day! I wish mamma were alive to wish me many happy
returns.

The cathedral is very beautiful in itself, and its situation is beyond
all words of mine to describe. I greatly admired the pulpit, which is
supported by five pillars sunk into the backs of squashed lions; but
Mr. Copley, when I asked him the period, said, 'Pure Brummagem!'

There is a nice old cell for refractory monks, that we agreed will be a
lovely place for Mrs. Benedict if we can lose her in it. She arrives as
soon as they can find room for her at the Three Tuns.

Memoranda:--Casual remark for breakfast-table or perhaps for
luncheon--it is a trifle heavy for breakfast: _'Since the sixteenth
century, and despite the work of Inigo Jones and the great Wren_ (not
Jenny Wren: Christopher), _architecture has had, in England especially,
no legitimate development.' This is the only cathedral with a Bishop's
Throne or a Sanctuary Knocker._

       *       *       *       *       *


_He_

    Durham, _July 19_.


O child of fortune, thy name is J. Q. Copley! How did it happen to be
election time? Why did the inns chance to be full? How did Aunt Celia
relax sufficiently to allow me to find her a lodging? Why did she fall
in love with the lodging when found? I do not know. I only know Fate
smiles; that Kitty and I eat our morning bacon and eggs together; that I
carve Kitty's cold beef and pour Kitty's sparkling ale at luncheon; that
I go to matins with Kitty, and dine with Kitty, and walk in the gloaming
with Kitty--and Aunt Celia. F. Mathison, whose untiring efforts resulted
in the foundation of St. Mark's College for the training of school-masters.
The first Principal was the Rev. Derwent Coleridge, son of S. T.

Coleridge. His daughter Christabel has given a charming account of
the early days of St. Mark's in a little book published in the Jubilee
year. In the early part of 1841 ten students were residents in the
college. The chapel was opened two years later, in May, 1843.
The Chapel has always been famous for its music and singing.I
watched them and they watched her. She has the fullest, whitest eyelids,
and the loveliest lashes. When she looks down I wish she might never
look up, and when she looks up I am never ready for her to look down. If
it had been a secular occasion, and she had dropped her handkerchief,
seven-eighths of the students would have started to pick it up--but I
should have got there first! Well, all this is but a useless prelude,
for there are facts to be considered--delightful, warm, breathing facts!

We were coming home from evensong, Kitty and I. (I am anticipating, for
she was still 'Miss Schuyler' then, but never mind.) We were walking
through the fields, while Mrs. Benedict and Aunt Celia were driving. As
we came across a corner of the bit of meadow land that joins the stable
and the garden, we heard a muffled roar, and as we looked around we saw
a creature with tossing horns and waving tail making for us, head down,
eyes flashing. Kitty gave a shriek. We chanced to be near a pair of low
bars. I hadn't been a college athlete for nothing. I swung Kitty over
the bars, and jumped after her. But she, not knowing in her fright where
she was nor what she was doing, supposing also that the mad creature,
like the villain in the play, would 'still pursue her,' flung herself
bodily into my arms, crying, 'Jack! Jack! save me!'

It was the first time she had called me 'Jack,' and I needed no second
invitation. I proceeded to save her, in the usual way, by holding her
to my heart and kissing her lovely hair reassuringly as I murmured:

'You are safe, my darling; not a hair of your precious head shall be
hurt. Don't be frightened.'

She shivered like a leaf.

'I am frightened,' she said; 'I can't help being frightened. He will
chase us, I know. Where is he? What is he doing now?'

Looking up to determine if I need abbreviate this blissful moment, I saw
the enraged animal disappearing in the side-door of the barn; and it was
a nice, comfortable Durham cow, that somewhat rare but possible thing--a
sportive cow.

'Is he gone?' breathed Kitty from my waistcoat.

'Yes, he is gone--she is gone, darling. But don't move; it may come
again.'

My first too hasty assurance had calmed Kitty's fears, and she raised
her charming flushed face from its retreat and prepared to withdraw. I
did not facilitate the preparations, and a moment of awkward silence
ensued.

'Might I inquire,' I asked, 'if the dear little person at present
reposing in my arms will stay there (with intervals for rest and
refreshment) for the rest of her natural life?'

She withdrew entirely now, all but her hand, and her eyes sought the
ground.

'I suppose I shall have to--that is, if you think--at least, I suppose
you do think--at any rate, you look as if you were thinking--that this
has been giving you encouragement.'

'I do indeed--decisive, undoubted, bare-faced encouragement.'

'I don't think I ought to be judged as if I were in my sober senses,'
she replied. 'I was frightened within an inch of my life. I told you
this morning that I was dreadfully afraid of bulls, especially mad ones,
and I told you that my nurse frightened me, when I was a child, with
awful stories about them, and that I never outgrew my childish terror. I
looked everywhere about. The barn was too far, the fence too high; I saw
him coming, and there was nothing but you and the open country. Of
course, I took you. It was very natural, I'm sure; any girl would have
done it.'

'To be sure,' I replied soothingly, 'any girl would have run after me,
as you say.'

'I didn't say any girl would have run after you--you needn't flatter
yourself; and besides, I think I was really trying to protect you as
well as to gain protection, else why should I have cast myself on you
like a catamount, or a catacomb, or whatever the thing is?'

'Yes, darling, I thank you for saving my life, and I am willing to
devote the remainder of it to your service as a pledge of my gratitude;
but if you should take up life-saving as a profession, dear, don't throw
yourself on a fellow with--'

'Jack! Jack!' she cried, putting her hand over my lips, and getting it
well kissed in consequence. 'If you will only forget that, and never,
never taunt me with it afterwards, I'll--I'll--well, I'll do anything in
reason--yes, even marry you!'

       *       *       *       *       *


_He_

    Canterbury, _July 31_,
        The Royal Fountain.


I was never sure enough of Kitty, at first, to dare risk telling her
about that little mistake of hers. So when the lease of Gordon House fell
in, it was adapted for the purpose. It stands in the southwest
corner of the grounds, about 150 yards from the infirmary, and
will be familiar to those who visited the Military and Naval
Exhibitions, at which period it was used as a refreshment-house.

The first recorded lease of the land on which it was built was
in 1690.

The charity is directed by Royal Commissioners, who include
representatives of the War Office, Horse Guards, Treasury, and the
Hospital itself, through its Governor and Lieutenant-Governor.

The Governor is Sir Henry Norman. The officers who reside at the
Hospital, under the authority of the Governor, are: Mayor and
Lieutenant-Governor; six Captains of Invalids; Adjutant; Quartermaster;
Chaplain; Physician and Surgeon; Deputy Surgeon.I
can't begin to enumerate the steps by which ecstasy mounts to delirium;
but, at all events, any operation which demands exclusive use of the
intellect is beyond me at these times. Still, I gathered my stray wits
together, and said:

'Kitty!'

'Yes, Jack?'

'Now that nothing but death or marriage can separate us, I have
something to confess to you.'

'Yes,' she said serenely, 'I know what you are going to say. He was a
cow.'

I lifted her head from my shoulder sternly, and gazed into her
childlike, candid eyes.

'You mountain of deceit! How long have you known about it?'

[Illustration: "Lor', miss!" said Farmer Hendry, "he haven't been
pastured there for three weeks"]

'Ever since the first. Oh, Jack, stop looking at me in that way! Not the
very first, not when I--not when you--not when we--no, not then, but the
next morning, I said to Farmer Hendry, "I wish you would keep your
savage bull chained up while we are here; Aunt Celia is awfully afraid
of them, especially those that go mad, like yours!" "Lor', miss!" said
Farmer Hendry, "he haven't been pastured here for three weeks. I keep
him six mile away. There ben't nothing but gentle cows in the home
medder." But I didn't think that you knew, you secretive person! I dare
say you planned the whole thing in advance, in order to take advantage
of my fright!'

'Never! I am incapable of such an unnecessary subterfuge! In 1669
the King presented the buildings to the newly-incorporated Royal
Society, but they were in such a ruinous condition that the society
could make no use of them, and after thirteen years resold the site
to Sir Stephen Fox, for the use of the King.

_She_

    Chester, _August 8_,
        The Grosvenor.


Jack and I are going over this same ground next summer on our wedding
journey. We shall sail for home next week, and we haven't half done
justice to the cathedrals. After the first two, we saw nothing but each
other on a general background of architecture. I hope my mind is
improved, but oh, I am so hazy about all the facts I have read since I
knew Jack! Winchester and Salisbury stand out superbly in my memory.
They acquired their ground before it was occupied with other matters. I
shall never forget, for instance, that Winchester has the longest spire
and Salisbury the highest nave of all the English cathedrals. And I
shall never forget so long as I live that Jane Austen and Isaac Newt--
Oh dear! was it Isaac Newton or Izaak Walton that was buried in
Winchester and Salisbury? To think that that interesting fact should
have slipped from my mind, after all the trouble I took with it! But I
know that it was Isaac somebody, and that he was buried in--well, he was
buried in one of those two places. I am not certain which, but I can ask
Jack; he is sure to know.


THE END


BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD


A Selection of Gift-Books

PUBLISHED BY
GAY AND BIRD,
22 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, LONDON.


Two of the guns which stand beside it were captured on the same occasion.
A little higher up, between the bronze Charles and the Chillianwallah
obelisk, is a cross to commemorate 243 officers and privates who
were killed in suppressing the Sepoy Mutiny.

Illustrated by Charles E. Brock. Price 6s.

PENELOPE'S ENGLISH EXPERIENCES.

By KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN.


HOLIDAY EDITION. Uniform with the above and illustrated by Charles E.
Brock. Price 6s.

PENELOPE'S EXPERIENCES IN SCOTLAND.


Over 150,000 copies of these two works have been sold in England
and America, and the unanimous opinion of the World's Press is
expressed in the word 'DELIGHTFUL.'


'The reader is kept entertained in the brightest fashion throughout....
A true humorist.'--_Literary World_.

'The most charming holiday book possible.'--_Methodist Times_.

'One of the very best holiday books.'--_Sketch_.

'So genial and jolly a book about Scotland is seldom written.'--_Glasgow
Herald_.

'A delightful book, full of dainty humour and picturesque fun.'--_World_.

'Sure of a hearty welcome.'--_Spectator_.

'She is what is always and everywhere rare--a real humorist.'--_Graphic_.

'Penelope, Francesca, and Salemina leave Max O'Rell far behind, and
might take the prize for innocent fun even from Mr. Jerome.'--_Dundee
Advertiser_.

'Irresistibly funny.'--_Glasgow Daily Mail_.

'Always a pleasure to read Mrs. Wiggin's books.'--_Daily Telegraph_.

'Mrs. Wiggin has a fund of genuine and refined humour that is simply
irresistible.'--_Pall Mall Gazette_.

'It is seldom that we have read a more delightful and humorous book than
this.'--_Church Times_.


OTHER BOOKS BY KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN


=Penelope's Irish Experiences.=

Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo., cloth gilt, 6s.


=A Cathedral Courtship.=

A New Edition, revised and enlarged. With six full-page Drawings by
Charles E. Brock. Crown 8vo., 104 pages, cloth, 2s. 6d., or cloth gilt
extra, with gilt edges, 3s. 6d.


=Marm Liza.=

Crown 8vo., cloth gilt, 6s.

Dr. Wellesley, brother to the first Duke of Wellington, was Rector from
1805, and still more recently the Rev.

Charles Kingsley, father of the two brothers who have made the name of
Kingsley a household word by the power of their literary talent.

With eight illustrations, crown 8vo., cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

'No page will be skipped; surely Louisa Alcott has at last found a
successor.'--_Scottish Leader_.


=A Summer in a Cañon. A California Story.=

Illustrated, crown 8vo., cloth, 3s. 6d.

'The work is a fresh and charming tale of country life in California,
full of good spirits and healthy thoughts.'--_Scotsman_.


=Village Watch Tower.=

Crown 8vo., cloth, tastefully bound, 3s. 6d.

Mr. W. L. Courtney, in the _Daily Telegraph_, says: 'It is the exquisite
felicity of the whole which strikes the reader; hardly a word too much,
not a colour or a pencil-stroke amiss.'


=The Story of Patsy.=

Fifty-seventh Thousand. Illustrated, crown 8vo., cloth back, 1s. 6d.

