She scarcely attended to them, but, bounding upstairs to her mother's
room, flung her arms round her neck, and poured into her ear her
precious secret.  As in Roman law, the property of an enemy is for
a German _res nullius_--it has no owner. And now the prospect of any
further loot on a large scale seems remote. The speculation has turned
out badly, and the robber would be glad to cut his losses.They feared to trust even Deborah; so that the
only way that they could provide the food that Edmund so much needed
was by Rose and Walter attempting to save all they could at supper,
and Rose could steal out when everyone was gone to rest, and carry it
to him.  Lady Woodley was bent on herself going to her son that
night; but Rose prevailed on her to lay aside the intention, as it
would have been fatal, in her weak state of health, for her to expose
herself to the chills of an autumn night, and, what was with her a
much more conclusive reason, Rose was much more likely to be able to
slip out unobserved.  Rose had an opportunity of explaining all this
to Walter, and imploring him to be cautious, before the colonel and
his son came down, and the whole party assembled round the supper-
table.

Lady Woodley had the eggs and bacon before her; Walter insisted on
undertaking the carving of the pigeon-pie, and looked considerably
affronted when young Sylvester Enderby offered to take the office, as
a more experienced carver.  Poor Rose, how her heart beat at every
word and look, and how hard she strove to seem perfectly at her ease
and unconscious!  Walter was in a fume of anxiety and vexation, and
could hardly control himself so far as to speak civilly to either of
the guests, so that he was no less a cause of fear to his mother and
sister than the children, who were unconscious how much depended on
discretion.

Young Sylvester Enderby was a fine young man of eighteen, very good-
natured, and not at all like a Puritan in appearance or manner.  He
had hardly yet begun to think for himself, and was merely obeying his
father in joining the army with him, without questioning whether it
was the right cause or not.  He was a kind elder brother at home, and
here he was ready to be pleased with the children of the house.

Lucy was a high-spirited talkative child, very little used to seeing
strangers, and perhaps hardly reined in enough, for her poor mother's
weak health had interfered with strict discipline; and as this
evening Walter and Rose were both grave and serious under their
anxieties, Lucy was less restrained even than usual.

She was a pretty creature, with bright blue eyes, and an arch
expression, all the droller under her prim round cap; and Sylvester
was a good deal amused with her pert bold little nods and airs.  He
paid a good deal of attention to her, and she in return grew more
forward and chattering.  It is what little girls will sometimes do
under the pleasure and excitement of the notice of gentlemen, and it
makes their friends very uneasy, since the only excuse they can have
is in being VERY LITTLE, and it shows a most undesirable want of
self-command and love of attention.

In addition to this feeling, Lady Woodley dreaded every word that was
spoken, lest it should lead to suspicion, for though she was sure Mr.
.

[40] The bath-besom is made of birch-twigs with the leaves attached,
and is soaked in hot water (or in beer) to keep it soft. The
massage administered with the besom is delightful. The peasants often
use besoms of nettles, as a luxury. The shredded linden bark is used
as a sponge.--TRANSLATOR.

[41] The great manoeuvre plain, near which the Moscow garrison is lodged,
in the vicinity of Petróvsky Park and Palace. Here the disaster
took place during the coronation festivities of the present
Emperor.--TRANSLATOR.

[42] It is very rarely that a bishop performs the marriage ceremony.
All bishops are monks; and monks are not supposed to perform
ceremonies connected with the things which they have renounced.

The exceptions are when monks are appointed parish priests (as in some
of the American parishes, for instance), and, therefore, must
fulfil the obligations of a married parish priest; or when the
chaplain-monk on war-ships is called upon, at times, to minister
to scattered Orthodox, in a port which has no settled priest.

--TRANSLATOR.

[43] The Order of St.

George, with its black and orange ribbon, must be won by great
personal bravery--like the Victoria Cross.--TRANSLATOR.

[44] Head of the Secret Service under Alexander I.--TRANSLATOR.

[45] That is, living too long.--TRANSLATOR.

[46] _Sukhóy_, dry; _Sukhíkh_, genitive plural (proper names are
declinable), meaning, "one of the Sukhóys."

--TRANSLATOR.

[47] The third from the top in the Table of Ranks instituted by
Peter the Great.

--TRANSLATOR.

[48] Corresponding, in a measure, to an American State.

--TRANSLATOR.

[49] The Great Russians' scornful nickname for a Little
Russian.--TRANSLATOR.

[50] Each coachman has his own pair or tróika of horses to attend
to, and has nothing to do with any other horses which may be in the
stable.

--TRANSLATOR.

[51] Yákoff (James) Daniel Bruce, a Russian engineer, of Scottish
extraction, born in Moscow, 1670, became Grand Master of the Artillery
in 1711, and died in 1735.--TRANSLATOR.

[52] The great cathedral in commemoration of the Russian triumph in
the war of 1812, which was begun in 1837, and completed in 1883.

--TRANSLATOR.

[53] _Nyémetz_, "the dumb one," meaning any one unable to speak
Russian (hence, any foreigner), is the specific word for a German.

--TRANSLATOR.

[54] Short for Nízhni Nóvgorod.

--TRANSLATOR.

[55] The famous letter from the heroine, Tatyána, to the hero,
Evgény Onyégin, in Pushkin's celebrated poem.

The music to the opera of the same name, which has this poem for its
basis, is by Tchaikóvsky.

--TRANSLATOR.

[56] Advertisements of theatres, concerts, and amusements in general,
are not published in the daily papers, but in an _affiche_, printed
every morning, for which a separate subscription is necessary.

--TRANSLATOR.

[57] M. E. Saltikóff wrote his famous satires under the name of
Shtchedrín.--TRANSLATOR.
[58] The Little Russians (among other peculiarities of pronunciation
attached to their dialect) use the guttural instead of the clear
_i_.--TRANSLATOR.
[59] A bishop or priest in the Russian Church is not supposed to
speak loudly, no matter how fine a voice he may possess. The deacon,
on the contrary, or the proto-deacon (attached to a cathedral) is
supposed to have a huge voice, and, especially at certain points,
to roar at the top of his lungs. He sometimes cracks his voice--which
is what the sympathetic neighbour was hinting at here.--TRANSLATOR.
[60] An image, or holy picture, is _óbraz_; the adjective "cultured"
is derived from the same word in its sense of pattern,
model--_obrazóvanny_.
--TRANSLATOR.
[61] Ostróvsky's comedies of life in the merchant class are
irresistibly amusing, talented, and true to nature.--TRANSLATOR.
[62] Turgénieff probably means Grúsha (another form for the diminutive
of Agrippína, in Russian Agrafénya). The play is "Live as You
Can."--TRANSLATOR.
[63] A full gown gathered into a narrow band just under the armpits
and suspended over the shoulders by straps of the same.--TRANSLATORVery
distressing it was to be obliged to leave the poor children in such
grief and alarm, when it was plain all the time that Diggory was an
arrant coward, who had fancied more deaths and dangers than were
real, and was describing more than he had even thought he beheld, in
order to make himself into a hero instead of a runaway.  Moreover,
Lady Woodley and Rose had to put on a show of grief, lest they should
betray that they were better informed; and they were in agonies lest
Walter's fury at the falsehoods should be as apparent to their guests
as it was to themselves.

"Are you sure of what you say, Diggory?" said Lady Woodley.

"Sure as that I stand here, my lady.  There was sword and shot and
smoke all round.  I stood it all till Farmer Ewins was cut down a-
one-side of me, ma'am, and Master Edmund, more's the pity, with his
brains scattered here and there on the banks of the river."

There was another cry among the children, and Walter made such a
violent gesture, that Rose, covering her face with her handkerchief,
whispered to him, "Walter dear, take care."  Walter relieved his mind
by returning, "Oh that I could cudgel the rogue soundly!"

At the same time Colonel Enderby turned to their mother, saying,
"Take comfort, madam, this fellow's tale carries discredit on the
face of it.  Let me examine him, with your permission.  Where did you
last see your master?"

"I know none of your places, sir," answered Diggory, sullenly.

Colonel Enderby spoke sternly and peremptorily.  "In the town, or in
the fields?  Answer me that, sirrah.  In the field on the bank of the
river?"

"Ay."

"There you left your ranks, you rogue; that was the way you lost
sight of your master!" said the colonel.  Then, turning to Lady
Woodley, as Diggory slunk off, "Your ladyship need not be alarmed.
An hour after the encounter, in which he pretends to have seen your
son slain, I saw him in full health and soundness."

"A cowardly villain!" cried Walter, delighted to let out some of his
indignation.  "I knew he was not speaking a word of truth."

The children cheered up in a moment; but Lady Woodley was not sorry
to make this agitating scene an excuse for retiring with all her
children.  Lucy and Eleanor were quite comforted, and convinced that
Edmund must be safe; but poor little Charlie had been so dreadfully
frightened by the horrors of Diggory's description, that after Rose
had put him to bed he kept on starting up in his sleep, half waking,
and sobbing about brother Edmund's brains.

Rose was obliged to go to him and soothe him.  She longed to assure
the poor little fellow that dear Edmund was perfectly safe, well, and
near at hand; but the secret was too important to be trusted to one
so young, so she could only coax and comfort him, and tell him they
all thought it was not true, and Edmund would come back again.

"Sister," said Charlie, "may I say my prayers again for him?"

"Yes, do, dear Charlie," said Rose; "and say a prayer for King
Charles too, that he may be safe from the wicked man."

So little Charlie knelt by Rose, with his hands joined, and his
little bare legs folded together, and said his prayer:  and did not
his sister's heart go with him?  

[27] Turgénieff labelled this story and "A Reckless Character,"
"Fragments from My Own Memoirs and Those of Other People."

In a foot-note he begs the reader not to mistake the "I" for the
author's own personality, as it was adopted merely for convenience
of narration.--TRANSLATOR.

[28] The Russian expression is: "A black cat had run between them."

--TRANSLATOR.

[29] In Russia a partial second story, over the centre, or the
centre and ends of the main story, is called thus.--TRANSLATOR.

[30] In Russian houses the "hall" is a combined ball-room, music-room,
play-room, and exercising-ground; not the entrance hall.--TRANSLATOR.
[31] We should call such a watch a "turnip."--TRANSLATOR.Sylvester Enderby's
notice, and by the way in which she had allowed her high spirits to
get the better of her discretion, as well as by the sudden change
from terror to joy, that when first she went to Rose's room she could
not attend to her prayers, and next she could not go to sleep.

