Produced by Dianne Bean


VENUS AND ADONIS

by William Shakespeare


     'Villa miretur vulgus; mihi flavus Apollo
     Pocula Castalia plena ministret aqua.'

TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE HENRY WRIOTHESLEY,

EARL OF SOUHAMPTON, AND BARON OF TICHFIELD.

RIGHT HONOURABLE,

I know not how I shall offend in dedicating my unpolished lines to your
lordship, nor how the world will censure me for choosing so strong a
prop to support so weak a burthen: only, if your honour seem but
pleased, I account myself highly praised, and vow to take advantage of
all idle hours, till I have honoured you with some graver labour. But if
the first heir of my invention prove deformed, I shall be sorry it had
so noble a godfather, and never after ear so barren a land, for fear it
yield me still so bad a harvest. I leave it to your honourable survey,
and your honour to your heart's content; which I wish may always answer
your own wish and the world's hopeful expectation.

Your honour's in all duty,

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.


VENUS AND ADONIS


     EVEN as the sun with purple-colour'd face
     Had ta'en his last leave of the weeping morn,
     Rose-cheek'd Adonis tried him to the chase;
     Hunting he lov'd, but love he laugh'd to scorn;        4
       Sick-thoughted Venus makes amain unto him,
       And like a bold-fac'd suitor 'gins to woo him.

     'Thrice fairer than myself,' thus she began,
     'The field's chief flower, sweet above compare,        8
     Stain to all nymphs, more lovely than a man,
     More white and red than doves or roses are;
       Nature that made thee, with herself at strife,
       Saith that the world hath ending with thy life.     12

     'Vouchsafe, thou wonder, to alight thy steed,
     And rein his proud head to the saddle-bow;
     If thou wilt deign this favour, for thy meed
     A thousand honey secrets shalt thou know:             16
     Here come and sit, where never serpent hisses;
     And being set, I'll smother thee with kisses:

     'And yet not cloy thy lips with loath'd satiety,
     But rather famish them amid their plenty,             20
     Making them red and pale with fresh variety;
     Ten kisses short as one, one long as twenty:
       A summer's day will seem an hour but short,
       Being wasted in such time-beguiling sport.'         24

     With this she seizeth on his sweating palm,
     The precedent of pith and livelihood,
     And, trembling in her passion, calls it balm,
     Earth's sovereign salve to do a goddess good:         28
       Being so enrag'd, desire doth lend her force
       Courageously to pluck him from his horse.

     Over one arm the lusty courser's rein
     Under her other was the tender boy,                   32
     Who blush'd and pouted in a dull disdain,
     With leaden appetite, unapt to toy;
       She red and hot as coals of glowing fire
       He red for shame, but frosty in desire.             36

     The studded bridle on a ragged bough
     Nimbly she fastens;--O! how quick is love:--
     The steed is stalled up, and even now
     To tie the rider she begins to prove:                 40
       Backward she push'd him, as she would be thrust,
       And govern'd him in strength, though not in lust.

     Coriolanus. What a bad player now Forgot
     my roll and I'm confused, By the mockery itself - the
     blood of my heart! Forgive my tyranny, but the
     drum does not say: "Forgive the Romans." - O! a
     kiss, as my long spell and sweet as my revenge.
     Well, at the Juno jealousy, I picked the kiss, lovers, with, and
my lip Has it been faithfully preserved virgin.

     My god! how? I gossip? And noblest of all mothers
     in the world Did unbegrüßt? - My knees sink
     into the soil, press down your duty to the
     ground as any other son. (He kneels down.) Volumnia. Arise
       blessed! That, on a non - weicherm cushion
       than the stone, I kneel before you and you kind of new Huldgung
Weihe, hitherto entirely wrong was distributed between child and
parents.

     (You kneels.) Coriolanus. What is it?
     You kneel before me? before gescholtnen son? Then like
     pebbles from the desert to the bay Naughty
     Stars Go; rebellsche The winds Feuersonn with
     proud cedars whip, Murdering impossibility, a cinch
     to do what can never be forever. Volumnia.

     You are my warrior, I you helped shape.
     Do you know this woman? Coriolanus. The noble
     sister of Publicola, The Luna Rome,
     chaste as the Eiszacken, from the purest snow of the frost
       created at the sanctuary Diane. Be greeted,
       Valeria. Volumnia.

     This is a small excerpt of yourself,
     determined by the design-filled year has to be like du
     Coriolanus. The god of warriors, with the
     highest Beistimmung Zeus, Adel To educate
       your mind that you're steels "The
       shame invulnerable, and in war a great beacon stand, defying the
storms, the saving that you look.

     Volumnia. knees, boy. Coriolanus. wackrer
     This is my son. Volumnia. He and your
     wife, the woman here and Are beseechingly
     myself before you. Coriolanus. I ask you, still! If not,
       remember this before you say: What I verschwor
       to grant that when you do not refuse, says I do not dismiss my
army, not, again acting with The manual workers of Rome; not talk
to me before, what I seem unnatural, does not think to sänftgen my
anger and my revenge With your colder reasons.

     Volumnia. O! no more! no more! You've said you
     want to give us nothing, nothing to be desired because
     we have than what you already abschlugst,
     but I want to ask that, weich our request from
       you, the blame falls on your hardship. Hear us drum.
       Coriolanus. Aufidius and her Volsker notes, we hear nothing of
Rome secretly.

     Well, your request? Volumnia. If we are silent, but said
     this dress And our pale face, what a life
     since your spell we had. Think yourself,
     how we unselger than ever Fraun on earth, you nahn! Your
       sight, with tears of joy fill the eyes to
       the heart with delight, she networked with suffering and tortures
it with fear and worry, as mother, wife and child to have to see
how the son, husband and father cruelly dug in his country's bosom
.-- Alas, poor us!

     Us hardest hits your anger, you wehrst
     us gods anzuflehn, a consolation to all, only we do not
     share because, as we could about? As for the
     fatherland, we pray, what our duty ? and also
       for your victory, what our duty? - Oh! our
       expensive Amme, The Fatherland, goes under, or you, comfort you
in the fatherland.

     We always find an unavoidable misery, we
     will grant a wish, who also likes to win,
     either leads to you, Abtrünn'gen, strangers,
     in chains through the streets, or you will meet in debris
       Triumph of the Fatherland And wearing the
       palm, because The daring you shed woman, the child's blood, because
I know my son, I would not expect the fate nor the war end.

     
     be not proud, nor brag not of thy might,
       For mastering her that foil'd the god of fight.

     Touch but my lips with those falr lips of thine,--
     Though mine be not so fair, yet are they red,--      116
     The kiss shall be thine own as well as mine:
     What seest thou in the ground? hold up thy head:
       Look in mine eyeballs, there thy beauty lies;
       Then why not lips on lips, since eyes in eyes?     120

     'Art thou asham'd to kiss? then wink again,
     And I will wink; so shall the day seem night;
     Love keeps his revels where there are but twain;
     Be bold to play, our sport is not in sight:          124
       These blue-vein'd violets whereon we lean
       Never can blab, nor know not what we mean.

     'The tender spring upon thy tempting lip             127
     Shows thee unripe, yet mayst thou well be tasted:
     Make use of time, let not advantage slip;
     Beauty within itself should not be wasted:
       Fair flowers that are not gather'd in their prime
       Rot and consume themselves in little time.         132

     'Were I hard-favour'd, foul, or wrinkled-old,
     Ill-nurtur'd, crooked, churlish, harsh in voice,
     O'erworn, despised, rheumatic, and cold,
     Thick-sighted, barren, lean, and lacking juice,      136
       Then mightst thou pause, for then I were not for thee;
       But having no defects, why dost abhor me?

     'Thou canst not see one winkle in my brow;           139
     Mine eyes are grey and bright, and quick in turning;
     My beauty as the spring doth yearly grow;
     My flesh is soft and plump, my marrow burning;
       My smooth moist hand, were it with thy hand felt.
       Would in thy palm dissolve, or seem to melt.       144

     'Bid me discourse, I will enchant thine ear,
     Or like a fairy, trip upon the green,
     Or, like a nymph, with long dishevell'd hair,
     Dance on the sands, and yet no footing seen:         148
       Love is a spirit all compact of fire,
       Not gross to sink, but light, and will aspire.

     'Witness this primrose bank whereon I lie;           151
     These forceless flowers like sturdy trees support me;
     Two strengthless doves will draw me through the sky,
     From morn till night, even where I list to sport me:
       Is love so light, sweet boy, and may it be
       That thou shouldst think it heavy unto thee?       156

     'Is thine own heart to shine own face affected?
     Can thy right hand seize love upon thy left?
     Then woo thyself, be of thyself rejected,
     Steal thine own freedom, and complain on theft.      160
       Narcissus so himself himself forsook,
       And died to kiss his shadow in the brook.

     'Torches are made to light, jewels to wear,
     Dainties to taste, fresh beauty for the use,         164
     Herbs for their smell, and sappy plants to bear;
     Things growing to themselves are growth's abuse:
       Seeds spring from seeds, and beauty breedeth beauty;
       Thou wast begot; to get it is thy duty.            168

     'Upon the earth's increase why shouldst thou feed,
     Unless the earth with thy increase be fed?
     By law of nature thou art bound to breed,
     That thine may live when thou thyself art dead;      172
       And so in spite of death thou dost survive,
       In that thy likeness still is left alive.'

     By this the love-sick queen began to sweat,
     For where they lay the shadow had forsook them,      176
     And Titan, tired in the mid-day heat
     With burning eye did hotly overlook them,
       Wishing Adonis had his team to guide,
       So he were like him and by Venus' side.            180

     And now Adonis with a lazy spright,
     And with a heavy, dark, disliking eye,
     His louring brows o'erwhelming his fair sight,
     Like misty vapours when they blot the sky,           184
       Souring his cheeks, cries, 'Fie! no more of love:
       The sun doth burn my face; I must remove.'

     'Ay me,' quoth Venus, 'young, and so unkind!
     What bare excuses mak'st thou to be gone!            188
     I'll sigh celestial breath, whose gentle wind
     Shall cool the heat of this descending sun:
       I'll make a shadow for thee of my hairs;           191
       If they burn too, I'll quench them with my tears.

     'The sun that shines from heaven shines but warm,
     And lo! I lie between that sun and thee:
     The heat I have from thence doth little harm,
     Thine eye darts forth the fire that burneth me;      196
       And were I not immortal, life were done
       Between this heavenly and earthly sun.

     'Art thou obdurate, flinty, hard as steel?
     Nay, more than flint, for stone at rain relenteth:   200
     Art thou a woman's son, and canst not feel
     What 'tis to love? how want of love tormenteth?
       O! had thy mother borne so hard a mind,            203
       She had not brought forth thee, but died unkind.


     'What am I that thou shouldst contemn me this?
     Or what great danger dwells upon my suit?
     What were thy lips the worse for one poor kiss?
       Speak, fair; but speak fair words, or else be mute:
       Give me one kiss, I'll give it thee again,         209
     And one for interest if thou wilt have twain.

     'Fie! lifeless picture, cold and senseless stone,
     Well-painted idol, image dull and dead,              212
     Statue contenting but the eye alone,
     Thing like a man, but of no woman bred:
       Thou art no man, though of a man's complexion,
       For men will kiss even by their own direction.'    216

     This said, impatience chokes her pleading tongue,
     And swelling passion doth provoke a pause;
     Red cheeks and fiery eyes blaze forth her wrong;
     Being judge in love, she cannot right her cause:     220
       And now she weeps, and now she fain would speak,
       And now her sobs do her intendments break.

     Sometimes she shakes her head, and then his hand;
     Now gazeth she on him, now on the ground;            224
     Sometimes her arms infold him like a band:
     She would, he will not in her arms be bound;
       And when from thence he struggles to be gone,
       She locks her lily fingers one in one.             228

     'Fondling,' she saith, 'since I have hemm'd thee here
     Within the circuit of this ivory pale,
     I'll be a park, and thou shalt be my deer;
     Feed where thou wilt, on mountain or in dale:        232
       Graze on my lips, and if those hills be dry,
       Stray lower, where the pleasant fountains lie.

     'Within this limit is relief enough,
     Sweet bottom-grass and high delightful plain,        236
     Round rising hillocks, brakes obscure and rough,
     To shelter thee from tempest and from rain:
       Then be my deer, since I am such a park;           239
       No dog shall rouse thee, though a thousand bark.'

     At this Adonis smiles as in disdain,
     That in each cheek appears a pretty dimple:
     Love made those hollows, if himself were slain,
     He might be buried in a tomb so simple;              244
       Foreknowing well, if there he came to lie,
       Why, there Love liv'd, and there he could not die.

     These lovely caves, these round enchanting pits,
     Open'd their mouths to swallow Venus' liking.        248
     Being mad before, how doth she now for wits?
     Struck dead at first, what needs a second striking?
       Poor queen of love, in thine own law forlorn,
       To love a cheek that smiles at thee in scorn!      252

     Now which way shall she turn? what shall she say?
     Her words are done, her woes the more increasing;
     The time is spent, her object will away,
     And from her twining arms doth urge releasing:       256
       'Pity,' she cries; 'some favour, some remorse!'
       Away he springs, and hasteth to his horse.

     But lo! from forth a copse that neighbours by,
     A breeding jennet, lusty, young, and proud,          260
     Adonis' tramping courier doth espy,
     And forth she rushes, snorts and neighs aloud:
       The strong-neck'd steed, being tied unto a tree,
       Breaketh his rein, and to her straight goes he.    264

     Imperiously he leaps, he neighs, he bounds,
     And now his woven girths he breaks asunder;
     The bearing earth with his hard hoof he wounds,
     Whose hollow womb resounds like heaven's thunder;
       The iron bit he crusheth 'tween his teeth,         269
       Controlling what he was controlled with.

     His ears up-prick'd; his braided hanging mane
     Upon his compass'd crest now stand on end;           272
     His nostrils drink the air, and forth again,
     As from a furnace, vapours doth he send:
       His eye, which scornfully glisters like fire,
       Shows his hot courage and his high desire.         276

     Sometime he trots, as if he told the steps,
     With gentle majesty and modest pride;
     Anon he rears upright, curvets and leaps,
     As who should say, 'Lo! thus my strength is tried;
       And this I do to captivate the eye                 281
       Of the fair breeder that is standing by.'

     What recketh he his rider's angry stir,
     His flattering 'Holla', or his 'Stand, I say'?       284
     What cares he now for curb or pricking spur?
     For rich caparisons or trapping gay?
       He sees his love, and nothing else he sees,
       Nor nothing else with his proud sight agrees.      288

     Look, when a painter would surpass the life,
     In limning out a well-proportion'd steed,
     His art with nature's workmanship at strife,
     As if the dead the living should exceed;             292
       So did this horse excel a common one,
       In shape, in courage, colour, pace and bone.

     Round-hoof'd, short-jointed, fetlocks shag and long,
     Broad breast, full eye, small head, and nostril wide,
     High crest, short ears, straight legs and passing strong,
     Thin mane, thick tail, broad buttock, tender hide:
       Look, what a horse should have he did not lack,
       Save a proud rider on so proud a back.             300

     Sometimes he scuds far off, and there he stares;
     Anon he starts at stirring of a feather;
     To bid the wind a base he now prepares,
     And whe'r he run or fly they know not whether;       304
       For through his mane and tail the high wind sings,
       Fanning the hairs, who wave like feather'd wings.

     He looks upon his love, and neighs unto her;
     She answers him as if she knew his mind;             308
     Being proud, as females are, to see him woo her,
     She puts on outward strangeness, seems unkind,
       Spurns at his love and scorns the heat he feels,
       Beating his kind embracements with her heels.      312

     Then, like a melancholy malcontent,
     He vails his tail, that, like a falling plume,
     Cool shadow to his melting buttock lent:
     He stamps, and bites the poor flies in his fume.     316
       His love, perceiving how he is enrag'd,
       Grew kinder, and his fury was assuag'd.

     His testy master goeth about to take him;
     When lo! the unback'd breeder, full of fear,         320
     Jealous of catching, swiftly doth forsake him,
     With her the horse, and left Adonis there:
       As they were mad, unto the wood they hie them,
       Outstripping crows that strive to overfly them.    324

     All swoln with chafing, down Adonis sits,
     Banning his boisterous and unruly beast:
     And now the happy season once more fits,
     That love-sick Love by pleading may be blest;        328
       For lovers say, the heart hath treble wrong
       When it is barr'd the aidance of the tongue.

     An oven that is stopp'd, or river stay'd,
     Burneth more hotly, swelleth with more rage:         332
     So of concealed sorrow may be said;
     Free vent of words love's fire doth assuage;
       But when the heart's attorney once is mute
       The client breaks, as desperate in his suit.       336

     He sees her coming, and begins to glow,--
     Even as a dying coal revives with wind,--
     And with his bonnet hides his angry brow;
     Looks on the dull earth with disturbed mind,         340
       Taking no notice that she is so nigh,
       For all askance he holds her in his eye.

     O! what a sight it was, wistly to view
     How she came stealing to the wayward boy;            344
     To note the fighting conflict of her hue,
     How white and red each other did destroy:
       But now her cheek was pale, and by and by
       It flash'd forth fire, as lightning from the sky.  348

     Now was she just before him as he sat,
     And like a lowly lover down she kneels;
     With one fair hand she heaveth up his hat,
     Her other tender hand his fair cheek feels:          352
       His tenderer cheek receives her soft hand's print,
       As apt as new-fall'n snow takes any dint.

     O! what a war of looks was then between them;
     Her eyes petitioners to his eyes suing;              356
     His eyes saw her eyes as they had not seen them;
     Her eyes woo'd still, his eyes disdain'd the wooing:
       And all this dumb play had his acts made plain
       With tears, which, chorus-like, her eyes did rain.

     Full gently now she takes him by the hand,           361
     A lily prison'd in a gaol of snow,
     Or ivory in an alabaster band;
     So white a friend engirts so white a foe:            364
       This beauteous combat, wilful and unwilling,
       Show'd like two silver doves that sit a-billing.

     Once more the engine of her thoughts began:
     'O fairest mover on this mortal round,               368
     Would thou wert as I am, and I a man,
     My heart all whole as thine, thy heart my wound;
       For one sweet look thy help I would assure thee,
       Though nothing but my body's bane would cure thee.'

     'Give me my hand,' saith he, 'why dost thou feel it?'
     'Give me my heart,' saith she, 'and thou shalt have it;
     O! give it me, lest thy hard heart do steel it,
     And being steel'd, soft sighs can never grave it:    376
       Then love's deep groans I never shall regard,
       Because Adonis' heart hath made mine hard.'

     'For shame,' he cries, 'let go, and let me go;
     My day's delight is past, my horse is gone,          380
     And 'tis your fault I am bereft him so:
     I pray you hence, and leave me here alone:
       For all my mind, my thought, my busy care,
       Is how to get my palfrey from the mare.'           384

     Thus she replies: 'Thy palfrey, as he should,
     Welcomes the warm approach of sweet desire:
     Affection is a coal that must be cool'd;
     Else, suffer'd, it will set the heart on fire:       388
       The sea hath bounds, but deep desire hath none;
       Therefore no marvel though thy horse be gone.

     'How like a Jade he stood, tied to the tree,
     Servilely master'd with a leathern rein!             392
     But when he saw his love, his youth's fair fee,
     He held such petty bondage in disdain;
       Throwing the base thong from his bending crest,
       Enfranchising his mouth, his back, his breast.     396

     'Who sees his true-love in her naked bed,
     Teaching the sheets a whiter hue than white,
     But, when his glutton eye so full hath fed,
     His other agents aim at like delight?                400
       Who is so faint, that dare not be so bold
       To touch the fire, the weather being cold?

     'Let me excuse thy courser, gentle boy;
     And learn of him, I heartily beseech thee,           404
     To take advantage on presented joy
     Though I were dumb, yet his proceedings teach thee.
       O learn to love, the lesson is but plain,
       And once made perfect, never lost again.           408

     'I know not love,' quoth he, 'nor will not know it,
     Unless it be a boar, and then I chase it;
     'Tis much to borrow, and I will not owe it;
     My love to love is love but to disgrace it;          412
       For I have heard it is a life in death,
       That laughs and weeps, and all but with a breath.

     'Who wears a garment shapeless and unfinish'd?
     Who plucks the bud before one leaf put forth?        416
     If springing things be any jot diminish'd,
     They wither in their prime, prove nothing worth;
       The colt that's back'd and burden'd being young
       Loseth his pride, and never waxeth strong.         420

     'You hurt my hand with wringing. Let us part,
     And leave this idle theme, this bootless chat:
     Remove your siege from my unyielding heart;
     To love's alarms it will not ope the gate:           424
       Dismiss your vows, your feigned tears, your flattery;
       For where a heart is hard they make no battery.'

     'What! canst thou talk?' quoth she, 'hast thou a tongue?
     O! would thou hadst not, or I had no hearing;        428
     Thy mermaid's voice hath done me double wrong;
     I had my load before, now press'd with bearing:
       Melodious discord, heavenly tune, harsh-sounding,
       Ear's deep-sweet music, and heart's deep-sore wounding.

     'Had I no eyes but ears, my ears would love          433
     That inward beauty and invisible;
     Or were I deaf, thy outward parts would move
     Each part in me that were but sensible:              436
       Though neither eyes nor ears, to hear nor see,
       Yet should I be in love by touching thee.

     'Say, that the sense of feeling were bereft me,
     And that I could not see, nor hear, nor touch,       440
     And nothing but the very smell were left me,
     Yet would my love to thee be still as much;
       For from the stillitory of thy face excelling
       Comes breath perfum'd that breedeth love by smelling.

     'But O! what banquet wert thou to the taste,         445
     Being nurse and feeder of the other four;
     Would they not wish the feast might ever last,
     And bid Suspicion double-lock the door,
       Lest Jealousy, that sour unwelcome guest,
       Should, by his stealing in, disturb the feast?'    448

     Once more the ruby-colour'd portal open'd,
     Which to his speech did honey passage yield,         452
     Like a red morn, that ever yet betoken'd
     Wrack to the seaman, tempest to the field,
       Sorrow to shepherds, woe unto the birds,
       Gusts and foul flaws to herdmen and to herds.      456

     This ill presage advisedly she marketh:
     Even as the wind is hush'd before it raineth,
     Or as the wolf doth grin before he barketh,
     Or as the berry breaks before it staineth,           460
       Or like the deadly bullet of a gun,
       His meaning struck her ere his words begun.

     And at his look she flatly falleth down
     For looks kill love, and love by looks reviveth;     464
     A smile recures the wounding of a frown;
     But blessed bankrupt, that by love so thriveth!
       The silly boy, believing she is dead
       Claps her pale cheek, till clapping makes it red;  468

     And all amaz'd brake off his late intent,
     For sharply he did think to reprehend her,
     Which cunning love did wittily prevent:
     Fair fall the wit that can so well defend her!       472
       For on the grass she lies as she were slain
       Till his breath breatheth life in her again.

     He wrings her nose, he strikes her on the cheeks,
     He bends her fingers, holds her pulses hard,         476
     He chafes her lips; a thousand ways he seeks
     To mend the hurt that his unkindness marr'd:
       He kisses her; and she, by her good will,
       Will never rise, so he will kiss her still.        480

     The night of sorrow now is turn'd to day:
     Her two blue windows faintly she up-heaveth,
     Like the fair sun, when in his fresh array
     He cheers the morn, and all the world relieveth:     484
       And as the bright sun glorifies the sky,
       So is her face illumin'd with her eye;

     Whose beams upon his hairless face are fix'd,
     As if from thence they borrow'd all their shine.     488
     Were never four such lamps together mix'd,
     Had not his clouded with his brow's repine;
       But hers, which through the crystal tears gave light
       Shone like the moon in water seen by night.        492

     'O! Down, down, down! Wanted because the case never
     termination? "How many miles I'm like most
     people now," she said aloud. »I have
     approximately the center of the earth. Let's see: that
       would be eight hundred and fifty miles, I
       think - '(because you must know, like Alice had learned in school,
and although this is not a good opportunity _sehr_ was to show their
skills, because nobody was there to listen, so they did it is still
is a) - "yes, this is about the distance, but at what longitude and
latitude I probably might have come?"

     (Alice had not the slightest notion of what
     either longitude or latitude was, but her words sounded
     great and nice to say.) Soon she began again. "Whether
     I probably been through all the earth will fall!
       How strange that will be with these people to come
       out to go to their heads! The antipathies, I think.

     "(This time it was quite fond of her that no
     one listened, because the word it does not
     sound right.)" But of course I'll have to ask
     how the country is. Please, dear lady, this is New Zealand
       or Australia? "(And she tried to be knixen,
       - thinks they do, knixen if one falls through the air!

     Could you get ready?)" But it will be me for a
     ignorant little girl, when I ask! No, it is not acceptable
     to ask, maybe I see it written somewhere.
     "Down, down, down! She could no more thun, so
       _Alice_ soon began to speak to. "I certainly
       will _Dinah_ tonight in search!" (_Dinah_ Was the cat.)

     "I hope it will be their cup of milk to
     Theestunde not forget. _Dinah! _ Mies! I
     wanted to, you would be here with me.
     I am just afraid that it giebt no mice in the air, but
       you could make a catch sparrows, which it will be
       here in the air probably give you not believe?

     And yet sparrows eat cats? "It was a bit sleepy
     and Alice spoke half in the dream continues. »Sparrows
     like to eat cats? Sparrows like to eat cats?
     Sparrows like to eat cats? "And since
       it took no one to answer, so it does not matter
       how the question.

     She felt that they are asleep and had just begun
     to dream, they go hand in hand with _Dinah_
     walk, and ask them very seriously: "Well, _Dinah_,
     tell the truth, you have eaten one sparrows?" Because one
       time, clumsy! clumsy! she came to a pile of dry
       leaves and sticks to lie - and the case was made.

     Alice had done did not hurt. They immediately
     jumped up and saw the amount, but it was dark about it.
     Before her was a second long corridor, and she
     could just be the white rabbit is seen
       running along. There was no time to lose:
       continued Alice ran like the wind, and heard it just to say, as
it bent around a corner: "Oh, ears and whiskers, how late it is!"

     She was close behind him, but when they bent around
     the corner, there was the rabbit no longer to
     be seen. It was in a long, low corridor, through
     a series of lamps were lit, the ceiling herabhingen. On
       both sides of the corridors have doors, but they
       were all closed.

     Alice tried every door on one side only, then on
     the other, she finally sad in the middle along radically
     over how they could ever come out.
     Suddenly they stood before a small tripod
       tables, _ganz thick Glas_. There was nothing to be
       a tiny little golden key, and _Alice's_ first thought was that
this would like to become one of the doors of the corridors are.

     But oh! either the locks were too large, or
     the key was too small, in short, he did
     not single. However, when the second time they went
     around, she came to a low curtain she had not previously
       noticed, and it was a door about fifteen
       inches high.

     She put the golden key to Chen's keyhole, and to
     her great delight it fitted. Alice closed the door
     and found that it resulted in a small way, not much bigger
     than a mouse hole. They knelt down and looked
       through the course in the picturesque
       garden, you can imagine.

     How they wished, from the dark corridor to reach,
     and the colorful flower beds and fountains
     cool to walk around, but they could hardly his head
     stuck through the entrance. "And even if my head would
       go through," thought poor Alice, "what it would
       be useful without the shoulders.

     O, I would like to join together you can slide
     like a telescope! This is certainly, if I only knew how
     to begin. "It was just so many strange with
     their approach, that Alice began to think it was almost
       nothing is impossible. [ Illustration] It
       seemed to her quite useless, longer at the small door to wait.

     Therefore, she went back to the table, half and half hoping
     she would still be a key, or at any rate a
     book with instructions on how to move
     together as a telescope can.
       'Sweet boy,' she says, 'this night I'll waste in sorrow,
     For my sick heart commands mine eyes to watch.       584
     Tell me, Love's master, shall we meet to-morrow
     Say, shall we? shall we? wilt thou make the match?'
       He tells her, no; to-morrow he intends
       To hunt the boar with certain of his friends.      588

     'The boar!' quoth she; whereat a sudden pale,
     Like lawn being spread upon the blushing rose,
     Usurps her cheeks, she trembles at his tale,
     And on his neck her yoking arms she throws:          592
       She sinketh down, still hanging by his neck,
       He on her belly falls, she on her back.

     Now is she in the very lists of love,
     Her champion mounted for the hot encounter:          596
     All is imaginary she doth prove,
     He will not manage her, although he mount her;
       That worse than Tantalus' is her annoy,
       To clip Elysium and to lack her joy.               600

     Even as poor birds, deceiv'd with painted grapes,
     Do surfeit by the eye and pine the maw,
     Even so she languisheth in her mishaps,
     As those poor birds that helpless berries saw.       604
       The warm effects which she in him finds missing,
       She seeks to kindle with continual kissing.

     But all in vain, good queen, it will not be:
     She hath assay'd as much as may be prov'd;           608
     Her pleading hath deserv'd a greater fee;
     She's Love, she loves, and yet she is not lov'd.
       'Fie, fie!' he says, 'you crush me; let me go;
       You have no reason to withhold me so.'             612

     'Thou hadst been gone,' quoth she, 'sweet boy, ere this,
     But that thou told'st me thou wouldst hunt the boar.
     O! be advis'd; thou know'st not what it is
     With javelin's point a churlish swine to gore,       616
       Whose tushes never sheath'd he whetteth still,
       Like to a mortal butcher, bent to kill.

     'On his bow-back he hath a battle set
     Of bristly pikes, that ever threat his foes;         620
     His eyes like glow-worms shine when he doth fret;
     His snout digs sepulchres where'er he goes;
       Being mov'd, he strikes whate'er is in his way,
       And whom he strikes his crooked tushes slay.       624

     'His brawny sides, with hairy bristles arm'd,
     Are better proof than thy spear's point can enter;
     His short thick neck cannot be easily harm'd;
     Being ireful, on the lion he will venture:           628
       The thorny brambles and embracing bushes,
       As fearful of him, part, through whom he rushes.

     'Alas! he nought esteems that face of thine,
     To which Love's eyes pay tributary gazes;            632
     Nor thy soft hands, sweet lips, and crystal eyne,
     Whose full perfection all the world amazes;
       But having thee at vantage, wondrous dread!
       Would root these beauties as he roots the mead.

     'O! let him keep his loathsome cabin still;          637
     Beauty hath nought to do with such foul fiends:
     Come not within his danger by thy will;
     They that thrive well take counsel of their friends.
       When thou didst name the boar, not to dissemble,
       I fear'd thy fortune, and my joints did tremble.

     'Didst thou not mark my face? was it not white?
     Saw'st thou not signs of fear lurk in mine eye?      "Asked
     Alice." Why not? "Said the Faselhase. Alice
     was silent. Thierhaupten The marbles had
       meanwhile been making eyes, and was half asleep,
       but as it tweaks the Hutmacher, watched it with a faint cry, and
said further: -- "what begins with M, like mousetrap, the moon, and
some lack of time - you know, you say: I have the time _manches
liebe_ done - have you ever drawn something like _Mal_ seen?"

     "Really, since you myself ask, "said Alice very confused,"
     I hardly think - "" Then you should not
     even talk, "said Hutmacher. This was
     just too rough for Alice: she was quite offended and went
       away with it, the marble Thierstein
       asleep again immediately , and the two others noticed it does not
go away, although they are a couple of times umsah, half in the
hope that they would call back.

     When she last saw them, they tried the marble
     in the Their Theekanne be stuck. "Under no circumstances
     will I ever again go _da_!" Said Alice,
     while they find a way through the woods looking for.
       "It is the stupidest Theegesellschaft in which
       I have in my whole life was," [Illustration] Just as she said, she
noticed that one of the trees had a small door.

     "That is very strange," she thought. "But
     now everything is funny! I would prefer
     to go. "As I said, so done: and it was back
     in the long corridor, and close to the little glass tables.
       "This time I will gescheidter start," she said
       to herself, took the little golden key and opened the door, which
led into the garden.

     They set out to nibble on the mushroom (she
     had a piece in their pocket to keep), until they are about
     a foot high, then she went down the small corridor,
     and then - she was finally in the
       beautiful garden, among the magnificent
       flower gardens and cool fountains. Eighth Chapter.

     Croquetfeld The Queen. A large rose-tree stood
     tall bei'm near the entrance, and the
     roses that grew it was white, but three
     gardeners were employed to paint them red. Alice was so
       wonderful, and since they hinzutrat nearer to
       watch them, she heard one of them say: "Take care, Five!

     I'm not spraying it with paint! "I could not,"
     said Five in sullen tone, "Seven, I pushed to the elbows."
     What Seven aufsah and said, "so right, Five!
     Sliding always blaming other people! "" You had
       only very quiet, "said Five. "Yesterday I
       only heard the Queen say you deserved to be beheaded test!"

     "What for?" Asked the one who had spoken
     first. "That is nothing to _dich_, Two!" Said
     Seven. "Yes, it _geht_ him!" Five said, "and
     I'll tell him - that he the cook tulip bulbs instead of
       onions cooking has brought." [Illustration]
       Seven threw out his brush, and had just begun: "If ever an unjust
accusation -" than its eye coincidentally fell on Alice, they
listened, he felt suddenly inne, the others were also, and they are
all bowed deeply.

     "Do you want to be as good to me to say," said Alice a
     little timidly, "why these roses paint? "Five and
     Seven answered nothing, but looked at Two. Two began
     in a low voice: 'The truth, to confess,
       Miss, this would have a rose bush _rother_ be,
       and we have accidentally planted a white, and if the Queen would
be aware, we would all be beheaded, you must know .

     So, you see Miss, we try as much as possible
     before they come - "The moment called for five,
     the frightened deeper into the garden it
     had seen:" The Queen! The Queen, "and the three gardeners
     instantly threw himself flat on his
     face.

     There was a noise of many steps, and Alice
     looked curiously out to see the Queen. First came ten
     soldiers, armed with clubs, they all had the
     same shape as the gardeners, oblong and flat,
       and at the four corners of the
       hands and feet, then ten men came from the court, they were all
over with diamonds, covered and went in pairs, like the soldiers.

     
     'Now of this dark night I perceive the reason:
     Cynthia for shame obscures her silver shine          728
     Till forging Nature be condemn'd of treason,
     For stealing moulds from heaven that were divine;
       Wherein she fram'd thee in high heaven's despite,
       To shame the sun by day and her by night.          732

     'And therefore hath she brib'd the Destinies,
     To cross the curious workmanship of nature
     To mingle beauty with infirmities,
     And pure perfection with impure defeature;           736
       Making it subject to the tyranny
       Of mad mischances and much misery;

     'As burning fevers, agues pale and faint,
     Life-poisoning pestilence and frenzies wood,         740
     The marrow-eating sickness, whose attains
     Disorder breeds by heating of the blood;
       Surfeits, imposthumes, grief, and damn'd despair,
       Swear nature's death for framing thee so fair.     744

     'And not the least of all these maladies
     But in one minute's fight brings beauty under:
     Both favour, savour hue, and qualities,
     Whereat the impartial gazer late did wonder,         748
       Are on the sudden wasted, thaw'd and done,
       As mountain-snow melts with the mid-day sun.

     'Therefore, despite of fruitless chastity,
     Love-lacking vestals and self-loving nuns,           752
     That on the earth would breed a scarcity
     And barren dearth of daughters and of sons,
       Be prodigal: the lamp that burns by night
       Dries up his oil to lend the world his light.      756

     'What is thy body but a swallowing grave,
     Seeming to bury that posterity
     Which by the rights of time thou needs must have,
     If thou destroy them not in dark obscurity?          760
       If so, the world will hold thee in disdain,
       Sith in thy pride so fair a hope is slain.


     'So in thyself thyself art made away;
     A mischief worse than civil home-bred strife,        764
     Or theirs whose desperate hands themselves do slay,
     Or butcher-sire that reeves his son of life.
       Foul-cankering rust the hidden treasure frets,
       But gold that's put to use more gold begets.'      768

     'Nay then,' quoth Adon, 'you will fall again
     Into your idle over-handled theme;
     The kiss I gave you is bestow'd in vain,
     And all in vain you strive against the stream;       772
       For by this black-fac'd night, desire's foul nurse,
       Your treatise makes me like you worse and worse.

     'If love have lent you twenty thousand tongues,
     And every tongue more moving than your own,          776
     Bewitching like the wanton mermaid's songs,
     Yet from mine ear the tempting tune is blown;
       For know, my heart stands armed in mine ear,
       And will not let a false sound enter there;        780

     'Lest the deceiving harmony should run
     Into the quiet closure of my breast;
     And then my little heart were quite undone,
     In his bedchamber to be barr'd of rest.              784
       No, lady, no; my heart longs not to groan,
       But soundly sleeps, while now it sleeps alone.

     'What have you urg'd that I cannot reprove?
     The path is smooth that leadeth on to danger;        790
     I hate not love, but your device in love
     That lends embracements unto every stranger.
       You do it for increase: O strange excuse!
       When reason is the bawd to lust's abuse.           792

     'Call it not, love, for Love to heaven is fled,
     Since sweating Lust on earth usurp'd his name;
     Under whose simple semblance he hath fed
     Upon fresh beauty, blotting it with blame;           796
       Which the hot tyrant stains and soon bereaves,
       As caterpillars do the tender leaves.

     'Love comforteth like sunshine after rain,
     But Lust's effect is tempest after sun;              800
     Love's gentle spring doth always fresh remain,
     Lust's winter comes ere summer half be done.
       Love surfeits not, Lust like a glutton dies;
       Love is all truth, Lust full of forged lies.       804

     'More I could tell, but more I dare not say;
     The text is old, the orator too green.
     Therefore, in sadness, now I will away;
     My face is full of shame, my heart of teen:          808
       Mine ears, that to your wanton talk attended
       Do burn themselves for having so offended.'

     With this he breaketh from the sweet embrace         811
     Of those fair arms which bound him to her breast,
     And homeward through the dark laund runs apace;
     Leaves Love upon her back deeply distress'd.
       Look, how a bright star shooteth from the sky
       So glides he in the night from Venus' eye;         816

     Which after him she darts, as one on shore
     Gazing upon a late-embarked friend,
     Till the wild waves will have him seen no more,
     Whose ridges with the meeting clouds contend:        820
       So did the merciless and pitchy night
       Fold in the object that did feed her sight.

     Whereat amaz'd, as one that unaware
     Hath dropp'd a precious jewel in the flood,          824
     Or 'stonish'd as night-wanderers often are,
     Their light blown out in some mistrustful wood;
       Even so confounded in the dark she lay,
       Having lost the fair discovery of her way.         828

     And now she beats her heart, whereat it groans,
     That all the neighbour caves, as seeming troubled,
     Make verbal repetition of her moans;
     Passion on passion deeply is redoubled:              832
       'Ay me!' she cries, and twenty times, 'Woe, woe!'
       And twenty echoes twenty times cry so.

     She marking them, begins a wailing note,
     And sings extemporally a woeful ditty;               836
     How love makes young men thrall and old men dote;
     How love is wise in folly foolish-witty:
       Her heavy anthem still concludes in woe,
       And still the choir of echoes answer so.           840

     Her song was tedious, and outwore the night,
     For lovers' hours are long, though seeming short:
     If pleas'd themselves, others, they think, delight
     In such like circumstance, with such like sport:     844
       Their copious stories, oftentimes begun,
       End without audience, and are never done.

     For who hath she to spend the night withal,
     But idle sounds resembling parasites;                848
     Like shrill-tongu'd tapsters answering every call,
     Soothing the humour of fantastic wits?
       She says, ''Tis so:' they answer all, ''Tis so;'
       And would say after her, if she said 'No'.         852

     Lo! here the gentle lark, weary of rest,
     From his moist cabinet mounts up on high,
     And wakes the morning, from whose silver breast
     The sun ariseth in his majesty;                      856
       Who doth the world so gloriously behold,
       That cedar-tops and hills seem burnish'd gold.

     Venus salutes him with this fair good morrow:
     'O thou clear god, and patron of all light,          860
     From whom each lamp and shining star doth borrow
     The beauteous influence that makes him bright,
       There lives a son that suck'd an earthly mother,
       May lend thee light, as thou dost lend to other'

     This said, she hasteth to a myrtle grove,            865
     Musing the morning is so much o'erworn,
     And yet she hears no tidings of her love;
     She hearkens for his hounds and for his horn:        868
       Anon she hears them chant it lustily,
       And all in haste she coasteth to the cry.

     And as she runs, the bushes in the way
     Some catch her by the neck, some kiss her face,      872
     Some twine about her thigh to make her stay:
     She wildly breaketh from their strict embrace,
       Like a milch doe, whose swelling dugs do ache,
       Hasting to feed her fawn hid in some brake.        876

     By this she hears the hounds are at a bay;
     Whereat she starts, like one that spies an adder
     Wreath'd up in fatal folds just in his way,
     The fear whereof doth make him shake and shudder;
       Even so the timorous yelping of the hounds         881
       Appals her senses, and her spirit confounds.

     For now she knows it is no gentle chase,
     But the blunt boar, rough bear, or lion proud,       884
     Because the cry remaineth in one place,
     Wilere fearfully the dogs exclaim aloud:
       Finding their enemy to be so curst,
       They all strain courtesy who shall cope him first.

     This dismal cry rings sadly in her ear,              889
     Througll which it enters to surprise her heart;
     Who, overcome by doubt and bloodless fear,
     With cold-pale weakness numbs each feeling part;
       Like soldiers, when their captain once doth yield,
       They basely fly and dare not stay the field.

     Thus stands she in a trembling ecstasy,
     Till, cheering up her senses sore dismay'd,          896
     She tells them 'tis a causeless fantasy,
     And childish error, that they are afraid;
       Bids them leave quaking, bids them fear no more:
       And with that word she spied the hunted boar;

     Whose frothy mouth bepainted all with red,           901
     Like milk and blood being mingled both together,
     A second fear through all her sinews spread,
     Which madly hurries her she knows not whither:       904
       This way she runs, and now she will no further,
       But back retires to rate the boar for murther.

     A thousand spleens bear her a thousand ways,
     She treads the path that she untreads again;         908
     Her more than haste is mated with delays,
     Like the proceedings of a drunken brain,
       Full of respects, yet nought at all respecting,
       In hand with all things, nought at all effecting.

     Here kennel'd in a brake she finds a hound,          913
     And asks the weary caitiff for his master,
     And there another licking of his wound,
     Gainst venom'd sores the only sovereign plaster;     916
       And here she meets another sadly scowling,
       To whom she speaks, and he replies with howling.

     When he hath ceas'd his ill-resounding noise,
     Another flap-mouth'd mourner, black and grim,        920
     Against the welkin volleys out his voice;
     Another and another answer him,
       Clapping their proud tails to the ground below,
       Shaking their scratch'd ears, bleeding as they go.

     Look, how the world's poor people are amaz'd         925
     At apparitions, signs, and prodigies,
     Whereon with fearful eyes they long have gaz'd,
     Infusing them with dreadful prophecies;              928
       So she at these sad sighs draws up her breath,
       And, sighing it again, exclaims on Death.

     'Hard-favour'd tyrant, ugly, meagre, lean,           931
     Hateful divorce of love,'--thus chides she Death,--
     'Grim-grinning ghost, earth's worm, what dost thou mean
     To stifle beauty and to steal his breath,
       Who when he liv'd, his breath and beauty set
       Gloss on the rose, smell to the violet?            936

     'If he be dead, O no! it cannot be,
     Seeing his beauty, thou shouldst strike at it;
     O yes! it may; thou hast no eyes to see,
     But hatefully at random dost thou hit.               940
       Thy mark is feeble age, but thy false dart
       Mistakes that aim and cleaves an infant's heart.

     'Hadst thou but bid beware, then he had spoke,
     And, hearing him, thy power had lost his power.      944
     The Destinies will curse thee for this stroke;
     They bid thee crop a weed, thou pluck'st a flower.
       Love's golden arrow at him shoull have fled,
       And not Death's ebon dart, to strike him dead.     948

     'Dost thou drink tears, that thou provok'st such weeping?
     What may a heavy groan advantage thee?
     Why hast thou cast into eternal sleeping
     Those eyes that taught all other eyes to see?        952
       Now Nature cares not for thy mortal vigour
       Since her best work is ruin'd with thy rigour.'

     Here overcome, as one full of despair,
     She vail'd her eyelids, who, like sluices, stopp'd   956
     The crystal tide that from her two cheeks fair
     In the sweet channel of her bosom dropp'd
       But through the flood-gates breaks the silver rain,
       And with his strong course opens them again.       960

     O! how her eyes and tears did lend and borrow;
     Her eyes seen in the tears, tears in her eye;
     Both crystals, where they view'd each other's sorrow,
     Sorrow that friendly sighs sought still to dry;      964
       But like a stormy day, now wind, now rain,
       Sighs dry her cheeks, tears make them wet again.

     Variable passions throng her constant woe,
     As striving who should best become her grief;        968
     All entertain'd, each passion labours so,
     That every present sorrow seemeth chief,
     But none is best; then join they all together,
     Like many clouds consulting for foul weather.        972

     By this, far off she hears some huntsman holloa;
     A nurse's song no'er pleas'd her babe so well:
     The dire imagination she did follow
     This sound of hope doth labour to expel;             976
       For now reviving joy bids her rejoice,
       And flatters her it is Adonis' voice.

     Whereat her tears began to turn their tide,
     Being prison'd in her eye, like pearls in glass;     980
     Yet sometimes falls an orient drop beside,
     Which her cheek melts, as scorning it should pass
       To wash the foul face of the sluttish ground,
       Who is but drunken when she seemeth drown'd.

     O hard-believing love! how strange it seems          985
     Not to believe, and yet too credulous;
     Thy weal and woe are both of them extremes;
     Despair and hope make thee ridiculous:               988
       The one doth flatter thee in thoughts unlikely,
       In likely thoughts the other kills thee quickly.

     "Said the king. The next witness was the Duchess's
     cook. She carried the pepper rifle in hand, and Alice
     errieth, even before they stepped into the
     hall, who it was, because all the people
       near the door with a time began to sneeze. "Gieb
       your statement," said the King. " Ne! "answered the cook.

     The King looked anxiously at the white rabbit, which
     quietly said," Your Majesty must cross
     this witness interrogation subject. ""
     Well, if I must, I must, "said the king blue, and after
       he arms crossed and brown eyes so tightly
       drawn together, that his eyes no longer to be seen, "he said with
a deep voice:" What makes one small cake?

     "" Pepper, mostly, "said the cook." Syrup, "said
     a sleepy voice behind her. "Take the marbles Thierhaupten
     firmly," cried the Queen. »Marmot Köpft this animal!
     If this animal from the marble halls!
       Suppress it! Pinches it! Burns to his beard!
       "Some minutes the whole court was in motion, to the marble
fortzuschaffen Thierstein, and finally everything came back to rest,
was the cook disappeared."

     Prejudicial, "said the king, and looked as him a stone
     falls from the heart. "Call the next
     witness." And to the Queen's colleagues,
     he added quietly: "Really, my love, you must next take
       on cross-examination, my arms are completely
       paralyzed."

     Alice watched the White Rabbit, which searched
     the list, because it was very curious, who is probably
     the next witness would like, - "because they
     have not much evidence," she said for
       themselves. Think their surprise, as the white
       rabbit with its highest head voice vorlas: "Alice!"

     Twelfth Chapter. Alice is the wiser. "Here,"
     cried Alice, in the current excitement quite
     forgetting how much they had grown
     last few minutes; she jumped in such a hurry, that she
       and her skirt in front of the console
       umstieß so that all Geschworne on including the heads of the
Assembly was sitting.As falcon to the lure, away she flies;
     The grass stoops not, she treads on it so light;    1028
     And in her haste unfortunately spies
     The foul boar's conquest on her fair delight;
       Which seen, her eyes, as murder'd with the view,
       Like stars asham'd of day, themselves withdrew:

     Or, as the snail, whose tender horns being hit,     1033
     Shrinks backwards in his shelly cave with pain,
     And there, all smother'd up, in shade doth sit,
     Long after fearing to creep forth again;            1036
       So, at his bloody view, her eyes are fled
       Into the deep dark cabills of her head;

     Where they resign their office and their light
     To the disposing of her troubled brain;             1040
     Who bids them still consort with ugly night,
     And never wound the heart with looks again;
       Who, like a king perplexed in his throne,
       By their suggestion gives a deadly groan,         1044

     Whereat each tributary subject quakes;
     As when the wind, imprison'd in the ground,
     Struggling for passage, earth's foundation shakes,
     Which with cold terror doth men's minds confound.
       This mutiny each part doth so surprise            1049
       That from their dark beds once more leap her eyes;

     And, being open'd, threw unwilling light
     Upon the wide wound that the boar had trench'd
     In his soft flank; whose wonted lily white          1053
     With purple tears, that his wound wept, was drench'd:
       No flower was nigh, no grass, herb, leaf, or weed
       But stole his blood and seem'd with him to bleed.

     This solemn sympathy poor Venus noteth,             1057
     Over one shoulder doth she hang her head,
     Dumbly she passions, franticly she doteth;
     She thinks he could not die, he is not dead:        1060
       Her voice is stopp'd, her joints forget to bow,
       Her eyes are mad that they have wept till now.

     Upon his hurt she looks so steadfastly,
     That her sight dazzling makes the wound seem three;
     And then she reprehends her mangling eye,           1065
     That makes more gashes where no breach should be:
       His face seems twain, each several limb is doubled;
       For oft the eye mistakes, the brain being troubled.

     'My tongue cannot express my grief for one,         1069
     And yet,' quoth she, 'behold two Adons dead!
     My sighs are blown away, my salt tears gone,
     Mine eyes are turn'd to fire, my heart to lead:     1072
       Heavy heart's lead, melt at mine eyes' red fire!
       So shall I die by drops of hot desire.

     'Alas! poor world, what treasure hast thou lost!
     What face remains alive that's worth the viewing?
     Whose tongue is music now? what canst thou boast
     Of things long since, or anything ensuing?          1078
       The flowers are sweet, their colours fresh and trim;
       But true-sweet beauty liv'd and died with him.

     'Bonnet nor veil henceforth no creature wear!       1081
     Nor sun nor wind will ever strive to kiss you:
     Having no fair to lose, you need not fear;
     The sun doth scorn you, and the wind doth hiss you:
       But when Adonis liv'd, sun and sharp air          1085
       Lurk'd like two thieves, to rob him of his fair:

     'And therefore would he put his bonnet on,
     Under whose brim the gaudy sun would peep;          1088
     The wind would blow it off, and, being gone,
     Play with his locks: then would Adonis weep;
       And straight, in pity of his tender years,
       They both would strive who first should dry his tears.

     'To see his face the lion walk'd along              1093
     Behind some hedge, because he would not fear him;
     To recreate himself when he hath sung,
     The tiger would be tame and gently hear him;        1096
       If he had spoke, the wolf would leave his prey,
       And never fright the silly lamb that day.

     'When he beheld his shadow in the brook,
     The fishes spread on it their golden gills;         1100
     When he was by, the birds such pleasure took,
     That some would sing, some other in their bills
       Would bring him mulberries and ripe-red cherries
       He fed them with his sight, they him with berries.

     'But this foul, grim, and urchin-spouted boar,      1105
     Whose downward eye still looketh for a grave,
     Ne'er saw the beauteous livery that he wore;
     Witness the entertainment that he gave:             1108
       If he did see his face, why then I know
       He thought to kiss him, and hath killed him so.

     ''Tis true, 'tis true; thus was Adonis slain:
     He ran upon the boar with his sharp spear,          1112
     Who did not whet his teeth at him again,
     But by a kiss thought to persuade him there;
       And nuzzling in his flank, the loving swine
       Sheath'd unaware the tusk in his soft groin.      1116

     'Had I been tooth'd like him, I must confess,
     With kissing him I should have kill'd him first;
     But he is dead, and never did he bless
     My youth with his; the more am I accurst.'          1120
       With this she falleth in the place she stood,
       And stains her face with his congealed blood.

     Sho looks upon his lips, and they are pale;
     She takes him by the hand, and that is cold;        1124
     She whispers in his ears a heavy tale,
     As if they heard the woeful words she told;
     She lifts the coffer-lids that close his eyes,
     Where, lo! two lamps, burnt out, in darkness lies;

     Two glasses where herself herself beheld            1129
     A thousand times, and now no more reflect;
     Their virtue lost, wherein they late excell'd,
     And every beauty robb'd of his effect:              1132
       'Wonder of time,' quoth she, 'this is my spite,
       That, you being dead, the day should yet be light.

     'Since thou art dead, lo! here I prophesy,
     Sorrow on love hereafter shall attend:              1136
     It shall be waited on with jealousy,
     Find sweet beginning, but unsavoury end;
       Ne'er settled equally, but high or low;
       That all love's pleasure shall not match his woe.

     'It shall be fickle, false, and full of fraud,      1141
     Bud and be blasted in a breathing-while;
     The bottom poison, and the top o'erstraw'd
     With sweets that shall the truest sight beguile:    1144
       The strongest body shall it make most weak,
       Strike the wise dumb and teach the fool to speak.

     'It shall be sparing and too full of riot,
     Teaching decrepit age to tread the measures;        1148
     The staring ruffian shall it keep in quiet,
     Pluck down the rich, enrich the poor with treasures;
       It shall be raging mad, and silly mild,
       Make the young old, the old become a child.       1152

     'It shall suspect where is no cause of fear;
     It shall not fear where it should most mistrust;
     It shall be merciful, and too severe,
     And most deceiving when it seems most just;         1156
       Perverse it shall be, where it shows most toward,
       Put fear to velour, courage to the coward.

     'It shall be cause of war and dire events,
     And set dissension 'twixt the son and sire;         1160
     Subject and servile to all discontents,
     As dry combustious matter is to fire:
       Sith in his prime Death doth my love destroy,
       They that love best their love shall not enjoy.'  1164

     By this, the boy that by her side lay kill'd
     Was melted like a vapour from her sight,
     And in his blood that on the ground lay spill'd,
     A purple flower sprung up, chequer'd with white;    1168
       Resembling well his pale cheeks, and the blood
       Which in round drops upon their whiteness stood.

     "While the poor Alice began again to cry, because
     she felt lonely and even muthlos. After a little while,
     however, she heard again Trappeln of steps
     in the distance and looked carefully out,
       half in the hope that the mouse is prudent, and
       then return, their history auszuerzählen.

     Fourth Chapter. The home of the rabbit. It was the white
     rabbit , which slowly came zurückgewandert
     by carefully when walking umhersah as
     if it had lost something, and she heard it for themselves
       murmured: "The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh,
       my soft paws! o my hair and beard gag! They will hang me, so surely
ferrets are ferrets! Where I can have it drop, I do not!'Here was thy father's bed, here in my breast;
     Thou art the next of blood, and 'tis thy right:     1184
     Lo! in this hollow cradle take thy rest,
     My throbbing heart shall rock thee day and night:
       There shall not be one minute in an hour
       Wherein I will not kiss my sweet love's flower.'

     Thus weary of the world, away she hies,             1189
     And yokes her silver doves; by whose swift aid
     Their mistress, mounted, through the empty skies
     In her light chariot quickly is convey'd;           1192
       Holding their course to Paphos, where their queen
       Means to immure herself and not be seen.