She wandered from room to room, aimlessly, trying to adjust herself to
their solitude. She had known such loneliness before, in the years when
most women's hearts are fullest; but that was long ago, and the solitude
had after all been less complete, because of the sense that it might
still be filled. Her son had come: her life had brimmed over; but now the
tide ebbed again, and she was left gazing over a bare stretch of wasted
years. Wasted! There was the mortal pang, the stroke from which there was
no healing. Her faith and hope had been marsh-lights luring her to the
wilderness, her love a vain edifice reared on shifting ground.

In her round of the rooms she came at last to Dick's study upstairs. It was
full of his boyhood: she could trace the history of his past in its quaint
relics and survivals, in the school-books lingering on his crowded shelves,
the school-photographs and college-trophies hung among his later treasures.
All his successes and failures, his exaltations and inconsistencies, were
recorded in the warm huddled heterogeneous room. Everywhere she saw the
touch of her own hand, the vestiges of her own steps. It was she alone
who held the clue to the labyrinth, who could thread a way through the
confusions and contradictions of his past; and her soul rejected the
thought that his future could ever escape from her. She dropped down into
his shabby college armchair and hid her face in the papers on his desk.


VIII

The day dwelt in her memory as a long stretch of aimless hours: blind
alleys of time that led up to a dead wall of inaction.

Toward afternoon she remembered that she had promised to dine out and go to
the opera. At first she felt that the contact of life would be unendurable;
then she shrank from shutting herself up with her misery. In the end she
let herself drift passively on the current of events, going through the
mechanical routine of the day without much consciousness of what was
happening.

At twilight, as she sat in the drawing-room, the evening paper was brought
in, and in glancing over it her eye fell on a paragraph which seemed
printed in more vivid type than the rest. It was headed, _The New Museum
of Sculpture_, and underneath she read: "The artists and architects
selected to pass on the competitive designs for the new Museum will begin
their sittings on Monday, and tomorrow is the last day on which designs may
be sent in to the committee. Great interest is felt in the competition, as
the conspicuous site chosen for the new building, and the exceptionally
large sum voted by the city for its erection, offer an unusual field for
the display of architectural ability."

She leaned back, closing her eyes. It was as though a clock had struck,
loud and inexorably, marking off some irrecoverable hour. She was seized
by a sudden longing to seek Dick out, to fall on her knees and plead with
him: it was one of those physical obsessions against which the body has to
stiffen its muscles as well as the mind its thoughts. Once she even sprang
up to ring for a cab; but she sank back again, breathing as if after a
struggle, and gripping the arms of her chair to keep herself down.

"I can only wait for him--only wait for him--" she heard herself say; and
the words loosened the sobs in her throat.

At length she went upstairs to dress for dinner. This change made as quietly
as possible, he tore the sheets, pillow-cases, and blankets into broad
ribbons; and after plaiting them into ropes, spliced the different lengths
together. But at the very first he descries this ugly addition to his
labors. Where shall he look for any staple, hook, bar, or other fixture,
from which his rope, when twisted, may safely depend? Measured from the
window-_sill_--_i.e._, the lowest part of the window architrave--there count
but twenty-two or twenty-three feet to the ground.The silence had been as deep and as terrible then; and as she dressed she
had before her the vision of his room, of the cot in which he lay, of his
restless head working a hole in the pillow, his face so pinched and alien
under the familiar freckles. It might be his death-watch she was keeping:
the doctors had warned her to be ready. And in the silence her soul had
fought for her boy, her love had hung over him like wings, her abundant
useless hateful life had struggled to force itself into his empty veins.
And she had succeeded, she had saved him, she had poured her life into him;
and in place of the strange child she had watched all night, at daylight
she held her own boy to her breast.

That night had once seemed to her the most dreadful of her life; but she
knew now that it was one of the agonies which enrich, that the passion thus
spent grows fourfold from its ashes. She could not have borne to keep this
new vigil alone. She must escape from its sterile misery, must take refuge
in other lives till she regained courage to face her own. At the opera,
in the illumination of the first _entr'acte_, as she gazed about the
house, wondering through the numb ache of her wretchedness how others could
talk and smile and be indifferent, it seemed to her that all the jarring
animation about her was suddenly focussed in the face of Clemence Verney.
Miss Verney sat opposite, in the front of a crowded box, a box in which,
continually, the black-coated background shifted and renewed itself.
Mrs. Peyton felt a throb of anger at the girl's bright air of unconcern.
She forgot that she too was talking, smiling, holding out her hand to
newcomers, in a studied mimicry of life, while her real self played out
its tragedy behind the scenes. Then it occurred to her that, to Clemence
Verney, there was no tragedy in the situation. According to the girl's
calculations, Dick was virtually certain of success; and unsuccess was to
her the only conceivable disaster.

All through the opera the sense of that opposing force, that negation of
her own beliefs, burned itself into Mrs. Peyton's consciousness. The space
between herself and the girl seemed to vanish, the throng about them to
disperse, till they were face to face and alone, enclosed in their mortal
enmity. At length the feeling of humiliation and defeat grew unbearable to
Mrs. Peyton. The girl seemed to flout her in the insolence of victory, to
sit there as the visible symbol of her failure. It was better after all to
be at home alone with her thoughts.

As she drove away from the opera she thought of that other vigil which,
only a few streets away, Dick was perhaps still keeping. She wondered if
his work were over, if the final stroke had been drawn. And as she pictured
him there, signing his pact with evil in the loneliness of the conniving
night, an uncontrollable impulse possessed her. She must drive by his
windows and see if they were still alight. She would not go up to him,--she
dared not,--but at least she would pass near to him, would invisibly share
his watch and hover on the edge of his thoughts. She lowered the window and
called out the address to the coachman.

The tall office-building loomed silent and dark as she approached it; but
presently, high up, she caught a light in the familiar windows. Her heart
gave a leap, and the light swam on her through tears. The carriage drew up,
and for a moment she sat motionless. Then the coachman bent down toward
her, and she saw that he was asking if he should drive on. She tried to
shape a yes, but her lips refused it, and she shook her head. He continued
to lean down perplexedly, and at length, under the interrogation of his
attitude, it became impossible to sit still, and she opened the door and
stepped out. It was equally impossible to stand on the sidewalk, and her
next steps carried her to the door of the building. I was myself at that
time nearly three hundred miles from London; but there, and everywhere, the
panic was indescribable. One lady, my next neighbor, whom personally I knew,
living at the moment, during the absence of her husband, with a few servants
in a very solitary house, never rested until she had placed eighteen
doors (so she told me, and, indeed, satisfied me by ocular proof),
each secured by ponderous bolts, and bars, and chains, between her
own bedroom and any intruder of human build.

"And is Mr. Gill with him?"

"No: Mr. Gill he went away just after I come on this evening."

She glanced up into the cavernous darkness of the stairs.

"Is he alone up there, do you think?"

"Yes, ma'am, I know he's alone, because I seen his men leaving soon after
Mr. Gill."

Kate lifted her head quickly. "Then I will go up to him," she said.

The watchman apparently did not think it proper to offer any comment on
this unusual proceeding, and a moment later she was fluttering and rustling
up through the darkness, like a night-bird hovering among rafters. There
were ten flights to climb: at every one her breath failed her, and she had
to stand still and press her hands against her heart. Then the weight on
her breast lifted, and she went on again, upward and upward, the great
dark building dropping away from her, in tier after tier of mute doors and
mysterious corridors. At last she reached Dick's floor, and saw the light
shining down the passage from his door. She leaned against the wall, her
breath coming short, the silence throbbing in her ears. Even now it was not
too late to turn back. She bent over the stairs, letting her eyes plunge
into the nether blackness, with the single glimmer of the watchman's lights
in its depths; then she turned and stole toward her son's door.

There again she paused and listened, trying to catch, through the hum of
her pulses, any noise that might come to her from within. But the silence
was unbroken--it seemed as though the office must be empty. She pressed her
ear to the door, straining for a sound. She knew he never sat long at his
work, and it seemed unaccountable that she should not hear him moving about
the drawing-board. For a moment she fancied he might be sleeping; but sleep
did not come to him readily after prolonged mental effort--she recalled the
restless straying of his feet above her head for hours after he returned
from his night work in the office.

She began to fear that he might be ill. A nervous trembling seized her, and
she laid her hand on the latch, whispering "Dick!"

Her whisper sounded loudly through the silence, but there was no answer,
and after a pause she called again. With each call the hush seemed to
deepen: it closed in on her, mysterious and impenetrable. Her heart was
beating in short frightened leaps: a moment more and she would have cried
out. She drew a quick breath and turned the door-handle.

The outer room, Dick's private office, with its red carpet and easy-chairs,
stood in pleasant lamp-lit emptiness. The last time she had entered it,
Darrow and Clemence Verney had been there, and she had sat behind the
urn observing them. She paused a moment, struck now by a fault sound
from beyond; then she slipped noiselessly across the carpet, pushed open
the swinging door, and stood on the threshold of the work-room. Here
the gas-lights hung a green-shaded circle of brightness over the great
draughting-table in the middle of the floor. Table and floor were strewn
with a confusion of papers--torn blue-prints and tracings, crumpled sheets
of tracing-paper wrenched from the draughting-boards in a sudden fury of
destruction; and in the centre of the havoc, his arms stretched across the
table and his face hidden in them, sat Dick Peyton.

