"There is another difficulty," pursued the president. "People will not
accept a new metal in place of gold unless they are convinced that it
possesses equal intrinsic value. They must first become familiar with
it, and it must be abundant enough and desirable enough to be used
sparingly in the arts, just as gold was."

"I have provided for all that," said the stranger, with one of his
disconcerting smiles. "I assure you that there will be no trouble with
the people. They will be only too eager to get and to use the
metal. Let me show you."

He stepped to the door and immediately returned with two black
attendants bearing a large tray filled with articles shaped from the
same metal as that of which the card was composed. The financiers all
jumped to their feet with exclamations of surprise and admiration, and
gathered around the tray, whose dazzling contents lighted up the
corner of the room where it had been placed as if the moon were
shining there.

There were elegantly formed vases, adorned with artistic figures,
embossed and incised, and glowing with delicate colors which shimmered
in tiny waves with the slightest motion of the tray. Cups, pins,
finger-rings, earrings, watch-chains, combs, studs, lockets, medals,
tableware, models of coins--in brief, almost every article in the
fabrication of which precious metals have been employed was to be seen
there in profusion, and all composed of the strange new metal which
everybody on the spot declared was far more splendid than gold.

"Do you think it will answer?" asked Dr. Syx.

"We do," was the unanimous reply.

All then resumed their seats at the table, the tray with its
magnificent array having been placed in the centre of the board. This
display had a remarkable influence. Confidence awoke in the breasts of
the financiers. The dark clouds that had oppressed them rolled off,
and the prospect grew decidedly brighter.

"What terms do you demand?" at length asked Mr. Boon, cheerfully
rubbing his hands.

"I must have military protection for my mine and reducing works,"
replied Dr. Syx. "Then I shall ask the return of one per cent, on the
circulating medium, together with the privilege of disposing of a
certain amount of the metal--to be limited by agreement--to the public
for use in the arts. Of the proceeds of this sale I will pay ten per
cent. to the government in consideration of its protection."

"But," exclaimed President Boon, "that will make you the richest man
who ever lived!"

"Undoubtedly," was the reply.

"Why," added Mr. Boon, opening his eyes wider as the facts continued
to dawn upon him, "you will become the financial dictator of the whole
earth!"

"Undoubtedly," again responded Dr. Syx, unmoved. "That is what I
purpose to become. My discovery entitles me to no less. But, remember,
I place myself under government inspection and restriction. I should
not be allowed to flood the market, even if I were disposed to do
so. But my own interest would restrain me. It is to my advantage that
artemisium, once adopted, shall remain stable in value."

A shadow of doubt suddenly crossed the president's face.

"Suppose your secret is discovered," he said. "Surely your mine will
not remain the only one. If you, in so short a time, have been able to
accumulate an immense quantity of the new metal, it must be extremely
abundant. Others will discover it, and then where shall we be?"

While Mr. Boon uttered these words, those who were watching Dr. Syx
(as the president was not) resembled persons whose startled eyes are
fixed upon a wild beast preparing to spring. As Mr. Boon ceased
speaking he turned towards the visitor, and instantly his lips fell
apart and his face paled.

Dr. Syx had drawn himself up to his full stature, and his features
were distorted with that peculiar mocking smile which had now returned
with a concentrated expression of mingled self-confidence and disdain.

"Will you have relief, or not?" he asked in a dry, hard voice. "What
can you do? I alone possess the secret which can restore industry and
commerce. If you reject my offer, do you think a second one will
come?"

President Boon found voice to reply, stammeringly:

"I did not mean to suggest a rejection of the offer. I only wished to
inquire if you thought it probable that there would be no repetition
of what occurred after gold was found at the south pole?"

"The earth may be full of my metal," returned Dr. Syx, almost
fiercely, "but so long as I alone possess the knowledge how to extract
it, is it of any more worth than common dirt? But come," he added,
after a pause and softening his manner, "I have other schemes. Will
you, as representatives of the leading nations, undertake the
introduction of artemisium as a substitute for gold, or will you not?"

"Can we not have time for deliberation?" asked President Boon.

"Yes, one hour. Within that time I shall return to learn your
decision," replied Dr. Syx, rising and preparing to depart. "I leave
these things," pointing to the tray, "in your keeping, and,"
significantly, "I trust your decision will be a wise one."

His curious smile again curved his lips and shot the ends of his
mustache upward, and the influence of that smile remained in the room
when he had closed the door behind him. The financiers gazed at one
another for several minutes in silence, then they turned towards the
coruscating metal that filled the tray.


III

THE GRAND TETON MINE

Away on the western border of Wyoming, in the all but inaccessible
heart of the Rocky Mountains, three mighty brothers, "The Big Tetons,"
look perpendicularly into the blue eye of Jenny's Lake, lying at the
bottom of the profound depression among the mountains called Jackson's
Hole.  Bracing against one another for support, these remarkable peaks
lift their granite spires from 12,000 to nearly 14,000 feet into the
blue dome that arches the crest of the continent. Their sides, and
especially those of their chief, the Grand Teton, are streaked with
glaciers, which shine like silver trappings when the morning sun comes
up above the wilderness of mountains stretching away eastward from the
hole.

When the first white men penetrated this wonderful region, and one of
them bestowed his wife's name upon Jenny's Lake, they were intimidated
by the Grand Teton. It made their flesh creep, accustomed though they
were to rough scrambling among mountain gorges and on the brows of
immense precipices, when they glanced up the face of the peak, where
the cliffs fall, one below another, in a series of breathless
descents, and imagined themselves clinging for dear life to those
skyey battlements.

But when, in 1872, Messrs. Stevenson and Langford finally reached the
top of the Grand Teton--the only successful members of a party of nine
practised climbers who had started together from the bottom--they
found there a little rectangular enclosure, made by piling up rocks,
six or seven feet across and three feet in height, bearing evidences
of great age, and indicating that the red Indians had, for some
unknown purpose, resorted to the summit of this tremendous peak long
before the white men invaded their mountains. Yet neither the Indians
nor the whites ever really conquered the Teton, for above the highest
point that they attained rises a granite buttress, whose smooth
vertical sides seemed to them to defy everything but wings.

Winding across the sage-covered floor of Jackson's Hole runs the
Shoshone, or Snake River, which takes its rise from Jackson's Lake at
the northern end of the basin, and then, as if shrinking from the
threatening brows of the Tetons, whose fall would block its progress,
makes a detour of one hundred miles around the buttressed heights of
the range before it finds a clear way across Idaho, and so on to the
Columbia River and the Pacific Ocean.

On a July morning, about a month after the visit of Dr. Max Syx to the
assembled financiers in New York, a party of twenty horsemen,
following a mountain-trail, arrived on the eastern margin of Jackson's
Hole, and pausing upon a commanding eminence, with exclamations of
wonder, glanced across the great depression, where lay the shining
coils of the Snake River, at the towering forms of the Tetons, whose
ice-striped cliffs flashed lightnings in the sunshine. Even the
impassive broncos that the party rode lifted their heads inquiringly,
and snorted as if in equine astonishment at the magnificent spectacle.

One familiar with the place would have noticed something, which, to
his mind, would have seemed more surprising than the pageantry of the
mountains in their morning sun-bath. Curling above one of the wild
gorges that cut the lower slopes of the Tetons was a thick black
smoke, which, when lifted by a passing breeze, obscured the precipices
half-way to the summit of the peak.

Had the Grand Teton become a volcano? Certainly no hunting or
exploring party could make a smoke like that. But a word from the
leader of the party of horsemen explained the mystery.

"There is my mill, and the mine is underneath it."

The speaker was Dr. Syx, and his companions were members of the
financial congress. When he quitted their presence in New York, with
the promise to return within an hour for their reply, he had no doubt
in his own mind what that reply would be. He knew they would accept
his proposition, and they did. No time was then lost in communicating
with the various governments, and arrangements were quickly perfected
whereby, in case the inspection of Dr. Syx's mine and its resources
proved satisfactory, America and Europe should unite in adopting the
new metal as the basis of their coinage. As soon as this stage in the
negotiations was reached, it only remained to send a committee of
financiers and metallurgists, in company with Dr. Syx, to the Rocky
Mountains. They started under the doctor's guidance, completing the
last stage of their journey on horseback.

"An inspection of the records at Washington," Dr. Syx continued,
addressing the horsemen, "will show that I have filed a claim covering
ten acres of ground around the mouth of my mine. This was done as soon
as I had discovered the metal. The filing of the claim and the
subsequent proceedings which perfected my ownership attracted no
attention, because everybody was thinking of the south pole and its
gold-fields."

The party gathered closer around Dr. Syx and listened to his words
with silent attention, while their horses rubbed noses and jingled
their gold-mounted trappings.

"As soon as I had legally protected myself," he continued, "I employed
a force of men, transported my machinery and material across the
mountains, erected my furnaces, and opened the mine. I was safe from
intrusion, and even from idle curiosity, for the reason I have just
mentioned. In fact, so exclusive was the attraction of the new
gold-fields that I had difficulty in obtaining workmen, and finally I
sent to Africa and engaged negroes, whom I placed in charge of
trustworthy foremen. Accordingly, with half a dozen exceptions, you
will see only black men at the mine."

"And with their aid you have mined enough metal to supply the mints of
the world?" asked President Boon.

"Exactly so," was the reply. "But I no longer employ the large force
which I needed at first."

"How much metal have you on hand? I am aware that you have already
answered this question during our preliminary negotiations, but I ask
it again for the benefit of some members of our party who were not
present then."

"I shall show you to-day," said Dr. Syx, with his curious smile, "2500
tons of refined artemisium, stacked in rock-cut vaults under the Grand
Teton.