A fact in favor of the controlling of any malady is to be found in the
very general exodus of the town's people, who crowd the platforms of
departing trains. There can be no doubt that this movement should be
encouraged to the greatest possible extent, and it would be well if
places away from Johnstown, at no too great distance, could be opened
for the reception of those who, while not entirely disabled, are useless
at home. The scarcity of pure spring water which is not tainted by dead
animal matter is a pressing evil for consideration, but we doubt if this
is as important a fact at Johnstown as it is further down the river,
owing to the large amount of decomposing flesh in the water at this
latter point. No disinfectant can reach such a cause of disease save the
action of the large volume of water which dilutes all poisonous
materials.


The Torch for Safety.

There is a strong movement on foot in favor of applying the torch to the
wrecked buildings in Johnstown, and although the suggestion meets with
strong opposition at this time, there is little doubt the ultimate
solution of existing difficulties will be by this method. An army of men
have been for two days employed in clearing up the wreck in the city
proper, and although hundreds of bodies have been discovered, not
one-fifth of the ground has yet been gone over. In many places the
rubbish is piled twenty or thirty feet high, and not infrequently these
great drifts cover an area of nearly an acre. Infected be the Ayre whereon
they ride, And damn'd all those that trust them. I did heare The gallopping
of Horse. Who was't came by?

Len. 'Tis two or three my Lord, that bring you word:
Macduff is fled to England
Macb. Fled to England?
Len. I, my good Lord
Macb. Time, thou anticipat'st my dread exploits:
The flighty purpose neuer is o're-tooke Vnlesse the deed go with it.
From this moment, The very firstlings of my heart shall be The
firstlings of my hand. And euen now To Crown my thoughts with Acts:
be it thoght & done:

The Castle of Macduff, I will surprize.
Seize vpon Fife; giue to th' edge o'th' Sword His Wife, his Babes, and
all vnfortunate Soules That trace him in his Line. No boasting like a
Foole, This deed Ile do, before this purpose coole, But no more sights.
Where are these Gentlemen?
Come bring me where they are.

Exeunt.

Scena Secunda.

Enter Macduffes Wife, her Son, and Rosse.
Wife. What had he done, to make him fly the Land?
Rosse. You must haue patience Madam 
Wife. He had none:
His flight was madnesse: when our Actions do not, Our feares do
make vs Traitors
Rosse. You know not Whether it was his wisedome, or his feare
Wife. Wisedom? to leaue his wife, to leaue his Babes, His Mansion,
and his Titles, in a place From whence himselfe do's flye? He loues
vs not, He wants the naturall touch. For the poore Wren (The most
diminitiue of Birds) will fight, Her yong ones in her Nest, against
the Owle:
All is the Feare, and nothing is the Loue; As little is the Wisedome,
where the flight So runnes against all reason 
Rosse.It was a question whether the
living should be sacrificed to the dead, or whether the sway of
sentiment or the mandate of science should be the ruling impulse.
Although the proposition to burn the wreck was defeated, it was evident
that the movement was gaining many adherents, and the result will
doubtless be that in a few days the torch will be applied, not only to
the field of waste in Johnstown, but also to the avalanche of débris
that chokes the stream above the Pennsylvania bridge.