from the 1886 Cassell & Company edition edition.


THE BRAVO OF VENICE--A ROMANCE

by M. G. Lewis


INTRODUCTION.


Matthew Gregory Lewis, who professed to have translated this romance
out of the German, very much, I believe, as Horace Walpole professed
to have taken The Castle of Otranto from an old Italian manuscript,
was born in 1775 of a wealthy family.  His father had an estate in
India and a post in a Government office.  His mother was daughter to
Sir Thomas Sewell, Master of the Rolls in the reign of George III.
She was a young mother; her son Matthew was devoted to her from the
first.  As a child he called her "Fanny," and as a man held firmly
by her when she was deserted by her husband.  From Westminster
School, M. G. Lewis passed to Christ Church, Oxford.  Already he was
busy over tales and plays, and wrote at college a farce, never
acted, a comedy, written at the age of sixteen, The East Indian,
afterwards played for Mrs. Jordan's benefit and repeated with great
success, and also a novel, never published, called The Effusions of
Sensibility, which was a burlesque upon the sentimental school.  He
wrote also what he called "a romance in the style of The Castle of
Otranto," which appeared afterwards as the play of The Castle
Spectre.

With his mind thus interested in literature of the romantic form,
young Lewis, aged seventeen, after a summer in Paris, went to
Germany, settled for a time at Weimar, and, as he told his mother,
knocked his brains against German as hard as ever he could.  "I have
been introduced," he wrote, in July, 1792, "to M. de Goethe, the
celebrated author of Werter, so you must not be surprised if I
should shoot myself one of these fine mornings."  In the spring of
1793 the youth returned to England, very full of German romantic
tale and song, and with more paper covered with wild fancies of his
own.  After the next Christmas he returned to Oxford.  There was a
visit to Lord Douglas at Bothwell Castle; there was not much
academic work done at Oxford.  His father's desire was to train him
for the diplomatic service, and in the summer of 1794 he went to the
Hague as attache to the British Embassy.  He had begun to write his
novel of The Monk, had flagged, but was spurred on at the Hague by a
reading of Mrs. Radcliffe's Mysteries of Udolpho, a book after his
own heart, and he wrote to his mother at this time, "You see I am
horribly bit by the rage of writing."

The Monk was written in ten weeks, and published in the summer of
1795, before its author's age was twenty.  It was praised, attacked,
said by one review to have neither originality, morals, nor
probability to recommend it, yet to have excited and to be
continuing to excite the curiosity of the public:  a result set down
to the "irresistible energy of genius."  Certainly, Lewis did not
trouble himself to keep probability in view; he amused himself with
wild play of a fancy that delighted in the wonderful.  The
controversy over The Monk caused the young author to be known as
Monk Lewis, and the word Monk has to this day taken the place of the
words Matthew Gregory so generally, that many catalogue-makers must
innocently suppose him to have been so named at the font.  The
author of The Monk came back from the Hague to be received as a
young lion in London society.  When he came of age he entered
Parliament for Hindon, in Wiltshire, but seldom went to the House,
never spoke in it, and retired after a few sessions.  His delight
was in the use of the pen; his father, although disappointed by his
failure as a statesman, allowed him a thousand a year, and he took a
cottage at Barnes, that he might there escape from the world to his
ink-bottle.  He was a frequent visitor at Inverary Castle, and was
fascinated by his host's daughter, Lady Charlotte Campbell.  Still
he wrote on.  The musical drama of The Castle Spectre was produced
in the year after The Monk, and it ran sixty nights.  He translated
next Schiller's Kabale und Liebe as The Minister, but it was not
acted till it appeared, with little success, some years afterwards
at Covent Garden as The Harper's Daughter.  He translated from
Kotzebue, under the name of Rolla, the drama superseded by
Sheridan's version of the same work as Pizarro.  Then came the
acting, in 1799, of his comedy written in boyhood, The East Indian.
Then came, in the same year, his first opera, Adelmorn the Outlaw;
then a tragedy, Alfonso, King of Castile.  Of the origin of this
tragedy Lewis gave a characteristic account.  "Hearing one day," he
said, "my introduction of negroes into a feudal baron's castle" (in
The Castle Spectre) "exclaimed against with as much vehemence as if
a dramatic anachronism had been an offence undeserving of benefit of
clergy, I said in a moment of petulance, that to prove of how little
consequence I esteemed such errors, I would make a play upon the
Gunpowder Plot, and make Guy Faux in love with the Emperor
Charlemagne's daughter.  By some chance or other, this idea fastened
itself upon me, and by dint of turning it in my mind, I at length
formed the plot of Alfonso."

To that time in Lewis's life belongs this book, The Bravo of Venice;
which was published in 1804, when the writer's age was twenty-nine.
It was written at Inverary Castle, dedicated to the Earl of Moira,
and received as one of the most perfect little romances of its kind,
"highly characteristic of the exquisite contrivance, bold colouring,
and profound mystery of the German school."  In 1805 Lewis recast it
into a melodrama, which he called Rugantino.

H.M.


THE BRAVO OF VENICE.


BOOK THE FIRST.


CHAPTER I:  VENICE.


It was evening.  Multitudes of light clouds, partially illumined by
the moonbeams, overspread the horizon, and through them floated the
full moon in tranquil majesty, while her splendour was reflected by
every wave of the Adriatic Sea.  All was hushed around; gently was
the water rippled by the night wind; gently did the night wind sigh
through the Colonnades of Venice.

It was midnight; and still sat a stranger, solitary and sad, on the
border of the great canal.  Now with a glance he measured the
battlements and proud towers of the city; and now he fixed his
melancholy eyes upon the waters with a vacant stare.  At length he
spoke -

"Wretch that I am, whither shall I go?  Here sit I in Venice, and
what would it avail to wander further?  What will become of me?  All
now slumber, save myself! the Doge rests on his couch of down; the
beggar's head presses his straw pillow; but for ME there is no bed
except the cold, damp earth!  There is no gondolier so wretched but
he knows where to find work by day and shelter by night--while _I_--
while _I_--Oh! dreadful is the destiny of which I am made the
sport!"

He began to examine for the twentieth time the pockets of his
tattered garments.

"No! not one paolo, by heavens!--and I hunger almost to death."

He unsheathed his sword; he waved it in the moonshine, and sighed,
as he marked the glittering of the steel.

"No, no, my old true companion, thou and I must never part.  Mine
thou shalt remain, though I starve for it.  Oh, was not that a
golden time when Valeria gave thee to me, and when she threw the
belt over my shoulder, I kissed thee and Valeria?  She has deserted
us for another world, but thou and I will never part in this."

He wiped away a drop which hung upon his eyelid.

"Pshaw! 'twas not a tear; the night wind is sharp and bitter, and
makes the eyes water; but as for TEARS--Absurd! my weeping days are
over."

And as he spoke, the unfortunate (for such by his discourse and
situation he appeared to be) dashed his forehead against the earth,
and his lips were already unclosed to curse the hour which gave him
being, when he seemed suddenly to recollect himself.  He rested his
head on his elbow, and sang mournfully the burthen of a song which
had often delighted his childhood in the castle of his ancestors.

The spirit Kaboniyan goes to see the sick persons; he lets his spear
drop through the house, and then tells them the cause of the trouble
is that they have failed to make Sangásang.

He instructs them what to do, and when they obey all become well.

39

The different parts of the house quarrel and each insists on its
importance. At last they recognize how necessary each one is for the
other and cease their wrangling; then the people who live in the
house are again in good health.

40
The great spirit sees the people of Bisau celebrating the Ubaya
ceremony, and determines to reward them by increasing their worldly
goods.

He appears as a man and rewards them.

41
Dayapán, who has been ill for seven years, goes to bathe."What can this mean?" thought our mendicant.  "Is yon eavesdropper
one of death's unlicensed ministers?  Has he received the retaining
fee of some impatient heir, who pants to possess the wealth of the
unlucky knave who comes strolling along yonder, so careless and
unconscious?  Be not so confident, honest friend!  I'm at your
elbow."

He retired further into the shade, and silently and slowly drew near
the lurker, who stirred not from his place.  The stranger had
already passed them by, when the concealed villain sprang suddenly
upon him, raised his right hand in which a poniard was gleaming, and
before he could give the blow, was felled to the earth by the arm of
the mendicant.

The stranger turned hastily towards them; the bravo started up and
fled; the beggar smiled.

"How now?" cried the stranger; "what does all this mean?"

"Oh, 'tis a mere jest, signor, which has only preserved your life."

"What? my life?  How so?"

"The honest gentleman who has just taken to his heels stole behind
you with true cat-like caution, and had already raised his dagger,
when I saw him.  You owe your life to me, and the service is richly
worth one little piece of money!  Give me some alms, signor, for on
my soul I am hungry, thirsty, cold."

"Hence, scurvy companion!  I know you and your tricks too well.
This is all a concerted scheme between you, a design upon my purse,
an attempt to procure both money and thanks, and under the lame
pretence of having saved me from an assassin.  Go, fellow, go!
practise these dainty devices on the Doge's credulity if you will;
but with Buonarotti you stand no chance, believe me."

The wretched starving beggar stood like one petrified, and gazed on
the taunting stranger.

"No, as I have a soul to save, signor, 'tis no lie I tell you!--'tis
the plain truth; have compassion, or I die this night of hunger."

"Begone this instant, I say, or by Heaven--"

The unfeeling man here drew out a concealed pistol, and pointed it
at his preserver.

"Merciful Heaven! and is it thus that services are acknowledged in
Venice?"

"The watch is at no great distance, I need only raise my voice and--
"

"Hell and confusion! do you take me for a robber, then?"

"Make no noise, I tell you.  Be quiet--you had better."

"Hark you, signor.  Buonarotti is your name, I think?  I will write
it down as belonging to the second scoundrel with whom I have met in
Venice."

He paused for a moment, then continuing in a dreadful voice, "And
when," said he, "thou, Buonarotti, shalt hereafter hear the name of
ABELLINO--TREMBLE!"

Abellino turned away, and left the hard-hearted Venetian.


CHAPTER II:  THE BANDITTI.


And now rushed the unfortunate wildly through the streets of Venice.
He railed at fortune; he laughed and cursed by turns; yet sometimes
he suddenly stood still, seemed as pondering on some great and
wondrous enterprise, and then again rushed onwards, as if hastening
to its execution.

Propped against a column of the Signoria, he counted over the whole
sum of his misfortunes.  His wandering eyeballs appeared to seek
comfort, but they found it not.

"Fate," he at length exclaimed in a paroxysm of despair, "Fate has
condemned me to be either the wildest of adventurers, or one at the
relation of whose crimes the world must shudder.  To astonish is my
destiny.  Rosalvo can know no medium; Rosalvo can never act like
common men.  Is it not the hand of fate which has led me hither?
Who could ever have dreamt that the son of the richest lord in
Naples should have depended for a beggar's alms on Venetian charity?
I--I, who feel myself possessed of strength of body and energy of
soul fit for executing the most daring deeds, behold me creeping in
rags through the streets of this inhospitable city, and torturing my
wits in vain to discover some means by which I may rescue life from
the jaws of famine!  Those men whom my munificence nourished, who at
my table bathed their worthless souls in the choicest wines of
Cyprus, and glutted themselves with every delicacy which the globe's
four quarters could supply, these very men now deny to my necessity
even a miserable crust of mouldy bread.  Oh, that is dreadful,
cruel--cruel of men--cruel of Heaven!"

He paused, folded his arms, and sighed.

"Yet will I bear it--I will submit to my destiny.  I will traverse
every path and go through every degree of human wretchedness; and
whate'er may be my fate, I will still be myself; and whate'er may be
my fate, I will still act greatly!  Away, then, with the Count
Rosalvo, whom all Naples idolised; now--now, I am the beggar
Abellino.  A beggar--that name stands last in the scale of worldly
rank, but first in the list of the famishing, the outcast, and the
unworthy."

Something rustled near him.  Abellino gazed around.  He was aware of
the bravo, whom he struck to the ground that night, and whom two
companions of a similar stamp had now joined.  As they advanced,
they cast inquiring glances around them.  They were in search of
some one.

"It is of me that they are in search," said Abellino; then advanced
a few steps, and whistled.

The ruffians stood still; they whispered together, and seemed to be
undecided.

Abellino whistled a second time.

"'Tis he," he could hear one of them say distinctly, and in a moment
after they advanced slowly towards him.

Abellino kept his place, but unsheathed his sword.  The three
unknown (they were masked) stopped a few paces from him.

"How now, fellow!" quoth one of them; "what is the matter?  Why
stand you on your guard?"

Abellino.--It is as well that you should be made to keep your
distance, for I know you; you are certain honest gentlemen, who live
by taking away the lives of others.

The First Ruffian.--Was not your whistling addressed to us?

Abellino.--It was.

A Ruffian.--And what would you with us?

Abellino.--Hear me!  I am a miserable wretch, and starving; give me
an alms out of your booty!

A Ruffian.--An alms?  Ha! ha! ha!  By my soul that is whimsical!--
Alms from us, indeed!--Oh, by all means!  No doubt, you shall have
alms in plenty.

Abellino.--Or else give me fifty sequins, and I'll bind myself to
your service till I shall have worked out my debt.

A Ruffian.--Aye? and pray, then, who may you be?

Abellino.--A starving wretch, the Republic holds none more
miserable.  Such am I at present; but hereafter--I have powers,
knaves.  This arm could pierce a heart, though guarded by three
breastplates; this eye, though surrounded by Egyptian darkness,
could still see to stab sure.

A Ruffian.--Why, then, did you strike me down, even now?

Abellino.--In the hope of being paid for it; but though I saved his
life, the scoundrel gave me not a single ducat.

