  CXXX
  And his strong arm, with weak and feeble hand
  She would have thrust away, loosed and untwined:
  Oft strove she, but in vain, to break that band,
  For he the hold he got not yet resigned,
  Herself fast bound in those dear knots she fand,
  Dear, though she feigned scorn, strove and repined:
  At last she speaks, she weeps, complains and cries;
  Yet durst not, did not, would not see his eyes.

  CXXXI
  "Cruel at thy departure, at return
  As cruel, say, what chance thee hither guideth,
  Would'st thou prevent her death whose heart forlorn
  For thee, for thee death's strokes each hour divideth?
  Com'st thou to save my life?  alas, what scorn,
  What torment for Armida poor abideth?
  No, no, thy crafts and sleights I well descry,
  But she can little do that cannot die.

  I.
  GOOD-BYE TO FATHER.
  
  
  1. Father kissed us and said, "Good-bye,
  dears. Be good children, and help mother as
  much as you can. The year will soon pass away. What a merry time
we will have when I come back again!"
2. Father kissed mother, and then stepped into the train.Yet let not thy false hand bereave this breath,
  For if it were thy gift, hateful were death.

  CXXXIII
  "Cruel, myself an hundred ways can find,
  To rid me from thy malice, from thy hate,
  If weapons sharp, if poisons of all kind,
  If fire, if strangling fail, in that estate,
  Yet ways enough I know to stop this wind:
  A thousand entries hath the house of fate.
  Ah, leave these flatteries, leave weak hope to move,
  Cease, cease, my hope is dead, dead is my love."

  CXXXIV
  Thus mourned she, and from her watery eyes
  Disdain and love dropped down, rolled up in tears;
  From his pure fountains ran two streams likewise,
  Wherein chaste pity and mild ruth appears:
  Thus with sweet words the queen he pacifies,
  "Madam, appease your grief, your wrath, your fears,
  For to be crowned, not scorned, your life I save;
  Your foe nay, but your friend, your knight, your slave.

  CXXXV
  "But if you trust no speech. no oath, no word;
  Yet in mine eyes, my zeal, my truth behold:
  For to that throne, whereof thy sire was lord,
  I will restore thee, crown thee with that gold,
  And if high Heaven would so much grace afford
  As from thy heart this cloud this veil unfold
  Of Paganism, in all the east no dame
  Should equalize thy fortune, state and fame."

  CXXXVI
  Thus plaineth he, thus prays, and his desire
  Endears with sighs that fly and tears that fall;
  That as against the warmth of Titan's fire,
  Snowdrifts consume on tops of mountains tall,
  So melts her wrath; but love remains entire.
  "Behold," she says, "your handmaid and your thrall:
  My life, my crown, my wealth use at your pleasure;"
  Thus death her life became, loss proved her tensure.

  We are
  not fond of comparative criticism, we mean of
  that kind which brings forward the merit of
  one man as if it depreciated the different
  merit of another, nor of supercilious criticism,
  which measures every talent by some ideal
  standard of possible excellence, and, if
  it fall short, can find nothing to admire. A
  thing is either good in itself or good for nothing.

  Yet there
  is such a thing as a contrast of differences
  between two eminent intellects by which we
  may perhaps arrive at a clearer perception
  of what is characteristic in each. It is
  almost impossible, indeed, to avoid
  some sort of parallel _à la_ Plutarch
  between Thackeray and Dickens. We do not
  intend to make out which is the greater, for they may be equally
great, though utterly unlike, but merely to touch on a few striking
points.CXXXIX
  This said, forth spurred they both, both high advance
  Their swords aloft, both struck at once, both hit,
  His left arm wounded had the knight of France,
  His shield was pierced, his vantbrace cleft and split,
  The Pagan backward fell, half in a trance,
  On his left ear his foe so hugely smit,
  And as he sought to rise, Godfredo's sword
  Pierced him through, so died that army's lord.

  CXL
  Of his great host, when Emiren was dead,
  Fled the small remnant that alive remained;
  Godfrey espied as he turned his steed,
  Great Altamore on foot, with blood all stained,
  With half a sword, half helm upon his head,
  Gainst whom a hundred fought, yet not one gained.
  "Cease, cease this strife," he cried: "and thou, brave knight,
  Yield, I am Godfrey, yield thee to my might!"

  This
  is bad as fancy for precisely the same reason
  that it would be good as a pun. The
  comparison is unintentionally wanting in logic,
  just as a pun is intentionally so. To make
  the contrast what it should have been,--to
  make it coherent, if I may use that term
  of a contrast,--it should read:
  

  Hard
  was the _hand_ that gave the blow, Soft
  were those lips that bled,
for otherwise there is no identity of meaning in the word "hard"
as applied to the two nouns it qualifies, and accordingly the proper
logical copula is wanting."God shield," quoth Godfrey, "that my noble mind
  Should praise and virtue so by profit measure,
  All that thou hast from Persia and from Inde
  Enjoy it still, therein I take no pleasure;
  I set no rent on life, no price on blood,
  I fight, and sell not war for gold or good."

  CXLIII
  This said, he gave him to his knights to keep
  And after those that fled his course he bent;
  They to their rampiers fled and trenches deep,
  Yet could not so death's cruel stroke prevent:
  The camp was won, and all in blood doth steep
  The blood in rivers streamed from tent to tent,
  It soiled, defiled, defaced all the prey,
  Shields, helmets, armors, plumes and feathers gay.

  CXLIV
  Thus conquered Godfrey, and as yet the sun
  Dived not in silver waves his golden wain,
  But daylight served him to the fortress won
  With his victorious host to turn again,
  His bloody coat he put not off, but run
  To the high temple with his noble train,
  And there hung up his arms, and there he bows
  His knees, there prayed, and there performed his vows.