

"We have got to the end," Bell said.

"I fancy so," David murmured, "But we can't save the scandal. I don't see
how Reginald Henson is going to get out of the mess without a
prosecution."

Any further speculation as to the future of that engaging rascal was cut
short by a pleasant surprise, no other than the unexpected arrival of
Ruth Gates and Chris Henson. The latter was beaming with health and
happiness; she had discarded her disguise, and stood confessed before all
the world like the beautiful creature that she was.

"What does it all mean?" David asked. "What will Longdean village say?"

"What does Longdean village know?" Chris retorted. "They are vaguely
aware that somebody was taken away from the house a short time ago to be
buried, but that is all their knowledge. And there is no more need for
disguise, Lord Littimer says. He knows pretty well everything. He has
been very restless and uneasy for the past day or two, and yesterday he
left saying that he had business in London. Early to-day I had a
characteristic telegram from him saying that he was at Longdean, and that
I was necessary to his comfort there. I was to come clothed in my right
mind, and I was to bring Mr. Steel and Dr. Bell along."

"It can't be managed," said Bell. "We've got Van Sneck here."

"And I had forgotten all about him," said Chris. "Was the operation
successful?"

Bell told his budget of good news down to the story of the ring and the
mysterious manner in which it had disappeared again. David had followed
Ruth into the conservatory, where she stood with her dainty head buried
over a rose.

She looked up with a warm, shy smile on her face.

"I hope you are satisfied," she said, "you are safe now?"

"I was never very much alarmed, dearest," Steel said. "If this thing had
never happened I might never have met you. And as soon as this business
is definitely settled I shall come and see your uncle. I am a very
impatient man, Ruth."

"And you shall see my uncle when you please, dear," she said. "You will
find him quite as charming as you say your mother is. What will she say?"

"Say? That you are the dearest and sweetest girl in the world, and that I
am a lucky fellow. But you are not going off already?"

"Indeed, we must. We have a cab at the door. And I am going to brave the
horrors of Longdean Grange and spend the night there. Only, I fancy that
the horrors have gone for ever. I shall be very disappointed if you don't
come to-morrow."

Behind a friendly palm David bent and kissed the shy lips, with a vow
that he would see Longdean Grange on the morrow. Then Chris caught up
Ruth with a whirl, and they were gone.

It was after ten that Bell and Steel managed to convey Van Sneck to the
conservatory. The place was filled with brightness and scent and colour
and the afterglow of the sunshine. The artistic eye of the Dutchman
lighted up with genuine pleasure.

"They say you islanders are crude and cold, and have no sense of the
beautiful," he said. "But there are no houses anywhere to compare with
those of the better-class Englishman. Look at those colours blending--"

"Hang those colours," said Bell, vigorously. "Steel, there is nothing
like moisture to bring out the full fragrance of flowers. Turn on your
hose and give your plants a good watering."

"It's the proper time," David laughed. "Turn on the tap for me."

A cooling stream played on the flowers; plants dropped their heads filled
with the diamond moisture; the whole atmosphere was filled with the odour
of moist earth. Then the air seemed laden with the mingled scent.

"I can smell the soil," Van Sneck cried. "How good it is to smell
anything again! And I can just catch a suggestion of the perfume of
something familiar. What's that red bloom?"

He pointed to a creeper growing up the wall. David broke off a spray.

"That's a kind of Japanese passion flower," he said. "It has a lovely
full-flavoured scent like a mixture of violets and almonds. The company included representatives of the English-speaking race
in every part of the world.

On the chairman's left sat James Russell Lowell, United States Minister.
In proposing "The Chambers of Commerce of the United Kingdom and
of the Whole World," he delivered the following speech.]

MR. CHAIRMAN, MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:--I was a few moments ago discussing
with my excellent friend upon the left what a diplomatist might
be permitted to say, and I think the result of the discussion was
that he was left to his choice between saying nothing that had any
meaning or saying something that had several [laughter]; and as one
of those diplomatists to whom the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs
alluded a short time ago, I should rather choose the latter course,
because it gives one afterwards a selection when the time for
explanation comes round.

[Laughter.]
I shall not detain you long, for I know that there are speakers both on
the right and on the left of me who are impatient to burst the bud;
and I know that I have not been selected for the pleasant duty that has
been assigned to me for any merits of my own. [Cries of dissent.] You
will allow me to choose my own reason, gentlemen. I repeat, I have not
been chosen so much for my own merits as for the opportunity
afforded you of giving expression to your kindness and good feeling
towards the country I represent--a country which exemplifies what
the colonies of England may come to if they are not wisely treated.

[Laughter and cheers.]

Speaking for myself and for one or two of my compatriots whom I see here
present, I should certainly say that that was no unpleasant destiny in
itself. But I do not, nor do my countrymen, desire that those great
commonwealths which are now joined to England by so many filial ties should
ever be separated from her.

I am asked to-night to propose the "Chambers of Commerce of the
United Kingdom and of the World," and I might, if the clock did not
warn me against it--["Go on!"]

if my own temperament did not stand a little in the way--I might
say to you something very solemn on the subject of commerce.

I might say how commerce, if not a great civilizer in itself, had
always been a great intermediary and vehicle of civilization.

I might say that all the great commercial States have been centres
of civilization, and centres of those forces which keep civilization
from becoming stupid.

I do not say which is the _post_ and which the _propter_ in this
inference; but I do say that the two things have been almost
invariably associated.

One word as to commerce in another relation which touches me more
nearly. Commerce and the rights and advantages of commerce, ill
understood and ignorantly interpreted, have often been the cause of
animosities between nations.

But commerce rightly understood is a great pacificator; it brings men
face to face for barter. It is the great corrector of the eccentricities
and enormities of nature and of the seasons, so that a bad harvest
and a bad season in England is a good season for Minnesota, Kansas, and
Manitoba.

But, gentlemen, I will not detain you longer. It gives me great pleasure
to propose, as the representative of the United States, the toast of "The
Chambers of Commerce of the United Kingdom and of the Whole World,"
with which I associate the names of Mr.

C. M. Norwood, M.

P., vice-president of the Associated Chambers of the United Kingdom,
and the Hon. F. Strutt, president of the Derby Chamber. [Cheers.]

* * * * *

AFTER-DINNER SPEAKING
[Speech of James Russell Lowell at a banquet given to Sir Henry Irving,
London, July 4, 1883, in view of his impending departure for a
professional tour of America.

Lord Coleridge, Lord Chief Justice of England, occupied the chair.
The toast, "Literature, Science, and Art," was proposed by Viscount
Bury, and Mr. Lowell was called upon to respond for Literature. Professor
Tyndall replied on behalf of Science, and Alma Tadema for Art.]

"Scoundrel!" Littimer cried. "Innocent and pure to the last. I know all
about Van Sneck and those forgeries of Prince Rupert's ring. And I know
how Van Sneck was nearly done to death in Mr. Steel's house; and I know
why--good heavens! It seems impossible that I could have been deceived
all these years by such a slimy, treacherous scoundrel. And I might have
gone on still but for a woman--"

"A lady detective," Henson sneered. "Miss Lee."

Littimer smiled. It was good, after all, to defeat and hoodwink
the rascal.

"Miss Chris Henson," he said. "It never occurred to you that Miss Chris
and Miss Lee were one and the same person. You never guessed. And she
played with you as if you had been a child. How beautifully she exposed
you over those pictures. Ah, you should have seen your face when you saw
the stolen Rembrandt back again in its place. And after that you were mad
enough to think that I trusted you. My dear, what shall we do with this
pretty fellow?"

Lady Littimer shook her head doubtfully. It was plain that the presence
of Henson disturbed her. There was just a suggestion of the old madness
in her eyes.

"Send him away," she said. "Let him go."

"Send him away by all means," Littimer went on. "But letting him go is
another matter. He would have the longest doubts and the shortest creed
on record. Agnosticism is part of the smashed crockery of the moral
universe.

Nor is the smug and confident contention: "Medicine is a science,
one and indivisible," so impressive and undented as it was. Sir
Astley Cooper in his plain, blunt way is reported to have described
his own idea of his own calling as "a science founded on conjecture
and improved by murder."

The State of New York has rudely stepped in and legally and irrevocably
recognized three schools of medicine and will recognize a fourth
or a fifth as soon as it establishes itself by a sufficient number
of cures or in a sufficient number of cemeteries.

Medical intolerance cannot be legislated out of existence, but it has no
further recognition in legislation.

A common and considerable degree of general learning is by the State
required of all intending students of medicine.
An equal and extended degree of professional study is required. An identical
measure of final examination with state certification and state licensure
is required. The claim that men and women must die _secundum artem_
in order to have any permit to live here or to live hereafter, has gone
to the limbo of smashed crockery in the realm of therapeutics. The arrogant
pretension that men must die _secundum artem_ has been adjourned--_sine
die_.

And the State which prescribes uniform qualifications among the
schools will yet require uniform consultations between them in the
interest of the people whom they impartially prod and concurrently
purge with diversity of methods, but with parity of price.

Other long impressive and long pretty plaques have also been incontinently
smashed. One was lovingly lettered: "Once a Democrat, always a Democrat."
Another was inscribed: "Unconditional Republicanism." In the white light
of to-day the truth that an invariable partisan is an occasional lunatic
becomes impressively apparent. Party under increasing civilization
is a factor, not a fetish.
It is a means, not an end.

It is an instrument, not an idol. Man is its master, not its slave. Not
that men will cease to act on party lines.

Party lines are the true divisional boundary between schools of
thought.

No commission is needed to discover or to establish those lines. They
have made their own route or course in human nature. The
bondage from which men will free themselves is bondage to party
organizations. Those organizations are combinations for power and spoils.
They are feudal in their form, predatory in their spirit, military
in their methods, but they necessarily bear no more relation to
political principles than Italian banditti do to Italian unity, or
the men who hold up railway trains do to the laws of transportation.

Party slavery is a bad and disappearing form of smashed crockery.

The smashed crockery of society and of law could also be remarked.
Our fathers' dictum, that it is the only duty of women to be charming,
deserves to be sent into retirement. It is no more their duty to be charming
than it is the duty of the sun to light, or the rose to perfume, or the
trees to cast a friendly shade.

A function is not a duty.

In the right sense of the word it is a nature or a habit. It is the
property of women and it is their prerogative to be charming, but if they
made it a duty, the effort would fail, for the intention would be apparent
and the end would impeach the means. Indeed, the whole theory of the
eighteenth century about women has gone to the limbo of smashed crockery.
It has been found that education does not hurt her.

It has been discovered that learning strengthens her like a tonic
and becomes her like a decoration.

It has been discovered that she can compete with men in the domain
of lighter labor, in several of the professions, and in not a few
of the useful arts.

The impression of her as a pawn, a property or a plaything, came down from
paganism to Christianity and was too long retained by the Christian
world.

"Reginald Henson, listen to me," she cried. "For your own purpose you
cruelly and deliberately set out to wreck the happiness of several lives.
For mere money you did this; for sheer love of dissipation you committed
this crime. You nearly deprived me of my reason. I say nothing about the
money, because that is nothing by comparison. But the years that are lost
can never come back to me again. When I think of the past and the past of
my poor, unhappy boy I feel that I have no forgiveness for you. If
you--Oh, go away; don't stay here--go. If I had known you were coming I
should have forbidden you the house. Your mere presence unnerves me.
Littimer, send him away."

Littimer rose to his feet and rang the bell.

"You will be good enough to rid me of your hateful presence," he said,
"at once; now go."

But Henson still stood irresolute. He fidgeted from one foot to the
other. He seemed to have some trouble that he could find no
expression for.

"I want to go away," he murmured. "I want to leave the country. But at
the present moment I am practically penniless. If you would advance me--"

Littimer laughed aloud.

"Upon my word," he said, "your coolness is colossal. I am going to
prosecute you, I am doing my best to bring you into the dock. And you ask
me--_me_, of all men--to find you money so that you can evade justice!
Have you not had enough--are you never satisfied? Williams, will you see
Mr. Henson off the premises?"

The smiling Williams bowed low.

"With the greatest possible pleasure, my lord," he said. "Any further
orders, my lord?"

"And he is not to come here again, you understand." Williams seemed to
understand perfectly. With one backward sullen glance Henson quitted the
room and passed into the night with his companion. Williams was whistling
cheerfully, with his hands thrust deep into his pockets.

"Is that how you treat a gentleman?" Henson demanded.

"I ain't a gentleman," Williams said. "Never set up to be. And I ain't a
dirty rascal who has just been kicked out of a nobleman's house. Here,
stop that. Try that game on again and I'll call the dogs. And don't show
me any of your airs, please. I'm only a servant, but I am an honest man."

Henson stifled his anger as best he could. He was too miserable and
downcast to think of much besides himself at present. Once the
lodge-gates were open, Williams stood aside for him to pass. The
temptation was irresistible. And Henson's back was turned. With a kick of
concentrated contempt and fury Williams shot Henson into the road, where
he landed full on his face. His cup of humiliation was complete.


CHAPTER LVI

WHITE FANGS


Henson took his weary way in the direction of Brighton. He had but a few
pounds he could call his own, and not nearly enough to get away from the
country, and at any moment he might be arrested. He was afraid to go back
to his lodgings for fear of Merritt. That Merritt would kill him if he
got the chance he felt certain. And Merritt was one of those dogged,
patient types who can wait any time for the gratification of their
vengeance.

Merritt was pretty certain to be hanging about for his opportunity. On
the whole the best thing would be to walk straight to the Central
Brighton Station and take the first train in the morning to town. There
he could see Gates--who as yet knew nothing--and from him it would be
possible to borrow a hundred or two, and then get away. And there were
others besides Gates.

Henson trudged away for a mile or so over the downs. Then he came down
from the summit of the castle he was building with a rude shock to earth
again. A shadow seemed to rise from the ground, a heavy clutch was on his
shoulder, and a hoarse voice was in his ear.

"Got you!" the voice said. "I knew they'd kick you out yonder, and I
guessed you'd sneak home across the downs. And I've fairly copped you!"

Henson's knees knocked together. Physically he was a far stronger and
bigger man than Merritt, but he was taken unawares, and his nerves had
been sadly shaken of late.

Merritt forced him backwards until he lay on the turf with his antagonist
kneeling on his chest. He dared not struggle, he dared not exert himself.
Presently he might get a chance, and if he did it would go hard with
James Merritt.

"What are you going to do?" he gasped.

Merritt drew a big, jagged stone towards him with one foot.

"I'm going to bash your brains out with this," he said, hoarsely. His
eyes were gleaming, and in the dim light his mouth was set like a steel
trap. "I'm going to have a little chat with you first, and then down this
comes on the top of your skull, and it'll smash you like a bloomin'
eggshell. Your time's come, Henson. Say your prayers."

"I can't," Henson whined. "And what have I done?"

Merritt rocked heavily on the other's breastbone, almost stifling him.
"Wot?" he said, scoffingly. The pleasing mixture of gin and fog in his
throat rendered him more hideously hoarse than usual. "Not make up a
prayer! And you a regular dab at all that game! Why, I've seen the women
snivellin' like babies when you've been ladlin' it out. Heavens, what a
chap you would be on the patter! How you would kid the chaplain!"

"Merritt, you're crushing the life out of me."

Merritt ceased his rocking for a moment, and the laughter died out of his
gleaming eyes.

"I don't want to be prematoor," he said. "Yes, you'd make a lovely
chaplain's pet, but I can't spare you. I'm going to smash that 'ere wily
brain of yours, so as it won't be useful any more. I'll teach you to put
the narks on to a poor chap like myself."

"Merritt, I swear to you that I never--"

"You can swear till you're black in the face, and you can keep on
swearing till you're lily-white again, and then it won't be any good. You
gave me away to Taylor because you were afraid I should do you harm at
Littimer Castle. That Daisy Bell of a girl there told me so."

Henson groaned. It was not the least part of his humiliation that a mere
girl got the better of him in this way. And what on earth had she known
of Reuben Taylor? But the fact remained that she had known, and that she
had warned Merritt of his danger. It was the one unpardonable crime in
Henson's decalogue, the one thing Merritt could not forgive.

Henson's time was come. He did not need anyone to tell him that. Unless
something in the nature of a miracle happened, he was a dead man in a few
moments; and life had never seemed quite so sweet as it tasted at the
present time.

"You gave me away for no reason at all," Merritt went on. "I'm a pretty
bad lot, but I never rounded on a pal yet, and never shall. More than one
of them have served me bad, but I always let them go their own way, and
I've been a good and faithful servant to you--"

"It was not you," Henson gurgled, "that I wrote that letter about, but--"

"Chuck it," Merritt said, furiously. "Tell me any more of your lies and
I'll smash your jaw in for you. It _was_ me. I spotted Scotter in Moreton
Wells within a day or two. And Mr. Scotter had come for me. And I got
past Bronson in Brighton by the skin of my teeth. I turned into your
lodgings under his very eyes almost. Before this time to-morrow I shall
be arrested. But I'm going to have my vengeance first."

The last words came with intense deliberation. "Oh, what a cinch!"--said
Billy.

"And de boat," continued Johnson, "was to strike a snag and smash to
pieces, and eberybody go into de water, who would you save?" "My wife,
dar! my mudder-in-law dar! and de boat strike a snag?" "Yes!"

"I would save de snag," said Billy. "I could get anudder wife, I might
den have anudder mudder-in-law, but where under de blue canopy of hebben
could I find anudder dear, thoughtful old snag?" [Laughter.]
It has been well said that "all a woman has to do in this world is
contained within the duties of a daughter, a sister, a wife, and a
mother."

She has sustained at least one of these relations to even the poorest
of us; but I wonder if there is a man here to-night so miserably
abject and forlorn and God-forsaken as not, some time in his life,
to have been able to regard her in the delightful relation of
sweetheart?

I hope not. I would rather he had had a dozen, than no sweetheart at
all.
The most unselfish devotion we may ever know is that of our mother; a
sweet affection is that of our sisters, a most tender love is that of our
daughters, but the love and affection we all want, and without
which we are never satisfied, is that of the sweethearts who reward
our devotion--out of all proportion to our deserts--by becoming our
wives and the mothers of our daughters.

[Applause.]
It is not less the pleasure than the duty of every man to have a sweetheart--I
was almost tempted to say, the more, the merrier--and the sooner he makes
one of his sweethearts his wife, the better for him. If he is a
"woman-hater," or professes to be (for, as a matter of fact, there is no
such anomaly as a genuine "woman-hater" at liberty in this great
and glorious country), let him beware, as I believe with Thackeray,
that a "woman, with fair opportunities, and without an absolute
hump, may _marry_ whom she likes.

[Laughter.] Only let us be thankful that the darlings are like the
beasts of the field, and don't know their own power." As the
poet--what's-his-name--so beautifully and feelingly and touchingly
observes:--

"Oh, woman, in our hours of ease, Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,"--
"But seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity,
then embrace."
Next to God, we are indebted to woman for life itself, and then for
making it worth living.

To describe her, the pen should be dipped in the humid colors of the
rainbow, and the paper dried with the dust gathered from the wings
of a butterfly.

There is one in the world who feels for him who is sad a keener pang
than he feels for himself; there is one to whom reflected joy is better
than that which comes direct; there is one who rejoices in another's
honor more than in her own; there is one upon whom another's
transcendent excellence sheds no beam but that of delight; there
is one who hides another's infirmities more faithfully than her
own; there is one who loses all sense of self in the sentiment of
kindness, tenderness, and devotion to another--that one is she who
is honored with the holy name of wife.

[Applause.] With the immortal Shakespeare we may say:

"Why, man, she is mine own; And I as rich in having such a jewel, As twenty
seas, if all their sands were pearl, The water nectar, and the rocks
pure gold."
I can do no greater justice to my subject, the occasion, and myself,
than by closing with the words of Shelley: "Win her and wear her
if you can.

She is the most delightful of God's creatures. Heaven's best gift; man's
joy and pride in prosperity; man's support and comfort in affliction." I
drink her health. God bless her. [Prolonged applause.]

NELSON APPLETON MILES

THE SPANISH-AMERICAN WAR
[Speech of Major-General Nelson A.

Miles at a banquet given in his honor by more than seven hundred of the
most distinguished citizens of New York City, November 11, 1898. While the
last course was being served, a unique procession made the round of the
hall. It was headed by three figures, one fifer and two drummers, attired
to represent the famous painting called "Spirit of '76."

These three were followed by a procession bearing miniature ships of
war manufactured of various confections. Joseph H. Choate was Chairman
of the banquet.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--

"Joyfully dear is the homeward track, If we are but sure of a welcome
back."
Such a generous reception has been extended to me to-night as few are
permitted to enjoy, and I should be wanting in gratitude did I not
appreciate the sentiment expressed in this cordial greeting.

I should be vain indeed to ascribe it to myself, or for a moment
to accept it solely as a personal tribute.

It was sheer play, but at
the same time it was a terrible handicap, and in his fear Henson lost all
his horror of the dogs.

"Loose, you brute," he panted. "Let go, I say. Very well, take that!"

He paused and brought the heavy stake down full on the dog's muzzle.
There was a snarling scream of pain, and the big pup sprang for his
assailant. An old, grey hound came up and seemed to take in the situation
at a glance. With a deep growl he bounded at Henson and caught him by the
throat. Before the ponderous impact of that fine free spring Henson went
down heavily to the ground.

"Help!" he gurgled. "Help! help! help!"

The worrying teeth had been firmly fixed, the ponderous weight pressed
all the breath from Henson's distressed lungs. He gurgled once again,
gave a little shuddering sigh, and the world dwindled to a thick sheet of
blinding darkness.


CHAPTER LVII

HIDE-AND-SEEK


Bell's professional enthusiasm got the better of his curiosity for the
moment. It was a nice psychological problem. Motley," which was
loudly cheered.]

MR.

CHAIRMAN, MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:--I can scarcely find fitting words
to express my gratitude for the warm and genial manner in which the
toast of "American Literature" has been received by this distinguished
assembly.

I wish that the honor of responding to it had been placed in worthier
hands. Two at least of our most eminent men of letters I thought were
in England, or near it--one, that most original, subtle, poetical and
graceful of thinkers and essayists, Mr.

Emerson [cheers]; the other, one of our most distinguished poets and
prose-writers, second to none in the highest spheres of imagination and
humor: Mr. Lowell. [Cheers.] I had hoped to meet them both, but I look in
vain for their friendly and familiar faces."My dear chap," he said, "I am not going to sit here and allow you to
destroy the work of so many hours. There is not the slightest reason to
disturb anything. Unless I am greatly mistaken, Van Sneck will lay his
had upon the ring for us without so much as the sacrifice of a blossom."

"I don't fancy so," Van Sneck replied. "I can't remember."

"Well, you are going to," Bell said, cheerfully. "Did you ever hear of
artificial memory?"

"The sort of thing you get in law courts and political speeches?" David
suggested. "All the same, if you have some patent way of getting at the
facts I shall be only too glad to spare my poor flowers. Their training
has been a labour of love with me."

Bell smoked on quietly for some time. He toyed with the red blossoms
which had so stimulated Van Sneck's recollection, then tossed a spray
over to Van Sneck and suggested that the latter should put it in his
button-hole.

"So as to have the fragrance with you all the time," he said.

Van Sneck obeyed quietly, remarking that the scent was very pungent. Judge
Browne, your chairman, has regretted the absence of Eugene Kelly. I myself
regret his absence on personal and on public grounds; on personal
grounds for his sake, and still more, as I am rather selfish, for my own
sake. [Applause.]

For his sake because ill health keeps him away, and for my own sake
because I have never yet had the chance of meeting him, and had
finally hoped that here to-night I should have the pleasure of
making his acquaintance.

I should not complain very much for myself after all, for the worthy
gentleman who fills the place of Mr. Kelly so ably--I mean Judge Browne
[applause]--has said more complimentary things of me than I really
deserve before a gathering so influential and so representative as
this.

Upon the great political questions which interest me, and which interest
you, I shall perhaps have occasion to say a few words, perhaps more than
a few words Monday night, and I hope to see many of the gentlemen who
are now here present then, and if they be wavering on the question of
Home Rule I am nearly certain they will go away stanch disciples of justice
to Ireland, in a legislative sense, at all events. [Applause.] There
may be some among you who do not entirely agree with me upon my
views regarding the relations between England and Ireland.

Some may regard me with more favor as a writer of books than as an
expounder of Home Rule for Ireland.

[Cries of "No! No!"] I will therefore regard this occasion as a welcome
given by you to me personally, and shall not go into any political
question whatever.

Regarding myself, I may assume this much, at least, that the
question of Home Rule for Ireland is now universally regarded in
America as one of those questions bound up with the great cause of
civilization and of progress, and I entirely agree with the chairman
when he said that the Irish people in this struggle do not entertain
any feelings of hate or enmity for the English people.

[Applause.]

I may say sincerely that I would not have joined the agitation if
it had been selfish and merely for the sake of Ireland alone, and
not, as it has been, a movement for the advancement of freedom and
enlightened ideas among other struggling nations of the earth.

[Applause.]
I have said over and over again, in England as well as in Ireland, that
the cause that I was advocating was one of interest and of the most vital
importance to England as well as to Ireland. [Applause.] Many years
ago I heard Mr. Bright deliver a great speech in the House of Commons in
favor of a French commercial treaty.

He wound up that great speech by saying that the adoption of that
treaty would be a policy of justice to England, and of mercy to
France.

Then I saw Henson's eye on me and I changed my mind. I wish I had been
more sober."

Bell was examining a pot a little lower down. A piece had been chipped
off, leaving a sharp, clean, red edge with a tiny tip of hair upon it.

"You fell here," he exclaimed. "Your head struck the pot. Here is a
fragment of your hair on it. It is human hair beyond a doubt, and the
shade matches to a nicety. After that--"

A sudden cry broke from the Dutchman.

"I've got it!" he exclaimed. "You have cleverly led my mind into the
right direction. The only marvel is that I did not think of it before.
You will find the ring in the pot where the tuberose grows. I am quite
certain you will find it amongst the moss at the base."

David carefully scooped up all the loose moss from the pot and laid it on
the study table. Then he shook the stuff out, and something glittering
lay on the table--a heavy ring of the most exquisite and cunning
workmanship, with a large gem in the centre, flanked by black pearls on
either side. Van Sneck took it in his fingers lovingly.

"Here you are," he said. "Ach, the beauty! Well, you've got it now, and
do you take care of it lest it falls into my hands again. If I got a
chance I would steal it once more, and yet again, and again. Ah, what
mischief those things cause, to be sure!"

The speaker hardly knew how much mischief the ring in question had
caused, nor did his companions seek to enlighten him. David wrapped it up
carefully and placed it in his pocket.

"I'm glad that is settled," he said. "And I'm glad that I didn't have to
injure my flowers. Bell, you really are a most wonderful fellow."

Bell smiled with the air of a man who is well satisfied with himself. At
this moment a servant came in with a message to the effect that Inspector
Marley desired to see Mr. Steel on important business.

"Couldn't have come at a better time," David murmured. "Ask Mr.
Marley in here."

Marley came smilingly, yet mysterious. He evinced no surprise at the
sight of Van Sneck. He was, doubtless, aware of the success of the
operation on the latter. He particularly desired to know where Mr.
Reginald Henson was to be found.

"This is a queer place to look for him," said Steel.

[Applause.]

As Bacon made all learning his province, so Mark Twain has made all
life and history his quarry, from the Jumping Frog to the Yankee
at Arthur's Court; from the inquested petrifaction that died of
protracted exposure to the present parliament of Austria; from the
Grave of Adam to the mysteries of the Adamless Eden known as the
league of professional women; from Mulberry Sellers to Joan of Arc,
and from Edward the Sixth to Puddin'head Wilson, who wanted to kill
his half of the deathless dog.

Nevada is forgiven its decay because he flashed the oddities of its zenith
life on pages that endure.

California is worth more than its gold, because he showed to men the heart
under its swagger.
"And yet I seemed to have an ideal case against you, Mr. Steel," he said.
"Seems almost a pity to cut a career like Mr. Henson's short, does it
not? Which reminds me that I am wasting time here. Any time you and Van
Sneck happen to be passing the police-station the cigar-case is entirely
at your disposal."

And Marley bustled off upon the errand that meant so much for Reginald
Henson. He was hardly out of the house before Ruth Gates arrived. She
looked a little distressed; she would not stay for a moment, she
declared. Her machine was outside, and she was riding over to Longdean
without delay. A note had just been sent to her from Chris.

"My uncle is in Paris," she said. "So I am going over to Longdean for a
few days. Lord Littimer is there, and Frank also. The reconciliation is
complete and absolute. Chris says the house is not the same now, and that
she didn't imagine that it could be so cheerful. Reginald Henson--"

"My dear child, Henson is not there now."

"Well, he is. He went there last night, knowing that he was at his last
gasp, with the idea of getting more money from Lady Littimer. Independent
of the substantial benefits due to the liberal appreciation of my
exertions, my very position in society is determined by the stamp
which your approbation has set upon my humble efforts. [Cheers.] And
let me unhesitatingly affirm that without undervaluing the accident of
birth or titular distinction, I would not exchange the grateful pride
of your good opinion which you have given me the right to cherish, for
any favor or advancement that the more privileged in station could
receive.

[Great cheering.]
I really am too much oppressed, too much overcome to attempt to detain
you long; but with the reflection and under the conviction that our
drama, the noblest in the world, can never lose its place from our stage
while the English language lasts, I will venture to express one
parting hope--that the rising actors may keep the loftiest look,
may hold the most elevated views of the duties of their calling.

["Hear!

Hear!" and cheers.] I would also hope that they will strive to elevate
their art, and also to raise themselves above the level of the
player's easy life, to public regard and distinction by a faithful
ministry to the genius of our incomparable Shakespeare.

[Cheers.]

To effect this creditable purpose, they must bring resolute energy and
unfaltering labor to their work; they must be content "to scorn
delights, and live laborious days;" they must remember that whate'er
is excellent in art must spring from labor and endurance:--
"Deep the oak, Must sink in stubborn earth its roots obscure That
hopes to lift its branches to the sky."

This, gentlemen, I can assure you, was the doctrine of our own
Siddons, and of the great Talma; and this is the faith I have ever
held as one of their humblest disciples.

[Applause.]
Of my direction of the two patent theatres on which my friend has so
kindly dilated, I wish to say but little.

The preamble of their patents recites as a condition of their grant, that
the theatres shall be instituted for the promotion of virtue and
to be instructive to the human race.

I think those are the words. I can only say that it was my ambition to
the best of my ability to obey that injunction ["Hear!

Hear!"]
But Williams was in an exceptionally good temper this morning. Everything
had turned out as he had hoped for and anticipated, and the literal
kicking-out of Henson the previous evening was still fresh and sweet in
his memory. It would be something to boast of in his declining years.

"Drat the dogs," he exclaimed. "Now, what's the matter? I had better
go and see. Got a fox in a hole, perhaps! We shall have to tie 'em up
in future."

Williams darted into the thicket. Then he came full upon Henson, lying on
his back, with his white, unconscious face and staring eyes turned to the
sky, and two great dogs fussing uneasily about him. A big pup close by
had a large swelling on his head. By Henson's side lay the ash stick he
had picked up when pursued by Merritt.

Williams bent over the stark, still figure and shuddered as he saw how
his clothing was all torn away from the body; saw the deep wounds in
the chest and throat; he could see that Henson still breathed. His
loud shouts for assistance brought Frank Littimer and the lodge-keeper
to the spot. Together they carried the body to the lodge and sent for
the doctor.

"The case is absolutely hopeless," Walker said, after he had made his
examination. "The poor fellow may linger till the morning, but I doubt
if he will recognise anybody again. Does anybody know how the thing
came about?"

Nobody but Merritt could have thrown any light upon the mystery, and he
was far away. Williams shook his head as he thought of his parting with
Henson the previous night.

