Produced by David Starner, Charles Bidwell and the PG Online
Distributed Proofreading Team


POEMS,  &c.


POEMS;

WHEREIN IT IS ATTEMPTED TO DESCRIBE

CERTAIN VIEWS OF NATURE

AND OF

RUSTIC MANNERS;

AND ALSO,

TO POINT OUT, IN SOME INSTANCES, THE DIFFERENT INFLUENCE WHICH THE SAME
CIRCUMSTANCES PRODUCE ON DIFFERENT CHARACTERS.


LONDON:

PRINTED FOR J. JOHNSON, SAINT PAUL'S CHURCH-YARD.

MDCCXC.


A WINTER DAY.

The cock, warm roosting 'midst his feather'd dames,
Now lifts his beak and snuffs the morning air,
Stretches his neck and claps his heavy wings,
Gives three hoarse crows, and glad his talk is done;
Low, chuckling, turns himself upon the roost,
Then nestles down again amongst his mates.
The lab'ring hind, who on his bed of straw,
Beneath his home-made coverings, coarse, but warm,
Lock'd in the kindly arms of her who spun them,
Dreams of the gain that next year's crop should bring;
Or at some fair disposing of his wool,
Or by some lucky and unlook'd-for bargain.
Fills his skin purse with heaps of tempting gold,
Now wakes from sleep at the unwelcome call,
And finds himself but just the same poor man
As when he went to rest.--
He hears the blast against his window beat,
And wishes to himself he were a lord,
That he might lie a-bed.--
He rubs his eyes, and stretches out his arms;
Heigh ho! heigh ho! he drawls with gaping mouth,
Then most unwillingly creeps out of bed,
And without looking-glass puts on his clothes.
With rueful face he blows the smother'd fire,
And lights his candle at the red'ning coal;
First sees that all be right amongst his cattle,
Then hies him to the barn with heavy tread,
Printing his footsteps on the new fall'n snow.
From out the heap of corn he pulls his sheaves,
Dislodging the poor red-breast from his shelter,
Where all the live-long night he slept secure;
But now afrighted, with uncertain flight
He flutters round the walls, to seek some hole,
At which he may escape out to the frost.
And now the flail, high whirling o'er his head,
Descends with force upon the jumping sheave,
Whilst every rugged wall, and neighboring cot
Re-echoes back the noise of his strokes.

  The fam'ly cares call next upon the wife
To quit her mean but comfortable bed.
And first she stirs the fire, and blows the flame,
Then from her heap of sticks, for winter stor'd,
An armful brings; loud crackling as they burn,
Thick fly the red sparks upward to the roof,
While slowly mounts the smoke in wreathy clouds.
On goes the seething pot with morning cheer,
For which some little wishful hearts await,
Who, peeping from the bed-clothes, spy, well pleas'd,
The cheery light that blazes on the wall,
And bawl for leave to rise.----
Their busy mother knows not where to turn,
Her morning work comes now so thick upon her.
One she must help to tye his little coat,
Unpin his cap, and seck another's shoe.
When all is o'er, out to the door they run,
With new comb'd sleeky hair, and glist'ning cheeks,
Each with some little project in his head.
One on the ice must try his new sol'd shoes:
To view his well-set trap another hies,
In hopes to find some poor unwary bird
(No worthless prize) entangled in his snare;
Whilst one, less active, with round rosy face,
Spreads out his purple fingers to the fire,
And peeps, most wishfully, into the pot.

  But let us leave the warm and cheerful house,
To view the bleak and dreary scene without,
And mark the dawning of a winter day.
For now the morning vapour, red and grumly,
Rests heavy on the hills; and o'er the heav'ns
Wide spreading forth in lighter gradual fliades,
Just faintly colours the pale muddy sky.
Then slowly from behind the southern hills,
Inlarg'd and ruddy looks the rising sun,
Shooting his beams askance the hoary waste,
Which gild the brow of ev'ry swelling height,
And deepen every valley with a shade.
The crusted window of each scatter'd cot,
The icicles that fringe the thatched roof,
The new swept slide upon the frozen pool,
All lightly glance, new kindled with his rays;
And e'en the rugged face of scowling Winter
Looks somewhat gay. But for a little while
He lifts his glory o'er the bright'ning earth,
Then hides his head behind a misty cloud,

  The birds now quit their holes and lurking sheds,
Most mute and melancholy, where thro' night
All nestling close to keep each other warm,
In downy sleep they had forgot their hardships;
But not to chant and carol in the air,
Or lightly swing upon some waving bough,
And merrily return each other's notes;
No; silently they hop from bush to bush,
Yet find no seeds to stop their craving want,
Then bend their flight to the low smoking cot,
Chirp on the roof, or at the window peck,
To tell their wants to those who lodge within.
The poor lank hare flies homeward to his den,
But little burthen'd with his nightly meal
Of wither'd greens grubb'd from the farmer's garden;
A poor and scanty portion snatch'd in fear;
And fearful creatures, forc'd abroad by want,
Are now to ev'ry enemy a prey.

  The husbandman lays bye his heavy flail,
And to the house returns, where on him wait
His smoking breakfast and impatient children;
Who, spoon in hand, and longing to begin,
Towards the door cast many a weary look
To see their dad come in.----
Then round they sit, a chearful company,
All eagerly begin, and with heap'd spoons
Besmear from ear to ear their rosy cheeks.
The faithful dog stands by his matter's side
Wagging his tail, and looking in his face;
While humble puss pays court to all around,
And purs and rubs them with her furry sides;
Nor goes this little flattery unrewarded.
Carl Schultz-Sellack to imagine that they
referred to East and West, right and left,
as he adopted the misreading _[c]iic_, left,
for _[c]e[c]_, little (_Die Amerikanischen
Götter der Vier Weltgegenden_, in the _Archiv für Ethnologie_,
Band XI, 1879).

  But they are readily analyzed when we
have their correct orthography, as given above. The
reference to them in this place shows that the
author of the chant was dealing with the most
ancient legends of his race.

The Itzas who resided in the Peten district left the
region around Chichen Itza some time in the
fifteenth century, probably after the fall of
Mayapan. They were ruled by an hereditary
chieftain, called by the Spaniards "the great
king, Canek."

  Under him the territory was divided into four
districts, each with its own chief, with whom
the Canek consulted about important
undertakings.

Evidently in removing to Peten the Itzas were
retracing their steps on the line of their
first entrance to the peninsula. They even
attempted to go further west, and guided,
probably, by ancient memories, a large
number set out for Tabasco and the banks of
the Usumaciuta,[TN-23] where repose the ruins of
Palenque, possibly the home of their ancestors.
But they were attacked and driven back by the
natives of Tabasco, with the loss of their leader,
a brother-in-law of the great Canek. These
and other particulars about them are
repeated by Villagutierre Sotomayor,
_Historia de la Conquista de la Provincia de
el Itza_, folio, Madrid, 1701.

  
4. The elliptical form of expression here renders
the translation difficult. The verb _cutal_
(old form _cultal_), pret. _culhi_ or _cuthi_,
fut. _culac_, means to sit down, to remain in
a place, to be at home there, to reside, etc.
Perhaps the translation both here and in §
2 should be, "for thirteen katuns they
ruled, etc."
5. The word _yum_, plural _yumob_,
means father and also chief, leader,
ruler, etc. In modern Maya it is the translation
of Sir, Mister, Señor.

The proper names of the localities whence
the four divisions are said to have come,
have a mythological cast. I cannot find any of
them in the present geography of Yucatan. Kin
Colah Peten is mentioned in a "katun wheel"
in this same Book of Chilan Balam of Chumayel,
as the name of one of the towns which furnished a
katun stone. Zuiva I have already referred to
as appearing in the Quetzalcoatl myth (see page
110).

The mountains of Canhek and the Nine Mountains take us to the Itzas
around Lake Peten, in the extreme south of the peninsula, this last
mentioned division being, in fact, that from the south.

6.

  _U payalob_, plural passive of
_pay_, to call, to summon.

_Tan yol che_, _ol_ or _yol_ is the heart
or centre of the leaf or plant; _tan xuluc
mul_, see page 174. _Yauat pixanobi_, they were
happy in singing, or, they gained favor by
singing. The expression is obscure.
The verb _auat_ is applied to the singing of birds,
the crowing of cocks, and generally to
the natural sound made by any animal, and, in
composition, to the sound of musical instruments,
as, _auatzah_, to play on the flute, to blow
a trumpet.

7. _Uacchahi_ from _uacchahal_, appears to be
a strongly figurative expression. It is
explained in Pio Perez' Dictionary, "salirse con
esfuerzo de su cubierta ó encaje, saltarse
de ella _como tripa por el ano_."
_Hauic_, from _haual_, to end, finish,
cease to exist. Thus the chronicler closes
his recital, repeating the to him no doubt bitter
fact that the Maya nation and the
Maya name had passed away.

FOOTNOTES:

[178-1] pachah u cah.

[178-2] oxlahunte.

[178-3] nohemel.

[178-4] [c]e[c]emel.

[178-5] likul.

[178-6] hoki.

[178-7] uchci.

THE CHRONICLE OF CHAC XULUB CHEN.

BY NAKUK PECH.

1562.
CHRONICLE OF CHICXULUB.
Among the ancient documents collected by Pio Perez was a series
relating to the town of Chicxulub, about six leagues north of Merida.
They are entitled _Documentos de Tierras de Chicxulub, 1542_. They
consist of a history of the town and of the conquest of the country,
written by Nakuk Pech, about 1562; a survey of the town lands by
several members of the Pech family, testified to Feb. 7, 1542; a
partial list of the Spanish conquerors; a portion of an account by
another member of the Pech family, and a further statement by Nakuk
Pech.
The longest and the most interesting of these is the history of the
Conquest, or, as the writer calls it, "the history and the chronicle
of Chacxulubchen"--_u belil u kahlail C[=h]ac Xulub C[=h]en_--this
being one of the native forms of the name of the town. It is headed
"Conquest and Map," but the map has disappeared. Usually such "maps"
accompanying the title papers of towns in Yucatan have as a central
figure the outlines of a church with the name of the town; around
this is drawn the figure of the town lands, with the names of the
wells, trees, stones and other landmarks mentioned in the titles.The weary wanderer thankfully accepts,
And, seated with the cheerful family,
Around the plain but hospitable board,
Forgets the many hardships he has pass'd.

  When all are satisfied, about the fire
They draw their seats, and form a cheerful ring.
The thrifty housewife turns her spinning wheel;
The husband, useful even in his rest,
A little basket weaves of willow twigs,
To bear her eggs to town on market days;
And work but serves t'enliven conversation.
Some idle neighbours now come straggling in,
Draw round their chairs, and widen out the circle.
Without a glass the tale and jest go round;
And every one, in his own native way,
Does what he can to cheer the merry group.
Each tells some little story of himself,
That constant subject upon which mankind,
Whether in court or country, love to dwell.
How at a fair he sav'd a simple clown
From being tricked in buying of a cow;
Or laid a bet upon his horse's head
Against his neighbour's, bought for twice his price,
Which fail'd not to repay his better skill:
Or on a harvest day, bound in an hour
More sheaves of corn than any of his fellows,
Tho' ne'er so keen, could do in twice the time.
But chief the landlord, at his own fire-side,
Doth claim the right of being listen'd to;
Nor dares a little bawling tongue be heard,
Tho' but in play, to break upon his story.
The children sit and listen with the rest;
And should the youngest raise its little voice,
The careful mother, ever on the watch,
And always pleas'd with what her husband says,
Gives it a gentle tap upon the fingers,
Or stops its ill tim'd prattle with a kiss.
The soldier next, but not unask'd, begins,
And tells in better speech what he has seen;
Making his simple audience to shrink
With tales of war and blood. They gaze upon him,
And almost weep to see the man so poor,
So bent and feeble, helpless and forlorn,
That oft' has stood undaunted in the battle
Whilst thund'ring cannons shook the quaking earth,
And showering bullets hiss'd around his head.
With little care they pass away the night,
Till time draws on when they should go to bed;
Then all break up, and each retires to rest
With peaceful mind, nor torn with vexing cares,
Nor dancing with the unequal beat of pleasure.

  But long accustom'd to observe the weather,
The labourer cannot lay him down in peace
Till he has look'd to mark what bodes the night,
He turns the heavy door, thrusts out his head,
Sees wreathes of snow heap'd up on ev'ry side,
And black and grimily all above his head,
Save when a red gleam shoots along the waste
To make the gloomy night more terrible
Loud blows the northern blast----
He hears it hollow grumbling from afar,
Then, gath'ring strength, roll on with doubl'd might,
And break in dreadful bellowings o'er his head;
Like pithless saplings bend the vexed trees,
And their wide branches crack. He shuts the door,
And, thankful for the roof that covers him,
Hies him to bed.


A SUMMER DAY.

The dark-blue clouds of night in dusky lines,
Drawn wide and streaky o'er the purer sky,
Wear faint the morning purple on their skirts.
The stars that full and bright shone in the west,
But dimly twinkle to the stedfast eye;
And seen, and vanishing, and seen again,
Like dying tapers smoth'ring in their sockets,
Appear at last shut from the face of heav'n;
Whilst every lesser flame which shone by night,
The flashy meteor from the op'ning cloud,
That shoots full oft' across the dusky sky;
Or wand'ring fire which looks across the marsh,
Beaming like candle in a lonely cot,
To cheer the hopes of the benighted trav'ller,
Till swifter than the very change of thought,
It shifts from place to place, escapes his glance,
And makes him wond'ring rub his doubtful eyes;
Or humble glow-worm, or the silver moth,
Which cast a feeble glimm'ring o'er the green,
All die away.----
For now the sun, slow moving in his grandeur,
Above the eastern mountains lifts his head.
The webs of dew spread o'er the hoary lawn,
The smooth clear bosom of the settled pool,
The polish'd ploughshare on the distant field,
Catch fire from him, and dart their new got beams
Upon die dazzled eye.

  The new-wak'd birds upon the branches hop,
Peck their loft down, and bristle out their feathers;
Then stretch their throats and tune their morning song;
Whilst stately crows, high swinging o'er their heads.
Upon the topmost boughs, in lordly pride,
Mix their hoarse croaking with the linnet's note;
Till gather'd closer in a sable band,
They take their flight to leek their daily food.
The village labourer, with careful mind,
As soon as doth the morning light appear,
Opens his eyes with the first darting ray
That pierces thro' the window of his cot,
And quits his easy bed; then o'er the field,
With lengthen'd swinging strides, betakes his way,
Bearing his spade and hoe across his moulder,
Seen from afar clear glancing in the sun,
And with good will begins his daily work.
The sturdy sun-burnt boy drives forth the cattle,
And vain of power, bawls to the lagging kine,
Who fain would stay to crop the tender shoots
Of the green tempting hedges as they pass;
Or beats the glist'ning bushes with his club,
To please his fancy with a shower of dew,
And frighten the poor birds who lurk within.
At ev'ry open door, thro' all the village,
Half naked children, half awake, are seen
Scratching their heads, and blinking to the light;
Till roused by degrees, they run about,
Or rolling in the sun, amongst the sand
Build many a little house, with heedful art.
The housewife tends within, her morning care;
And stooping 'midst her tubs of curdled milk,
With busy patience, draws the clear green whey
From the press'd sides of the pure snowy curd;
Whilst her brown dimpled maid, with tuck'd-up sleeve,
And swelling arm, assists her in her toil.
Pots smoke, pails rattle, and the warm confusion
Still thickens on them, till within its mould,
With careful hands, they press the well-wrought curd.

  So goes the morning, till the pow'rful sun
High in the heav'ns sends forth his strengthen'd beams,
And all the freshness of the morn is fled.
The sweating trav'ller throws his burden down,
And leans his weary shoulder 'gainst a tree.
The idle horse upon the grassy field
Rolls on his back, nor heeds the tempting clover.
The swain leaves off his labour, and returns
Slow to his house with heavy sober steps,
Where on the board his ready breakfast plac'd,
Invites the eye, and his right cheerful wife
Doth kindly serve him with unfeign'd good will.
No sparkling dew-drops hang upon the grass;
Forth steps the mower with his glitt'ring scythe,
In snowy shirt, and doublet all unbrac'd,
White moves he o'er the ridge, with sideling bend,
And lays the waving grass in many a heap.
In ev'ry field, in ev'ry swampy mead,
The cheerful voice of industry is heard;
The hay-cock rises, and the frequent rake
Sweeps on the yellow hay, in heavy wreaths,
Leaving the smooth green meadow bare behind.
The old and young, the weak and strong are there,
And, as they can, help on the cheerful work.
The father jeers his awkward half-grown lad,
Who trails his tawdry armful o'er the field,
Nor does he fear the jeering to repay.
The village oracle, and simple maid,
Jest in their turns, and raise the ready laugh;
For there authority, hard favour'd, frowns not;
All are companions in the gen'ral glee,
And cheerful complaisance still thro' their roughness,
With placid look enlightens ev'ery face.
Some more advanced raise the tow'ring rick,
Whilst on its top doth stand the parish toast
In loose attire, and swelling ruddy cheek;
With taunts and harmless mock'ry she receives
The toss'd-up heaps from the brown gaping youth,
Who flaring at her, takes his aim awry,
Whilst half the load comes tumbling on himself.
Loud is her laugh, her voice is heard afar;
Each mower, busied in the distant field,
The carter, trudging on his distant way,
The shrill found know, cad up their hats in air,
And roar across the fields to catch her notice:
She waves her arm, and shakes her head at them,
And then renews her work with double spirit.
Thus do they jest, and laugh away their toil,
Till the bright sun, full in his middle course,
Shoots down his fiercest beams, which none may brave.
The stoutest arm hangs listless by its side,
And the broad shoulder'd youth begins to fail.
But to the weary, lo! there comes relief!
A troop of welcome children, o'er the lawn,
With slow and wary steps, their burthens bring.
Some bear upon their heads large baskets, heap'd
With piles of barley bread, and gusty cheese,
And some full pots of milk and cooling whey.
Beneath the branches of a spreading tree,
Or by the shad'wy side of the tall rick,
They spread their homely fare, and seated round,
Taste all the pleasure that a feast can give.

  A drowzy indolence now hangs on all,
And ev'ry creature seeks some place of rest,
Screen'd from the violence of the oppressive heat.
No scatter'd flocks are seen upon the lawn,
Nor chirping birds among the bushes heard.
Within the narrow shadow of the cot
The sleepy dog lies stretched on his side,
Nor heeds the heavy-footed passenger;
At noise of feet but half his eye-lid lifts,
Then gives a feeble growl, and sleeps again:
Whilst puss, less nice, e'en in the scorching window,
On t'other side, sits winking to the sun.
No sound is heard but humming of the bee,
For she alone retires not from her labour,
Nor leaves a meadow flower unsought for gain.

  Heavy and slow so pass the mid-day hours,
Till gently bending on the ridge's top,
The heavy seeded grass begins to wave,
And the high branches of the slender poplar
Shiver aloft in air their rustling leaves.
Cool breaths the rising breeze, and with it wakes
The worn out spirit from its state of stupor.
The lazy boy springs from his mossy bed,
To chace the gaudy tempting butterfly,
Who spreading on the grass its mealy wings,
Oft lights within his reach, e'en at his seer,
Yet still eludes his grasp, and o'er his head
Light hov'ring round, or mounted high in air
Temps his young eye, and wearies out his limbs.
The drouzy dog, who feels the kindly breeze
That passing o'er him, lifts his shaggy ear,
Begins to stretch him, on his legs half-rais'd,
Till fully wak'd, with bristling cock'd-up tail,
He makes the village echo to his bark.

  But let us not forget the busy maid
Who, by the side of the clear pebly stream,
Spreads out her snowy linens to the sun,
And sheds with lib'ral hand the chrystal show'r
O'er many a fav'rite piece of fair attire,
Revolving in her mind her gay appearance
In all this dress, at some approaching fair.
The dimpling half-check'd smile, and mutt'ring lip
Betray the secret workings of her fancy,
And flattering thoughts of the complacent mind.
There little vagrant bands of truant boys
Amongst the bushes try their harmless tricks;
Whilst some a sporting in the shallow stream
Toss up the lashing water round their heads,
Or strive with wily art to catch the trout,
Or 'twixt their fingers grasp the slipp'ry eel.
The shepherd-boy sits singing on the bank,
To pass away the weary lonely hours,
Weaving with art his little crown of rushes,
A guiltless easy crown that brings no care,
Which having made he places on his head,
And leaps and skips about, and bawls full loud
To some companion, lonely as himself,
Far in the distant field; or else delighted
To hear the echo'd sound of his own voice
Returning answer from the neighboring rock,
Holds no unpleasing converse with himself.

  Now weary labourers perceive, well-pleas'd,
The shadows lengthen, and th' oppressive day
With all its toil fast wearing to an end.
The sun, far in the west, with side-long beam
Plays on the yellow head of the round hay-cock,
And fields are checker'd with fantastic shapes
Or tree, or shrub, or gate, or rugged stone,
All lengthen'd out, in antic disproportion,
Upon the darken'd grass.----
They finish out their long and toilsome talk.
Then, gathering up their rakes and scatter'd coats,
With the less cumb'rous fragments of their feast,
Return right gladly to their peaceful homes.

  The village, lone and silent thro' the day,
Receiving from the fields its merry bands,
Sends forth its ev'ning sound, confus'd but cheerful;
Whilst dogs and children, eager housewives' tongues,
And true love ditties, in no plaintive strain,
By shrill voic'd maid, at open window sung;
The lowing of the home-returning kine,
The herd's low droning trump, and tinkling bell
Tied to the collar of his fav'rite sheep,
Make no contemptible variety
To ears not over nice.----
With careless lounging gait, the saunt'ring youth
Upon his sweetheart's open window leans,
And as she turns about her buzzing wheel
Diverts her with his jokes and harmless taunts.
Close by the cottage door, with placid mien,
The old man sits upon his seat of turf,
His staff with crooked head laid by his side,
Which oft the younger race in wanton sport,
Gambolling round him, slyly steal away,
And straddling o'er it, shew their horsemanship
By raising round the clouds of summer sand,
While still he smiles, yet chides them for the trick.
His silver locks upon his shoulders spread,
And not ungraceful is his stoop of age.
In the background can be seen the tower
of the Cathedral, the foundation of which
was laid in 874 / Photograph by the
National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]

[Illustration: A monument from the time
of the Roman Emperors in Germany / The
"Porta nigra" at Treves (Trier) on the Moselle, a
Roman gateway dating from the 4th century
/ Photograph by the National Messbildanstalt,
Berlin]

[Illustration: The golden portal of the Cathedral at Freiberg in
Saxony / Ruins of the former Church of our Lady.

  About 1230 / The absolute climax in the
development of the Romanesque Portal,
which produced so much of rare beauty
(Dehio) / The style of this creation is of
the most perfect delicacy and charm (Lübke)
/ Partial view from a photograph by the
National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]

[Illustration: The Pillar of Justice
with the Bronze Lion on the Burgplatz in
Brunswick (Braunschweig) / Erected by Henry the
Lion in 1166 / Photograph by the National
Messbildanstalt, Berlin]

[Illustration: A jewel of German Gothic
architecture in freestone / The Town-hall
at Münster, Westphalia, built about 1350
/ Photograph by Dr.
Erwin Quedenfeldt, Düsseldorf]

[Illustration: The Cathedral at Spires (Speyer)
/ As the burial place of many monarchs,
it represents a monument of German history /
View of the magnificent crypt of the
Cathedral. The edifice founded in 1030 by
Conrad II, was destroyed several times but finally
rebuilt by King Maximilian I of Bavaria,
consecrated in 1822 and completed in 1858 /
From a photograph by Professor Neeb, Mainz]

[Illustration: Hall in Benrath Castle near
Düsseldorf / Built by Nikolaus de Pigage for
Elector Karl Theodor of the Palatinate / The
interior represents a graceful link between the Rococo and the
Classic /
From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]

[Illustration: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller, born at
Marbach on the Neckar, November 10, 1759, died at Weimar, May 9,
1805 / From the painting by Anton Graff in the Körner Museum, Dresden
/ Photograph by R.

  Tamme, Dresden, successor of F. and O.
Brockmann]

[Illustration: Courtyard of the Old Castle in Stuttgart
/ The architectural climax of the Residence
of the Württemberg Princes, re-constructed since
1553 by Alberlin Tretsch assisted by Blasius and
Martin Berwart / Ludwig Hofer's equestrian
statue of Count Eberhard, the Bearded, is in
the courtyard / From a photograph by the
Techno-Photographischen Archivs Hans
Herzberg, Berlin]

[Illustration: The Cathedral at Worms, founded in
1100, consecrated in 1181 / One of the finest
specimens of Romanesque architecture in Germany
/ From a photograph by the
National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]

[Illustration: The Emperor's Hall in the Residence
at Wurzburg, the most beautiful Castle in the
Rococo style and one of the finest specimens
of 18th century architecture in Germany / The
masterpiece of Johann Balthasar Neumann
(1687-1753) / The painting in the Hall, "The
Marriage of the Emperor Barbarossa" was
executed by G. B. Tiepolo /
Photograph by K. Gundermann, Wurzburg]

[Illustration: Court in the Castle at Heidelberg / View of the
portion built by Otto Heinrich, begun in 1556, completed in 1563 /
The masterpiece of the German Renaissance / Creation of Hans
Engelhardt /
With the permission of Edm. von König Co, Inc. Heidelberg]

[Illustration: Immanuel Kant, born at Königsberg, East Prussia,
April 22, 1724, died at Königsberg, February 12, 1804 / From the
painting by Döbler / Reprint from the "Corpus Imaginum" of the
Photographischen Gesellschaft, Charlottenburg.]NIGHT SCENES OF OTHER TIMES.

A POEM, IN THREE PARTS.


PART  I.

"The wild winds bellow o'er my head,
  And spent eve's fading light;
Where shall I find some friendly shed
  To screen me from the night?

"Ah! round me lies a desert vast,
  No habitation near;
And dark and pathless is the waste,
  And fills the mind with fear

"Thou distant tree, whose lonely top
  Has bent to many a storm,
No more canst thou deceive my hope,
  And take my lover's form;

"For o'er thy head the dark cloud rolls,
  Black as thy blasted pride.
How deep the angry tempest growls
  Along the mountain's side!

"Securely rests the mountain deer
  Within his hollow den,
His slumber undisturb'd by fear,
  Far from the haunts of men.

"Beneath the fern the moorcock sleeps,
  And twisted adders lie;
Back to his rock the night-bird creeps,
  Nor gives his wonted cry.

"For angry spirits of the night
  Ride in the troubled air,
And to their dens, in wild affright,
  The beasts of prey repair.

"But oh! my love! where do'st thou rest?
  What shelter covers thee?
O, may this cold and wint'ry blast
  But only beat on me!

"Some friendly dwelling may'st thou find,
  Where, undisturb'd with care,
Thou shalt not feel the chilly wind
  That ruffles Marg'ret's hair.

"Ah, no! for thou did'st give thy word
  To meet me on the way;
Nor friendly roof, nor coastly board
  Will tempt a lover's stay.

"O, raise thy voice, if thou art near!
  Its weakest sound were bliss:
What other sound my heart can cheer
  In such a gloom as this?

"But from the hills with stunning sound
  The dashing torrents fall;
Loud is the raging tempest round,
  And mocks a lover's call.

"Ha! see across the dreary waste
  A gentle form appears!
It is my love, my cares are past,
  How vain were all my fears?"

The form approach'd, but sad and slow,
  Nor with a lover's tread;
And from his cheek the youthful glow,
  And greeting smile was fled.

Dim sadness hung upon his brow;
  Fix'd was his beamless eye:
His face was like the moon-light bow
  Upon a win'try sky.

And fix'd and ghastly to the sight,
  His strengthen'd features rose;
And bended was his graceful height,
  And bloody were his clothes.

"O Marg'ret, calm thy troubled breast!
  Thy sorrow now is vain:
Thy Edward from his peaceful rest
  Shall ne'er return again.

"A treach'rous friend has brought me low,
  And fix'd my early doom;
And laid my corpse, with feigned woe,
  Beneath a vaulted tomb

"To take thee to my home I sware,
  And here we were to meet:
Wilt thou a narrow coffin share,
  And part my winding-sheet?

"But late the lord of many lands,
  And now a grave is all:
My blood is warm upon his hands
  Who revels in my hall.

"Yet think thy father's hoary hair
  Is water'd with his tears;
He has but thee to sooth his care,
  And prop his load of years.

"Remember Edward when he's gone,
  He only liv'd for thee;
And when thou'rt pensive, and alone,
  O Marg'ret call on me!

"Yet deep beneath the mould'ring clod
  I rest my wounded head:
And terrible that call, and loud,
  Which shall awake the dead."

"No, Edward, I will follow thee,
  And share thy hapless doom:
Companions shall our spirits be,
  Tho' distant is thy tomb.

"O! never to my father's tower
  Will I return again!
A bleeding heart has little power
  To ease another's pain.

"Upon the wing my spirit flies,
  I feel my course is run;
Nor shall these dim and weary eyes
  Behold to-morrow's sun."

Like early dew, or hoary frost,
  Spent with the beaming day,
So shrunk the pale and wat'ry ghost,
  And dimly wore away.

No longer Marg'ret felt the storm,
  She bow'd her lovely head;
And with her lover's fleeting form,
  Her gentle spirit fled.


PART II.

Loud roars the wind that shakes this wall;
  It is no common blast:
Deep hollow sounds pass thro' my hall,
  O would the night were past!

"Methinks the dæmons of the air
  Upon the turrets growl;
While down the empty winding stair
  Their deep'ning murmurs roll.

"The glimm'ring fire cheers not the gloom:
  How blue its weakly ray!
And like a taper in a tomb,
  But spreads the more dismay.

"Athwart its melancholy light
  The lengthen'd shadow falls:
My grandsires, to my troubled sight,
  Low'r on me from these walls.

"Methinks yon angry warrior's head
  Doth in its casement frown,
And darts a look, as if it said,
  Where hast thou laid my son?

"But will these fancies never cease?
  O, would the night were run!
My troubled soul can find no peace,
  But with the morning sun.

"Vain hope! the guilty never rest;
  Dismay is always near:
There is a midnight in the breast
  No morn shall ever cheer.

"The weary hind is now at rest,
  Tho' lowly is his head,
How sweetly lies the guiltless breast,
  Upon the hardest bed!

"The beggar, in his wretched haunt,
  May now a monarch be;
Forget his woe, forget his want,
  For all can sleep but me.

"I've dar'd whate'er the boldest can,
  Then why this childish dread;
I never fear'd a living man,
  And shall I fear the dead!

"No, whistling storms may shake my tower,
  And passing spirits scream:
Their shadowy arms are void of power,
  And but a gloomy dream.

"But, lo! a form advancing slow
  Across my dusky hall!
Art thou a friend? art thou a foe?
  O, answer to my call!"

Still nearer to the glimm'ring light
  The tow'ring figure strode,
Till full, and horrid to the sight,
  The murther'd Edward stood.

His hand a broken dagger sway'd,
  Like Time's dark threat'ning dart;
And pointed to the rugged blade
  That quiver'd in his heart.

The blood still trickled from his head,
  And clotted was his hair,
That on his manly shoulders spread;
  His mangled breast was bare.

His face was like the muddy sky
  Before the coming snow;
And dark and dreadful was his eye,
  And cloudy was his brow.

Pale Conrad shrunk, but grasp'd his sword;
  Fear thrill'd in ev'ry vein;
His quiv'ring lip half-spoke its word;
  He paus'd, and shrunk again.

"Pale bloody spectre, at this hour
  Why do'st thou haunt the night?
Has the deep gloomy vault no power
  To keep thee from my sight?

"Why do'st thou glare? Why do'st thou wave
  That fatal cursed knife?
The deed is done, and from the grave
  Who can recall to life?

"Why rolls thine eye beneath thy brow,
  Dark as the midnight storm?
What do'st thou want? O, let me know!
  But hide thy dreadful form.

"I'd give the life's blood from my heart
  To wash my crime away:
If thou'rt a spirit, O, depart!
  Nor haunt a wretch of clay.

"Say, do'st thou with the blessed dwell?
  Return and blessed be!
Or com'st thou from the lowest hell?
  I am more curst than thee."

The form advanc'd with solemn step,
  As though it meant to speak;
And thrice it mov'd its mutt'ring lip,
  But silence did not break.

Then sternly stalk'd with heavy pace,
 Which shook the trembling wall;
And, frowning, turn'd its angry face,
  And vanish'd from the hall.

With fixed eyes, pale Conrad stood,
 That from their sockets swell;
Back on his heart ran the cold blood,
  He shudder'd as he fell.

Night fled, and thro' the window 'gan
  The early light to play;
But on a more unhappy man
  Ne'er shone the dawning day.

The gladsome sun all nature cheers,
  But cannot charm his cares:
Still dwells his mind with gloomy fears,
  And murther'd Edward glares.


PART  III.

"No rest nor comfort can I find,
  I watch the midnight hour;
I sit and listen to the wind
  Which beats upon my tower.

"Methinks low voices from the ground
  Break mournful on mine ear,
And thro' these empty chambers sound
  So dismal and so drear.

"The ghost of some departed friend
  Doth in my sorrows share;
Or is it but the rushing wind
  That mocketh my despair.

"Sad thro' the hall the pale lamp gleams
  Upon my father's arms:
My soul is fill'd with gloomy dreams,
  I fear unknown alarms.

"Oh! I have known this lonely place
  With ev'ry blessing stor'd;
And many a friend with cheerful face
  Sit smiling at my board,

"Whilst round the fire, in early bloom,
  My harmless children play'd,
Who now within the narrow tomb
  Are with their mother laid.

"And now low bends my wretched head,
  And those I lov'd are gone:
My friends, my family, all are fled,
  And I am left alone.

"Oft' as the cheerless fire declines,
  In it I sadly trace,
As 'lone I sit, the half form'd lines
  Of many a much lov'd face.

"But chief, O Marg'ret! to my mind
  Thy lovely features rise:
I strive to think thee less unkind,
  And wipe my streaming eyes.

"For only thee I had to vaunt,
  Thou wert thy mother's pride:
She left thee like a shooting plant
  To screen my widow'd side.

"But thou hast left me weak, forlorn,
  And chill'd with age's frost,
To count my weary days, and mourn
  The comforts I have lost.

"Unkindly fair! why did'st thou go?
  O, had I known the truth!
Tho' Edward's father was my foe,
  I would have bless'd the youth.

"O could I see that face again,
  Whose smile calm'd ev'ry strife!
And hear that voice, which sooth'd my pain,
  And made me wish for life!

"Thy harp hangs silent by the wall:
  My nights are sad and long:
And thou art in a distant hall,
  Where strangers raise the song.

"Ha! some delusion of the mind
  My senses doth confound!
It was the harp, and not the wind,
  That did so sweetly sound."

Old Arno rose, all wan as death,
  With broken steps of care;
And oft' he check'd his quick-heav'd breath,
  And turn'd his eager ear.

When like a full, but distant choir
  The swelling sound return'd;
And with the soft and trembling wire,
  The sighing echoes mourn'd.

Then softly whisper'd o'er the song
  Which Marg'ret lov'd to play,
Like some sweet dirge, and sad, and long,
  It faintly died away.

His dim-worn eyes to heav'n he cast,
  Where all his griefs were known;
And smote upon his troubled breast,
  And heav'd a heavy groan.

"I know it is my daughter's hand,
  But 'tis no hand of clay:
And here a lonely wretch I stand,
  All childless, bent, and grey.

"And art thou low, my lovely child?
  And hast thou met thy doom?
And has thy flatt'ring morning smil'd,
  To lead but to the tomb?

"O let me see thee ere we part,
  For souls like thine are blest;
O let me fold thee to my heart
  If aught of form thou hast.

"This passing mist enrobes thy charms:
  Alas, to nought 'tis shrunk!
And hollow strike my empty arms
  Against my aged trunk.

"Thou'rt fled like the low ev'ning breath
  That sighs upon the hill:
O stay! tho' in thy weeds of death,
  Thou art my daughter still."

Loud wak'd the sound, then fainter grew,
  And long and sadly mourn'd;
And softly sigh'd a long adieu,
  And never more return'd.

Old Arno stretch'd him on the ground,
  Thick as the gloom of night,
Death's misty shadows gather'd round,
  And swam before his sight.

He heav'd a deep and deadly groan,
  Which rent his lab'ring breast;
And long before the morning shone,
  His spirit was at rest.


A REVERIE.

  Beside a spreading elm, from whose high boughs
Like knotted tufts the crow's light dwelling shows,
Where screen'd from northern blasts, and winter proof,
Snug stands the parson's barn with thatched roof;
At chaff-strew'd door, where, in the morning ray,
The gilded mots in mazy circles play,
And sleepy Comrade in the sun is laid,
More grateful to the cur than neighb'ring shade;
In snowy shirt unbrac'd, brown Robin stood,
And leant upon his flail in thoughtful mood:
His full round cheek where deeper flushes glow,
The dewy drops which glisten on his brow;
His dark cropt pate that erst at church or fair,
So smooth and silky, shew'd his morning's care,
Which all uncouth in matted locks combin'd,
Now, ends erect, defies the ruffling wind;
His neck-band loose, and hosen rumpled low,
A careful lad, nor slack at labour shew.
Nor scraping chickens chirping 'mongst the straw,
Nor croaking rook o'er-head, nor chatt'ring daw;
Loud-breathing cow amongst the rampy weeds,
Nor grunting sow that in the furrow feeds;
Nor sudden breeze that shakes the quaking leaves,
And lightly rustles thro' the scatter'd sheaves;
Nor floating straw that skims athwart his nose,
The deeply musing youth may discompose.
For Nelly fair, and blythest village maid,
Whose tuneful voice beneath the hedge-row shade,
At early milking, o'er the meadows born,
E'er cheer'd the ploughman's toil at rising morn:
The neatest maid that e'er, in linen gown,
Bore cream and butter to the market town:
The tightest lass, that with untutor'd air
E'er footed ale-house floor at wake or fair,
Since Easter last had Robin's heart possest,
And many a time disturb'd his nightly rest.
Full oft' returning from the loosen'd plough,
He slack'd his pace, and knit his thoughtful brow;
And oft' ere half his thresher's talk was o'er,
Would muse, with arms across, at cooling door:
His mind thus bent, with downcast eyes he stood,
And leant upon his flail in thoughtful mood.
His soul o'er many a soft rememb'rance ran,
And, mutt'ring to himself, the youth began.

  "Ah! happy is the man whose early lot
Hath made him master of a furnish'd cot;
Who trains the vine that round his window grows,
And after setting sun his garden hoes;
Whose wattled pales his own enclosure shield,
Who toils not daily in another's field.
Where'er he goes, to church or market town,
With more respect he and his dog are known:
A brisker face he wears at wake or fair,
Nor views with longing eyes the pedlar's ware,
But buys at will or ribands, gloves, or beads,
And willing maidens to the ale-house leads:
And, Oh! secure from toils which cumber life,
He makes the maid he loves an easy wife.
Ah, Nelly! can'st thou with contented mind,
Become the help-mate of a lab'ring hind,
And share his lot, whate'er the chances be,
Who hath no dow'r, but love, to fix on thee?
Yes, gayest maid may meekest matron prove,
And things of little note may 'token love.
When from the church thou cam'st at eventide
And I and red-hair'd Susan by thy side,
I pull'd the blossoms from the bending tree,
And some to Susan gave, and some to thee;
Thine were the best, and well thy smiling eye
The diff'rence mark'd, and guess'd the reason why.
When on a holy-day we rambling stray'd,
And pass'd old Hodge's cottage in the glade;
Neat was the garden dress'd, sweet hum'd the bee,
I wish'd both cot and Nelly made for me;
And well methought thy very eyes reveal'd
The self-same wish within thy breast conceal'd.
When artful, once, I sought my love to tell,
And spoke to thee of one who lov'd thee well,
You saw the cheat, and jeering homeward hied,
Yet secret pleasure in thy looks I spied.
Ay, gayest maid may meekest matron prove,
And smaller signs than these have 'token'd love."

  Now, at a distance, on the neighb'ring plain,
With creaking wheels slow comes the heavy wain:
High on its tow'ring load a maid appears,
And Nelly's voice sounds shrill in Robin's ears.
Quick from his hand he throws the cumb'rous flail,
And leaps with lightsome limbs th' enclosing pale.
O'er field and fence he scours, and furrow wide,
With waken'd Comrade barking by his side;
Whilst tracks of trodden grain, and sidelong hay,
And broken hedge-flow'rs sweet, mark his impetuous way.


A DISAPPOINTMENT.

  On village green, whose smooth and well worn sod,
Cross-path'd with every gossip's foot is trod;
By cottage door where playful children run,
And cats and curs sit basking in the sun:
Where o'er the earthen seat the thorn is bent,
Cross-arm'd, and back to wall, poor William leant.
His bonnet broad drawn o'er his gather'd brow,
His hanging lip and lengthen'd visage shew
A mind but ill at ease. With motions strange,
His listless limbs their wayward postures change;
Whilst many a crooked line and curious maze,
With clouted shoon, he on the sand pourtrays.
The half-chew'd straw fell slowly from his mouth,
And to himself low mutt'ring spoke the youth.

  "How simple is the lad! and reft of skill,
Who thinks with love to fix a woman's will:
Who ev'ry Sunday morn, to please her sight,
Knots up his neck-cloth gay, and hosen white:
Who for her pleasure keeps his pockets bare,
And half his wages spends on pedlar's ware;
When every niggard clown, or dotard old,
Who hides in secret nooks his oft told gold,
Whose field or orchard tempts with all her pride,
At little cost may win her for his bride;
Whilst all the meed her silly lover gains
Is but the neighbours' jeering for his pains.
On Sunday last when Susan's bands were read,
And I astonish'd sat with hanging head,
Cold grew my shrinking limbs, and loose my knee,
Whilst every neighbour's eye was fix'd on me.
Ah, Sue! when last we work'd at Hodge's hay,
And still at me you jeer'd in wanton play;
When last at fair, well pleas'd by show-man's stand,
You took the new-bought fairing from my hand;
When at old Hobb's you sung that song so gay,
Sweet William still the burthen of the lay,
I little thought, alas! the lots were cast,
That thou shou'd'st be another's bride at last:
And had, when last we trip'd it on the green
And laugh'd at stiff-back'd Rob, small thought I ween,
Ere yet another scanty month was flown,
To see thee wedded to the hateful clown.
Ay, lucky swain, more gold thy pockets line;
But did these shapely limbs resemble thine,
I'd stay at home, and tend the household geer,
Nor on the green with other lads appear.
Ay, lucky swain, no store thy cottage lacks,
And round thy barn thick stands the shelter'd stacks;
But did such features hard my visage grace,
I'd never budge the bonnet from my face.
Yet let it be: it shall not break my ease:
He best deserves who doth the maiden please.
Such silly cause no more shall give me pain,
Nor ever maiden cross my rest again.
Such grizzly suitors with their taste agree,
And the black fiend may take them all for me!"

  Now thro' the village rise confused sounds,
Hoarse lads, and children shrill, and yelping hounds.
Straight ev'ry matron at the door is seen,
And pausing hedgers on their mattocks lean.
At every narrow lane, and alley mouth,
Loud laughing lasses stand, and joking youth.
A near approaching band in colours gay,
With minstrels blythe before to cheer the way,
From clouds of curling dust which onward fly,
In rural splendour break upon the eye.
As in their way they hold so gayly on,
Caps, beads, and buttons glancing in the sun,
Each village wag, with eye of roguish cast,
Some maiden jogs, and vents the ready jest;
Whilst village toasts the passing belles deride,
And sober matrons marvel at their pride.
But William, head erect, with settled brow,
In sullen silence view'd the passing shew;
And oft' he scratch'd his pate with manful grace,
And scorn'd to pull the bonnet o'er his face;
But did with steady look unmoved wait,
Till hindmost man had turn'd the church-yard gate;
Then turn'd him to his cot with visage flat,
Where honest Tray upon the threshold sat.
Up jump'd the kindly beast his hand to lick,
And, for his pains, receiv'd an angry kick.
Loud shuts the flapping door with thund'ring din;
The echoes round their circling course begin,
From cot to cot, in wide progressive swell,
Deep groans the church-yard wall and neighb'ring dell,
And Tray, responsive, joins with long and piteous yell.


A LAMENTATION.

  Where ancient broken wall encloses round,
From tread of lawless feet, the hallow'd ground,
And somber yews their dewy branches wave
O'er many a motey stone and mounded grave:
Where parish church, confus'dly to the sight,
With deeper darkness prints the shades of night,
And mould'ring tombs uncouthly gape around,
And rails and fallen stones bestrew the ground:
In loosen'd garb derang'd, with scatter'd hair,
His bosom open to the nightly air,
Lone, o'er a new heap'd grave poor Basil bent,
And to himself began his simple plaint.

 "Alas! how cold thy home! how low thou art!
Who wert the pride and mistress of my heart.
The fallen leaves light rustling o'er thee pass,
And o'er thee waves the rank and dewy grass.
The new laid sods in decent order tell
How narrow now the space where thou must dwell.
Now rough and wint'ry winds may on thee beat,
And drizzly drifting snow, and summer's heat;
Each passing season rub, for woe is me!
Or storm, or sunshine, is the same to thee.
Ah, Mary! lovely was thy slender form,
And sweet thy cheerful brow, that knew no storm.
Thy steps were graceful on the village-green,
As tho' thou had'st some courtly lady been:
At church or market, still the gayest lass,
Each younker slack'd his speed to see thee pass.
At early milking, tuneful was thy lay,
And sweet thy homeward song at close of day;
But sweeter far, and ev'ry youth's desire,
Thy cheerful converse by the ev'ning fire.
Alas! no more thou'lt foot the grassy sward!
No song of thine shall ever more be heard!
Yet now they trip it lightly on the green,
As blythe and gay as thou hadst never been:
The careless younker whittles lightsome by,
And other maidens catch his roving eye:
Around the ev'ning fire, with little care,
The neighbours sit, and scarcely miss thee there;
And when the night advancing darkens round,
They to their rest retire, and slumber sound.
But Basil cannot rest; his days are sad,
And long his nights upon the weary bed.
Yet still in broken dreams thy form appears,
And still my bosom proves a lover's fears.
I guide thy footsteps thro' the tangled wood;
I catch thee sinking in the boist'rous flood;
I shield thy bosom from the threaten'd stroke;
I clasp thee falling from the headlong rock;
But ere we reach the dark and dreadful deep,
High heaves my troubled breast, I wake, and weep.
At ev'ry wailing of the midnight wind
Thy lowly dwelling comes into my mind.
When rain beats on my roof, wild storms abroad,
I think upon thy bare and beaten sod;
I hate the comfort of a shelter'd home,
And hie me forth o'er fenceless fields to roam:
I leave the paths of men for dreary waste,
And bare my forehead to the howling blast.
O Mary! loss of thee hath fix'd my doom:
This world around me is a weary gloom:
Dull heavy musings down my spirits weigh,
I cannot sleep by night, nor work by day.
Or wealth or pleasure slowest minds inspire,
But cheerless is their toil who nought desire.
Let happier friends divide my farmers' dock,
Cut down my grain, and sheer my little flock;
For now my only care on earth shall be
Here ev'ry Sunday morn to visit thee;
And in the holy church, with heart sincere,
And humble mind, our worthy curate hear:
He best can tell, when earthly cares are past,
The surest way to meet with thee at last.
I'll thus a while a weary life abide,
Till wasting Time hath laid me by thy side;
For now on earth there is no place for me,
Nor peace, nor slumber, till I rest with thee."

  Loud, from the lofty spire, with piercing knell,
Solemn, and awful, toll'd the parish bell;
A later hour than rusties deem it meet
That church-yard ground be trode by mortal feet,
The wailing lover startled at the sound,
And rais'd his head and cast his eyes around.
The gloomy pile in strengthen'd horrour lower'd,
Large and majestic ev'ry object tower'd:
Dim thro' the gloom they shew'd their forms unknown,
And tall and ghastly rose each whiten'd stone:
Aloft the waking screech-owl 'gan to sing,
And past him skim'd the bat with flapping wing.
The fears of nature woke within his breast;
He left the hallowed spot of Mary's rest,
And sped his way the church-yard wall to gain,
Then check'd his coward heart, and turn'd again.
The shadows round a deeper horrour wear;
A deeper silence hangs upon his ear;
A stiller rest is o'er the settled scene;
His flutt'ring heart recoils, and shrinks again.
With hasty steps he measures back the ground,
And leaps with summon'd force the church-yard bound;
Then home with knocking limbs, and quicken'd breath,
His footstep urges from the place of death.


AN ADDRESS TO THE MUSES.

Ye tuneful Sifters of the lyre,
Who dreams and fantasies inspire;
Who over poesy preside,
And on a lofty hill abide
Above the ken of mortal fight,
Fain would I sing of you, could I address ye right.

Thus known, your pow'r of old was sung,
And temples with your praises rung;
And when the song of battle rose,
Or kindling wine, or lovers' woes,
The poet's spirit inly burn'd,
And still to you his upcast eyes were turn'd.

The youth all wrapp'd in vision bright,
Beheld your robes of flowing white:
And knew your forms benignly grand,
An awful, but a lovely band;
And felt your inspiration strong,
And warmly pour'd his rapid lay along.

The aged bard all heav'n-ward glow'd,
And hail'd you daughters of a god:
Tho' to his dimmer eyes were seen
Nor graceful form, nor heav'nly mien,
Full well he felt that ye were near,
And heard you in the blast that shook his hoary hair.

Ye lighten'd up the valley's bloom,
And deeper spread the forest's gloom;
The lofty hill sublimer flood,
And grander rose the mighty flood;
For then Religion lent her aid,
And o'er the mind of man your sacred empire spread.

Tho' rolling ages now are past,
And altars low, and temples wade;
Tho' rites and oracles are o'er,
And gods and heros rule no more;
Your fading honours still remain,
And still your vot'ries call, a long and motley train.

They seek you not on hill and plain,
Nor court you in the sacred sane;
Nor meet you in the mid-day dream,
Upon the bank of hallowed stream;
Yet still for inspiration sue,
And still each lifts his fervent prayer to you.

He knows ye not in woodland gloom,
But wooes ye in the shelfed room;
And seeks you in the dusty nook,
And meets you in the letter'd book;
Full well he knows you by your names,
And still with poets faith your presence claims.

The youthful poet, pen in hand,
All by the side of blotted stand,
In rev'rie deep, which none may break,
Sits rubbing of his beardless cheek;
And well his inspiration knows,
E'en by the dewy drops that trickle o'er his nose.

The tuneful sage of riper fame,
Perceives you not in heated frame;
But at conclusion of his verse,
Which still his mutt'ring lips rehearse,
Oft' waves his hand in grateful pride,
And owns the heav'nly pow'r that did his fancy guide.

O lovely sisters! is it true,
That they are all inspir'd by you?
And while they write, with magic charm'd,
And high enthusiasm warm'd,
We may not question heav'nly lays,
For well I wot, they give you all the praise.

O lovely sisters! well it shews
How wide and far your bounty flows:
Then why from me withhold your beams?
Unvisited of heav'nly dreams,
Whene'er I aim at heights sublime,
Still downward am I call'd to seek some stubborn rhyme.

No hasty lightning breaks the gloom,
Nor flashing thoughts unsought for come,
Nor fancies wake in time of need;
I labour much with little speed;
And when my studied task is done,
Too well, alas! I mark it for my own.

Yet should you never smile on me,
And rugged still my verses be;
Unpleasing to the tuneful train,
Who only prize a slowing strain;
And still the learned scorn my lays,
I'll lift my heart to you, and sing your praise.

Your varied ministry to trace,
Your honour'd names, and godlike race;
And lofty bow'rs where fountains flow,
They'll better sing who better know;
I praise ye not with Grecian lyre,
Nor will I hail ye daughters of a heathen fire.

Ye are the spirits who preside
In earth, and air, and ocean wide;
In hissing flood, and crackling fire;
In horror dread, and tumult dire;
In stilly calm, and stormy wind,
And rule the answ'ring changes in the human mind.

High on the tempest-beaten hill,
Your misty shapes ye shift at will;
The wild fantastic clouds ye form;
Your voice is in the midnight storm;
Whilst in the dark and lonely hour,
Oft' starts the boldest heart, and owns your secret pow'r.

From you, when growling storms are past,
And light'ning ceases on the wade,
And when the scene of blood is o'er,
And groans of death are heard no more,
Still holds the mind each parted form,
Like after echoing of the o'erpassed storm.

When closing glooms o'erspread the day,
And what we love has pass'd away,
Ye kindly bid each pleasing scene
Within the bosom still remain,
Like moons who doth their watches run
With the reflected brightness of the parted sun.

The shining day, and nightly shade,
The cheerful plain and gloomy glade,
The homeward flocks, and shepherds play,
The busy hamlet's closing day,
Full many a breast with pleasures swell,
Who ne'er shall have the gift of words to tell,

Oft' when the moon looks from on high,
And black around the shadows lie;
And bright the sparkling waters gleam,
And rushes rustle by the stream,
Shrill sounds, and fairy forms are known
By simple 'nighted swains, who wander late alone.

Ye kindle up the inward glow,
Ye strengthen ev'ry outward show;
Ye overleap the strongest bar,
And join what Nature sunders far:
And visit oft' in fancies wild,
The bread of learned sage, and simple child.

From him who wears a monarch's crown,
To the unletter'd artless clown,
All in some strange and lonely hour
Have felt, unsought, your secret pow'r,
And lov'd your roving fancies well,
You add but to the bard the art to tell.

Ye mighty spirits of the song,
To whom the poets' pray'rs belong,
My lowly bosom to inspire,
And kindle with your sacred fire,
Your wild obscuring heights to brave,
Is boon, alas! too great for me to crave.

But O, such sense of matter bring!
As they who feel and never sing
Wear on their hearts, it will avail
With simple words to tell my tale;
And still contented will I be,
Tho' greater inspirations never fall to me.


A MELANCHOLY LOVER'S FAREWELL TO HIS MISTRESS.

  My Phillis, all my hopes are o'er,
And I shall see thy face no more.
Since ev'ry secret wish is vain,
I will not stay to give thee pain.
Then do not hang thy low'ring brow,
But let me bless thee ere I go:
Nor, O, despise my last adieu!
I've lov'd thee long, and lov'd thee true.

  The prospects of my youth are crost,
My health is flown, my vigour lost;
My soothing friends augment my pain,
And cheerless is my native plain;
Dark o'er my spirit hangs the gloom,
And thy disdain has fix'd my doom.
But light gales ruffle o'er the sea,
Which soon shall bear me far from thee;
And wherefoe'er our course is cast,
I know will bear me to my rest.
Full deep beneath the briny wave,
Where rest the venturous and brave,
A place may be decreed for me;
And should no tempest raise the sea,
Far hence upon a foreign land,
Whose sons, perhaps, with friendly hand
The stranger's lowly tomb may raise;
A broken heart will end my days.

  But Heaven's blessing on thee rest!
And may no troubles vex thy breast!
Perhaps, when pensive and alone,
You'll think of me when I am gone;
And gentle tears of pity shed,
When I am in my narrow bed.
Yet softly let thy sorrow flow!
And greater may'st thou never know!
All free from worldly care and strife,
Long may'ft thou live a happy life!
And ev'ry earthly blessing find,
Thou loveliest of womankind:
And blest thy secret wishes be!
Tho' cruel thou hast been to me.

  And do'st thou then thine arm extend
And may I take thy lovely hand?
And do thine eyes thus gently look,
As tho' some kindly wish they spoke?
My gentle Phillis, tho' severe,
I do not grudge the ills I bear;
But still my greatest grief will be,
To think my love has troubled thee.
O, do not scorn this swelling grief!
The laden bosom seeks relief:
Nor yet this infant weakness blame,
For thou hast made me what I am.
But hark! the sailors call away,
No longer may I ling'ring stay;
May peace within thy mansion dwell!
O, gentle Phillis, fare thee well!


A CHEERFUL TEMPERED LOVER'S FAREWELL TO HIS MISTRESS.

  The light winds on the streamers play
That soon shall bear me far away;
My comrades give the parting cheer,
And I alone have linger'd here.
Now Phill. my love, since it will be,
And I must bid farewell to thee,
Since ev'ry hope of thee is flown,
Ne'er send me from thee with a frown;
But let me kindly take thy hand,
And bid God bless me in a foreign land.

  No more I'll loiter by thy side,
Well pleas'd thy gamesome taunts to bide;
Nor lovers' gambols lightly try
To make me graceful in thine eye;
Nor sing the merry roundelay,
To cheer thee at the close of day.
Yet ne'ertheless tho' we must part,
I'll bear thee still upon my heart;
And oft' I'll fill the ruddy glass,
To toast my lovely scornful lass.
Far hence, upon a foreign shore,
Still will I keep an open door,
And still my little fortune share
With all who ever breath'd my native air.
And who thy beauteous face hath seen,
Or ever near thy dwelling been,
Shall push about the flowing bowl,
And be the matter of the whole.
And ev'ry woman for thy sake,
Though proud and cruel, as they're weak,
Shall in my walls protection find,
Thou fairest of a fickle kind.

  O, dearly! dearly! have I paid,
Thou little haughty cruel maid,
To give that inward peace to thee,
Which thou hast ta'en away from me.
Soft hast thou slept, with bosom light,
Whilst I have watch'd the weary night;
And now I cross the surgy deep,
That thou may'st still untroubled sleep--
But in thine eyes, what do I see,
That looks as tho' they pitied me?
[15-3]
All this seems like learned
trifling. The name may belong to that
ancient dialect from which are
derived many of the names of the days
and months in the native calendar, and which,
as an esoteric language, was in use
among the Maya priests, as was also
one among the Aztecs of Mexico.
Instances of this, in fact, are very common among the American
aborigines, and no doubt many words were thus preserved which could
not be analyzed to their radicals through the popular tongue.

Or, if it is essential to find a meaning, why not accept the obvious
signification of the name?

  _Ma_ is the negative "no," "not;"
_ya_ means rough, fatiguing,
difficult, painful, dangerous. The
compound _maya_ is given in the
Dictionary of Motul with the
translations "not arduous nor severe; something easy and not
difficult to do;" _cosa no grave ni recia; cosa facil y no dificultosa
de hacer_.

  It was used adjectively as in
the phrase, _maya u chapahal_, his
sickness is not dangerous. So they
might have spoken of the level and
fertile land of Yucatan, abounding in fruit
and game, that land to which we are
told they delighted to give, as a
favorite appellation, the term _u
luumil ceh, u luumil cutz_, the land
of the deer, the land of the wild
turkey; of this land, I say, they
might well have spoken as of one
not fatiguing, not rough nor
exhausting.

§ 2. _The Maya Linguistic Family._

Whatever the primitive meaning and
first application of the name Maya,
it is now used to signify
specifically the aborigines of
Yucatan. In a more extended sense,
in the expression "the Maya family,"
it is understood to embrace all tribes,
wherever found, who speak related
dialects presumably derived
from the same ancient stock as
the Maya proper.

  Other names for this extended family
have been suggested, as Maya-Kiche,
Mam-Huastec, and the like, compounded
of the names of two or more of
the tribes of the group. But this does
not appear to have much advantage over the simple expression I
have given, though "Maya-Kiche" may be conveniently employed to
prevent confusion.

These affiliated tribes are, according to the investigations of Dr.

  Carl Hermann Berendt, the following:--

1. The Maya proper, including the
Lacandons.

2. The Chontals of Tabasco, on and
near the coast west of the mouth
of the Usumacinta.

3. The Tzendals, south of the
Chontals.

4. The Zotzils, south of the Tzendals.

5. The Chaneabals, south of the
Zotzils.

6. The Chols, on the upper Usumacinta.

7. The Chortis, near Copan.

8. The Kekchis, and

  9. The Pocomchis, in Vera Paz.

10. The Pocomams. }
11. The Mams. }
12. The Kiches. }
13. The Ixils. } In or bordering
on Guatemala.

14. The Cakchiquels. }
15. The Tzutuhils. }
16. The Huastecs, on the Panuco
river and its tributaries, in Mexico.

  
The languages of these do not differ
more, in their extremes, than the
French, Spanish, Italian and other
tongues of the so-called Latin
races; while a number resemble each other as closely as the Greek
dialects of classic times.

       What lends particular importance to the study of this group of
languages is that it is that which was spoken by the race in several
respects the most civilized of any found on the American continent.

  Copan, Uxmal and Palenque are names which at once evoke the most earnest
interest in the mind of every one who has ever been attracted to the subject
of the archæology of the New World. This race, moreover, possessed
an abundant literature, preserved in written books, in characters which
were in some degree phonetic. Enough of these remain to whet,
though not to satisfy, the curiosity of the student.

The total number of Indians of pure blood speaking the Maya proper
may be estimated as nearly or quite 200,000, most of them in the
political limits of the department of Yucatan; to these should be
added nearly 100,000 of mixed blood, or of European descent, who
use the tongue in daily life.[19-1] For it forms one of the rare
examples of American languages possessing vitality enough not only
to maintain its own ground, but actually to force itself on European
settlers and supplant their native speech.

It is no uncommon occurrence in Yucatan, says Dr.

Berendt, to find whole families
  of pure white blood who
do not know one word of Spanish,
  using the Maya exclusively.

It has even intruded on literature, and one
  finds it interlarded in
books published in Merida, very
  much as lady novelists drop into French in their imaginative
effusions.[20-1]
The number speaking the different dialects of the stock are roughly
estimated at half a million, which is probably below the mark

.
  

  § 3.

_Origin of the Maya Tribes._
  The Mayas did not claim to
be autochthones. Their legends referred
  to their arrival by the sea from the East, in remote times, under
the leadership of Itzamna, their hero-god, and also to a less
numerous, immigration from the west, from Mexico, which was connected
with the history of another hero-god, Kukul Càn.

The first of these appears to be wholly
  mythical, and but a repetition
of the story found among so many American
  tribes, that their ancestors came from the distant Orient.

I have elsewhere explained this to be
  but a solar or light myth.[20-2]

  The second tradition deserves more attention from the historian,
as it is supported by some of their chronicles and by the testimony
of several of the most intelligent natives of the period of the
conquest, which I present on a later page of this volume.

It cannot be denied that the Mayas,
  the Kiches and the Cakchiquels,
in their most venerable traditions,
  claimed to have migrated from the north or west, from some part
of the present country of Mexico.

These traditions receive additional
  importance from the
presence on the shores of the Mexican
  Gulf, on the waters of the river Panuco, north of Vera Cruz, of a
prominent branch of the Maya family, the _Huastecs_.

The idea suggests itself that these
  were the rearguard of a great
migration of the Maya family from the
  north toward the south.

  Support is given to this by
their dialect, which is most closely
  akin to that of the Tzendals of Tabasco, the nearest Maya race to
the south of them, and also by very ancient traditions of the
Aztecs.

It is noteworthy that these two
  partially civilized races,
the Mayas and the Aztecs, though
  differing radically in language, had legends which claimed a
community of origin in some indefinitely remote past.

We find these on the Maya side
  narrated in the sacred book
of the Kiches, the _Popol Vuh_, in the
  Cakchiquel _Records of Tecpan Atitlan_, and in various pure Maya
sources which I bring forward in this volume.

The Aztec traditions refer to the
  Huastecs, and a brief analysis
of them will not be out of
  place.

  At a very remote period the
Mexicans, under their leader Mecitl,
  from whom they took their name, arrived in boats at the mouth of
the river Panuco, at the place called Panotlan, which name means
"where one arrives by sea."

With them were the Olmecs under their
  leader Olmecatl, the Huastecs,
under their leader Huastecatl, the
  Mixtecs and others.

They journeyed together and in
  friendship southward, down the
coast, quite to the volcanoes of Guatemala,
  thence to Tamoanchan, which is described as the terrestial[TN-1]
paradise, and afterwards, some of them at least, northward and
eastward, toward the shores of the Gulf.

On this journey the intoxicating beverage made
  from the maguey, called _octli_
by the Aztecs, _cii_ by the Mayas,
  and _pulque_ by the Spaniards, was invented by a woman whose name
was _Mayauel_, in which we can scarcely err in recognizing the
national appellation _Maya_.[23-1] Furthermore, the invention is
closely related to the history of the Huastecs.

Their leader, alone of all the
  chieftains, drank to excess,
and in his drunkenness threw aside his
  garments and displayed his nakedness.

When he grew sober, fear and shame
  impelled him to collect
all those who spoke his language,
  and leaving the other tribes, he returned to the neighborhood of
Panuco and settled there permanently.[23-2]
The annals of the Aztecs contain frequent allusions to the Huastecs.

The most important contest between the
  two nations took place in
the reign of Montezuma the First
  (1440-1464).

The attack was made by the Aztecs,
  for the alleged reason
that the Huastecs had robbed and
  killed Aztec merchants on their way to the great fairs in Guatemala.

The Huastecs are described as
  numerous, dwelling in walled
towns, possessing quantities of maize,
  beans, feathers and precious stones, and painting their faces.

They were signally defeated by the
  troops of Montezuma, but not
reduced to vassalage.[24-1]
  At the time of the Conquest the province of the Huastecs was densely
peopled; "none more so under the sun," remarks the Augustinian friar
Nicolas de Witte, who visited it in 1543; but even then he found
it almost deserted and covered with ruins, for, a few years previous,
the Spaniards had acted towards its natives with customary treachery
and cruelty.

They had invited all the chiefs to
  a conference, had enticed
them into a large wooden building, and
  then set fire to it and burned them alive.

When this merciless act became known
  the Huastecs deserted
their villages and scattered among
  the forests and mountains.[24-2]
These traditions go to show that the belief among the Aztecs was
that the tribes of the Maya family came originally from the north
or northeast, and were at some remote period closely connected with
their own ancestors

.
  

  § 4.

_Political Condition at the Time of
  the Conquest._
When the Spaniards first explored the
  coasts of Yucatan they found the peninsula divided into a number
of independent petty states.

According to an authority followed
  by Herrera, these were
eighteen in number.
  There is no complete list of their names, nor can we fix with
certainty their boundaries.

The following list gives their approximate
  position.
On the west coast, beginning at the
  south--

1. _Acalan_, on the Bahia de Terminos.
  
2. _Tixchel_ (or Telchac?) 3. _Champoton_
  (Chakanputun, or Potonchan).
4.

_Kinpech_ (Campech or Campeche).
  5. _Canul_ (Acanul or H'
Canul).
  6. _Hocabaihumun._ 7.

_Cehpech_, in which Merida was founded.
  
8. _Zipatan_, on the northwest
  coast.

  On the east coast, beginning
at the north--
  9. _Choaca_, near Cape Cotoche.
10.

_Ekab_, opposite the Island of
  Cozumel.
11. _Conil_, or of the Cupuls.[TN-3]
  13. _Bakhalal_, or Bacalar.
14.

_Chetemal._ 15. _Taitza_, the
  Peten district.

  Central provinces--

16. _H' Chel_ (or Ah Kin Chel)
  in which Itzamal was
located.
  17. _Zotuta_, of the Cocoms.
18.

_Mani_, of the Xius.
  19. _Cochuah_ (or Cochva, or
Cocolá), the principal town of which was
  Ichmul.

  As No. 15, the Peten district,
was not conquered by the Spaniards
  until 1697, it was doubtless not included in the list drawn up by
Herrera's authority, so that the above would correspond with his
statement.

Each of these provinces was ruled by a
  hereditary chief, who was
called _batab_, or _batabil uinic_
  (_uinic_=man).

He sometimes bore two names, the first being
  that of his mother,
the second of his father, as _Can
  Ek_, in which _Can_ was from the maternal, _Ek_ from the paternal
line.

The surname (_kaba_) descended through the
  male. It was called _hach kaba_,
the true name, or _hool kaba_, the head
  name.

Much attention was paid to preserving the genealogy, and the word
for "of noble birth" was _ah kaba_, "he who has a name."

  Each village of a province was organized under a
ruler, who was styled _halach uinic_, the true
or real man. Frequently he was a junior member
of the reigning family. He was assisted
by a second in command, termed _ah kulel_,
as a lieutenant, and various subordinate
officials, whose duties will be explained in
the notes to Nakuk Pech's narrative.

Personal tenure of land did not exist. The town
lands were divided out annually among the
members of the community, as their wants
required, the consumption of each adult being
calculated at twenty loads (of a man) of
maize each year, this being the staple
food.[27-1]

§ 5. _Grammatical Observations._
Compared with many American languages, the
Maya is simple in construction. It is analytic
rather than synthetic; most of its roots
are monosyllables or dissyllables,
and the order of their arrangement
is very similar to that in English.
It has been observed that foreigners, coming
to Yucatan, ignorant of both Spanish and Maya, acquire a conversational
knowledge of the latter more readily than of the former.[28-1]
An examination of the language explains this.

  Neither nouns nor adjectives undergo any change for gender,
number or case. Before animate nouns the
gender may be indicated by the prefixes _ah_
and _ix_, equivalent to the English _he_ and
_she_ in such expressions as _he-bear_,
_she-bear_. The plural particle is _ob_,
which can be suffixed to animate nouns, but is
in fact the third person plural of the personal
pronoun.

The conjugations of the verbs are four in number.
All passives and neuters end in _l_, and also a certain number of
active verbs; these form the first conjugation, while the remaining
three are of active verbs only.

The time-forms of the verb are three, the present, the aorist, and
the future. Taking the verb _nacal_, to ascend, these forms are _nacal_,
_naci_, _nacac_. The present indicative is:--
Nacal in cah, I ascend.

  Nacal á cah, thou ascendest.
Nacal ú cah, he ascends.
Nacal c cah, we ascend.
Nacal a cah ex, you ascend.
Nacal u cah ob, they ascend.

When this form is analyzed, we discover
that _in_, _á_, _ú_, _c_, _a-ex_, _u-ob_,
are personal possessive pronouns, my, thy, his,
our, your, their; and that _nacal_ and
_cah_ are in fact verbal nouns standing
in apposition. _Cah_, which is the sign of the
present tense, means the doing, making,
being occupied or busy at something. Hence
_nacal in cah_, I ascend, is literally
"the ascent, my being occupied
with." The imperfect tense is merely the present
with the additional verbal noun _cuchi_ added, as--
Nacal in cah cuchi, I was ascending.

  Nacal á cah cuchi, Thou wast
ascending.
etc.

_Cuchi_ means carrying on, bearing
along, and the imperfect may thus be
rendered:--
"The ascent, my being occupied with,
carrying on."
This is what has been called by Friedrich
Müller the "possessive conjugation," the
pronoun used being not in the nominative
but in the possessive form.

The aorist presents a different
mode of formation:--
Nac-en, (i.e. Naci-en) I
ascended.
Nac-ech, Thou ascended.
Naci, He ascended.
Nac-on, We ascended.
Nac-ex, You ascended.
Nac-ob, They ascended.

  Here _en_, _ech_, _on_, _ex_, are
apparently the simple personal
pronouns I, thou, we, you, and are
used predicatively. The future is
also conjugated in this form by the
use of the verbal _bin_, _binel_,
to go:

Bin nacac en, I am going to ascend.

Bin nacac ech, Thou art going to
ascend.
etc.

  The present of all the active verbs
uses this predicative form,
while their aorists and futures employ
possessive forms. Thus:--
Ten cambezic, I teach him.
Tech cambezic, Thou teaches him.
Lay cambezic, He teaches him.

Here, however, I must note a difference of
opinion between eminent grammatical critics.
Friedrich Müller considers all such forms as--

Nac-en, I ascended,
to exhibit "the predicative power of the
true verb," basing his opinion on the analogy
of such expressions as--

Ten batab en, I (am) a chief.[31-1] 
M.

  Lucien Adam, on the other hand, says:--"The
intransitive preterit _nac-en_ may seem
morphologically the same as the Aryan
_ás-mi_; but here again, _nac_ is a verbal
noun, as is demonstrated by the plural of
the third person _nac-ob_, 'the ascenders.'
_Nac-en_ comes to mean 'ascender [formerly]
me.'"[31-2]
I am inclined to think that the French critic
is right, and that, in fact, there is no true
verb in the Maya, but merely verbal nouns,
_nomina actionis_, to which the pronouns stand
either in the possessive or objective
relations, or, more remotely, in the possessive
relation to another verbal noun in apposition,
as _cah_, _cuchi_, etc. The importance of this
point in estimating the structure of the
language will be appreciated by those who have paid any attention
to the science of linguistics.

  The objective form of the conjugation is
composed of the simple personal pronouns of both
persons, together with the possessive of
the agent and the particle _ci_, which conveys the
accessory notion of present action towards.
Thus, from _moc_, to tie:--
Ten c in moc ech, I tie thee, literally,
I my present tying thee.

These refinements of analysis have, of course,
nothing to do with the convenience of the
language for practical purposes. As it has no
dual, no inclusive and exclusive plurals,
no articles nor substantive verb, no
transitions, and few irregular verbs, its forms
are quickly learned. It is not polysynthetic,
at any rate, not more so than French, and its words
undergo no such alteration by agglutination
as in Aztec and Algonkin. Syncopated forms
are indeed common, but to no greater extent
than in colloquial English. The unit of the
tongue remains the word, not the sentence,
and we find no immeasurable words,
expressing in themselves a whole paragraph, such as
grammarians like to quote from the Eskimo,
Aztec, Qquichua and other highly
synthetic languages.

The position of words in a sentence is not dissimilar
from that in English. The adjective
precedes the noun it qualifies, and sentences
usually follow the formula, subject--verbal--object.

  Thus:--
_Hemac cu yacuntic Diose, utz uinic._
He who loves God, [is] good man.

But transposition is allowable, as--

_Taachili u tzicic u yum uinic._
Generally obeys his father, a
man.

As shown in this last example, the
genitive relation is indicated by the
possessive pronoun, as it sometimes
was in English, "John, his book;" but
the Maya is "his book John," _u huun
Juan_.

Another method which is used for
indicating the genitive and
ablative relations is the
termination _il_. This is called "the
determinative ending," and denotes
whose is the object named, or of what.
It is occasionally varied to _al_ and _el_,
to correspond to the last preceding vowel,
but this "vocalic echo" is not common in
Maya. While it denotes use, it does not convey
the idea of ownership. Thus, _u c[=h]een
in yum_, my father's well, means the well
that belongs to my father; but _c[=h]enel
in yum_, my father's well, means the well
from which he obtains water, but in which he has
no proprietorship. Material used is
indicated by this ending, as _xanil na_,
a house of straw (_xan_, straw, _na_,
house).

  
Compound words are frequent, but except
occasional syncope, the members of
the compound undergo no change. There
is little resembling the incapsulation
(_emboitement_) that one sees in most American languages.

Thus, midnight, _chumucakab_, is merely
a union of _chumuc_, middle, and _akab_,
night; dawn, _ahalcab_, is _ahal_, to awaken, _cab_,
the world.

While from the above brief sketch it
will be seen that the Maya is free
from many of the difficulties which
present themselves in most American
tongues, it is by no means devoid
of others.

In its _phonetics_, it possesses six
elements which to the Spaniards were
new. They are represented by the
signs:

  c[=h], k, pp, t[=h], tz, [c].

Of these the c[=h] resembles dch, pronounced
forcibly; the [c] is as dz; the pp is a
forcible double p; and in the t[=h]
the two letters are to be pronounced
separately and forcibly. There remains the
_k_ which is the most difficult of all. It is a
sort of palato-guttural, the only one
in the language, and its sound can only be
acquired by long practice.

The _particles_ are very numerous, and make up the
life of the language.

By them are expressed the relations of space and time, and all the
finer shades of meaning.

Probably no one not to the manor born could render correctly their
full force.

  Buenaventura, in his Grammar, enumerates
sixteen different significations of the
particle _il_.[35-1]
The elliptical and obscure style adopted by
most native writers, partly from ignorance of the
art of composition, partly because they
imitated the mystery in expression affected
by their priests, forms a serious obstacle
even to those fairly acquainted with the current
language.

  Moreover, the older manuscripts contain both
words and forms unfamiliar to a cultivated
Yucatecan of to-day.

I must, however, not omit to contradict
formally an assertion made by the traveler
Waldeck, and often repeated, that the language has
undergone such extensive changes that what
was written a century ago is unintelligible
to a native of to-day. So far is this
from the truth that, except for a few obsolete
words, the narrative of the Conquest, written
more than three hundred years ago, by the
chief Pech, which I print in this volume,
could be read without much difficulty by any
educated native.

Again, as in all languages largely monosyllabic, there are many
significations attached to one word, and these often widely
different.

  Thus _kab_ means, a hand; a handle; a
branch; sap; an offence; while _cab_ means the
world; a country; strength; honey; a hive;
sting of an insect; juice of a plant; and, in
composition, promptness. It will be readily
understood that cases will occur where the
context leaves it doubtful which of these
meanings is to be chosen.

These _homonyms_ and _paronyms_, as they
are called by grammarians, offer a fine field
for sciolists in philology, wherein to
discover analogies between the Maya and
other tongues, and they have been vigorously culled
out for that purpose. All such efforts are
inconsistent with correct methods in linguistics.
The folly of the procedure may be illustrated
by comparing the English and the Maya. I
suppose no one will pretend that these
languages, at any rate in their present
modern forms, are related. Yet the following
are but a few of the many verbal similarities that could be pointed
out:-- 
MAYA.

ENGLISH.

bateel, battle.

  c[=h]ab, to grab, to take.
hol, hole.
hun, one.
lum, loam.
pol, poll (head).
potum, a pot.
pul, to pull, carry.
tun, stone.

So with the Latin we could find such similarities
as _volah_=volo, _[c]a_=dare, etc.

In fact, no relationship of the Maya linguistic group
to any other has been discovered.

  It contains a number of words borrowed from
the Aztec (Nahuatl); and the latter in turn
presents many undoubtedly borrowed from
the Maya dialects.
Hill, wood, and valley, brighten in her beam;
And wavy silver glitters on the stream.
The distant path-way shews distinct and clear,
From far inviting, but perplex'd when near.
For blackning shadows add deceitful length,
And lesser objects gain unwonted strength;
Each step misguiding; to the eye unknown,
The shining gutter, from the glist'ning stone;
While crossing shadows checker o'er the ground,
The more perplexing for the brightness round.
Deceitful are thy smiles, untoward Night!
Thy gloom is better than misguiding light.
Then welcome is yon cloud that onward fails,
And all this glary shew in darkness veils.
But see how soon the fleeting shade is past,
And streamy brightness moots across the waste.
Now fly the shadows borne upon the wind;
Succeeding brightness travels fast behind.
And now it low'rs again. Inconstant Night,
Confound thy freaks! be either dark or light.
Yet let them come; whate'er thy changes be,
I was a fool to put my trust in thee.


AN ADDRESS TO THE NIGHT.

A SORROWFUL MIND.

  How lone and dreary hangs the sombre Night
O'er wood and valley, stream and craggy height!
While nearer objects, bush, and waving bough,
Their dark uncertain forms but dimly show;
Like those with which disturbed fancies teem,
And shape the scen'ry of a gloomy dream.
The moon is cover'd with her sable shrowd;
And o'er the heav'us rove many a dusky cloud;
Thro' ragged rents the paly sky is seen,
And feebly glance the twinkling stars between:
Whilst earth below is wrapt in stilly gloom,
All sad and silent as the closed tomb.

  No bleating flock is heard upon the vale;
Nor lowing kine upon the open dale;
Nor voice of hunter on the lonely heath;
Nor sound of trav'ller on the distant path.
Shut is the fenced door of man's abode;
And ruffling breezes only are abroad.
How mournful is thy voice, O nightly gale!
Across the wood, or down the narrow vale;
And sad, tho' secret and unknown they be,
The sighs of woeful hearts that wake with thee.
For now no friends the haunts of sorrow seek;
Tears hang unchidden on the mourner's cheek:
No side-look vexes from the curious eye;
Nor calm reproving reasoner is by;
The kindly cumbrous visitor is gone,
And laden spirits love to sigh alone.
O Night! wild sings the wind, deep low'rs the shade;
Thy robe is gloomy, and thy voice is sad:
But weary souls confin'd in earthly cell
Are deep in kindred gloom, and love thee well.

  But now the veiling darkness passes by;
The moon unclouded holds the middle sky.
A soft and mellow light is o'er the wood;
And silv'ry pureness sparkles on the flood.
White tow'r the clifts from many a craggy breach;
The brown heath shews afar its dreary stretch.
While fairer as the brighten'd object swells,
Fast by its side the darker shadow dwells:
The lofty mountains form the deeper glade,
And keener light but marks the blacker made.
Then welcome yonder clouds that swiftly sail,
And o'er yon glary op'ning draw the veil.
But, ah! too swiftly flies the friendly shade!
Returning brightness travels up the glade,
And all is light again. O fickle Night!
No traveller is here to bless thy light.
I seek nor home, nor shed; I have no way;
Why send thy beams to one who cannot stray?
Or wood, or desert, is the same to me;
O low'r again, and let me rest with thee!


AN ADDRESS TO THE NIGHT.

A JOYFUL MIND.

  The warping gloom of night is gather'd round;
And varied darkness marks the uneven ground.
A dimmer shade is on the mountain's brow,
And deeper low'rs the lengthen'd vale below;
While nearer objects all enlarged and dark,
Their strange and shapeless forms uncouthly mark;
Which thro' muddy night are dimly shown,
Like old companions in a garb unknown.
The heavy sheeted clouds are spread on high,
And streaky darkness bounds the farther sky:
And swift along the lighter vagrants sweep,
Whilst clear stars thro' their riven edges peep.
Soft thro' each ragged breach, and streamy rent,
And open gaps in dusky circle pent,
The upper heaven looks serenely bright
In dappled gold, and snowy fleeces dight:
And on the middle current lightly glides
The lesser cloud, with silver wreathy sides.
In sudden gusts awakes the nightly breeze
Across the wood, and rustles thro' the trees;
Or whistles on the plain with eddying sweep;
Or issues from the glen in wailings deep,
Which die away upon the open vale:
Whilst in the pauses of the ruffling gale
The buzzing night-fly rises from the ground,
And wings his flight in many a mazy round;
And lonely owls begin their nightly strain,
So hateful to the ear of 'nighted swain.
Thou do'st the weary trav'ller mislead;
Thy voice is roughsome, and uncooth thy weed,
O gloomy Night! for black thy shadows be,
And fools have rais'd a bad report on thee.
Yet art thou free and friendly to the gay,
And light hearts prize thee equal to the day.

  Now tiresome plodding folks are gone to rest;
And soothing slumber locks the careful breast.
And tell-tale friends, and wise advisers snore;
And softly slip-shod youths unbar the door.
Now footsteps echo far, and watch-dogs bark;
Worms glow, and cats' eyes glitter in the dark.
The vagrant lover crosses moor and hill,
And near the lowly cottage whistles shrill:
Or, bolder grown, beneath the friendly shade,
Taps at the window of his fav'rite maid;
Who from above his simple tale receives,
Whilst stupid matrons start, and think of thieves,
Now daily fools unbar the narrow soul,
All wise and gen'rous o'er the nightly bowl.
The haunted wood receives its motley host,
(By trav'ller shun'd) tho' neither fag nor ghost;
And there the crackling bonfire blazes red,
While merry vagrants feast beneath the shed.
From sleepless beds unquiet spirits rise,
And cunning wags put on their borrow'd guise:
Whilst silly maidens mutter o'er their boon,
And crop their fairy weeds beneath the moon:
And harmless plotters slyly take the road,
And trick and playful mischief is abroad.

  But, lo! the moon looks forth in splendour bright,
Fair and unclouded, from her middle height.
The passing cloud unveils her kindly ray,
And slowly sails its weary length away;
While broken fragments from its fleecy side,
In dusky bands before it swiftly glide;
Their misty texture changing with the wind,
A strange and scatter'd group, of motley kind
As ever earth or fruitful ocean fed,
Or ever youthful poets fancy bred.
His surgy length the wreathing serpent trails,
And by his side the rugged camel sails:
The winged griffith follows close behind,
And spreads his dusky pinions to the wind.
Athwart the sky in scatter'd bands they range
From shape to shape, transform'd in endless change;
Then piece meal torn, in ragged portions stray,
Or thinly spreading, slowly melt away.
A softer brightness covers all below;
Hill, dale, and wood, in mellow'd colour's glow.
High tow'rs the whiten'd rock in added strength;
The brown heath shews afar its dreary length.
The winding river glitters on the vale;
And gilded trees wave in the passing gale.
Upon the ground each black'ning shadow lies,
And hasty darkness o'er the valley flies.
Wide sheeting shadows travel o'er the plain,
And swiftly close upon the varied scene.
Return, O lovely moon! and look from high,
All stately riding in thy motled sky,
Yet, O thy beams in hasty visits come!
As swiftly follow'd by the fleeting gloom.
O Night! thy smiles are short, and short thy shade;
Thou art a freakish friend, and all unstay'd:
Yet from thy varied changes who are free?
Full many an honest friend resembles thee.
Then let my doubtful footsteps darkling stray,
Thy next fair beam will set me on my way:
E'en take thy freedom, whether rough or kind,
I came not forth to quarrel with the wind.


TO  FEAR.

  O thou! before whose haggard eyes
A thousand images arise,
Whose forms of horror none may see,
But with a soul disturb'd by thee!
Wilt thon for ever haunt mankind,
And glare upon the darken'd mind!
Whene'er thou enterest a breast,
Thou robb'st it of its joy and rest;
And terrible, and strange to tell,
On what that mind delights to dwell.
The ruffian's knife with reeking blade,
The stranger murder'd in his bed:
The howling wind, the raging deep,
The sailor's cries, the sinking ship:
The awful thunder breaking round:
The yauning gulf, the rocking ground:
The precipice, whose low'ring brow
O'erhangs the horrid deep below;
And tempts the wretch, worn out with strife,
Of worldly cares, to end his life.

  But when thou raisest to the fight
Unearthly forms that walk the night,
The chilly blood, with magic art,
Runs backward on the stoutest heart.
Lo! in his post the soldier stands[See Spectator, No. 12.]!
The deadly weapon in his hands.
In front of death he rushes on,
Renown with life is cheaply won,
Whilst all his soul with ardour burns,
And to the thickest danger turns.
But see the man alone, unbent,
A church-yard near, and twilight spent,
Returning late to his abode,
Upon an unfrequented road:
No choice is left, his feet must tread
The awful dwelling of the dead.
In foul mist doth the pale moon wade,
No twinkling star breaks thro' the shade:
Thick rows of trees increase the gloom,
And awful silence of the tomb.
Swift to his thoughts, unbidden, throng
Full many a tale, forgotten long,
Of ghosts, who at the dead of night
Walk round their graves all wrapt in white,
And o'er the church-yard dark and drear,
Becken the traveller to draw near:
And restless sprites, who from the ground,
Just as the midnight clock doth sound,
Rise slowly to a dreadful height,
Then vanish quickly from the fight:
And wretches who, returning home,
By chance have stumbled near some tomb,
Athwart a coffin or a bone,
And three times heard a hollow groan;
With fearful steps he takes his way,
And shrinks, and wishes it were day.
He starts and quakes at his own tread,
But dare not turn about his head.
Some sound he hears on ev'ry side;
And thro' the trees strange phantoms glide.
His heart beats thick against his breast,
And hardly stays within its chest:
Wild and unsettled are his eyes;
His quicken'd hairs begin to rise:
Ghastly and strong his features grow;
The cold dew trickles from his brow;
Whilst grinning beat his clatt'ring teeth,
And loosen'd knock his joints beneath.
As to the charnel he draws nigh
The whiten'd tomb-stone strikes his eye:
He starts, he stops, his eye-balls glare,
And settle in a death-like stare:
Deep hollow sounds ring in his ear;
Such sounds as dying wretches hear
When the grim dreaded tyrant calls,
A horrid sound, he groans and falls.

  Thou do'st our fairest hope destroy;
Thou art a gloom o'er ev'ry joy;
Unheeded let my dwelling be,
O Fear! but far remov'd from thee!


A STORY OF OTHER TIMES.

SOMEWHAT IN IMITATION OF THE POEMS OF OSSIAN.


LATHMOR.
But why do'st thou stop on the way, and hold me thus hard in thy grasp?
It was but the voice of the winds from the deep narrow glens of Glanarven.

ALLEN.
The heath is unruffled around, and the oak o'er thy head is at rest:
Calm swells the moon on the lake, and nothing is heard in the reeds.
Sad was the sound, O my father! but it was not the voice of the wind.

LATHMOR.
What dark tow'ring rock do I see 'midst the grey spreading mist of the
hills?
This is not the vale of Clanarven: my son, we have err'd from the way,

ALLEN.
It is not a dark tow'ring rock, 'midst the grey settled mist of the hills.
'Tis a dark tow'r of strength which thou seest, and the ocean spreads
dimly behind it.

LATHMOR.
Then here will we stop for the night, for the tow'r of Arthula is near.
Proceed not, my son, on the way, for it was not the voice of the wind.
The ghost of the valliant is forth; and it mourns round the place of its
woe.
The tray'ller oft' hears it at midnight, and turns him aside from its
haunt.
The sharp moon is spent in her course, and the way of the desert is
doubtful.
This oak with his wide leavy branches will shelter our heads from the
night;
And I'll tell thee a story of old, since the tow'r of Arthula is near.

From the walls of his strength came Lochallen, with his broad chested sons
of the hills.
He was strong as a bull of the forest, and keen as a bird of the rock.
His friends of the chace were around him, the sons of the heroes of Mora.
They were clad in the strength of their youth; and the sound of their arms
rung afar.
For Uthal had led his dark host from the blue misty isle of his power;
And o'erspread like a cloud of the desert, the land of the white-headed
Lorma.
Of Lorma who sat in the hall, and lamented the sons of his youth;
For Orvina remained alone to support the frail steps of his age.
He sent to the king of Ithona: he remembered the love of his father:
And Lochallen soon join'd him on Loarn with the high minded chieftains of
Mora.

Loud was the sound of the battle, and many the slain of the field.
Red was the sword of Lochallen: it was red with the blood of the brave.
For his eye sought the combat of heroes, and the mighty withstood not his
arm.
He rag'd like a flame on the heath; and the enemy fled from his face.

But short was the triumph of Lorma; the hour of his fading was near.
Whilst a bard rais'd the song of the battle, his dim eyes were closed in
death.
He fell like a ruined tow'r; like a fragment of times that are past:
Like a rock whose foundation is worn with the lashes of many a wave.
Four grey head warriors of Lorma remain'd from the days of his youth:
They mourn'd o'er the fall of their lord; and they bore him to his dark
narrow house.
His memorial was rais'd on the hill; and the lovely Orvina wept over it.
She bent her fair form o'er the heap; and her sorrow was silent, and
gentle.
It flow'd like the pure twinkling dream beneath the green shade of the
fern.
The hunters oft bless it at noon, tho' the strangers perceive not its
course.
The wind of the hill rais'd her locks, and Lochallen beheld her in grief.
The soul of the hero was knit to the tear-eyed daughter of Lorma.
She was graceful and tall as the willow, that bends o'er the deep shady
stream.
Her eye like a sun-beam on water, that gleams thro' the dark skirting
reeds.
Her hair like the light wreathing cloud, that floats on the brow of the
hill,
When the beam of the morning is there, and it scatters its skirts to the
wind.
Lovely and soft were her smiles, like a glimpse from the white riven
cloud,
When the sun hastens over the lake, and a summer show'r ruffles its bosom.
Her voice was the sweet sound of midnight, that visits the ear of the
bard,
When he darts from the place of his slumber, and calls on some far distant
friend.
She was fair 'mongst the maids of her time; and she soften'd the wrath of
the mighty.
Their eyes lighten'd up in her presence; they dropt their dark spears as
she spoke.
Lochallen was firm in his strength, and unmov'd in the battle of heroes;
Like a rock-fenced isle of the ocean, that shews its dark head thro' the
storm.
His brow was like a cliff on the shore, that fore-warneth the hunters of
Ithona;
For there gleams the first ray of morning, and there broods the mist ere
the storm:
It shone, and it darken'd by turns, as the strength of his passions arose.
He was terrible as a gathering storm, when his soul learnt the wrongs of
the feeble.
His eye was the lightning of shields; he was swift as a blast in its
course.
When the warriours return'd from the field, and the sons of the mighty
assembled,
He was graceful as the light tow'ring cloud that rises from the blue
bounded main.
Gentle and fair was his form in the tow'rs of the hilly Ithona.
His voice cheer'd the soul of the sad; he would sport with a child in the
hall.

Matchless in the days of their love were Lochallen and the daughter of
Lorma.
But their beauty has ceas'd on Arthula; and the place of their rest is
unknown.
The family of Lorma has fail'd, and strangers rejoice in his hall:
But voices of sorrow are heard when the stillness of midnight is there;
The stranger is wak'd with the sound, and enquires of the race that is
gone.
But wherefore thus doleful and sad, do ye wander alone on Arthula?
Why look ye thus lonely and sad, ye children of the dark narrow house?
Your names shall be known in the song, when the fame of the mighty is low.

ALLEN.
From what cloud of the hills do they look? for I see not their forms, O my
father!

LATHMOR.
Why do'st thou tremble my son? thou hast fought in the battle of shields.
They look'd from no cloud of the hills; but the soul of thy father beheld
them.
Lochallen return'd from the field, to the sea-beaten tower of Arthula.
Five days he abode in the hall, and they pass'd like a glimpse of the sun,
When the clouds of the tempest are rent, and the green island smiles
'midst the storm.
On the sixth a cloud hung on his brow, and his eye shun'd the looks of his
friends.
He spoke to the maid of his soul, and the trouble of his bosom was great.
Pleasant is the hall of my love; but the storm gathers round us, Orvina.
I must go to the island of Uthal, and scatter his gathering force.
But like a cleft oak of the forest, I'll quickly return to my love:
When the hard wedge is drawn from its side, it returns to itself again.
The daughter of Lorma was silent: she turn'd her fair face from his sight.
Go to the war, son of Mora; and the strength of thy fathers go with thee.
I will sit on the high rocky shore, and look o'er the wide foaming sea.
I will watch ev'ry blue rising cloud, till I see thy dark vessels return.

He gather'd his warriours around him; they darken'd the brown rugged
shore.
The rocks echo'd wide to their cries, and loud was the dashing of oars.
Orvina stood high on a rock, that hung o'er the deep lashing main;
Big swell'd the tear in her eye, and high heav'd the sighs of her bosom;
As she saw the white billows encreasing between his dark ship and the
shore.
Her fixed eye follow'd its course o'er many a far distant wave,
Till its broad sails, and high tow'ring mast but appear'd like a speck on
the waters;
Yet still she beheld in her fancy the form of her love on its side;
And she stretched her white arms to the ocean, and wav'd her loose girdle
on high.

Soon reach'd the sons of Ithona the blue misty isle of their foe.
Like the pent up dogs of the hunter when let loose from their prison of
night;
Who snuff up the air of the morning, and rejoice at the voice of the
chace;
They leapt from the sides of their vessels, and spread o'er the wide
sounding shore.
Thick on the brown heathy plain, were spread the dark thousands of Uthal.
The warriours of Lochallen were few, but their fathers were known in the
song.
Like a small rapid stream of the hills when it falls on the broad settled
lake,
And troubles its dark muddy bosom, and dashes its waters aloft,
So rush'd the keen sons of Ithona on the thick gather'd host of the foe.
Red gleam'd the arms of the brave thro' the brown rising dust of the
field.
Fierce glar'd the eyes of Lochallen; he fought the dark face of his enemy.
He found the grim king of the isle; but the strength of his chieftains was
round him.
Come forth in thy might, said Lochallen; come forth to the combat of
kings.
Great is the might of thy warriours; but where is the strength of thine
arms?
Youth of Ithona, said Uthal, thy fathers were mighty in battle,
Return to thy brown woody hills, till the hair is grown dark on thy cheek;
Then come from the tow'rs of thy safety, a foe less unworthy of Uthal.
But thou lovest a weakly enemy, foe of the white haired chief.
Thou lovest a foe that is weak, said the red swelling pride of Lochallen.
Seest thou this sword of my youth? it is red with the blood of thy heroes.
Come forth in the strength of thine years, and hand its dark blade in thy
hall.
He lifted a spear in his wrath o'er the head of his high worded foe;
But the strength of his chieftains was there, and it rung on their broad
spreading shields.
He turned himself scornful away, to look for some nobler enemy;
He met thee fair son of Hidallo, as chaffing he strode in his wrath;
But thou never did'st turn from the valiant, youth of the far distant
land.
Fierce fought the heroes, and wonder'd each chief at the might of his foe.
They found themselves matched in strength, and they fought in the pride of
their souls.
Bloody and long was the fight, but the arm of Lochallen prevail'd.
Ah, why did you combat, ye heroes! ah, why did ye meet in the field!
Your souls had been brothers of love, had ye met in the dwellings of
peace.
He was like to thyself, son of Mora, where his voice cheer'd the heart of
the stranger
In the far distant hall of his father, who never shall hear it again;
He was like to thyself whom thou slewest; and he fell in his youth like
thee.
The maid of thy bosom is lovely, thou fair fallen son of the stranger.
She sits on her high hanging bower, and looks to the way of thy promise.
She combs down her long yellow hair; and prepares a fine robe for thy
coming.
She starts at the voice of the breeze, and runs to the door of her bow'r.
But thou art a dim misty form on the clouds of far distant hills.

Fierce was the rage of the battle, and terrible the clanging of arms.
Loud were the shouts of the mighty, like the wide scatter'd thunder of
Lora,
When its voice is return'd from the rocks, and it strengthens in its broad
spreading course.
Heavy were the groans of the dying; the voice of the fallen was sad,
Like the deep 'prison'd winds of the cavern, when the roar of the tempest
is laid.
The sons of Ithona were terrible: the enemy fled from before them,
Like the dark gather'd fowls of the ocean, that flock to the shore ere a
storm.
They fled from the might of their foes, and the darkness of night clos'd
around them.

Cold rose the wind of the desert, and blew o'er the dark bloody field.
Sad was its voice on the heath, where it lifted the locks of the dead.
Hollow roar'd the sea at a distance: the ghosts of the slain shriek'd
aloud.
Pale shady forms stalk'd around, and their airy swords gleam'd thro' the
night;
For the spirits of warriours departed came born on the deep rushing blast;
There hail'd they their new fallen sons, and the sound of their meeting
was terrible.
At a distance was gather'd Ithona round many a bright flaming oak;
Till morning rose red o'er the main, like a new bloody field of battle.

Lochallen assembled his heroes; they rang'd o'er the land of their enemy.
But they found not the king in the field; and the walls of his strength
were deserted.
Then spoke the friend of his bosom, the dark haired chief of Trevallen;
Why seek you the king in his tow'rs? Weinbrenner in the beginning of the
19th century / From a photograph by the Badischen Denkmäler-Archivs Kratt,
Karlsruhe]

The Choir in the Cathedral at Magdeburg / The Choir, begun in 1208,
is the earliest specimen of Gothic architecture in Germany.On the third day they loosen'd their vessels, and left the blue isle of
their fame.
The darkness of night was around when the bay of Arthula receiv'd them.
Thick beat the joy of his bosom, as he drew near the place of his love;
But the strength of his limbs was unloos'd, as he trode on the dark
sounding shore.
Thou did'st promise, O maid of my soul! thou did'st promise to watch for
thy love!
But no kindly messenger waits to hail my return from the war.
The tow'r of Arthula is dark; and I hear not the sound of its hall.
The watch dog howls to the night, nor heeds the approach of our feet.
He seized a bright flaming brand, and he hasten'd his steps to the tow'r.
Wide stood the black low'ring gate; and deep was the silence within.
Hollow and loud rung his steps, as he trode thro' the dark empty hall.
He flew to the bow'r of his love; it was still as the chamber of death.
His eyes search'd wildly around him; he call'd on the name of his love;
But his own voice returned alone from the deep-sounding walls of the
tow'r.
He leant with his back to the wall, and cross'd his arms over his breast.
Heavy sunk his head on his shoulder: the blue flame burnt double before
him.
A voice, like the evening breeze when it steals down the bed of the river,
Came softly and sad to his ear, and he raised his drooping head.
The form of his love stood before him: yet it was not the form of his
love;
For fixed and dim was her eye, and the beams of her beauty were fled.
She was pale as the white frozen lake, when it gleams to the light of the
moon.
Her garments were heavy and drench'd, and the streams trickled fast from
her hair.
She was like a snow-crusted tree in winter, when it drops to the mid-day
sun.
O seek not for me, son of Moro, in the light cheerful dwellings of men!
For low is my bed in the deep, and cold is the place of my rest.
The sea monster sports by my side, and the water-snake twines round my
neck.
But do not forget me, Lochallen: O think on the days of our love!
I sat on the high rocky shore, mine eyes look'd afar o'er the ocean.
I saw two dark ships on the waves, and quick beat the joy of my breast.
One vessel drew near to the shore, and six warriours leapt from its side.
I hasten'd to meet thee, my love; but mine ear met the stern voice of
Uthal.
I thought that my hero was slain, and I felt me alone in my weakness.
I felt me deserted and lonely: I flew to the steep hanging rock:
I threw my robe over my head; and I hid me in the dark closing deep.
Yet O do not leave me, Lochallen, to waste in my watery bed!
But raise me a tomb on the hill, where the daughter of Lorma should lie.
The voice of her sorrow did cease; and her form passed quickly away.
It pass'd like the pale shiv'ring light, that is lost in the dark closing
cloud.

But, lo! the first light of the morning is red on the skirts of the
heavens.
Let us go on my journey, my son, for the length of the heath is before us.

ALLEN.
It is not the light of the morn which thou see'st on the skirts of the
heavens;
It is but a clear shiv'ring brightness, that changes its hue to the night.
I have seen it like a bloody-spread robe when it hung o'er the waves of
the North.
Sad was the fate of his love, but how fell the king of Ithona?
I have heard of the strength of his arm; did he fall in the battle of
heroes?

LATHMOR.
He fell in the strength of his youth, but he fell not in battle, my son.
He knew not the sword of a foe, yet he died not the death of the peaceful.
They carried them both to the hill, but the place of their rest is
unknown.

ALLEN.
But feeble and spent is thy voice, thou grey haired bard of the hill.

LATHMOR.
Long is this song of the night, and I feel not the strength of my youth.

ALLEN.
Then let us go on our way: let us go by the way of the heath.
For it is the fair light of the morning which thou see'st on the far
bounding waves.
Slowly it grows in its beauty, and promises good to the traveller.
Red are the small broken clouds that hang on the skirts of the heavens.
Deep glows the clear open sky with the light of the yet hidden sun,
Save where the dark narrow cloud hath stretched its vast length o'er the
heavens;
And the clear ruddy brightness behind it looks fair thro' its blue
streaming lines.
A bloom like the far distant heath is dark on the wide roving clouds.
The broad wavy breast of the ocean is grand in the beauty of morning.
Thick rests the white settled mist on the deep rugged clifts of the shore;
And the grey rocks look dimly between, like the high distant isles in a
calm.
But grim low'r the walks of Arthula; the light of the morn is behind them.


LATHMOR.
Dark low'rs the tow'r of Arthula: the time of its glory is past.
The valiant have ceas'd from its hall; and the son of the stranger is
there.
The works of the mighty remain, but they are the vapour of morning.


A MOTHER TO HER WAKING INFANT.

Now in thy dazzling half-op'd eye,
Thy curled nose, and lip awry,
Thy up-hoist arms, and noddling head,
And little chin with crystal spread,
Poor helpless thing! what do I see,
  That I should sing of thee?

From thy poor tongue no accents come,
Which can but rub thy toothless gum:
Small understanding boast thy face,
Thy shapeless limbs nor step, nor grace:
A few short words thy feats may tell,
  And yet I love thee well.

When sudden wakes the bitter shriek,
And redder swells thy little cheek;
When rattled keys thy woe beguile,
And thro' the wet eye gleams the smile,
Still for thy weakly self is spent
  Thy little silly plaint.

Titzenthaler, Berlin]

[Illustration: The most beautiful
specimen of an early Gothic cloister
in Germany / The Cistercian
  Cloister Maulbronn in Württemberg, reconstructed in 1201 / The
so-called "Hell stairway" in the Cloister /
From a photograph by August Krüger, Maulbronn]
[Illustration: The Zwinger (bastion) at Dresden / Court surrounded
by six pavilions joined together by galleries. / A wonder-work of
German Baroque, built 1711-1722 by Matthäus Daniel Pöppelmann (born
at Dresden in 1662, died in Dresden in 1736) / With the permission
of the Neuen Photographischen Gesellschaft, Berlin-Steglitz]

[Illustration: From the golden period of commerce in the German
Moyenage / The Artus or Junker Court in Dantzig, the festival hall
of the Dantzig merchants / Master Heinrich Holzapfel of Cologne
finished the magnificent stalls of the Hall in 1531 / From a
photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]
[Illustration: The crown of Gothic architecture in Germany / The
Cathedral at Cologne on the Rhine / Begun in 1248 under Gerhard von
Rile; restoration in 1842 under Zwirner, completed in 1880 by Voigtel
/
From a photograph by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]

[Illustration: Wilhelm Leibl, born at Cologne on the Rhine, October
23, 1844, died in Würzburg, December 4, 1900 / "Dachauer Peasant
Women" (1875), hanging in the National Gallery, Berlin / With the
permission of the Photographischen Gesellschaft, Charlottenburg]

[Illustration: The Bavaria in front of the Hall of Fame in Munich
/
Erected by King Ludwig I, 1843-1853 / The Hall of Fame built by Leo
von Klenze, the colossal statue of the Bavaria modeled by Schwanthaler,
cast by Ferdinand Miller / From a photograph by Jaeger and Görgen,
Munich]
[Illustration: Late Gothic architecture in Saxony / The Albrecht
Castle in Meissen / Built by Master Arnold in 1471 / The Cathedral
erected on the summit in 1260-1450 / From a photograph by Waldemar
Titzenthaler, Berlin]
[Illustration: The celebrated marble-bath pavilion of Pierre Francois
Monnot in the Aue (Meadow) at Cassel / The Castle consists of the
Orangery, built by the Hugenot, Paul Dury, 1701-1711, the castle
built in 1765 and the bath, completed in 1728 / From a photograph
by the National Messbildanstalt, Berlin]
[Illustration: Lichtenstein Castle near Reutlingen in Württemberg
/
Built in 1841 by Heideloff on the site of the old citadel, Lichtenstein,
made famous by Wilhelm Hauff's romance / From a photograph by Ludwig
Schaller, Stuttgart]
[Illustration: Karlsruhe in Baden, the birthplace of Viktor von
Scheffel / Glimpse of the center of the town-hall on the market-place
through the pillars of the Protestant Church / Built by Fr.

I have a tale both long and good,
About a partlet and her brood;
And cunning greedy fox, that stole,
By dead of midnight thro' a hole,
Which slyly to the hen-roost led--
  You love a story, dad?

And then I have a wond'rous tale
Of men all clad in coats of mail.
With glitt'ring swords----you nod, I think?
Your fixed eyes begin to wink:
Down on your bosom sinks your head:
You do not hear me, dad.



THE HORSE AND HIS RIDER.

Brac'd in the sinewy vigour of thy breed,
In pride of gen'rous strength, thou stately steed,
Thy broad chest to the battle's front is given,
Thy mane fair floating to the winds of heaven.
For particulars about Aguilar see Herrera,
_Hist. de las Indias_, Dec. II, Lib. IV,
cap. VIII.

_Lai yabil hauic_, etc. This is an important sentence, as fixing a
date in the ancient chronology. _U tunil balcah_ is an ancient term,
not explained in the dictionaries.Thy kindling eye-balls brave the glaring south;
And dreadful is the thunder of thy mouth:
Whilst low to earth thy curving haunches bend,
Thy sweepy tail involv'd in clouds of sand;
Erect in air thou rear'st thy front of pride,
And ring'st the plated harness on thy side.
But, lo! what creature, goodly to the sight,
Dares thus bestride thee, chaffing in thy might?
Of portly stature, and determin'd mien?
Whose dark eye dwells beneath a brow serene?
And forward looks unmov'd to fields of death:
And smiling, gently strokes thee in thy wrath?
Whose brandish'd falch'on dreaded gleams afar?
It is a British soldier, arm'd for war!


FINIS.