He felt no temptation to write sonatas on her eyebrow--to borrow
Peter's variation, for the use of musicians, of Shakespeare's "write
sonnets on his mistress's eyebrow"--and, indeed, he knew she could be
no fit mistress for him--this starveling drudge, with passive passions,
meek, accepting, with well-nigh every spark of spontaneity choked out
of her.  The women of his dreams were quite other--beautiful,
voluptuous, full of the joy of life, tremulous with poetry and lofty
thought, with dark, amorous orbs that flashed responsive to his magic
melodies.  They hovered about him as he wrote and played--Venuses
rising from the seas of his music.  And then--with his eyes full of the
divine tears of youth, with his brain a hive of winged dreams--he would
turn and kiss merely Mary Ann!  Such is the pitiful breed of mortals.

And after every such fall he thought more contemptuously of Mary Ann.
Idealise her as he might, see all that was best in her as he tried to
do, she remained common and commonplace enough.  Her ingenuousness,
while from one point of view it was charming, from another was but a
pleasant synonym for silliness.  And it might not be ingenuousness--or
silliness--after all!  For was Mary Ann as innocent as she looked?  The
guilelessness of the dove might very well cover the wisdom of the
serpent.  The instinct--the repugnance that made him sponge off her
first kiss from his lips--was probably a true instinct.  How was it
possible a girl of that class should escape the sordid attentions of
street swains?  Even when she was in the country she was well-nigh of
woo-able age, the likely cynosure of neighbouring ploughboys' eyes.
And what of the other lodgers?

A finer instinct--that of a gentleman--kept him from putting any
questions to Mary Ann.  Indeed, his own delicacy repudiated the images
that strove to find entry in his brain, even as his fastidiousness
shrank from realising the unlovely details of Mary Ann's daily
duties--these things disgusted him more with himself than with her.
And yet he found himself acquiring a new and illogical interest in the
boots he met outside doors.  Early one morning he went half-way up the
second flight of stairs--a strange region where his own boots had never
before trod--but came down ashamed and with fluttering heart as if he
had gone up to steal boots instead of to survey them.  He might have
asked Mary Ann or her "missus" who the other tenants were, but he
shrank from the topic.  Their hours were not his, and he only once
chanced on a fellow-man in the passage, and then he was not sure it was
not the tax-collector.  Besides, he was not really interested--it was
only a flicker of idle curiosity as to the actual psychology of Mary
Ann.  That he did not really care he proved to himself by kissing her
next time.  He accepted her as she was--because she was there.  She
brightened his troubled life a little, and he was quite sure he
brightened hers.  So he drifted on, not worrying himself to mean any
definite harm to her.  He had quite enough worry with those
music-publishers.

The financial outlook was, indeed, becoming terrifying.  He was glad
there was nobody to question him, for he did not care to face the
facts.  Peter's threat of becoming a regular visitor had been nullified
by his father despatching him to Germany to buy up some more Teutonic
patents.  "Wonderful are the ways of Providence!" he had written to
Lancelot.  "If I had not flown in the old man's face and picked up a
little German here years ago, I should not be half so useful to him
now. . . .  I shall pay a flying visit to Leipsic--not on business."

But at last Peter returned, Mrs. Leadbatter panting to the door to let
him in one afternoon without troubling to ask Lancelot if he was "at
home."  He burst upon the musician, and found him in the most
undisguisable dumps.

"Why didn't you answer my letter, you impolite old bear?" Peter asked,
warding off Beethoven with his umbrella.

"I was busy," Lancelot replied pettishly.

"Busy writing rubbish.  Haven't you got 'Ops.' enough?  I bet you
haven't had anything published yet."

"I'm working at a grand opera," he said in dry, mechanical tones.  "I
have hopes of getting it put on.  Gasco, the _impresario_, is a member
of my club, and he thinks of running a season in the autumn.  I had a
talk with him yesterday."

"I hope I shall live to see it," said Peter sceptically.

"I hope you will," said Lancelot sharply.

"None of my family ever lived beyond ninety," said Peter, shaking his
head dolefully; "and then, my heart is not so good as it might be."

"It certainly isn't!" cried poor Lancelot.  "But everybody hits a chap
when he's down."

He turned his head away, striving to swallow the lump that would rise
to his throat.  He had a sense of infinite wretchedness and loneliness.

"Oh, poor old chap; is it so bad as all that?"  Peter's somewhat
strident voice had grown tender as a woman's.  He laid his hand
affectionately on Lancelot's tumbled hair.  "You know I believe in you
with all my soul.  I never doubted your genius for a moment.  Don't I
know too well that's what keeps you back?  Come, come, old fellow.
Can't I persuade you to write rot?  One must keep the pot boiling, you
know.  You turn out a dozen popular ballads, and the coin'll follow
your music as the rats did the pied piper's.  Then, if you have any
ambition left, you kick away the ladder by which you mounted, and stand
on the heights of art."

"Never!" cried Lancelot.  "It would degrade me in my own eyes.  I'd
rather starve; and you can't shake them off--the first impression is
everything; they would always be remembered against me," he added,
after a pause.

"Motives mixed," reflected Peter.  "That's a good sign."  Aloud he
said, "Well, you think it over.  This is a practical world, old man; it
wasn't made for dreamers.  And one of the first dreams that you've got
to wake from is the dream that anybody connected with the stage can be
relied on from one day to the next.  They gas for the sake of gassing,
or they tell you pleasant lies out of mere goodwill, just as they call
for your drinks.  Their promises are beautiful bubbles, on a basis of
soft soap and made to 'bust.'"

"You grow quite eloquent," said Lancelot, with a wan smile.

"Eloquent!  There's more in me than you've yet found out.  Now, then!
Give us your hand that you'll chuck art, and we'll drink to your
popular ballad--hundredth thousand edition, no drawing-room should be
without it."

Lancelot flushed.  "I was just going to have some tea.  I think it's
five o'clock," he murmured.

"The very thing I'm dying for," cried Peter energetically; "I'm as
parched as a pea."  Inwardly he was shocked to find the stream of
whisky run dry.

So Lancelot rang the bell, and Mary Ann came up with the tea-tray in
the twilight.

"We'll have a light," cried Peter, and struck one of his own with a
shadowy underthought of saving Mary Ann from a possible scolding, in
case Lancelot's matches should be again unapparent.  Then he uttered a
comic exclamation of astonishment.  Mary Ann was putting on a pair of
gloves!  In his surprise he dropped the match.

Mary Ann was equally startled by the unexpected sight of a stranger,
but when he struck the second match her hands were bare and red.

"What in heaven's name were you putting on gloves for, my girl?" said
Peter, amused.

Lancelot stared fixedly at the fire, trying to keep the blood from
flooding his cheeks.  He wondered that the ridiculousness of the whole
thing had never struck him in its full force before.  Was it possible
he could have made such an ass of himself?

"Please, sir, I've got to go out, and I'm in a hurry," said Mary Ann.

Lancelot felt intense relief.  An instant after his brow wrinkled
itself.  "Oho!" he thought.  "So this is Miss Simpleton, is it?"

"Then why did you take them off again?" retorted Peter.

Mary Ann's repartee was to burst into tears and leave the room.

"Now I've offended her," said Peter.  "Did you see how she tossed her
pretty head?"

"Ingenious minx," thought Lancelot.

"She's left the tray on a chair by the door," went on Peter.  "What an
odd girl!  Does she always carry on like this?"

"She's got such a lot to do.  I suppose she sometimes gets a bit queer
in her head," said Lancelot, conceiving he was somehow safe-guarding
Mary Ann's honour by the explanation.

"I don't think that," answered Peter.  "She did seem dull and stupid
when I was here last.  But I had a good stare at her just now, and she
seems rather bright.  Why, her accent is quite refined--she must have
picked it up from you."

"Nonsense, nonsense!" exclaimed Lancelot testily.

The little danger--or rather the great danger of being made to appear
ridiculous--which he had just passed through, contributed to rouse him
from his torpor.  He exerted himself to turn the conversation, and was
quite lively over tea.

"Sw--eêt!  Sw--w--w--w--eêt!" suddenly broke into the conversation.

"More mysteries!" cried Peter.  "What's that?"

"Only a canary."

"What, another musical instrument!  Isn't Beethoven jealous?  I wonder
he doesn't consume his rival in his wrath.  But I never knew you liked
birds."

"I don't particularly.  It isn't mine."

"Whose is it?"

Lancelot answered briskly, "Mary Ann's.  She asked to be allowed to
keep it here.  It seems it won't sing in her attic; it pines away."

"And do you believe that?"

"Why not?  It doesn't sing much even here."

"Let me look at it--ah, it's a plain Norwich yellow.  If you wanted a
singing canary you should have come to me, I'd have given you one 'made
in Germany'--one of our patents--they train them to sing tunes, and
that puts up the price."

"Thank you, but this one disturbs me sufficiently."

"Then why do you put up with it?"

"Why do I put up with that Christmas number supplement over the
mantel-piece?  It's part of the furniture.  I was asked to let it be
here, and I couldn't be rude."

"No, it's not in your nature.  What a bore it must be to feed it!  Let
me see, I suppose you give it canary seed biscuits--I hope you don't
give it butter."

"Don't be an ass!" roared Lancelot.  "You don't imagine I bother my
head whether it eats butter or--or marmalade."

"Who feeds it then?"

"Mary Ann, of course."

"She comes in and feeds it?"

"Certainly."

"Several times a day?"

"I suppose so."

"Lancelot," said Peter solemnly, "Mary Ann's mashed on you."

Lancelot shrank before Peter's remark as a burglar from a policeman's
bull's-eye.  The bull's-eye seemed to cast a new light on Mary Ann,
too, but he felt too unpleasantly dazzled to consider that for the
moment; his whole thought was to get out of the line of light.

"Nonsense!" he answered; "why I'm hardly ever in when she feeds it, and
I believe it eats all day long--gets supplied in the morning like a
coal-scuttle.  Besides, she comes in to dust and all that when she
pleases.  And I do wish you wouldn't use that word 'mashed.'  I loathe
it."

Indeed, he writhed under the thought of being coupled with Mary Ann.
The thing sounded so ugly--so squalid.  In the actual, it was not so
unpleasant, but looked at from the outside--unsympathetically--it was
hopelessly vulgar, incurably plebeian.  He shuddered.

"I don't know," said Peter.  "It's a very expressive word, is 'mashed.'
But I will make allowance for your poetical feelings and give up the
word--except in its literal sense, of course.  I'm sure you wouldn't
object to mashing a music-publisher!"

Lancelot laughed with false heartiness.  "Oh, but if I'm to write those
popular ballads, you say he'll become my best friend."

"Of course he will," cried Peter, eagerly sniffing at the red herring
Lancelot had thrown across the track.  "You stand out for a royalty on
every copy, so that if you strike ile--oh, I beg your pardon, that's
another of the phrases you object to, isn't it?"

"Don't be a fool," said Lancelot, laughing on.  "You know I only object
to that in connection with English peers marrying the daughters of men
who have done it."

"Oh, is that it?  I wish you'd publish an expurgated dictionary with
most of the words left out, and exact definitions of the conditions
under which one may use the remainder.  But I've got on a siding.  What
was I talking about?"

"Royalty," muttered Lancelot languidly.

"Royalty?  No.  You mentioned the aristocracy, I think."  Then he burst
into a hearty laugh.  "Oh yes--on that ballad.  Now, look here!  I've
brought a ballad with me just to show you--a thing that is going like
wildfire."

"'Not _Good-night and good-bye_, I hope," laughed Lancelot.

"Yes--the very one!" cried Peter, astonished.

"_Himmel_!" groaned Lancelot in comic despair.

"You know it already?" inquired Peter eagerly.

"No; only I can't open a paper without seeing the advertisement and the
sickly-sentimental refrain."

"You see how famous it is, anyway," said Peter.  "And if you want to
strike--er--to make a hit you'll just take that song and do a
deliberate imitation of it."

"Wha-a-a-t!" gasped Lancelot.

"My dear chap, they all do it.  When the public cotton to a thing they
can't have enough of it."

"But I can write my own rot, surely."

"In the face of all this litter of 'Ops.'  I daren't dispute that for a
moment.  But it isn't enough to write rot--the public want a particular
kind of rot.  Now just play that over--oblige me."  He laid both hands
on Lancelot's shoulders in amicable appeal.

Lancelot shrugged them, but seated himself at the piano, played the
introductory chords, and commenced singing the words in his pleasant
baritone.

Suddenly Beethoven ran towards the door, howling.

Lancelot ceased playing and looked approvingly at the animal.

"By Jove!  He wants to go out.  What an ear for music that animal's
got!"

Peter smiled grimly.  "It's long enough.  I suppose that's why you call
him Beethoven."

"Not at all.  Beethoven had no ear--at least not in his latest
period--he was deaf.  Lucky devil!  That is, if this sort of thing was
brought round on barrel-organs."

"Never mind, old man!  Finish the thing."

"But consider Beethoven's feelings!"

"Hang Beethoven!"

"Poor Beethoven.  Come here, my poor maligned musical critic!  Would
they give you a bad name and hang you?  Now you must be very quiet.
Put your paws into those lovely long ears of yours if it gets too
horrible.  You have been used to high-class music, I know, but this is
the sort of thing that England expects every man to do, so the sooner
you get used to it the better."  He ran his fingers along the keys.
"There, Peter, he's growling already.  I'm sure he'll start again, the
moment I strike the theme."

"Let him!  We'll take it as a spaniel obligato."

"Oh, but his accompaniments are too staccato.  He has no sense of time."

"Why don't you teach him, then, to wag his tail like the pendulum of a
metronome?  He'd be more use to you that way than setting up to be a
musician, which Nature never meant him for--his hair's not long enough.
But go ahead, old man, Beethoven's behaving himself now."

Indeed, as if he were satisfied with his protest, the little beast
remained quiet, while his lord and master went through the piece.  He
did not even interrupt at the refrain.

  "Kiss me, good-night, dear love,
    Dream of the old delight;
  My spirit is summoned above,
    Kiss me, dear love, good-night."


"I must say it's not so awful as I expected," said Lancelot candidly;
"it's not at all bad--for a waltz."

"There, you see!" said Peter eagerly; "the public are not such fools
after all."

"Still, the words are the most maudlin twaddle!" said Lancelot, as if
he found some consolation in the fact.

"Yes, but I didn't write _them_!" replied Peter quickly.  Then he grew
red and laughed an embarrassed laugh.  "I didn't mean to tell you, old
man.  But there--the cat's out.  That's what took me to Brahmson's that
afternoon we met!  And I harmonised it myself, mind you, every
crotchet.  I picked up enough at the Conservatoire for that.  You know
lots of fellows only do the tune--they give out all the other work."

"So you are the great Keeley Lesterre, eh?" said Lancelot in amused
astonishment.

"Yes; I have to do it under another name.  I don't want to grieve the
old man.  You see, I promised him to reform, when he took me back to
his heart and business."

"Is that strictly honourable, Peter?" said Lancelot, shaking his head.

"Oh well!  I couldn't give it up altogether, but I do practically stick
to the contract--it's all overtime, you know.  It doesn't interfere a
bit with business.  Besides, as you'd say, it isn't music," he said
slyly.  "And just because I don't want it I make a heap of coin out of
it--that's why I'm so vexed at your keeping me still in your debt."

Lancelot frowned.  "Then you had no difficulty in getting published?"
he asked.

"I don't say that.  It was bribery and corruption so far as my first
song was concerned.  I tipped a professional to go down and tell
Brahmson he was going to take it up.  You know, of course, well-known
singers get half a guinea from the publisher every time they sing a
song."

"No; do they?" said Lancelot.  "How mean of them."

"Business, my boy.  It pays the publisher to give it them.  Look at the
advertisement!"

"But suppose a really fine song was published and the publisher refused
to pay this blood-money?"

"Then I suppose they'd sing some other song, and let that moulder on
the foolish publisher's shelves."

"Great heavens!" said Lancelot, jumping up from the piano in wild
excitement.  "Then a musician's reputation is really at the mercy of a
mercenary crew of singers, who respect neither art nor themselves.  Oh
yes, we are indeed a musical people!"

"Easy there!  Several of 'em are pals of mine, and I'll get them to
take up those ballads of yours as soon as you write 'em."

"Let them go to the devil with their ballads!" roared Lancelot, and
with a sweep of his arm whirled _Good-night and good-bye_ into the air.
Peter picked it up and wrote something on it with a stylographic pen
which he produced from his waistcoat pocket.

"There!" he said, "that'll make you remember it's your own
property--and mine--that you are treating so disrespectfully."

"I beg your pardon, old chap," said Lancelot, rebuked and remorseful.

"Don't mention it," replied Peter.  "And whenever you decide to become
rich and famous--there's your model."

"Never! never! never!" cried Lancelot, when Peter went at ten.  "My
poor Beethoven!  What you must have suffered!  Never mind, I'll play
you your Moonlight sonata."

He touched the keys gently, and his sorrows and his temptations faded
from him.  He glided into Bach, and then into Chopin and Mendelssohn,
and at last drifted into dreamy improvisation, his fingers moving
almost of themselves, his eyes, half closed, seeing only inward visions.

And then, all at once, he awoke with a start, for Beethoven was barking
towards the door, with pricked-up ears and rigid tail.

"Sh!  You little beggar," he murmured, becoming conscious that the hour
was late, and that he himself had been noisy at unbeseeming hours.
"What's the matter with you?"  And, with a sudden thought, he threw
open the door.

It was merely Mary Ann.

Her face--flashed so unexpectedly upon him--had the piquancy of a
vision, but its expression was one of confusion and guilt; there were
tears on her cheeks; in her hand was a bed-room candlestick.

