Produced by Suzanne Shell, Diane Monico, and The Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: (cover)]


[Illustration: (frontispiece)]


"SOME SAY"

NEIGHBOURS IN CYRUS


BY

LAURA E. RICHARDS

Author of "Captain January," "Melody," "Queen Hildegarde,"
"Five-Minute Stories," "When I Was Your Age,"
"Narcissa," "Marie," "Nautilus," etc.


TWELFTH THOUSAND

[Illustration]

BOSTON
DANA ESTES & COMPANY
PUBLISHERS


_Copyright, 1896_,

BY ESTES & LAURIAT

_All rights reserved_


Colonial Press:

C. H. Simonds & Co., Boston, Mass., U.S.A.

Electrotyped by Geo. C. Scott & Sons


"SOME SAY"


TO MY
Dear Sister,
FLORENCE HOWE HALL,
THIS VOLUME
IS AFFECTIONATELY
DEDICATED

       *       *       *       *       *


"SOME SAY."


Part I.


"And some say, she expects to get him married to Rose Ellen before the
year's out!"

"I want to know if she does!"

"Her sister married a minister, and her father was a deacon, so mebbe
she thinks she's got a master-key to the Kingdom. But I don't feel so
sure of her gettin' this minister for Rose Ellen. Some say he's so
wropped up in his garden truck that he don't know a gal from a
gooseberry bush. He! he!"

The shrill cackle was answered by a slow, unctuous chuckle, as of a
fat and wheezy person; then a door was closed, and silence fell.

The minister looked up apprehensively; his fair face was flushed, and
his mild, blue eyes looked troubled. He gazed at the broad back of his
landlady, as she stood dusting, with minute care, the china ornaments
on the mantelpiece; but her back gave no sign. He coughed once or
twice; he said, "Mrs. Mellen!" tentatively, first low, then in his
ordinary voice, but there was no reply. Was Mrs. Mellen deaf? he had
not noticed it before. He pondered distressfully for a few moments;
then dropped his eyes, and the book swallowed him again. Yet the sting
remained, for when presently the figure at the mantelpiece turned
round, he looked up hastily, and flushed again as he met his hostess'
gaze, calm and untroubled as a summer pool.

"There, sir!" said Mrs. Mellen, cheerfully. "I guess that's done to
suit. Is there anything more I can do for you before I go?"

The minister's mind hovered between two perplexities; a glance at the
book before him decided their relative importance.

"Have you ever noticed, Mrs. Mellen, whether woodcocks are more apt to
fly on moonshiny nights, as White assures us?"

"Woodbox?" said Mrs. Mellen. "Why, yes, sir, it's handy by; and when
there's no moon, the lantern always hangs in the porch. But I'll see
that Si Jones keeps it full up, after this."

Decidedly, the good woman was deaf, and she had not heard. Could those
harpies be right? If any such idea as they suggested were actually in
his hostess' mind, he must go away, for his work must not be
interfered with, and he must not encourage hopes,--the minister
blushed again, and glanced around to see if any one could see him.

But he was so comfortable here, and Miss Mellen was so intelligent, so
helpful; and this seemed the ideal spot on which to compile his New
England "Selborne."

He sighed, and thought of the woodcock again. Why should the bird
prefer a moonshiny night? Was it likely that the creature had any
appreciation of the beauties of nature? Shakespeare uses the woodcock
as a simile of folly, to express a person without brains. Ha!

The door opened, and Rose Ellen came in, her eyes shining with
pleasure, her hands full of gold and green.

"I've found the 'Squarrosa,' Mr. Lindsay!" she announced. "See, this
is it, surely!"

The minister rose, and inspected the flowers delightedly. "This is it,
surely!" he repeated. I know that when we beat our retreat from summer
quarters at Glyndewi in 18--, the sighs of our late partners were
positively heart-rending, and the blank faces of the deserted billiard-marker
and solitary livery-stable 'groom' haunt me to this day.

I had been endeavouring by hard reading, for the last three months,
to work up the arrears of three years of college idleness, when
my evil genius himself, in the likeness of George Gordon of Trinity,
persuaded me to put the finishing touch to my education, by joining
a party who were going down to Glyndewi in ----shire, "really to
read."

In an unguarded moment, I consented; packed up books enough to last me
for five years, reading at the rate of twenty-four hours per day, wrote
to the governor announcing my virtuous intention, and was formally
introduced to the Rev.

Mr Hanmer, Gordon's tutor, as one of his "cubs" for the long
vacation.

Six of us there were to be; a very mixed party, and not well mixed--a
social chaos. We had an exquisite from St Mary Hall, a pea-coated
Brazenose boatman, a philosophical water-drinker and union-debater
from Balliol, and a two bottle man from Christ Church.

When we first met, it was like oil and water; it seemed as if we
might be churned together for a century, and never coalesce: but
in time, like punch-making, it turned out that the very heterogeneousness
of the ingredients was the zest of the compound.

I had never heard of such a place as Glyndewi, nor had I an idea
how to get there.

Gordon and Hanmer were gone already; so I packed myself on the top
of the Shrewsbury mail, as the direct communication between Oxford
and North Wales, and there became acquainted with No. 2 of my fellows
in transportation; (for, except Gordon and myself, we were all utter
strangers to each other.)

"I say, Hawkins; let's feel those ribbons a bit, will you?"

quoth the occupant of the box-seat to our respectable Jehu. "Can't
indeed, sir, with these hosses; it's as much as ever I can do to
hold this here near leader."

This was satisfactory; risking one's neck in a tandem was all very
well--a part of the regular course of an Oxford education; but
amateur drivers of stage coaches I had always a prejudice against:
let gentlemen keep their own four-in-hands, and upset themselves and
families, as they have an undeniable right to do--but not the public.
I looked at the first speaker: at his pea-jacket, that is, which was
all I could see of him:
Oxford decidedly. His cigar was Oxford too, by the villanous smell
of it.

He took the coachman's implied distrust of his professional experience
good-humouredly enough, proffered him his cigar-case, and entered
into a discussion on the near-leader's moral and physical qualities.

"I'll trouble you for a light, if you please," said I; he turned round,
we stuck the ends of our cigars together, and puffed into each other's
faces for about a minute, (my cigars were damp-ish,) as grave as North
American Indians. "Thank you," said I, as the interesting ceremony was
concluded, and our acquaintance begun. We got into conversation,
when it appeared that he, too, was bound for the undiscovered
shores of Glyndewi, and that we were therefore likely to be companions
for the next three months.

He was an off-hand, good-humoured fellow; drank brandy and water, treated
the coachman, and professed an acquaintance with bar-maids in
general, and pretty ones in particular, on our line of road.

He was going up for a class, he supposed, he said; the governor had
taken a "second below the line" himself, and insisted upon his
emulating the paternal distinction; d----d nonsense, he said, in
his opinion; except that the governor had a couple of harriers with
Greek names, he did not see that his classics were of any use to
him:
and no doubt but that Hylax and Phryne would run just as well if
they had been called Stormer and Merry Lass.

However, he must rub up all his old Eton books this 'long,' and get
old Hanmer to lay it on thick. Such was Mr Branling of Brazenose.

At Shrewsbury, we were saluted with the intelligence, "Coach dines
here, gentlemen."

We found a couple of fowls that the coach might probably have dined
upon, and digested with other articles--in the hind boot; to human
stomachs they seemed impracticable.

We employed the allotted ten minutes upon a leg of mutton, and ascended
again to our stations on the roof: and here was an addition to our
party.

"I guess you'd better go!" she said again. "It'd be a pity if Mr.
Lindsay and I couldn't get along for a month or six weeks; and I wrote
mother yesterday that you would be up along to-morrow, so she'll be
looking for you. I don't like to have mother disappointed of a thing
at her age, it gives her the palpitations."

"You--wrote--that I was coming!" repeated Rose Ellen. "And you never
told me you was writing, mother? I--I should have liked to have known
before you wrote."

"Coat?" said Mrs. Mellen. "Oh, your coat'll do well enough, Rose
Ellen. Why, you've only just had it bound new, and new buttons put on.
I should take my figured muslin, if I was you, and have Miss Turner
look at it and see how you could do it over: she has good ideas,
sometimes, and it'd be a little different from what the girls here was
doin', maybe. Anyway, I'd take it, and your light sack, too. 'Twon't
do no harm to have 'em gone over a little."

Rose Ellen looked ready to cry, but she kept the tears back
resolutely.

"I--don't--want to leave you, with this deafness coming on!" she
shouted, her usually soft voice ringing like a bugle across the
tea-table.

"There! there! don't you grow foolish," her mother replied, with
absolute calm.

"Why, I can hear ye as well as ever, when you raise your voice a mite,
like that. I should admire to know why you should stay at home on my
account. I suppose I know my way about the house, if I be losin' my
hearing just a dite. It isn't going to spoil my cooking, that I can
see; and I guess Mr. Lindsay won't make no opposition to your going,
for any difference it'll make to him."

Mr. Lindsay, thus appealed to, stammered, and blushed up to his eyes,
and stammered again; but finally managed to say, with more or less
distinctness, that of course whatever was agreeable to Mrs. and Miss
Mellen was agreeable to him, and that he begged not to be considered
in any way in the formation of their plans.

"That's just what I was thinking!" said his hostess. "A man don't want
no botheration of plans. So that's settled, Rose Ellen."

Rose Ellen knew it was settled. She was a girl of character and
resolution, but she had never resisted her mother's will, nor had any
one else, so far as she knew. She cried a good deal over her packing,
and dropped a tear on her silk waist, the pride of her heart, and was
surprised to find that she did not care. "There's no one there to care
whether I look nice or not!" she said aloud; and then blushed
furiously, and looked around the room, fearfully, to be sure that she
was alone.

Early next morning the crack of a whip was heard, and Calvin Parks's
voice, shouting cheerfully for his passenger. The minister, razor in
hand, peeped between his shutters, and saw Rose Ellen come from the
house, wiping her eyes, and looking back, with anxious eyes. A wave of
feeling swept through him, and he felt, for the moment, that he hated
Mrs. Mellen. He had never hated any one before in his innocent life;
while he was pondering on this new and awful sensation, the pale,
pretty face had sunk back in the depths of the old red-lined stage,
the whip cracked, and Calvin drove away with his prey.

Mrs. Mellen came out on the steps, and looked after the stage. Then,
with a movement singularly swift for so stout a person, she made a few
paces down the walk, and, turning, looked up at the windows of the
houses on either side of her own. In both houses a figure was leaning
from a window, thrown half out over the sill, in an attitude of eager
inquiry. At sight of Mrs. Mellen they dodged back, and only a slight
waving of curtains betrayed their presence. The good woman folded her
arms deliberately, and stood for five minutes, absorbed in the distant
landscape; then she turned, and went slowly back to the house.

"There!" she said, as she closed the door behind her. "That'll keep
'em occupied for one while!" and there was infinite content in her
tone.

Mr. Lindsay, coming in to breakfast, found his hostess beaming behind
the teakettle, placid and cheerful as usual. He still hated her, and
found difficulty in replying with alacrity to her remarks on the
beauty of the morning.

"I expect you and me'll have a right cozy time together!" she
announced. "You no need to put yourself out to talk to me, 'cause I
reelly don't seem to be hearing very good; and I won't talk to you,
save and except when you feel inclined. I know an elder does love to
have a quiet house about him. My sister married a minister, and my
father was a deacon himself, so I'm accustomed to the ways of the
ministry."

Mr. Lindsay stirred his tea, gloomily. The words recalled to his mind
those which had so disturbed him a day or two ago, just when all this
queer business of the deafness had come on. He remembered the spiteful
tones of the two neighbours, and recalled how the words had hissed in
his ears. He had thought of going away himself, lest he should
encourage false hopes in the breast of his gentle young friend--or her
mother; surely Rose Ellen,--as he said the name to himself, he felt
his ears growing pink, and knew that he had not said the name before,
even to himself; straightway said it again, to prove the absurdity of
something, he was not sure what, and felt his throat dry and hot. Now
Rose Ellen herself was gone, and for an indefinite time. She had not
gone willingly, of that he was sure; but it was equally evident that
her mother had no such thoughts as those two harridans had suggested.
He glanced up furtively, to meet a broad, beaming glance, and the
question whether he felt feverish any.

"You seem to flush up easy!" said Mrs. Mellen. "I should be careful,
if I was you, Mr. Lindsay, and not go messing round ponds and such at
this season of the year. It's just this time we commonly look for
sickness rising in the air."

Mr. Lindsay stirred his tea again, and sighed. His mind seemed
singularly distracted; and that, too, when the most precious moments
of the year were passing. He must put all other matters out of his
head, and think only of his great work.

Had the Blackburnian Warbler been seen in this neighbourhood, as he
had been told? He could hardly believe in such good fortune. The shy,
mistrustful bird, hunting the thickest foliage of the tallest forest
trees,--how should his landlady's daughter have seen it when she was
seeking for ferns? yet her description had been exactly that of the
books: "Upper parts nearly uniform black, with a whitish scapular
stripe and a large white patch in the middle of the wing coverts; an
oblong patch--" but she had not been positive about the head. No, but
she _was_ positive as to the bright orange-red on chin, throat, and
forepart of the breast, and the three white tail-feathers. Ah! why was
she gone? why was she not here to show him the way, as she promised,
to the place where she had seen the rare visitor? He might possibly
have found the nest, that rare nest which Samuels never saw, which
only Audubon had described: "composed externally of different
textures, and lined with silky fibres and thin, delicate strips of
bark, over which lies a thick bed of feathers and horsehair."

It should be found in a small fork of a tree, should it? five or six
feet from the ground, near a brook? well, he might still search, the
next time he went out; meanwhile, there were the ferns to analyze, and
that curious moss to determine, if might be. "But mosses are almost
hopeless!" he said aloud, with an appealing glance across the table,
where he was wont to look for sympathy and encouragement.

"Soap dish?" said Mrs. Mellen, with alacrity.

"Well, I don't wonder you ask, Mr. Lindsay. Why, I found it full of
frogs' eggs this very morning, and I hove 'em away and scalt it out.
It's drying in the sun this minute, and I'll bring it right up to your
room directly."

She beamed on him, and left the room. Mr. Lindsay groaned; looked
about him for help, but found none, and retired, groaning, to his
study.


Part II.


The minister had had a delightful but exhausting afternoon. He had
gone to look for the nest of a marsh-hen, which he had some reason to
think might be in a certain swamp, about five miles from the village.
He did not find the nest, but he found plenty of other things: his
pockets bulged with mosses and roots, his hat was wound with a curious
vine that might possibly be Clematis Verticillaris, and both hands
were filled with specimens of every conceivable kind. Incidentally the
mosquitoes and black flies had found him: his face was purple, and,
like that of the lady at the Brick Lane Branch tea-party, "swellin'
wisibly;" and blood was trickling down his well-shaped nose from a
bramble-scratch. He had fallen down once or twice in the bog, with
results to his clothes; and altogether he presented a singular figure
to the view of his parishioners as he strode hastily through the
street. Heads were thrust out of windows, staid eyes rolled in horror,
but the minister saw nothing. He was tired, and absorbed in his new
possessions. It was good to sit down in his study, and spread his
treasures out on the broad table, and gloat over them. A clump of damp
moss rested quietly on his new sermon, "The Slough of Despond," but he
took no note. He was looking for a place to put this curious little
lizard in, and after anxious thought selected the gilt celluloid box,
lined with pink satin, which the Mission Circle had given him on
Christmas for his collars and cuffs. He felt, vaguely, that it was not
the right place for the lizard, but there seemed to be nothing else in
reach,--except the flitter-work pen-box, and Rose Ellen had made that
for him. Ah! if Rose Ellen were here now, how much she could help him!
it was so much easier for two to analyze than one. He at the
microscope, and Rose Ellen corroborating, correcting from the
textbook,--it was a perfect arrangement.

The minister sighed heavily. Mrs. Mellen brought in his tea, for it
was Wednesday evening, and he preferred an early cup of tea, and a
modest supper after the meeting. Food distracted his mind, he was apt
to say, from thought, a statement which his landlady treated with
indulgent contempt, as she had never known him to remark the
difference between "riz" bread and the soda article.

She set the cup down before him, and he promptly dipped a fern root
into it; then started back with a cry of dismay.

"Well indeed, sir!" said Mrs. Mellen, "I should think so, truly! What
did you do that for, and spoil your tea?"

"The--tea--a--that is, it is of no consequence about the tea!" said
Mr. Lindsay, hastily.

"I fear I have injured the root. I thought it was water. Dear! dear!
Miss Mellen was in the habit of bringing me a glass of water when I
brought plants home."

Mrs. Mellen said nothing, but brought the water, and a fresh cup of
tea; but Mr. Lindsay had fallen into the depths of the moss, and took
no notice of either.

She left the room, but presently returned, knitting in hand, and
stood, unnoticed, in the doorway, glancing from time to time at the
minister. He certainly was "a sight to behold," as she said to
herself. She may have thought other things beside, but her face gave
no sign. Presently the bell began to ring for Wednesday evening
meeting. Mrs. Mellen glanced again at the minister, but he heard
nothing. The botany was open before him, and he was muttering strange
words that sounded like witch-talk.

"Stamens six, hypogenous! anthers introrse! capsule cartilaginous,
loculicidally three-valved, scurfy-leaved epiphytic!" What did it all
mean? A slow flush crept over the woman's broad, placid face; her
eyelids quivered, her eye roamed restlessly about the room. She
shifted her weight from one foot to the other, and breathed heavily,
as if in distress; and still her eyes came back to the slender figure
in the great chair, bent in absorbed interest over the table.

Ding! dong! ding! the notes came dropping through the air, clear and
resonant. Even a deaf person might hear them, perhaps. Mrs. Mellen was
evidently struggling with herself. Once she opened her lips as if to
speak; once she stepped forward with outstretched hand, as if to shake
the man into wakefulness and attention; but she did not speak, and her
hand dropped again; and presently the bell stopped, and Sophronia
Mellen went away to her sitting-room, hanging her head.

Half an hour later there was knocking at the door, and the sound of
many voices, anxious voices, pitched high and loud, on account of Mrs.
Mellen's deafness.

"How's Mr. Lindsay? When was he took sick? Have ye had the doctor?"

"Do you think it's ketchin', Mis' Mellen? Think of all the young
children in this parish, if anythin' should get the rounds! My! it's
awful!"

"How does he look? Some say he was pupple in the face when they see
him coming home through the street. Most everybody did see him, and he
was a sight! Apoplexy, most likely!"

"Has he ever had fits, think? he don't look fitty, but you never can
tell."

"Have ye sent for his folks? You'd feel better to, I sh'd think, if
he's taken; some say he has a mother rollin' in wealth, down Brunswick
way."

"Well, some say he ain't nothin' of the sort. Christiana Bean saw an
aunt of his once, and she hadn't flesh enough on her to bait a
mouse-trap with, Christiana said so."

"Does he know you, Mis' Mellen? it's awful to see folks out of their
heads; I don't know how any one kin bear to see it; you'd better let
me come in and spell you a bit; you look clean tuckered out with the
fright you've had."

Mrs. Mellen stood and looked quietly at the crowd of "members" that
surged and cackled about her.

"I could hear better if one'd speak at a time!" she said, mildly.

"Did you want to see Elder Lindsay? it--it must be gettin' near
meetin'-time, isn't it?"

"Meetin'-time! meetin's over, and Mr. Lindsay never come nigh. Do you
mean to say he ain't sick? do you mean to say--"

"What _do_ you mean to say, Mis' Mellen?"

Mrs. Mellen held the door in her hand, and still gazed quietly at the
excited throng. At length,--

"Whatever's the matter with Mr. Lindsay," she said, in clear incisive
tones, "I ain't going to let in no lunatic asylum to drive him clean
out of his mind. Deacon Strong and Deacon Todd, if you'll step this
way, I presume Mr. Lindsay'll be pleased to see you. And if the rest
of you 'ud go home quiet, mebbe it might seem more consistent. There
has been a meetin', you say? the Baptists will be just about comin'
out now."

An hour later, the two deacons were taking their leave of Mr. Lindsay.
They stood, hat in hand, and were looking at the young man with
pitying eyes. They were elderly men, of kind disposition.

"Well, Mr. Lindsay," Mr. Todd was saying; "I guess we've said about
all there is to say. Of course 'twas a pity, and such things make
talk; but 'twon't occur again, I dare say. Some say--"

"It _may_ occur again," cried the young minister. He was sitting with
his head in his hand, and despair in his face.

"It may occur again! I seem to have no mind, no memory! I am unfit to
be a minister of the Christian Church. My brethren, what shall I do?"

The elder men exchanged glances: then Deacon Strong stepped forward
and laid his hands on the young man's shoulder, for he loved him.

"Mr. Lindsay," he said, kindly, "so far as I can see, there's only one
thing the matter with you; you want a wife!"

"A wife!" repeated Charles Lindsay. His tone suggested that he had
never heard of the article.

"A wife!" the deacon said again, with emphasis; and his fellow deacon
nodded assent.

"A sensible, clever young woman, who will help you in parish matters,
and be a comfort to you in every way,--a--hem! yes, in every way." The
deacon reddened through his beard, and glanced at Deacon Todd; but the
latter was a kind man, and knew Mrs. Strong, and gazed out of the
window.

"And--and tell you when it was time for meeting. I don't know as you'd
have to look more'n a hundred miles for the very young woman that
would make the right kind of helpmeet for you, but you know best about
that. Anyway, Mr. Lindsay, it is not good for man to be alone, we have
Scripture for that: and it's quite evident that it's particularly bad
for you to be alone, with your--a--your love of nature" (the deacon
caught sight of the lizard, peering disconsolately out of the gilt
celluloid box, and brought his remarks to a hasty conclusion). "And so
we'll be going, Mr. Lindsay, and don't you fret about to-night's
meeting, for we'll make it all right."

Mr. Lindsay bowed them out, with vague thanks, and muttered
expressions of regret. He hardly heard their adieux; the words that
were saying themselves over and over in his head were,--

"You want a wife!"

Did he want a wife? Was that what was the matter with him? Was that
why he went about all day and every day, these last weeks, feeling as
if half of him were asleep? He had always been a strong advocate of
the celibacy of the clergy, as far as his own case went. Nothing, he
had always assured himself, should ever come between him and his work.
A wife would be a perpetual distraction: she would want money, and
amusement, and a thousand things that he never thought about; and she
would interfere with his sermons, and with his collections, and--and
altogether, he would never marry. But now,--

And what was it that happened only the other day, here in the village?
A man and his wife had been quarrelling, to the scandal of the whole
congregation. They were an elderly couple, and when it came to
smashing crockery and emptying pails of water over each other, the
minister felt it his duty to interfere. So he called on the wife,
intending to reason with her first alone, and then, when she was
softened and convinced, to call in the husband and reconcile them, and
perhaps pray with them, since both were "members." But before he had
spoken a dozen of his well-arranged and logical sentences, he was
interrupted by loud and tearful outcries.

The lady never thought it would come to this, no, never! Some thought
she had enough to bear without this, but she knew how to submit to
the will of Providence, and no one should say she struv nor hollered.
She knew what was due to a minister, even if he was only just in
pants; she only hoped Mr. Lindsay wouldn't see fit to say anything to
her husband. Take Reuben Meecher when he was roused, and tigers was
tame by him: and if he should know that his wife was spoke to so, by
them as wasn't born or thought of when they was married, and nobody
couldn't say but they had lived respectable for forty years, and now
to come to this! The lady was well used to ministers, and some of the
most aged in the country, and she knew what was due to them; but for
her part, she thought 'twas well for ministers, as well as others, to
speak of what they'd had exper'ence in, and then there would be no
feeling!

The visit was not a success, nor did it cheer the minister to hear the
old couple chuckling to each other as he went sadly away, and to feel
that they were laughing at him.

But he was very humble, and he laid the spiteful words to heart.

What did he know? What had he to say to his people, when it came to
the real, terrible things of life? What had he had in his whole life,
save kindness and a sheltered home, and then study, and a little
divinity, and a little science? He sat and gazed at the image of
himself in his mind's glass, and found it a gibbering phantom, with
emptiness where should be eyes, and dry dust where should be living
waters.

As he sat thus sadly pondering, the sound of voices struck upon his
ear. The window was open, and now that his mind was awake, there was
no question of his hearing, when the two next-door neighbours leaned
out of their back windows, across Mrs. Mellen's back yard. He had
grown to loathe the sound of those two voices, the shrill cackling
one, and the fat chuckle that was even more hateful. What were they
saying now?

"You don't tell me she wants to git him for herself? speak jest a dite
louder! She can't hear ye, and he's so muddled up he never heard the
bell for meetin', some say; but there's others think he'd ben
drinkin', and Deacon Strong and Deacon Todd jest leagued together with
Sophrony Mellen to hide it. He was black in the face when he came
home, and reelin' in his walk, for I see him with these eyes."

Charles Lindsay started as if stung by a venomous snake. He put out
his hand to the window, but now the sharp voice broke in, anxious to
have its turn.

"Well, I shouldn't be a mite surprised if 'twas so, Mis' Bean, and
you've had experience, I'm sure, in such matters, after what you
suffered with Mr. Bean. But what I was sayin', some do say Phrony
Mellen's bound to have the minister for herself, and that's why she
sent Rose Ellen off, traipsin' way down to Tupham, when her grandma'am
don't need her no more'n a toad needs a tail."

"I want to know if they say that!" replied Mrs. Bean. "But you know,
some say Rose Ellen's got a beau down to Tupham, and that's why she
went off without askin' leave or license, and her ma deef and all. I
see her go myself, and she went off early in the mornin', and if ever
I see a person what you may call slink away secret, like she'd done
somethin' to be 'shamed of, 'twas that girl. _She_ knew what she was
goin' for, well enough. Rose Ellen ain't no fool, for all she's as
smooth as baked custard. Now you mark my words, Mis' Peake,--"

At this moment, the back door opened with a loud clang. Mrs. Mellen
stood on the doorstep, and her eyes were very bright. She said
nothing, but gazed calmly up and down the yard, as if considering the
beauty of the night. Then, after a few minutes, she turned and
scrutinized her neighbours' windows. Nothing was to be seen, only a
white muslin curtain waved gently in the moonlight: nothing was to be
heard, only a faint rustle, probably of the same curtain.

"It's an elegant night!" said Mrs. Mellen, aloud. "I thought I heard
voices, but my hearin' does play me such tricks, these days."

Her calm, sensible voice fell like balm on the distracted ears of the
minister. He was soothed, he knew not why. The horrors that those
harpies suggested,--could there be truth in them? Rose Ellen with
a--his mind refused to frame the detestable word! Was there anything
true in the world? Was it all scandal and hatefulness and untruth?

He rose and paced his study in anguish of mind, but his ears were
still awake,--he thought he never should regain the joy of losing
himself,--and now another sound came to them, the sound of wheels. Why
did his heart stop, and then beat violently? What was there in the
sound of wheels? It was the late stage, of course, and Calvin Parks
was driving fast, as usual, to get to his home, five miles away,
before ten o'clock at night. But that stage came from Tupham, and
Tupham meant Rose Ellen. Rose Ellen, who was as smooth as baked
custard, and who had a--the wheels were slacking; the steady beat of
the horses' feet stopped; the stage had paused at the Widow Mellen's
door.

"Here we be!" said Calvin Parks. "Take my hand, Rosy! so, thar she
goes! Hope ye'll find yer ma right smart! Give her my respects and
tell her,--wal, I swan!"

For the door flew open, and out ran the minister, torn and stained and
covered with dust, and caught Rose Ellen by both hands and drew her
almost forcibly into the house.

"Mother!" cried the girl. "How is she? I--I got so scared, not hearing
from her, I couldn't stay another day, Mr. Lindsay!"

"Oh,--your mother?" said Mr. Lindsay, incoherently. "She--a--she seems
to be in excellent health, except for her deafness. It is I who am
ill, Rose Ellen: very ill, and wanting you more than I could bear!"

"Wanting me?" faltered Rose Ellen, with lips wide, with blue eyes
brimming over. "You, Mr. Lindsay, wanting me?"

"Yes, Rose Ellen!" cried the minister. They were still standing in the
passage, and he was still holding her hands, and it was quite absurd,
only neither of them seemed to realize it.

"I have always wanted you, but I have only just found it out. I cannot
live at all without you: I have been only half alive since you went
away. I want you for my own, for always."

"Oh, you can have me!" cried Rose Ellen, and the blue eyes brimmed
over altogether with happy shining tears. "Oh, I was yours all the
time, only I didn't know you--I didn't know--"

She faltered, and then hurried on. "It--it wasn't only that I was
scared about mother, Mr. Lindsay. I couldn't stay away from--oh, some
said--some said you were going to be married, and I couldn't bear it,
no, I couldn't!"

But when Charles Lindsay heard that, he drew Rose Ellen by both hands
into the study, and shut the door. And only the lizard knew what
happened next.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a month later.

There had been a wedding, the prettiest wedding that the village had
ever seen. The whole world seemed turned to roses, and the sweetest
rose of all, Rose Ellen Lindsay, had gone away on her husband's arm,
and Deacon Strong and Deacon Todd were shaking hands very hard, and
blowing peals of joy with their pocket-handkerchiefs. Mrs. Mellen had
preserved her usual calm aspect at the wedding, and looked young
enough to be her own daughter, "some said," in her gray silk and white
straw bonnet. But when it was all over, the wedding party gone, and
the neighbours scattered to their homes again, Sophronia Mellen did a
strange thing. 

* * * * *
Two types of recruits are accepted by the UN Inspector Corps:
those with a fanatic loyalty to the ideals of peace and world order,
and those who are loyal to nothing but themselves. Read was the
second type.

A tall, lanky Negro he had spent his school days in one of the drab
suburbs that ring every prosperous American city. It was the home of
factory workers, clerks, semiskilled technicians, all who do the
drudge work of civilization and know they will never do more. The
adults spent their days with television, alcohol and drugs; the young
spent their days with gangs, sex, television and alcohol. What else was
there? Those who could have told him neither studied nor taught at
his schools.

What he saw on the concrete fields between the tall apartment houses
marked the limits of life's possibilities.

He had belonged to a gang called The Golden Spacemen.

"Nobody fools with me," he bragged.

"When Harry Read's out, there's a tiger running loose." No one knew
how many times he nearly ran from other clubs, how carefully he
picked the safest spot on the battle line.

"A man ought to be a man," he once told a girl. "He ought to do a man's
work. Did you ever notice how our fathers look, how they sleep so
much? I don't want to be like that. I want to be something proud."

He joined the UN Inspector Corps at eighteen, in 1978. The
international cops wore green berets, high buttonless boots, bush
jackets.

They were very special men.

For the first time in his life, his father said something about his
ambitions.

"Don't you like America, Harry? Do you _want_ to be without a country?
This is the best country in the world. All my life I've made a good
living. Haven't you had everything you ever wanted?
I've been a king compared to people overseas.

Why, you stay here and go to trade school and in two years you'll
be living just like me."
"I don't want that," Read said.

"What do you mean, you don't want that?"
"You could join the American Army," his mother said. "That's as good
as a trade school. If you have to be a soldier."
"I want to be a UN man. I've already enlisted. I'm in! What do you
care what I do?"
The UN Inspector Corps had been founded to enforce the Nuclear Disarmament
Treaty of 1966. Through the years it had acquired other jobs. UN
men no longer went unarmed. Trained to use small arms and gas weapons,
they guarded certain borders, bodyguarded diplomats and UN officials,
even put down riots that threatened international peace.

As the UN evolved into a strong world government, the UN Inspector
Corps steadily acquired new powers.

Read went through six months training on Madagascar.

Twice he nearly got expelled for picking fights with smaller men.
Rather than resign, he accepted punishment which assigned him to
weeks of dull, filthy extra labor.

He hated the restrictions and the iron fence of regulations. He hated
boredom, loneliness and isolation.

And yet he responded with enthusiasm.

They had given him a job. A job many people considered important.

He took his turn guarding the still disputed borders of Korea.

       He served on the rescue teams that patrol the busy Polar routes.

He mounted guard at the 1980 World's Fair in Rangoon.

"I liked Rangoon," he even told a friend.

"I even liked Korea.
But I think I liked the Pole job best.

You sit around playing cards and shooting the bull and then there's
a plane crash or something and you go out and win a medal. That's great
for me.
I'm lazy and I like excitement."
* * * * *
One power implied in the UN Charter no Secretary General or Inspector
General had ever tried to use. The power to arrest any head
of state whose country violated international law. Could the World
Court try and imprison a politician who had conspired to attack
another nation?

For years Africa had been called "The South America of the Old World."
Revolution followed revolution. Colonies became democracies. Democracies
became dictatorships or dissolved in civil war. Men planted bases
on the moon and in four years, 1978-82, ringed the world with matter
transmitters; but the black population of Africa still struggled
toward political equality.

Umluana took control of Belderkan in 1979. The tiny, former Dutch
colony, had been a tottering democracy for ten years.

The very day he took control the new dictator and his African party
began to build up the Belderkan Army.

For years he had preached a new Africa, united, free of white
masters, the home of a vigorous and perfect Negro society.

His critics called him a hypocritical racist, an opportunist using the
desires of the African people to build himself an empire.

He began a propaganda war against neighboring South Africa, promising
the liberation of that strife-torn land.

Most Negro leaders, having just won representation in the South
African Parliament, told him to liberate his own country. They
believed they could use their first small voice in the government to
win true freedom for their people.

But the radio assault and the arms buildup continued. Early in 1982,
South Africa claimed the Belderkan Army exceeded the size agreed to
in the Disarmament Treaty. The European countries and some African
nations joined in the accusation. China called the uproar a vicious
slur on a new African nation. The United States and Russia, trying
not to get entangled, asked for more investigation by the UN.

But the evidence was clear. Umluana was defying world law. If he got
away with it, some larger and more dangerous nation might follow his
precedent. And the arms race would begin again.

The Inspector General decided. They would enter Belderkan, arrest
Umluana and try him by due process before the World Court. If the
plan succeeded, mankind would be a long step farther from nuclear
war.

Read didn't know much about the complicated political reasons for the
arrest. He liked the Corp and he liked being in the Corp. He went
where they sent him and did what they told him to do.

* * * * *
The car skimmed above the tree-tops. The driver and his two passengers
scanned the sky.

A plane would have been a faster way to get out of the country.

But then they would have spent hours flying over Africa, with Belderkan
fighters in hot pursuit, other nations joining the chase and the
world uproar gaining volume.

By transmitter, if all went well, they could have Umluana in
Geneva in an hour.

They were racing toward Miaka, a branch transmitter station. From Miaka
they would transmit to the Belderkan Preserve, a famous tourist
attraction whose station could transmit to any point on the globe.
Even now a dozen inspectors were taking over the Game Preserve station
and manning its controls.

They had made no plans to take over Miaka. They planned to get there
before it could be defended.

"There's no military base near Miaka," Rashid said. "We might get there
before the Belderkans."
"Here comes our escort," Read said.

A big car rose from the jungle. This one had a recoilless rifle
mounted on the roof.

The driver and the gunner waved and fell in behind them.

"One thing," Read said, "I don't think they'll shoot at us while
_he's_ in the car."
"Don't be certain, corporal. All these strong-arm movements are alike.
I'll bet Umluana's lieutenants are hoping he'll become a dead legend.
Then they can become live conquerors."
Sergeant Rashid came from Cairo. He had degrees in science and history
from Cambridge but only the Corp gave him work that satisfied his
conscience. He hated war. It was that simple.

Read looked back. He saw three spots of sunlight about two hundred
feet up and a good mile behind.

"Here they come, Sarge."
Rashid turned his head. He waved frantically. The two men in the other
car waved back.

"Shall I duck under the trees?" the driver asked.

"Not yet. Not until we have to."
Read fingered the machine gun he had picked up when he got in the car.
He had never been shot at. Twice he had faced an unarmed mob, but a
few shots had sent them running.

Birds flew screaming from their nests. Monkeys screeched and
threw things at the noisy, speeding cars. A little cloud of birds
surrounded each vehicle.

The escort car made a sharp turn and charged their pursuers. The big
rifle fired twice. Read saw the Belderkan cars scatter.

Suddenly machine-gun bullets cracked and whined beside him.

"Evade," Rashid said. "Don't go down."
Without losing any forward speed, the driver took them straight up.
Read's stomach bounced.

A shell exploded above them. The car rocked. He raised his eyes and
saw a long crack in the roof.

"Hit the floor," Rashid said.

They knelt on the cramped floor. Rashid put on his gas mask and
Read copied him. Umluana breathed like a furnace, still unconscious
from the injection Rashid had given him.

_I can't do anything_, Read thought. _They're too far away to shoot
back.

All we can do is run._
The sky was clear and blue. The jungle was a noisy bazaar of color. In
the distance guns crashed. He listened to shells whistle by and
the whipcrack of machine-gun bullets. The car roller-coastered up and
down. Every time a shell passed, he crawled in waves down his own
back.

Another explosion, this time very loud.

Rashid raised his eyes above the seat and looked out the rear window.
"Two left. Keep down, Read."
"Can't we go down?" Read said.

"They'll get to Miaka before us."
He shut his eyes when he heard another loud explosion.

Sergeant Rashid looked out the window again. He swore bitterly in English
and Egyptian. Read raised his head. The two cars behind them weren't
fighting each other.

A long way back the tree-tops burned.

"How much farther?" Rashid said. The masks muffled their voices.

"There it is now. Shall I take us right in?"
"I think you'd better."
* * * * *
The station was a glass diamond in a small clearing. The driver slowed
down, then crashed through the glass walls and hovered by the transmitter
booth.

Rashid opened the door and threw out two grenades.

Read jumped out and the two of them struggled toward the booth with
Umluana.
The driver, pistol in hand, ran for the control panel.

There were three technicians in the station and no passengers.
All three panicked when the psycho gas enveloped them. They ran howling
for the jungle.

Through the window of his mask, Read saw their pursuers land in the
clearing.

Machine-gun bullets raked the building. They got Umluana in the booth
and hit the floor. Read took aim and opened fire on the largest
car.

"Now, I can shoot back," he said. "Now we'll see what they do."
"Are you ready, Rashid?" yelled the driver.

"Man, get us out of here!"
The booth door shut.

When it opened, they were at the Game Preserve.

The station jutted from the side of a hill. A glass-walled waiting
room surrounded the bank of transmitter booths. Read looked out the
door and saw his first battlefield.

Directly in front of him, his head shattered by a bullet, a dead
inspector lay behind an overturned couch.

Read had seen dozens of training films taken during actual battles or
after atomic attacks. He had laughed when other recruits complained.
"That's the way this world is.

You people with the weak stomachs better get used to it."
Now he slid against the rear wall of the transmitter booth.

A wounded inspector crawled across the floor to the booth. Read
couldn't see his wound, only the pain scratched on his face and
the blood he deposited on the floor.

"Did you get Umluana?" he asked Sergeant Rashid.

"He's in the booth. What's going on?" Rashid's Middle East Oxford
seemed more clipped than ever.

"They hit us with two companies of troops a few minutes ago. I think
half our men are wounded."
"Can we get out of here?"
"They machine-gunned the controls."
Rashid swore. "You heard him, Read! Get out there and help those men."

He heard the screams of the wounded, the crack of rifles and machine
guns, all the terrifying noise of war.

But since his eighteenth year he had done everything his superiors
told him to do.

He started crawling toward an easy-chair that looked like good cover.

A bullet cracked above his head, so close he felt the shock wave.
He got up, ran panicky, crouched, and dove behind the chair.

An inspector cracked the valve on a smoke grenade. A white fog spread
through the building. They could see anyone who tried to rush them
but the besiegers couldn't pick out targets.

Above the noise, he heard Rashid.

"I'm calling South Africa Station for a copter. It's the only way out
of here. Until it comes, we've got to hold them back."
Read thought of the green beret he had stuffed in his pocket that morning.
He stuck it on his head and cocked it. He didn't need plain clothes
anymore and he wanted to wear at least a part of his uniform.

Bullets had completely shattered the wall in front of him. He stared
through the murk, across the broken glass. He was Corporal Harry
Read, UN Inspector Corps--a very special man. If he didn't do a good
job here, he wasn't the man he claimed to be. This might be the only
real test he would ever face.

* * * * *
He heard a shout in rapid French. He turned to his right. Men in red
loincloths ran zigzagging toward the station. They carried light
automatic rifles. Half of them wore gas masks.

"Shoot the masks," he yelled.

"Aim for the masks."
The machine gun kicked and chattered on his shoulder. He picked a
target and squeezed off a burst. Tensely, he hunted for another mask.
Three grenades arced through the air and yellow gas spread across
the battlefield. The attackers ran through it. A few yards beyond the
gas, some of them turned and ran for their own lines.
In a moment only half a dozen masked men still advanced.

The inspectors fired a long, noisy volley. When they stopped only
four attackers remained on their feet. And they were running for
cover.

The attackers had come straight up a road that led from the Game
Preserve to the station. They had not expected any resistance.
The UN men had already taken over the station, chased out the passengers
and technicians and taken up defense positions; they had met the
Belderkans with a dozen grenades and sent them scurrying for cover.
The fight so far had been vicious but disorganized. But the Belderkans
had a few hundred men and knew they had wrecked the transmitter
controls.

The first direct attack had been repulsed. They could attack many more
times and continue to spray the building with bullets.

They could also try to go around the hill and attack the station
from above; if they did, the inspectors had a good view of the
hill and should see them going up.

The inspectors had taken up good defensive positions. In spite of
their losses, they still had enough firepower to cover the area
surrounding the station.

Read surveyed his sector of fire. About two hundred yards to his
left, he saw the top of a small ditch. Using the ditch for cover, the
Belderkans could sneak to the top of the hill.

Gas grenades are only three inches long. They hold cubic yards of gas
under high pressure. Read unclipped a telescoping rod from his vest
pocket. He opened it and a pair of sights flipped up. A thin track
ran down one side.

He had about a dozen grenades left, three self-propelling. He slid an
SP grenade into the rod's track and estimated windage and range.
Sighting carefully, not breathing, muscles relaxed, the rod rock
steady, he fired and lobbed the little grenade into the ditch. He
dropped another grenade beside it.
The heavy gas would lie there for hours.
Sergeant Rashid ran crouched from man to man. He did what he could
to shield the wounded.

"Well, corporal, how are you?"
"Not too bad, sergeant. See that ditch out there? I put a little
gas in it." 
"Good work. How's your ammunition?"
"A dozen grenades. Half a barrel of shells."
"The copter will be here in half an hour. We'll put Umluana on,
then try to save ourselves. Once he's gone, I think we ought to
surrender." 
"How do you think they'll treat us?"
"That we'll have to see."
An occasional bullet cracked and whined through the misty room.
Near him a man gasped frantically for air. On the sunny field a
wounded man screamed for help.
"There's a garage downstairs," Rashid said. "In case the copter
doesn't get here on time, I've got a man filling wine bottles with
gasoline." 
"We'll stop them, Sarge. Don't worry." 
* * * * *
Rashid ran off. Read stared across the green land and listened to
the pound of his heart. What were the Belderkans planning? A mass
frontal attack? To sneak in over the top of the hill?
He didn't think, anymore than a rabbit thinks when it lies hiding
from the fox or a panther thinks when it crouches on a branch above
the trail. His skin tightened and relaxed on his body.
"Listen," said a German.
Far down the hill he heard the deep-throated rumble of a big
motor.

"Armor," the German said.
The earth shook. The tank rounded the bend. Read watched the squat,
angular monster until its stubby gun pointed at the station. It
stopped less than two hundred yards away.
A loud-speaker blared.

ATTENTION UN SOLDIERS.
ATTENTION UN SOLDIERS.
YOU MAY THINK US SAVAGES BUT WE HAVE MODERN WEAPONS.
WE HAVE ATOMIC WARHEADS, ALL GASES, ROCKETS AND FLAME THROWERS. IF
YOU DO NOT SURRENDER OUR PREMIER, WE WILL DESTROY YOU.
"They know we don't have any big weapons," Read said. "They know
we have only gas grenades and small arms."
He looked nervously from side to side. They couldn't bring the
copter in with that thing squatting out there.
A few feet away, sprawled behind a barricade of tables, lay a man
in advanced shock. His deadly white skin shone like ivory. They
wouldn't even look like that. One nuclear shell from that gun and
they'd be vaporized. Or perhaps the tank had sonic projectors; then
the skin would peel off their bones. Or they might be burned, or
cut up by shrapnel, or gassed with some new mist their masks couldn't
filter.
Read shut his eyes. All around him he heard heavy breathing, mumbled
comments, curses. Clothes rustled as men moved restlessly.
But already the voice of Sergeant Rashid resounded in the murky
room.
"We've got to knock that thing out before the copter comes.
Otherwise, he can't land. I have six Molotov cocktails here. Who
wants to go hunting with me?"
For two years Read had served under Sergeant Rashid. To him, the
sergeant was everything a UN inspector should be. Rashid's devotion
to peace had no limits.
Read's psych tests said pride alone drove him on. That was good
enough for the UN; they only rejected men whose loyalties might
conflict with their duties. But an assault on the tank required
something more than a hunger for self-respect.
Read had seen the inspector who covered their getaway. He had watched
their escort charge three-to-one odds. He had seen another inspector
stay behind at Miaka Station. And here, in this building, lay
battered men and dead men.
All UN inspectors. All part of his life.
And he was part of their life. Their blood, their sacrifice, and
pain, had become a part of him.
"I'll take a cocktail, Sarge." 
"Is that Read?"
"Who else did you expect?" 
"Nobody. Anybody else?"
"I'll go," the Frenchman said. "Three should be enough. Give us a
good smoke screen." 
* * * * *
Rashid snapped orders. He put the German inspector in charge of
Umluana. Read, the Frenchman and himself, he stationed at thirty-foot
intervals along the floor.
"Remember," Rashid said. "We have to knock out that gun."
Read had given away his machine gun. He held a gas-filled bottle
in each hand. His automatic nestled in its shoulder holster.
Rashid whistled.
Dozens of smoke grenades tumbled through the air. Thick mist engulfed
the tank. Read stood up and ran forward. He crouched but didn't
zigzag. Speed counted most here.
Gunfire shook the hill. The Belderkans couldn't see them but they
knew what was going on and they fired systematically into the
smoke.
Bullets ploughed the ground beside him. He raised his head and found
the dim silhouette of the tank. He tried not to think about bullets
ploughing through his flesh.
A bullet slammed into his hip. He fell on his back, screaming.
"Sarge. _Sarge._"
"I'm hit, too," Rashid said. "Don't stop if you can move."
_Listen to him. What's he got, a sprained ankle?_
But he didn't feel any pain. He closed his eyes and threw himself
onto his stomach. And nearly fainted from pain. He screamed and
quivered. The pain stopped. He stretched out his hands, gripping
the wine bottles, and inched forward. Pain stabbed him from stomach
to knee.

"I can't move, Sarge."
"Read, you've got to. I think you're the only--" 
"What?"
Guns clattered. Bullets cracked.

"Sergeant Rashid! Answer me."
He heard nothing but the lonely passage of the bullets in the
mist.
"I'm a UN man," he mumbled. "You people up there know what a UN man
is? You know what happens when you meet one?"
When he reached the tank, he had another bullet in his right arm.
But they didn't know he was coming and when you get within ten feet
of a tank, the men inside can't see you.
He just had to stand up and drop the bottle down the gun barrel.It is a positive fact that her baskets were
always brought back, "a thing imagination boggles at;" but perhaps
this was because the neighbours liked them better full than empty.

"Makin' flowers so cheap," Mrs. Means would say, "seems to take the
wuth of 'em away, to my mind; but I'm too feelin', I know that well
enough. Anne, she's kind o' callous, and she don't think of things
that make me squinch, seem's though."

Weeks passed on, the broken leg was healed, and Mrs. Means departed to
her own house. "I s'pose you'll miss me, Anne," she said, at parting,
"I shall you; and you have ben good to me, if 't _has_ ben kind o'
dull here, so few comin' and goin'." (Miss Peace's was generally the
favourite resort of all the young people of the village, and half the
old ones, but the "neighbouring" had dropped off, since Mrs. Means
had been there.) "Good-by, Anne, and thank you for all you've done. I
feel to be glad I've been company for you, livin' alone as you do,
with no husband nor nothin' belongin' to you."

"Good-by, Delia," replied Anne Peace, cheerfully. "Don't you fret
about me. I'm used to being alone, you know; and it's been a
privilege, I'm sure, to do what I could for you, so long as we've been
acquainted. My love to David, and don't forget to give him the syrup I
put in the bottom of your trunk for him."

"'Twon't do him any good!" cried Mrs. Means, as the wagon drove away,
turning her head to shout back at her hostess. "He's bound to die,
David is. He'll never see another spring, I tell him, and then I shall
be left a widder, with four children and--"

"Oh, gerlang! gerlang, _up_!" shouted Calvin Parks, the stage-driver,
whose stock of patience was small; the horse started, and Mrs. Means's
wails died away in the distance.

In this instance the predictions of the doleful lady seemed likely to
be verified; for David Means continued to "fail up." Always a slight
man, he was now mere skin and bone, and his cheerful smile grew
pathetic to see. He was a distant cousin of Anne Peace's, and had
something of her placid disposition; a mild, serene man, bearing his
troubles in silence, finding his happiness in the children whom he
loved almost passionately. He had married Delia Case because she was
pretty, and because she wanted to marry him; had never known, and
would never know, that he might have had a very different kind of
wife. Perhaps Anne Peace hardly knew herself that David had been the
romance of her life, so quickly had the thought been put away, so
earnestly had she hoped for his happiness; but she admitted frankly
that she "set by him," and she was devoted to his children.

"Can nothing be done?" she asked the good doctor one day, as they came
away together from David's house, leaving Delia shaking her head from
the doorsteps. "Can nothing be done, doctor? it doos seem as if I
couldn't bear to see David fade away so, and not try anything to stop
it."

Doctor Brown shook his head thoughtfully. "I doubt if there's much
chance for him, Anne," he said kindly. "David is a good fellow, and if
I saw any way--it might be possible, if he could be got off to Florida
before cold weather comes on--there is a chance; but I don't suppose
it could be managed. He has no means, poor fellow, save what he
carries in his name."

"Florida?" said Anne Peace, thoughtfully; and then she straightway
forgot the doctor's existence, and hurried off along the street, with
head bent and eyes which saw nothing they rested on.

Reaching her home, where all the flowers smiled a bright welcome,
unnoticed for once, her first action was to take out of a drawer a
little blue book, full of figures, which she studied with ardour. Then
she took a clean sheet of paper, and wrote certain words at the top of
it; then she got out her best bonnet.

Something very serious was on hand when Miss Peace put on her best
bonnet. She had only had it four years, and regarded it still as a
sacred object, to be taken out on Sundays and reverently looked at,
then put back in its box, and thought about while she tied the strings
of the ten-year-old velvet structure, which was quite as good as new.
Two weddings had seen the best bonnet in its grandeur, and three
funerals; but no bells, either solemn or joyous, summoned her to-day,
as she gravely placed the precious bonnet on her head, and surveyed
her image with awestruck approval in the small mirror over the
mantelpiece.

"It's _dreadful_ handsome!" said Miss Peace, softly. "It's too
handsome for me, a great sight, but I want to look my best now, if
ever I did."

It was at Judge Ransom's door that she rang first; a timid, apologetic
ring, as if she knew in advance how busy the judge would be, and how
wrong it was of her to intrude on his precious time. But the judge
himself opened the door, and was not at all busy, but delighted to
have a chance to chat with his old friend, whom he had not seen for a
month of Sundays. He made her come in, and put her in the biggest
armchair (which swallowed her up so that hardly more than the bonnet
was visible), and drew a footstool before her little feet, which
dangled helplessly above it; then he took his seat opposite, in
another big chair, and said it was a fine day, and then waited, seeing
that she had something of importance to say.

Miss Peace's breath came short and quick, and she fingered her
reticule nervously. She had not thought it would be quite so dreadful
as this. "Judge," she said--and paused, frightened at the sound of her
voice, which seemed to echo in a ghostly manner through the big room.

.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Vicar's Wife_.

"THE VICAR WAS ASKING ONLY THIS MORNING WHY YOU WEREN'T IN THE HABIT
OF ATTENDING CHURCH."
_Latest Inhabitant_. "WELL, YOU SEE, IT DOES SO CUT INTO ONE'S
SUNDAYS."]
* * * * *
CURES FOR INSOMNIA.

The following correspondence, clearly intended for the Editor of _The
Daily Ailment_, has found its way into our letter-box. Another example
of post-office inefficiency.

SIR,--As a regular reader of your valuable journal I am always
deeply interested in the views of your readers as expressed in its
columns.

The recent letters on the cure of insomnia have interested me
particularly.

Although I have read your paper for many years, always eaten standard
bread, study most diligently each morning my lesson on Government
wobble and waste, grow sweet peas, keep fowls, take my holidays early
(in Thanet) and read the feuilleton, in short perform all the
duties of an enthusiastic loyal Englishman, I cannot sleep.

Yesterday I decided to try the remedies suggested by your readers.

After inviting sleep with "a dish of boiled onions" I found that I must
go to bed "without having eaten anything for five hours or so."
This meant sitting up very late, but I found the time useful for
taking "deep long breaths."

Meanwhile I ran through the names of my friends alphabetically and emptied
the feathers from my pillow, replacing them with hops.

Sometimes a hop got mixed up in a "deep long breath," which was rather
pleasant.

Every few minutes I left my friends' names to say to myself, "I
am terribly sleepy," or "I am falling asleep;" this was wrong,
as the boiled onions had not had nearly five hours. "Relaxing all my
muscles" was rather awkward, as one hand was filling the pillow with
hops and the other was "holding a wet sponge," which _would_ drip water
on the sheets. Another difficulty was "wafting myself in an imaginary
aeroplane" to bring about "a state of oblivion and coma," which I
might perhaps have done more easily by putting the hops to another
use.

I had to cut out the "recital of the Litany," partly because my
friends' names had only got as far as George (Lloyd), and also
because, being a Nonconformist, I don't know it.

(I must learn it now the feuilleton is finishing.)
But the most annoying part of the business was to find that, after all
this elaborate preparation for sleep, I was to "take a brisk walk
for half-an-hour" (whatever the weather conditions).

Even this did not work, for by that time the milkmen and newsboys were
heralding the dawn and kept my brain too alert.

As a final effort, do you think you could produce a nightcap
model of the Sandringham, or is it quite impossible for one who reads
your paper to be anything but wideawake?

* * * * *

THE PERFECT PARTNER.

There are, my Mabel, men who vow The perfect wife is theirs Because
she smoothes the ruffled brow And drives away their cares; While
there are others hold the view That she is best who'll pay Some
trivial attention to Her promise to obey.

Well, let each babble in his turn About that spouse of his; Not
knowing you, how could they learn What true perfection is?"Tell the truth, Anne Peace! Delia
will say I might have given fifty and never missed it. There! I won't
distress you, my dear. Good day, and all good luck to you!" and so
ended Miss Peace's first call.

With such a beginning, there was no doubt of the success of the
subscription. Generally, in Cyrus, people waited to see what Judge
Ransom and Lawyer Peters gave to any charity, before making their own
contribution. "Jedge Ransom has put down five dollars, has he? Well
he's wuth so much, and I'm wuth so much. Guess fifty cents will be
about the right figger for me:" this is the course of reasoning in
Cyrus. But with an unknown friend starting off with twenty-five
dollars and Judge Ransom following suit, it became apparent to every
one that David Means must go to Florida, whatever happened. The dollar
and five-dollar subscriptions poured in rapidly, till, one happy day,
Anne Peace stood in her little room and counted the full amount out on
the table, and then sat down (it was not her habit to kneel, and she
would have thought it too familiar, if not actually popish) and
thanked God as she had never found it necessary to thank Him for any
of the good things of her own life.

So David Means went to Florida, and his wife and two children went
with him. This had been no part of the original plan, but at the bare
idea of his going without her, Mrs. Means had raised a shrill cry of
protest. "What? David go down there, and she and the children stay
perishing at home? she guessed not. If Florida was good for David, it
was good for her, too, and she laid up ever sence spring, as she might
say, and with no more outing than a woodchuck in January. But there were
internal evidences; an odour of Bouquet de Roi or some such villanous
compound nearly overpowering the fragrance of some genuine weed which
I had supplied my pea-coated friend with in the place of his Oxford
"Havannahs"--a short cough occasionally, as though the smoke of the
said weed were not altogether "the perfume of the lip he loved;"--and
a resolute taciturnity. What was he? It is a lamentable fact that
an Oxford under-graduate does not invariably look the gentleman.
He vibrates between the fashionable assurance of a London swindler,
and the modest diffidence of an overgrown schoolboy. There is usually
a degree of unfinishedness about him. He seems to be assuming a
character unlike the glorious Burschenschaf of Germany, he has no
character of his own.

However, for want of more profitable occupation, we set to work in
earnest to discover who our fellow traveller really was: and by a series
of somewhat American conversational enquiries, we at last fished out
that he was going into ----shire like ourselves--nay, in answer
to a direct question on the subject, that he hopes to meet Hanmer
of Trinity at Glyndewi.

But no further information could we get:
our new friend was reserved. Mr Branling and I had commenced intimacy
already. "My name is Branling of Brazenose;" "and mine Hawthorne of
----;" was our concise introduction. But our companion was the pink
of Oxford correctness on this point. He thanked the porter for putting
his luggage up called me "Sir" till he found I was an Oxford man; and
had we travelled for a month together, would rather have requested
the coachman to introduce us, than be guilty of any such barbarism as
to introduce himself. So by degrees our intimacy, instead of warming,
waxed cold. As night drew on, and the fire of cigars from Branling,
self, and coachman, became more deadly, the fur cap was drawn
still closer over the ears, the mackintosh crept up higher, and we
lost sight of all but the outline of the spectacles.

The abominable twitter of the sparrows in the hedgerows gave notice
of the break of day--to travellers the most dismal of all hours, in my
opinion--when I awoke from the comfortable nap into which I had fallen
since the last change of horses. For some time we alternately dozed,
tumbled against each other, begged pardon, and awoke; till at last
the sun broke out gloriously as we drove into the cheerful little
town of B----.

A good breakfast set us all to rights, and made even our friend in the
mackintosh talkative. He came out most in the character of
tea-maker:
(an office, by the way, which he filled to the general satisfaction of
his constituents during our stay in North Wales.) We found out that
he was a St Mary Hall man, with a duplicate name: Mr Sydney Dawson,
as the cards on his multifarious luggage set forth: that he was an
aspirant for "any thing he could get" in the way of honours: (humble
aspiration as it seemed, it was not destined to be gratified, for
he got nothing.)

He thought he might find some shooting and fishing in Wales, so
had brought with him a gun-case and a setter; though his pretensions
to sportsmanship proved to be rather of the cockney order. For three
months he was the happily unconscious butt of our party, and yet
never but once was our good-humour seriously interrupted.

From B---- to Glyndewi we had been told we must make our way as we
could: and a council of war, which included boots and the waiter,
ended in the arrival of the owner of one of the herring-boats, of
which there were several under "the terrace."

"Was you wish to go to Glyndewi, gentlemen? I shall take you so quick
as any way; she is capital wind, and you shall have fine sail."

No one in Cyrus could
remember such steady cold, since the great winter of sixty years ago,
when the doctor's grandfather was frozen to death, driving across the
plains to visit a poor woman. The horse went straight to the place,
his head being turned that way and his understanding being good; but
when the farmer came out with his lantern, there sat the old doctor
stiff and dead in his sleigh. Those were the days when people, even
doctors, had not learned how to wrap up, and would drive about all
winter with high, stiff hats and one buffalo robe, not tucked in, as
we have them nowadays, but dropping down at their feet. There was
small chance of our Doctor Brown's freezing to death, in his
well-lined sleigh, with his fur cap pulled down over his nose and his
fur coat buttoned up to his chin and the great robes tucked round him
in a scientific manner. Still, for all that, it was a bitter winter,
and a good many people in Cyrus and elsewhere, who had no fur coats,
went cold by day and lay cold by night, as one good lady pathetically
expressed it. There was little snow, and what there was fell in
wonderful crystals, fairy studies in geometry, which delighted the
eyes of Joey and Georgie Means, as they trotted to school, with Miss
Peace's "nuby" over one little head and her shawl over the other.
Every morning the sun rose in a clear sky, shining like steel; every
evening the same sky glowed with wonderful tints of amethyst and
tender rose, fading gradually, till all was blue once more, and the
stars had it all their own way, throbbing with fierce, cold light.

It was a great winter for Joey and Georgie! They never thought of its
being too cold, for every morning their toes were toasted over the
fire before schooltime, as if they had been muffins, and they were
sent off nice and hot, with a baked potato in each pocket, in case
their hands should be cold through the two pairs of thick mittens
which Aunt Peace had provided.

Then, when they came home, dinner was waiting, such a dinner as they
were not in the habit of having; a little mutton pie, or a smoking
Irish stew, with all the dumplings and gravy they wanted (and they
wanted a great deal), and then pancakes, tossed before their very
eyes, with a spoonful of jam in the middle of each, or blanc-mange
made in the shape of a cow, which tasted quite different from any
other blanc-mange that ever was. Also, they had the freedom of the
corn-popper, and might roast apples every evening till bedtime.
Doctor Brown shook his head occasionally, and told Anne Peace she
would unfit those children for anything else in life than eating good
things; but it was very likely that was jealousy, he added, for
certainly his medicines had never given the children these rosy cheeks
and sparkling eyes.

And when bedtime came, and the two little brown heads were nestled
down in the pillows of the big four-poster in the warm room, Anne
Peace would humbly give thanks that they had been well and happy
through another day, and then creep off to the cold, little room which
she had chosen this winter, "because it was more handy." Often, when
awakened in the middle of the night by the sharp, cracking frost
noises, which tell of intensest cold, she would creep in to feel of
the children, and make sure that they were as warm as two little
dormice, which they always were. I do not know how many times she took
a blanket or comforter off her own bed to add to their store; but I do
know that she would not let Jenny Miller go into her room to see. She
almost rejoiced in the excessive cold, saying to herself with
exultation, "Fifteen below! well, there! and I s'pose it's like summer
in Florida, this minute of time!" And then she fancied David sitting
under an orange-tree, fanning himself, and smiled, and went meekly to
work to break the ice in her water-butt.

Every week letters came from David Means to his children, telling them
of the beauty all around him and wishing they were there. He said
little of his health, but always assured them that Janey and Willy
were real smart, and sent his love to Anne Peace and his remembrance
to all friends at home.

The letters were short, and each time they grew a little shorter, till
by and by it was only a postal card, written in a faint and trembling
hand, but saying that the weather was fine, and father was so glad to
get their little letter, and he would write more next time, but was
very busy just now. When she read one of these, Anne Peace would go
away into her little cold room for a while, and then would come back
smiling and say that now they must write a real _good_ letter to
father, and tell him how well they were doing at school.

At last came a week when there was no postal card; another week, and
there came a letter edged with black and written in Mrs. Means's hand.
The children were at school when it came, and Jenny Miller, coming in
by chance to bring a pot of head-cheese of her mother's making, found
Miss Peace crouching in the corner of the sofa, weeping quietly, with
the letter lying on her lap.

"Why, Miss Peace," cried Jenny, frightened at the sight of tears in
those steadfast eyes, "What is the matter? Do tell me, dear! Why,
you're real cold in here. I do believe the fire has gone out. You've
had bad news, Miss Peace, have you? Do tell me, that's a dear soul,
and don't cry."

"Yes," said Anne Peace. "The fire is out, Jenny, and David is dead."

She held out the letter, saying something about
"privilege--think--rest;" but Jenny Miller was already on her knees,
putting kindlings into the stove at a reckless rate. Then, when the
fire was crackling merrily, she ran to fetch a shawl and wrapped it
round the poor trembling shoulders, and chafed the cold hands in her
own warm, young fingers. But soon Miss Peace grew uneasy; she was not
used to being "done for," having only the habit of doing for others.
She pointed eagerly to the letter. "Read it, Jenny," she said,
anxiously. "I--I am all right, dear. It's come rather sudden, that's
all, and those poor little children--but read the letter." The words
died away, and Jenny, sitting down beside her, took the paper and
read.

It began "Friend Anne," and went on to say that the writer's poor
husband died yesterday, and she was left, as she always knew she
should be, a widow with four children. It did seem to her as if he
might have been let die to home, instead of being carted all the way
down there and then have to send the remains back. --_The Coalition
Golf Club de luxe_.

MR. BONAR LAW. "DARE WE HAVE CADDIES?"
MR. LLOYD GEORGE. "NO, NO. WE ARE OBSERVED. THE PLACE IS ALIVE WITH
ELECTORS."

("Watch your M.P.!"--_Poster of Anti-Waste Press_.)]
* * * * *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

[Illustration: THURSDAY.

[After the Painting by W. DENDY SADLER.]
SIR D. MACLEAN, MR. HOGGE, MR. G. LAMBERT, MR. G. R. THORNE, MR.
ASQUITH, MR. ACLAND, GENERAL SEELY.]
_Monday, December 6th._--"Logic has never governed Ireland and never
will," said Lord MIDLETON to-day. It was certainly conspicuous by its
absence from a good many of the speeches made in Committee on the
Government of Ireland Bill. Representatives of Southern Ireland
have been clamouring for greater financial control, but they quite
changed their tone when Clause 24, enabling the Irish Parliaments
to impose a surtax upon residents in Ireland, came up for discussion.

While professing the greatest confidence in the desire of their
fellow-countrymen to treat them fairly, Lords DROGHEDA, SLIGO and
WICKLOW agreed in thinking that this was too dangerous a power to
entrust to them; it would breed absenteeism and drive capital out of
the country.

Lord FINLAY, to whom as a Scotsman logic still makes appeal, was for the
deletion of the whole clause. But the Irish Peers again objected; for
they desired to preserve for the Irish Parliaments power to remit
Imperial taxes, on the off-chance that some day it might be
exercised.

And they carried their point.

According to Lieut.-Colonel CROFT the pencils used by the British
Post-Office are procured from the United States. As one who has
suffered I can only hope that Anglo-American friendship, already
somewhat strained by the bacon episode, will survive this revelation.
On the strength of a rumour that the seed of Irish peace had been
planted in Downing Street, Mr. HOGGE promptly essayed to root it
up in order to observe its progress towards fruition. The PRIME
MINISTER, however, gave no encouragement to his well-intentioned
efforts. Nor did he satisfy Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY'S curiosity
as to whether Father O'FLANAGAN was "a Sinn Feiner on the bridge,"
beyond saying "that is what we want to find out."
_Tuesday, December 7th.Mr. Tombs, the undertaker, said he never saw any one bear afflicktion
so; she told him she was used to it. He was a perfect gentleman, and a
widower himself, so he could feel for her. Miss Peace might be
thankful that she was never called on to bear afflicktion, with no one
but herself to look out for; not but what 'twas lonesome for her, and
Mrs. Means supposed she'd be glad enough to keep Georgie and Joey on
a spell longer for company. Tell them they are poor orphans now, with
no father to earn their bread. The writer wished her husband's remains
to be buried in his father's lot, as she had no money to buy one. Miss
Peace might see if any one felt to put up a moniment for David; he
hadn't an enemy in the world, and he never begredged a dollar when he
had it to give, for anything there was going. If he had thought a
little more about her, and less about everybody's cat and dog, she
might have something now to put bread in her children's mouths, let
alone her own. Not that she had any appetite, a flea wouldn't fatten
on what she ate. Lawyer Peters was his mother's third cousin if she
was living. He spent more on those girls of his than would clothe the
writer and her children for a year.

The remains went by the same boat with this letter, so Miss Peace
would know when to expect them. Mrs. Means looked to her to see that
David had a decent funeral; a handsome one she couldn't expect, folks
in Cyrus were close enough about all that didn't go on their own
backs, though she shouldn't wish it said.

So now there was no more, from Miss Peace's unfortunate friend, "the
Widow Means."

After reading this precious epistle, Jenny Miller found herself,
perhaps for the first time in her life, with nothing to say. She
could only sit and press her friend's hand, and thrill, as a girl
will, at the touch of a sorrow which she only now began dimly to
guess. Jenkins and "Gwenny" justice, they were scrupulously clean in
every thing but their own persons, which, the latter's especially,
seemed to have monopolised the dirt of the whole establishment.

College bedrooms are not luxurious affairs, so we were not inclined to
be captious on that head; and we slept soundly, and awoke with a
determination to make out first voyage of discovery in a charitable
spirit.

The result of our morning's stroll was the unanimous conclusion, that
Glyndewi was a rising place. It did not seem inclined to rise at all
at once though; but in patches here and there, with a quarter
of a mile or so between, like what we read of the great sea-serpent.
(I fear this individual is no more; this matter-of-fact age has
been the death of him.)

There were two long streets--one parallel to the quay, (or, as the
more refined called it, "the terrace,") and the other at right angles
to it. The first was Herring Street--the second Goose Street. At least
such were the ancient names, which I give for the benefit of antiquarian
readers. Since the then Princess Victoria visited B----, the loyalty
of the Glyndewi people had changed "Herring" into "Victoria;" and her
royal consort has since had the equivocal compliment paid him of
transmuting "Goose Street" into "Albert Buildings."

I trust it will not be considered disloyal to say, that the original
sponsors--the geese and the herrings--seen to me to have been
somewhat hardly used; having done more for their namesakes, than,
as far as I can learn, their royal successors even promised.

Glyndewi was rising, however, in more respects than in the matter of
taste in nomenclature. Tall houses, all front and windows, were
stuck up here and there; sometimes with a low fisherman's cottage
between then, whose sinking roof and bulging walls looked as if,
like the frog in the fable, it had burst in the vain attempt to rival
its majestic neighbour.

At one end stood a large hotel with a small business, and an empty
billiard-room: at the other, a wall some six inches high marked the
spot where subscription-rooms were to be built for the accommodation
of visitors and the public generally, as set forth in the prospectus,
as soon as the visitors and the public chose to find the money.
No one in Cyrus had such mignonette as Miss Peace,
and people thought she had some special receipt for making it grow and
blossom luxuriantly; but she always said no, it was only because she
set by it. Folks could most always grow the things they set most
store by, she thought.

So the Sunday-school festival at Tupham Corner was a perfect blaze of
flowers, and the minister in his speech made allusion to generous
friends in other parishes, who sent of their wealth to swell our
rejoicings, and of their garden produce to gladden our eyes; but while
the eyes of Tupham were being gladdened, Anne Peace was brushing
Joey's and Georgie's hair, and tying black ribbons under their little
chins, smiling at them through her tears, and bidding them be brave
for dear father's sake, who was gone to the best home now, and would
never be sick any more, or tired, or--or sad.

It was a quiet funeral: almost a cheerful one, the neighbours said, as
they saw the little room filled with bright flowers (they all seemed
to smell of mignonette, there was so much of it hidden among the
roses), and the serene face of the chief mourner, who stood at the
head of the coffin, with a child in either hand. It was an unusual
thing, people felt. Generally, at Cyrus funerals, the mourners stayed
up-stairs, leaving the neighbours to gather round the coffin in the
flower-scented room below; but it did not seem strange in Anne Peace,
somehow, and, after the first glance, no one could fancy any one else
standing there. The old minister, who had christened both David and
Anne on the same day, said a few gentle, cheering words, and the choir
sang "Lead, kindly Light;" then the procession went its quiet way to
the churchyard, and all was over.

Jenny Miller and the doctor followed Miss Peace home from the
churchyard, but made no attempt to speak to her. Every one
who knows Oxford, and a good many besides, must have heard of certain
periodical migrations of the younger members of that learned
university into distant and retired parts of her Majesty's
dominions, which (on the _"lucus à non lucendo"_ principle) are
called and known by the name of Reading Parties.

Some half dozen under-graduates, in peril of the coming examination,
form themselves into a joint-stock cramming company; take L.30 or
L.40 shares in a private tutor; pitch their camp in some Dan or
Beersheba which has a reputation for dulness; and, like other
joint-stock companies, humbug the public, and sometimes themselves,
into the belief that they are "doing business."

Page 8: Added closing quotes: (you seemed all right when I went out.")

Page 9: Phoebe had oe ligature in original book. (you've heard me tell
how my Aunt Phoebe 'Lizabeth)

Page 56: Removed extra quotation mark before I: ("You are too good. I
didn't expect, I'm sure--well, you are kind!")