If in the argument there was allusion to the tower on the Asometon
heights, so tall one could stand on its lead-covered roof, and looking
over the intermediate hills, almost see into Constantinople, the
careless populace hooted at the exaggeration: "There be royal idiots as
well as every-day idiots. Staring at us is one thing, shooting at us is
another. Towers with walls thirty feet thick are not movable."

One day a report was wafted through the gates that a gun in the water
battery of the new Turkish fort had sunk a passing ship. "What flag was
the ship flying?" "The Venetian." "Ah, that settles it," the public
cried. "The Sultan wants to keep the Venetians out of the Black Sea. The
Turks and the Venetians have always been at war."

A trifle later intelligence came that the Sultan, lingering at
Basch-Kegan, supposably because the air along the Bosphorus was better
than the air at Adrianople, had effected a treaty by which the Podesta
of Galata bound his city to neutrality; still the complacency of the
Byzantines was in no wise disturbed. "Score one for the Genoese. It is
good to hear of their beating the Venetians."

Occasionally a wanderer--possibly a merchant, more likely a spy--passing
the bazaars of Byzantium, entertained the booth-keepers with stories of
cannon being cast for the Sultan so big that six men tied together might
be fired from them at once. The Greeks only jeered. Some said: "Oh, the
Mahound must be intending a salute for the man in the moon of Ramazan!"
Others decided: "Well, he is crazier than we thought him. There are many
hills on the road to Adrianople, and at the foot of every hill there is
a bridge. To get here he must invent wings for his guns, and even then
it will be long before they can be taught to fly."

At times, too, the old city was set agog with rumors from the Asiatic
provinces opposite that the Sultan was levying unheard-of armies; he had
half a million recruits already, but wanted a million. "Oh, he means to
put a lasting quietus on Huniades and his Hungarians. He is sensible in
taking so many men."

In compliment to the intelligence of the public, this obliviousness to
danger had one fostering circumstance--the gates of the city on land and
water stood open day and night.

"See," it was everywhere said, "the Emperor is not alarmed. Who has more
at stake than he? He is a soldier, if he is an _azymite_. He keeps
ambassadors with the Sultan--what for, if not to be advised?"

And there was a great deal in the argument.

At length the Greek ambassadors were expelled by Mahommed. It was while
he lay at Basch-Kegan. They themselves brought the news. This was
ominous, yet the public kept its spirits. The churches, notably Sancta
Sophia, were more than usually crowded with women; that was all, for the
gates not only remained open, but traffic went in and out of them
unhindered--out even to the Turkish camp, the Byzantines actually
competing with their neighbors of Galata in the furnishment of supplies.
Nay, at this very period every morning a troop of the Imperial guard
convoyed a wagon from Blacherne out to Basch-Kegan laden with the
choicest food and wines; and to the officer receiving them the captain
of the convoy invariably delivered himself: "From His Majesty, the
Emperor of the Romans and Greeks, to the Lord Mahommed, Sultan of the
Turks. Prosperity and long life to the Sultan."

If these were empty compliments, if the relations between the potentates
were slippery, if war were hatching, what was the Emperor about?

Six months before the fort opposite the White Castle was begun,
Constantine had been warned of Mahommed's projected movement against his
capital. The warning was from Kalil Pacha; and whether Kalil was moved
by pity, friendship, or avarice is of no moment; certain it is the
Emperor acted upon the advice. He summoned a council, and proposed war;
but was advised to send a protesting embassy to the enemy. A scornful
answer was returned. Seeing the timidity of his cabinet, cast upon
himself, he resolved to effect a policy, and accordingly expostulated,
prayed, sent presents, offered tribute, and by such means managed to
satisfy his advisers; yet all the time he was straining his resources in
preparation.

"Said the Grief added, before Alice could reply. The turtle went
wrong. "We went into the best school, we had four and twenty hours
regularly every day." "That we have in the country also," said
Alice, "that you do not need as much einzubilden." " Do you have
private lessons also? "asked the wrong turtle somewhat sheepishly."
Yes, "said Alice," French and piano. "" And washing? "said the
turtle wrong." dächte I did, "said Alice indignantly." Ah! then
you go in not really good school, "said the turtle wrong very
reassured. "In our school was always at the end of the bill," French,
piano playing, washing - extra. "" That you can not very Nöthiger
have had, "said Alice," if its at the bottom of the sea wohntet.

"I could Private lessons do not pay, "said the turtle wrong with a
sigh. "I only took the regular classroom." "And what was that?"
Asked Alice. "Load and goings, of course, first of all," erwiederte
the wrong turtle, "and then the four Abtheilungen of computing: Zusehen,
removing, and Vervielfraßen stealing. "" I've never heard of Vervielfraßen,
"Alice threw one. "What's that?" The Grief raised both mouth full of
admiration. "Never heard of Vervielfraßen," he exclaimed. "You know
what death is? probably I do. "" Yes, "said Alice uncertain," it
says - nothing - to eat - and away - die. "" Well, "continued the Grief
continued," if you do not understand what Vervielfraßen, then are you a
brush. "Alice had lost all courage, to continue thereafter to
inquire, and therefore turned to the wrong turtle with the question:"
What else did you learn?

"" Well, first of weights, "the wrong erwiederte turtle by the items
on the paws which, 'weights, old and new, with Seeographie then jumping
- Jump to the teachers was an old stockfish, which once used to come
every week, he taught us paws and rubbing bad habit, meerschwimmig jumping
, iridescence and Imponiren. "" What was that? "asked Alice."

I can not even show you, "said the turtle wrong," I'm too stiff. And the
grip it has not learned. "" Did not have time, "Grief said," but I had
lessons at the teacher of ancient languages. That was an old _Barsch_,
yes, that was it. "" When I have not been, "said the turtle wrong with
a sigh," he taught Zebräisch and Greifisch, she always said. "" That that
he also, that the he also, and especially Laßsein, "said the
griffin, he also sighed, as both animals, the face covered with paws."
And as much as her students were in a class? "said Alice, quickly
on the subject of another wanted to come. "Tens of the first day,"
said the false Turtle, "nine the next, and so forth." "What a strange
institution," Alice cried out. "That is the reason why you keep
teachers because they the class of the day empty. "This was a totally
new idea to Alice, which she thoroughly pondered, before she made
a remark again. »The eleventh day must be free of all have had?"

"Of course!" Said the turtle wrong. "And how was it made the twelfth
days?" Alice went eagerly continued. "That is enough of hours," broke
the grip very determined "Now tell her something about the games." Tenth
Chapter. The Hummer Ballet.
Permit me to
select a party from my own men." "As you choose. A guide will accompany
you."

To get to the uplands, so to speak, over which, north of Galata, the
road to Hissar stretched, Corti was conducted past the Cynegion and
through the districts of Eyoub to the Sweet Waters of Europe, which he
crossed by a bridge below the site of the present neglected country
palace of the Sultan. Up on the heights he turned left of Pera, and
after half an hour's rapid movement was trending northward parallel with
the Bosphorus, reaches of which were occasionally visible through
cleftings of the mountainous shore. Straw-thatched farmhouses dotted the
hills and slopes, and the harvest spread right and left in cheerful
prospect.

The adventurer had ample time to think; but did little of it, being too
full of self-gratulation at having before him an opportunity to
recommend himself to the Emperor, with a possibility of earning
distinction creditable in the opinion of the Princess Irene.

At length an exclamation of his guide aroused him to action.

"The Turks, the Turks!"

"Where?"

"See that smoke."

Over a hilltop in his front, the Count beheld the sign of alarm crawling
slowly into the sky.

"Here is a village--to our left, but"--

"Have done," said Corti, "and get me to the fire. Is there a nearer way
than this?"

"Yes, under the hill yonder."

"Is it broken?"

"It narrows to a path, but is clear."

The police spread it on the Pultplatte from it and began to read.
Mr Seehaase up and stepped closer participated in the reading. Tonio
Kröger looked them over their shoulders and watched, at what point
they were.

Stand, and tell me."

"We went to work this morning cutting corn, for it is now ripe enough.
The Mahounds broke in on us. We were a dozen to their fifty or more. We
only escaped, and they set fire to the field. O Christ, and the Most
Holy Mother! Let us pass, or we too will be slain!"

"Are they mounted?"

"Some have horses, some are afoot."

"Where are they now?"

"In the field on the hill."

"Well, go to the village fast as you can, and tell the men there to come
and pick up their dead. "Said Alice." So it is, "said Hutmacher," if the
cups are used enough. "" But if ye back to the top is coming?

"Belong to Alice to ask."

We now want to talk of something else, " she Faselhase of yawning, "this
subject is just boring me. I propose that the young lady tells a story.
"" Oh, I know, unfortunately, no, "cried Alice, quite dismayed about
this Zumuthung." Then, the marble Thierhaupten tell! "Both cried,"
wake up, marble animal!
Corti gave his lance with the banderole on it to the guide. By direction
his Berbers drove their lances into the earth that they might leave them
standing, drew their swords, and brought their bucklers forward. Then he
led them into the field. A few words more, directions probably, and he
started toward the enemy, his followers close behind two and two, with a
rear-guardsman. He allowed no outcry, but gradually increased the pace.

There were two hundred and more yards to be crossed, level, except the
slope, and with only the moving line of fire as an impediment. The crop,
short and thin, was no obstacle under the hoofs.

Tonio Kröger stayed at any Tau streamlined and looked out into all the
irrepressible high spirits. It raised a cheer, and it was as if it
were powerful enough to storm and flood to drown. A Sang at the sea,
inspired by love, sounded in him.

