E-text prepared by Norm Wolcott


A VOYAGE IN A BALLOON (1852)

by

Jules Verne


REDACTOR'S NOTE

From _Sartain's Union Magazine of Literature and Art_ (Philadelphia:
1849-1852): May 1852: VOL. X. No. 5: p. 389-395.

John Sartain (1808-1897) was an English artist and engraver skilled
in the art of mezzotint who emigrated to the United States; in 1848
he purchased a one-half interest in the "Union Magazine", a New York
periodical, which he transferred to Philadelphia. The name was changed
to "Sartain's Union Magazine", and during the four years of its
existence the journal became widely known, publishing works of Poe and
other literati. The article here is a translation of "La science en
famille / Un voyage en ballon. / (Réponse à l'énigme de juillet.)", In:
_Musée des Familles. Lectures du soir_, Paris, seconde série. vol. 8,
no. 11 (August 1851), pp. 329-336 (5 illustrations by A. de Bar, two
chapters). This is a different version from the one published by Hetzel;
"Un drame dans les airs", in: _Le Docteur Ox_, 19 October 1874, (ed. C &
D) (6 illustrations by Emile Bayard, only one chapter!).

In this early work we see the ingredients of Verne's later _Voyages
Extraordinaires_; characters brought or thrown together on a journey to
afar; introduction of new characters part way through the story; careful
scientific explanation of critical events (the ascension, filling
the balloon, rising and falling, ballast); use of dialogue to convey
scientific information (the history of ballooning); use of scientific
instruments (barometer, compass); chapter heads to presage the
story; escapes from perilous events caused by scientific or natural
catastrophes.

The enemy, whom the hypothesis of blockade assumes to be anxious to avoid
action, will always have a chance of evasion, but this will always be
so, even with the closest blockade now possible. We may even go further
and claim for open blockade that in favourable conditions it may give the
better chance of contact. For by adopting the principle of open
blockade we shall have, in accordance with the theory of defence,
the further advantages of being able the better to conceal our
dispositions, and consequently to lay traps for our enemy, such as
that which Nelson prepared for Villeneuve in the Gulf of Lyons
in 1805.

The objection to such a course which appears to have the most weight with
current opinion is the moral one, which is inseparable from all deliberate
choices of the defensive.

If the watching fleet remains in a home fortified base, it may be assumed
that the usual moral degradation will set in. But the method does not
entail the inglorious security of such a base. A sound position may
well be found at a spot such as Admiral Togo occupied while waiting
for the Baltic fleet, and in that case there was no observable
degradation of any kind.

Nor is there much
evidence that this objection weighed materially with the opponents
of Howe's view.

Their objection was of a purely physical kind.

Open blockade left the enemy too much freedom to raid our trade
routes.

The watching system might be sufficient to keep an unwilling
battle-fleet in port or to bring a more adventurous one to action,
but it could not control raiding squadrons.

This was certainly Barham's objection.

"If," he wrote to Pitt in 1794, "the French should have any intention
of sending their fleet to sea with this easterly wind, and Lord
Howe continues at Torbay, our Mediterranean and Jamaica convoys are
in a very critical situation.

Both fleets must by this time be drawing near the Channel, and
cannot enter it while the easterly wind holds."

This danger must always be with us, especially in narrow waters such
as the North Sea. In more open theatres the difficulty is not so
obtrusive, for with sufficient sea room trade may take naturally
or by direction a course which our watching dispositions will cover.
Thus with Nelson in the case of Toulon, his
normal positions on the Sardinian coast covered effectually the flow
of our trade to the Levant and the Two Sicilies, which was all there
was at the time.

The truth is, that in endeavouring to decide between open and close blockade
we find ourselves confronted with those special difficulties which so
sharply distinguish naval warfare from warfare on land. We cannot choose
on purely naval considerations. In naval warfare, however great may be
our desire to concentrate our effort on the enemy's main forces, the
ulterior object will always obtrude itself.

We must from the first do our best to control sea communications, and
since those communications are usually common, we cannot refrain from
occupying those of the enemy without at the same time neglecting and
exposing our own. Thus in the case of Brest a close blockade was
always desirable, and especially at convoy seasons, because the great
trade routes which passed within striking distance of the port were
all common, whereas in the region of Toulon the main lines were not
common except along the coasts of Africa and Southern Italy, and
these Nelson's open blockade amply secured.

My calculations had furnished me with the exact measurement of gas
required to carry my companions and myself to a considerable height.

We were to ascend at noon. It was truly a magnificent spectacle, that of
the impatient crowd who thronged around the reserved enclosure,
inundated the entire square and adjoining streets, and covered the
neighbouring houses from the basements to the slated roofs. The high
winds of past days had lulled, and an overpowering heat was radiating
from an unclouded sky; not a breath animated the atmosphere. In such
weather, one might descend in the very spot he had left.

I carried three hundred pounds of ballast, in bags; the car, perfectly
round, four feet in diameter, and three feet in height, was conveniently
attached; the cord which sustained it was symmetrically extended from
the upper hemisphere of the aerostat; the compass was in its place, the
barometer suspended to the iron hoop which surrounded the supporting
cord, at a distance of eight feet above the car; the anchor carefully
prepared;--all was in readiness for our departure.

Among the persons who crowded around the enclosure, I remarked a young
man with pale face and agitated features. I was struck with his
appearance. He had been an assiduous spectator of my ascensions in
several cities of Germany. His uneasy air and his extraordinary
pre-occupation never left him; he eagerly contemplated the curious
machine, which rested motionless at a few feet from the ground, and
remained silent.

The clock struck twelve! This was the hour. My _compagnons du voyage_
had not appeared. I sent to the dwelling of each, and learned that one
had started for Hamburg, another for Vienna and the third, still more
fearful, for London. Their hearts had failed them at the moment of
undertaking one of those excursions, which, since the ingenious
experiments of aeronauts, are deprived of all danger. As they made, as
it were a part of the programme of the fête, they had feared being
compelled to fulfil their agreements, and had fled at the moment of
ascension. Their courage had been in inverse ratio to the square of
their swiftness in retreat.

The crowd, thus partly disappointed, were shouting with anger and
impatience. I did not hesitate to ascend alone. To re-establish the
equilibrium between the specific gravity of the balloon and the weight
to be raised, I substituted other bags of sand for my expected
companions and entered the car. The twelve men who were holding the
aerostat by twelve cords fastened to the equatorial circle, let them
slip between their fingers; the car rose a few feet above the ground.
There was not a breath of wind, and the atmosphere, heavy as lead,
seemed insurmountable.

"All is ready!" exclaimed I; "attention!"

The men arranged themselves; a last glance informed me that everything
was right.

"Attention!"

There was some movement in the crowd which seemed to be invading the
reserved enclosure.

"Let go!"

The balloon slowly ascended; but I experienced a shock which threw me to
the bottom of the car. When I rose, I found myself face to face with an
unexpected voyager,--the pale young man.

"Monsieur, I salute you!" said he to me.

"By what right?"--

"Am I here? By the right of your inability to turn me out."

I was confounded. His assurance disconcerted me; and I had nothing to
say in reply. I looked at him, but he paid no regard to my astonishment.
He continued:

"My weight will disturb your equilibrium, Monsieur: will you permit
me--"

And without waiting for my assent, he lightened the balloon by two bags
of sand which he emptied into the air.

"Monsieur," said I, taking the only possible course, "you are
here,--well! you choose to remain,--well! but to me alone belongs the
management of the aerostat."

"Monsieur," replied he, "your urbanity is entirely French; it is of the
same country with myself! I press in imagination the hand which you
refuse me. Take your measures,--act as it may seem good to you; I will
wait till you have ended--"

"To--"

"To converse with you."

The barometer had fallen to twenty-six inches; we had attained a height
of about six hundred metres, and were over the city; which satisfied me
of our complete quiescence, for I could not judge by our motionless
flags. Nothing betrays the horizontal voyage of a balloon; it is the
mass of air surrounding it which moves. A kind of wavering heat bathed
the objects extended at our feet, and gave their outlines an
indistinctness to be regretted. The needle of the compass indicated a
slight tendency to float towards the south.

I looked again at my companion. He was a man of thirty, simply clad; the
bold outlines of his features betokened indomitable energy; he appeared
very muscular. Absorbed in the emotion of this silent suspension, he
remained immovable, seeking to distinguish the objects which passed
beneath his view.

"Vexatious mist!" said he, at the expiration of a few moments.

I made no reply.

"What would you? I could not pay for my voyage; I was obliged to take
you by surprise."

"No one has asked you to descend!"

"A similar occurrence," he resumed, "happened to the Counts of Laurencin
and Dampierre, when they ascended at Lyons, on the 15th of January,
1784. A young merchant, named Fontaine, scaled the railing, at the risk
of upsetting the equipage. He accomplished the voyage, and nobody was
killed!"

"Once on the earth, we will converse!" said I, piqued at the tone of
lightness with which he spoke.

"Bah! do not talk of returning!"

"Do you think then that I shall delay my descent?"

"Descent!" said he, with surprise. "Let us ascend!"

And before I could prevent him, two bags of sand were thrown out,
without even being emptied.

"Monsieur!" said I, angrily.

"I know your skill," replied he, composedly; "your brilliant ascensions
have made some noise in the world. Experience is the sister of practice,
but it is also first cousin to theory, and I have long and deeply
studied the aerostatic art. It has affected my brain," added he, sadly,
falling into a mute torpor.

The balloon, after having risen, remained stationary; the unknown
consulted the barometer, and said:

"Here we are at 800 metres! Men resemble insects! See, I think it is
from this height that we should always look at them, to judge correctly
of their moral proportions! The Place de la Comédie is transformed to an
immense ant-hill. Look at the crowd piled up on the quays. The Zeil
diminishes. We are above the church of Dom. The Mein is now only a white
line dividing the city, and this bridge, the Mein-Brucke, looks like a
white thread thrown between the two banks of the river."

The atmosphere grew cooler.

"There is nothing I will not do for you, my host," said my companion.
"If you are cold, I will take off my clothes and lend them to you."

"Thanks!"

"Necessity makes laws. Give me your hand, I am your countryman. You
shall be instructed by my company, and my conversation shall compensate
you for the annoyance I have caused you."

I seated myself, without replying, at the opposite extremity of the car.
The young man had drawn from his great coat a voluminous portfolio; it
was a work on aerostation.

"I possess," said he, "a most curious collection of engraving, and
caricatures appertaining to our aerial mania. This precious discovery
has been at once admired and ridiculed. Fortunately we have passed the
period when the Mongolfiers sought to make factitious clouds with the
vapour of water; and of the gas affecting electric properties, which
they produced by the combustion of clamp straw with chopped wool."

"Would you detract from the merit of these inventions?" replied I. "Was
it not well done to have proved by experiment the possibility of rising
in the air?"

"Who denies the glory of the first aerial navigators? Immense courage
was necessary to ascend by means of those fragile envelopes which
contained only warm air. Besides, has not aerostatic science made great
progress since the ascensions of Blanchard? Look, Monsieur."

He took from his collection an engraving.

"Here is the first aerial voyage undertaken by Pilatre des Rosiers and
the Marquis d'Arlandes, four months after the discovery of balloons.
Louis XVI. refused his consent to this voyage; two condemned criminals
were to have first attempted aerial travelling. Pilatre des Rosiers was
indignant at this injustice and, by means of artifice, succeeded in
setting out. This car, which renders the management of the balloon easy,
had not then been invented; a circular gallery surrounded the lower part
of the aerostat. The two aeronauts stationed themselves at the
extremities of this gallery. The damp straw with which it was filled
encumbered their movements. A chafing-dish was suspended beneath the
orifice of the balloon; when the voyagers wished to ascend, they threw,
with a long fork, straw upon this brazier, at the risk of burning the
machine, and the air, growing warmer, gave to the balloon a new
ascensional force. The two bold navigators ascended, on the 21st of
November, 1783, from the gardens of La Muette, which the Dauphin had
placed at their disposal. The aerostat rose majestically, passed the
Isle des Cygnes, crossed the Seine at the Barrière de la Conference,
and, directing its way between the dome of the Invalides and L'Ecole
Militaire, approached St. Sulpice; then the aeronauts increased the
fire, ascended, cleared the Boulevard, and descended beyond the Barrière
d'Enfer. As it touched the ground, the collapsed, and buried Pilatre des
Rosiers beneath its folds."

"Unfortunate presage!" said I, interested in these details, which so
nearly concerned me.

"Presage of his catastrophe," replied the unknown, with sadness. "You
have experienced nothing similar?"

"Nothing!"

"Bah! misfortunes often arrive without presage." And he remained silent.

We were advancing towards the south; the magnetic needle pointed in the
direction of Frankfort, which was flying beneath our feet.

"Perhaps we shall have a storm," said the young man.

"We will descend first."

"Indeed! it will be better to ascend; we shall escape more surely;" and
two bags of sand were thrown overboard.

The balloon rose rapidly, and stopped at twelve hundred metres. The cold
was now intense, and there was a slight buzzing in my ears.
Nevertheless, the rays of the sun fell hotly on the globe, and, dilating
the gas it contained, gave it a greater ascensional force. I was
stupified.

"Fear nothing," said the young man to me.

"We have three thousand five hundred toises of respirable air. You need
not trouble yourself about my proceedings."

I would have risen, but a vigorous hand detained me on my seat.

"Your name?" asked I.

"My name! how does it concern you?"

"I have the honour to ask your name."

"I am called Erostratus or Empedocles,--as you please. Are you
interested in the progress of aerostatic science?"

He spoke with icy coldness, and I asked myself with whom I had to do.

"Monsieur," continued he, "nothing new has been invented since the days
of the philosopher Charles. Four months after the discovery of
aerostats, he had invented the valve, which permits the gas to escape
when the balloon is too full, or when one wishes to descend; the car,
which allows the machine to be easily managed; the network, which
encloses the fabric of the balloon, and prevents its being too heavily
pressed; the ballast, which is used in ascending and choosing the spot
of descent; the coat of caoutchouc, which renders the silk impermeable;
the barometer, which determines the height attained; and, finally, the
hydrogen, which, fourteen times lighter than air, allows of ascension to
the most distant atmospheric layers, and prevents exposure to aerial
combustion. On the 1st of December, 1783, three hundred thousand
spectators thronged the Tuileries. Charles ascended, and the soldiers
presented arms. He travelled nine leagues in the air: managing his
machine with a skill never since surpassed in aeronautic experiments.
The degree of division we shall require is in proportion to the number of
naval ports from which the enemy can act against our maritime interests
and to the extent of coastline along which they are spread.

It is a principle which springs from the soul of our old tradition
that we must always seek, not merely to prevent the enemy striking
at our heart, but also to strike him the moment he attempts to do
anything.

We must make of his every attempt an opportunity for a counterstroke.
The distribution this aim entailed varied greatly with different enemies.
In our wars with France, and particularly when Spain and Holland were
in alliance with her, the number of the ports to be dealt with was very
considerable and their distribution very wide. In our wars with the Dutch
alone, on the other hand, the number and distribution were comparatively
small, and in this case our concentration was always close.

This measure of distribution, however, will never stand alone.
Concentration will not depend solely upon the number and position of
the enemy's naval ports. It will be modified by the extent to which the
lines of operation starting from those ports traverse our own home
waters. The reason is plain. Whatever the enemy opposed to us, and
whatever the nature of the war, we must always keep a fleet at home.
In any circumstances it is essential for the defence of our
home trade terminals, and it is essential as a central reserve
from which divisions can be thrown off to reinforce distant terminals
and to seize opportunities for counterstrokes.

It is "the mainspring," as Lord Barham put it, "from which all offensive
operations must proceed." This squadron, then, being permanent and fixed
as the foundation of our whole system, it is clear that if, as in the
case of the French wars, the enemy's lines of operation do not traverse
our home waters, close concentration upon it will not serve our
turn.

If, on the other hand, as in the case of the Dutch wars, the
lines do traverse home waters, a home concentration is all that is required.
Our division will then be measured by the amount of our surplus
strength, and by the extent to which we feel able to detach squadrons
for offensive action against the enemy's distant maritime interests
without prejudicing our hold on the home terminals of his lines of
operation and our power of striking directly he moves.

These remarks apply, of course, to the main fleet operations.

"We must descend;" resumed I, with an attempt at gentleness. "The storm
is gathering beneath our feet and around us; it would not be prudent."

"We will ascend above it, and shall have nothing to fear from it. What
more beautiful than to reign in heaven, and look down upon the clouds
which hover upon the earth! Is it not an honour to navigate these aerial
waves? The greatest personages have travelled like ourselves. The
Marquise and Comtesse de Montalembert, the Comtesse de Potteries, Mlle.
La Garde, the Marquis of Montalembert, set out from the Faubourg St.
Antoine for these unknown regions. The Duc de Chartres displayed much
address and presence of mind in his ascension of the 15th of July, 1784;
at Lyons, the Comtes de Laurencin and de Dampierre; at Nantes, M. de
Luynes; at Bordeaux, D'Arbelet des Granges; in Italy, the Chevalier
Andreani; in our days, the Duke of Brunswick; have left in the air the
track of their glory. In order to equal these great personages, we must
ascend into the celestial regions higher than they. To approach the
infinite is to comprehend it."

The rarefaction of the air considerably dilated the hydrogen, and I saw
the lower part of the aerostat, designedly left empty, become by degrees
inflated, rendering the opening of the valve indispensable; but my
fearful companion seemed determined not to allow me to direct our
movements. I resolved to pull secretly the cord attached to the valve,
while he was talking with animation. I feared to guess with whom I had
to do; it would have been too horrible! It was about three-quarters of
an hour since we had left Frankfort, and from the south thick clouds
were arising and threatening to engulf us.

"Have you lost all hope of making your plans succeed?" said I, with
great apparent interest.

"All hope!" replied the unknown, despairingly. Admiral Colomb's theory
of "conquest of water territory," therefore, involves a false analogy,
and is not safe as the basis of a strategical system. What then is the
value of the sea in the political system of the world?

Its value is as a means of communication between States and parts
of States. Therefore the "command of the sea" means the control of
communications in which the belligerents are adversely concerned.

COROLLARY.--The command of the sea can never be, like the conquest
of territory, the ulterior object of a war, unless it be a purely
maritime war, as were approximately our wars with the Dutch in
the 17th century, but it may be a primary or immediate object, and even
the ulterior object of particular operations.The barometer had began to rise; it was time! A distant muttering of
thunder was heard towards the south.

"See this other engraving," continued he, without seeming to suspect my
manoeuvres. "It is an immense balloon, containing a ship, large castles,
houses, &c. The caricaturists little thought that their absurdities
would one day become verities. It is a large vessel; at the left is the
helm with the pilot's box; at the prow, _maisons de plaisance_, a
gigantic organ, and cannon to call the attention of the inhabitants of
earth or of the moon; above the stern the observatory and pilot-balloon;
at the equatorial circle, the barracks of the army; on the left the
lantern; then upper galleries for promenades, the sails, the wings;
beneath, the cafés and general store-houses of provisions. Admire this
magnificent announcement. 'Invented for the good of the human race,
this globe will depart immediately for the seaports in the Levant, and
on its return will announce its voyages for the two poles and the
extremities of the Occident. Every provision is made; there will be an
exact rate of fare for each place of destination; but the prices for
distant voyages will be the same, 1000 louis. And it must be confessed
that this is a moderate sum, considering the celerity, convenience, and
pleasure of this mode of travelling above all others. While in this
balloon, every one can divert himself as he pleases, dancing, playing,
or conversing with people of talent. Pleasure will be the soul of the
aerial society.' All these inventions excited laughter. But before long,
if my days were not numbered, these projects should become realities."

We were visibly descending; he did not perceive it!

"See this game of balloons; it contains the whole history of the
aerostatic art. This game, for the use of educated minds, is played like
that of the Jew; with dice and counters of any value agreed upon, which
are to be paid or received, according to the condition in which one
arrives."

"But," I resumed, "you seem to have valuable documents on aerostation?"

"I am less learned than the Almighty! That is all! I possess all the
knowledge possible in this world. From Phaeton, Icarus, and Architas. I
have searched all, comprehended all! Through me, the aerostatic art
would render immense services to the world, if God should spare my life!
But that cannot be."

"Why not?"

"Because my name is Empedocles or Erostratus!"


II.


The Company of Aerostiers--The Battle of Fleurus--The Balloon over the
Sea--Blanchard and Jefferies--A Drama such as is rarely seen--3000
Metres--The Thunder beneath our Feet--Gavnerin at Rome--The Compass
gone--The Victims of Aerostation--Pilatre--At 4000 Metres--The Barometer
gone--Descents of Olivari, Mosment, Bittorf, Harris, Sadler, and Madame
Blanchard--The Valve rendered useless--7000 Metres--Zambecarri--The
Ballon (sic) Wrecked--Incalculable Heights--The Car
Overset--Despair--Vertigo--The Fall--The Dénouement.

I shuddered! Fortunately the balloon was approaching the earth. But the
danger is the same at 50 feet as at 5000 metres! The clouds were
advancing.

"Remember the battle of Fleurus, and you will comprehend the utility of
aerostats! Coulee, by order of the government, organized a company of
aerostiers. At the siege of Maubeuge, General Jourdan found this new
method of observation so serviceable, that twice a day, accompanied by
the General himself, Coutelle ascended into the air; the correspondence
between the aeronaut and the aerostiers who held the balloon, was
carried on by means of little white, red, and yellow flags. Cannons and
carbines were often aimed at the balloon at the moment of its ascension,
but without effect. When Jourdan was preparing to invest Charleroi,
Coutelle repaired to the neighbourhood of that place, rose from the
plain of Jumet, and remained taking observations seven or eight hours,
with General Morelot. The Austrians came to deliver the city, and a
battle was fought on the heights of Fleurus. General Jourdan publicly
proclaimed the assistance he had received from aeronautic observations.
Well! notwithstanding the services rendered on this occasion, and during
the campaign with Belgium, the year which witnessed the commencement of
the military career of balloons, also saw it terminate. And the school
of Meuon, founded by government, was closed by Bonaparte, on his return
from Egypt. 'What are we to expect from the child which has just been
born?' Franklin had said. But the child was born alive! It need not
have been strangled!"

The unknown hid his forehead in his hands, reflected for a few moments,
then, without raising his head, said to me:

"Notwithstanding my orders, you have opened the upper valve!"

I let go the cord.

"Fortunately" continued he, "we have still two hundred pounds of
ballast."

"What are your plans?" said I, with effort.

"You have never crossed the sea?"

I grew frightfully pale, terror froze my veins.

"It is a pity," said he, "that we are being wafted towards the Adriatic!
That is only a streamlet. Higher! we shall find other currents!"

And without looking at me, he lightened the balloon by several bags of
sand.

"I allowed you to open the valve, because the dilatation of the gas
threatened to burst the balloon. But do not do it again."

I never knew a woman that was more downright fore-handed.

Yes, sir, she's a dabster!"
How true it is that we never know our friends in this world so largely
made up of conjecture! Could Hat have known how powerfully Elmer had
pleaded her cause, and at a time when it was half lost, would she have
moved heaven and earth, as she was moving them, to bring him into
disrepute? Would she have looked at him when they met with a dagger in
either eye and one between her teeth? Would she have tugged that rope
girdle tighter about her hips and passed him, as she did, with only
a resolute quiver of her person?

Elmer was in hopes that she would come round in time. "She's not much
of a hand to hold a thing up against a body, Hat isn't," he tried
to tell himself. And yet a vague presentiment, something like trouble
in the wind, oppressed him.

Affairs were in this posture when launching day dawned fair. The _Minnie
Williams_ stood ready on the ways, dressed in her international
code flags, which flew from all trucks. Sails of stiff new duck were
bent to the booms, anchor chains had been roused up and laid on the
windlass wildcat, a fire was kindled in the galley and a collation laid
in the saloon. The owner was aboard.

Hat Tyler was very much in evidence, fore and aft, giving orders to the
crew as to what was to be done as soon as the ship left the ways.

"I want that starboard hook dropped the minute we get the red buoy
abeam. Understand? Jake Hawkins, you stand by the windlass. Take care
when you snub her not to break that friction band. And stand by to
let go the other hook in case we need it. This harbor ain't much bigger
than a ten-quart can, when all is said."
Hat was dressed in a splendid traveling suit of heavy brocaded stuff.
She wore an enormous green-and-purple hat and carried a green bottle
with red, white and blue streamers tied round its neck. Being
skipper and a lady at one and the same time, she had chosen to
christen the ship herself.
"What's in the bottle, Hat?" sang out one of her admirers.
"Wouldn't you like to know?" Hat retorted wittily. She was in high
spirits.
"Ain't it a waste of good stuff!" shouted another. "I guess it ain't
everybody that can be trusted to christian a ship these hard times."We can cut the cords by which the car is attached, and cling to the
network? perhaps the balloon will rise. Ready! But the barometer falls!
We remount! The wind freshens! We are saved!' The voyagers perceived
Calais! Their joy became delirium; a few moments later, they descended
in the forest of Guines. I doubt not," continued the unknown, "that in
similar circumstances you would follow the example of Doctor Jefferies."

The clouds were unrolling beneath our feet in glittering cascades; the
balloon cast a deep shadow on this pile of clouds, and was surrounded by
them as with an aureola! The thunder growled beneath our feet! All this
was frightful!

"Let us descend!" exclaimed I.

"Descend, when the sun is awaiting us yonder! Down with the bags!" And
he lightened the balloon of more than fifty pounds. At 3000 metres we
remained stationary. The unknown talked incessantly, but I scarcely
heard him; I was completely prostrated, while he seemed in his element.

"With a good wind, we shall go far, but we must especially go high!"

"We are lost!"

"In the Antilles there are currents of air which travel a hundred leagues
an hour! On the occasion of Napoleon's coronation, Gavnerin let off a
balloon illuminated with coloured lamps, at eleven o'clock in the
evening! The wind blew from the N.N.E.; the next morning at daybreak the
inhabitants of Rome saluted its passage above the dome of St. Peter's.
We will go farther."

I scarcely heard him; everything was buzzing around me! There was an
opening in the clouds!

"See that city, my host;" said the unknown. "It is Spire. Nothing else!"

I dared not lean over the railing of the car. Nevertheless I perceived a
little black spot. This was Spire. The broad Rhine looked like a riband,
the great roads like threads. Above our heads the sky was of a deep
azure; I was benumbed with the cold. That this vital feature of naval
warfare should be consecrated in a maxim is well, but when it is
caricatured into a doctrine, as it sometimes is, that you cannot
move a battalion oversea till you have entirely overthrown your
enemy's fleet, it deserves gibbeting.

It would be as wise to hold that in war you must never risk anything.

It would seem to have been the evil influence of this travestied maxim
which had much to do with the cramped and timorous strategy of the
Americans in their late war with Spain. They had ample naval force
to secure such a local and temporary command of the Gulf of Mexico as
to have justified them at once in throwing all the troops they had
ready into Cuba to support the insurgents, in accordance with their
war plan. They had also sufficient strength to ensure that the
communications with the expeditionary force could not be interrupted
permanently. And yet, because the Spaniards had an undefeated fleet at
sea somewhere, they hesitated, and were nearly lost. The Japanese had
no such illusions. Without having struck a naval blow of any kind, and
with a hostile fleet actually within the theatre of operations, they
started their essential military movement oversea, content that
though they might not be able to secure the control of the line
of passage, they were in a position to deny effective control to
the enemy.

Our own history is full of such operations.

There are cases in plenty where the results promised by a successful
military blow oversea, before permanent command had been obtained,
were great enough to justify a risk which, like the Japanese, we
knew how to minimise by judicious use of our favourable geographical
position, and of a certain system of protection, which must be dealt
with later.

Meanwhile a terrific storm was bursting beneath our feet. We
were above it.

"Do not fear," said my strange companion; "it is only imprudence that
makes victims. Olivari, who perished at Orleans, ascended in a
mongolfier made of paper; his car, suspended below the chafing-dish, and
ballasted with combustible materials, became a prey to the flames!
Olivari fell, and was killed. Mosment ascended at Lille, on a light
platform; an oscillation made him lose his equilibrium. Mosment fell,
and was killed. Bittorf, at Manheim, saw his paper balloon take fire in
the air! Bittorf fell, and was killed. Harris ascended in a balloon
badly constructed, the valve of which was too large to be closed again.
Harris fell, and was killed. Sadler, deprived of ballast by his long
stay in the air, was dragged over the city of Boston, and thrown against
the chimneys. Sadler fell, and was killed. Cocking descended with a
convex parachute which he pretended to have perfected. Cocking fell, and
was killed. Well, I love them, those noble victims of their courage! and
I will die like them! Higher! higher!"

All the phantoms of this necrology were passing before my eyes! The
rarefaction of the air and the rays of tile sun increased the dilatation
of the gas; the balloon continued to ascend! I mechanically attempted to
open the valve; but the unknown cut the cord a few feet above my head. I
was lost!

"Did you see Madame Blanchard fall?" said he to me. "I saw her, I--yes,
I was at Tivoli on the 6th of July, 1819. Madame Blanchard ascended in a
balloon of small size, to save the expense of filling; she was therefore
obliged to inflate it entirely, and the gas escaped by the lower
orifice, leaving on its route a train of hydrogen. She carried,
suspended above her car, by an iron wire, a kind of firework, forming an
aureola, which she was to kindle. She had often repeated this
experiment. On this occasion she carried, besides, a little parachute,
ballasted by a firework terminating in a ball with silver rain. Site was
to launch this apparatus, after having lighted it with a _lance à feu_,
prepared for the purpose. She ascended. The night was dark. At the
moment of lighting the firework, she was so imprudent as to let the
lance pass beneath the column of hydrogen, which was escaping from the
balloon. My eyes were fixed on her. Suddenly an unexpected flash
illuminated the darkness. I thought it a surprise of the skilful
aeronaut. The flame increased, suddenly disappeared, and re-appeared at
the top of the aerostat under the form of an immense jet of burning gas.
This sinister light projected over the Boulevard, and over the quarter
Montmartre. Then I saw the unfortunate woman rise, twice attempt to
compress the orifice of the balloon, to extinguish the fire, then seat
herself in the car and seek to direct its descent; for she did not fall.
The combustion of the gas lasted several minutes. The balloon,
diminishing by degrees, continued to descend, but this was not a fall!
The wind blew from the northeast, and drove her over Paris. There were,
at that time, in the neighbourhood of the house No. 16 Rue de Provence,
immense gardens. The aeronaut might have fallen there without danger.
But unhappily the balloon and the car alighted on the roof of the house.
It is true, that is, of all operations for securing control, but of
operations for exercising control it is not true. In the case we have
now to consider-defence against invasion-the objective of the special
operations is, and always has been, the enemy's army.

On this fundamental postulate our plans for resisting invasion have
always been constructed from the year of the Armada to 1805.

In the old service tradition the point was perfectly well established.
He threw out half the ballast, and we must have been borne to a height
of 7000 metres! Blood spouted from my nose and mouth.

"What a fine thing it is to be martyrs to science! They are canonized by
posterity!"

I heard no more. The unknown looked around him with horror, and knelt at
my ear.

"On the 7th of October, 1804, the weather had began to clear up a
little; for several days preceding, the wind and rain had been
incessant. But the ascension announced by Zambecarri could not be
postponed! His idiot enemies already scoffed at him. To save himself and
science from public ridicule, it became necessary for him to ascend. It
was at Bologna! No one aided him in filling his balloon; he rose at
midnight, accompanied by Andreoli and Grossetti. The balloon ascended
slowly; it had been rent by the wind, and the gas escaped. The three
intrepid voyagers could observe the state of the barometer only by the
aid of a dark lantern. Zambecarri had not eaten daring twenty-four
hours; Grossetti was also fasting.

"'My friends,' said Zambecarri, 'I am benumbed with the cold; I am
exhausted; I must die;' and he fell senseless in the gallery.

"It was the same with Grossetti. Andreoli alone remained awake. Beyond
the important focal area of St.

Helena they relied mainly on their own power of resistance or to such
escort as could be provided by the relief ships of the East Indian
station.

As a rule, their escort proper went no farther outward-bound than St.

the lamp is extinguished!'

