Immediately after the prorogation, the king appointed a regency and set
out for Hanover, in order to complete the great scheme he had projected
for electing a king of the Romans. Great Britain, in the meantime,
produced no event of importance, or any transaction that deserves
historical mention, except the ratification of two treaties of peace and
commerce with the states of Tripoli and Tunis on the coast of Barbary,
concluded by the British consuls in those cities, under the influence
and auspices of an English squadron, commanded by commodore Keppel,
son to the earl of Albemarle. The tide of luxury still flowed with
an impetuous current, bearing down all the mounds of temperance and
decorum; while fraud and profligacy struck out new channels, through
which they eluded the restrictions of the law, and all the vigilance of
civil policy. New arts of deception were invented, in order to ensnare
and ruin the unwary; and some infamous practices in the way of commerce,
were countenanced by persons of rank and importance in the commonwealth.
A certain member of parliament was obliged to withdraw himself from his
country, in consequence of a discovery, by which it appeared that he had
contrived and executed schemes for destroying his own ships at sea, with
a view to defraud the insurers.

In the course of this year the affairs of the continent did not undergo
any material alteration. In France, the religious dispute concerning
the doctrine of Jansen-ius still subsisted between the clergy and the
parliament; and seemed to acquire additional fuel from the violence of
the archbishop of Paris, a haughty turbulent prelate, whose pride and
bigotry were sufficient to embroil one half of Christendom. The northern
powers enjoyed a perfect tranquillity; the states-general of the United
Provinces were engrossed by plans of national economy. Spain was intent
upon extending her commerce, bringing her manufactures to perfection,
and repressing the insolence of the Barbary corsairs. His Portuguese
majesty endeavoured, by certain peremptory precautions, to check
the exportation of gold coin from his dominions, and insisted upon
inspecting the books of the British merchants settled at Lisbon; but
they refused to comply with this demand, which was contrary to a treaty
subsisting between the two crowns; and he thought proper to acquiesce in
their refusal. He was much better employed in obtaining from the pope an
abolition of the annual procession called the _Auto-da-fe_, one of
the most horrid triumphs of spiritual tyranny. The peace of Italy was
secured by a defensive treaty concluded at Madrid between the emperor,
his catholic majesty, the king of the two Sicilies, and the duke of
Parma; to which treaty the king of Sardinia afterwards acceded.


DISPUTE BETWEEN HANOVER AND PRUSSIA.

With respect to the great scheme of electing the archduke Joseph king of
the Romans, fresh objections seemed to rise from different quarters. The
good understanding between the courts of Berlin and Hanover re-received
an additional shock, from a dispute concerning the property of East
Friezeland, which his Prussian majesty had secured, as heir to the
last possessor. His Britannic majesty, as elector of Hanover, having
pretensions to the same inheritance, his minister delivered a memorial
to the diet of the empire assembled at Ratisbon, demanding that the
king of Prussia, as elector of Brandenburgh, should be referred to the
decision of the Aulic council, in regard to his claim to the estates of
East Friezeland; but the king being already in possession, refused to
submit his right to the determination of that or any other tribunal; and
when the diet presumed to deliberate on this affair, his envoy entered a
strong protest against their proceedings. At the same time, he presented
the other ministers with a memorial, tending to refute the elector of
Hanover's pretensions to the principality in question.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE COURTS OF LONDON AND BERLIN.

At this juncture his Prussian majesty made no scruple of expressing his
resentment against the court of London, which he seemed to consider as
an officious cabal, that had no right to intermeddle in the affairs of
Germany. His resident at London complained to the British ministry, that
divers ships, sailing under the Prussian flag, had been stopped at sea,
and even seized by English cruisers, and that his subjects had been ill
treated and oppressed; he therefore demanded reparation in a peremptory
tone; and in the meantime discontinued the payment of the Silesia
loan, which he had charged himself with by an article in the treaty
of Breslau. This was a sum of money amounting to two hundred and fifty
thousand pounds, which the emperor Charles VI., father of the reigning
empress, had borrowed of the subjects of Great Britain, on condition of
paying an interest of six per cent., and mortgaging the silver mines of
Silesia for the repayment of the principal. These devolved to the king
of Prussia with this incumbrance, and he continued to pay the interest
punctually till this juncture, when the payment was stopped; and
he published a paper, entitled, "An Exposition of the Motives which
influenced his Conduct on this occasion." In his memorial to the
ministry of Great Britain, he alleged, that eighteen Prussian ships,
and thirty-three neutral vessels, in which the subjects of Prussia were
concerned, had been unjustly seized by English privateers; his account
of damages amounted to a very considerable sum; and he demanded, in the
most dogmatic terms, that the affair should be finally discussed in the
term of three months from the date of his remonstrance. The exposition
and memorial were subjected to the examination of the ablest civilians
in England, who refuted every article of the charge with equal precision
and perspicuity. They proved, that captures by sea fell properly under
the cognizance of those powers under whose jurisdiction the seizures
were made; and therefore his Prussian majesty could not, consistent with
the law of nations, determine these disputes in his own tribunals. They
demonstrated, by undoubted evidence, the falsity of ma-ny facts alleged
in the memorial, as well as the fairness of the proceedings by which
some few of the Prussian vessels had been condemned; and made it appear,
that no insult or injury had been offered to the subjects of Prussia.
Finally, they observed, that the Silesia loan was a private transaction
of such a nature, that, even if a war had happened between the emperor
Charles VI. and his Britannic majesty, this must have been held sacred
and inviolable; that when the empress-queen ceded Silesia to the king
of Prussia, this monarch charged himself with the repayment of the loan,
which, being a private debt, and transferable, was now diffused into
different countries, and become the property of many others besides the
subjects of Great Britain. They wound up their chain of reasoning by
observing, that, according to agreement with the emperor, the whole of
this loan should have been repaid in the year one thousand seven
hundred and forty-five; whereas the complaints specified in the Prussian
memorial were founded on facts posterior to that period. Whether his
Prussian majesty was convinced by these reasons, and desisted from
principle, or thought proper to give up his claim upon other political
considerations; certain it is, he no longer insisted upon satisfaction,
but ordered the payment of the Silesia loan to be continued without
further interruption. A report, indeed, was circulated, that advantage
had been taken of the demur by a certain prince, who employed his agents
to buy up a great part of the loan at a considerable discount.


IMPROVEMENT OF POMERANIA.

How much soever the king of Prussia may be the subject of censure on
this occasion, it must be allowed that, with regard to his own subjects,
he acted as a wise legislator, and the father of his country. He peopled
the deserts of Pomerania, by encouraging, with royal bounties, a great
number of industrious emigrants to settle in that province; the face of
which in a very few years underwent the most agreeable alteration. Above
sixty new villages arose amidst a barren waste, and every part of the
country exhibited marks of successful cultivation. Those solitary and
desolate plains, where no human footsteps had for many ages been
seen, were now converted into fields of corn. The farms were regularly
parcelled out; the houses multiplied, and teemed with population;
the happy peasants, sheltered in a peculiar manner under their king's
protection, sowed their grounds in peace, and reaped their harvests in
security. The same care and indulgence were extended to the
unpeopled parts of other provinces within the Prussian dominions, and
extraordinary encouragement was granted to all French protestants who
should come and settle under the government of this political sage.


TREATY WITH THE ELECTOR PALATINE.

The courts of Vienna and Hanover still employed their chief attention
upon the scheme of electing a king of the Romans; and the elector
of Mentz, influenced by the majority of the college, had convoked
an electoral diet for that purpose; but strong protests against this
convocation were entered by the electors of Cologn and Palatine,
insomuch that it was thought expedient to conciliate this last, by
taking some steps in his favour, with respect to the satisfaction he
demanded from the empress-queen and his Britannic majesty. His claim
upon the court of Vienna amounted to three millions of florins, by way
of indemnification for the losses he had sustained during the war. He
demanded of the king of England twenty thousand pounds sterling, for
provisions and forage furnished to the British troops while they
acted on the Maine; and the like sum for the like purposes from the
states-general of the United Provinces. The empress-queen could not help
remonstrating against this demand as exorbitant in itself, and the more
unreasonable, as the elector palatine, at the death of her father, had
openly declared against the pragmatic sanction, which he had guaranteed
in the most solemn manner; she therefore observed, that the damage he
had sustained in consequence of that declaration, ought to be considered
as the common fate of war. These reasons, though conclusive and
irrefragable in the usual way of arguing, made no impression upon the
palatine, who perfectly well understood his own importance, and
was determined to seize this opportunity of turning it to the best
advantage. The court of Vienna, and the maritime powers, finding him
thus obstinately attached to his own interest, resolved to bring him
over to their views at any rate, and commenced a negotiation with him,
which produced a formal treaty. By this convention his demands in money
were fixed at twelve hundred thousand Dutch florins, to be paid at
three instalments: five hundred thousand by the empress-queen, and the
remaining seven hundred thousand by the king of Great Britain and
the states-general, according to the proportion established in former
treaties. The privilege of _Non appellendo_ for the duchy of Deux-ponts
was confirmed to his electoral highness, together with some other rights
and pretensions, in consideration of his concurring with the other
electors in the choice of a king of the Romans, to be elected according
to the customs prescribed by the laws and constitutions of the empire.
He likewise engaged to join them in settling the articles of the
capitulation with the king of the Romans, emperor _in futuro_. Yet, even
after the concurrence of this prince was secured, the purposed election
proved abortive, from the strong objections that were started, and the
strenuous opposition which was made by his Prussian majesty, who perhaps
aspired in secret at the imperial dignity, which the empress-queen took
all this pains to perpetuate in her own family.

{1753}


SESSION OPENED.

The king of Great Britain returning from the continent, opened the
session of parliament on the eleventh day of January, with a speech,
implying that all his views and negotiations had been calculated and
directed to preserve and secure the duration of the general peace, so
agreeable and necessary to the welfare of all Europe; that he had the
satisfaction to be assured of a good disposition in all the powers that
were his allies, to adhere to the same salutary object. He exhorted them
to continue their attention to the reduction of the national debt, the
augmentation of the sinking fund, and the improvement of the public
revenue. He recommended to their serious consideration what further
laws and regulations might be necessary for suppressing those crimes and
disorders, of which the public had so justly complained; and concluded
with an assurance, that his hearty concurrence and endeavours should
never be wanting in any measure that might promote their welfare and
prosperity. The addresses in answer to this speech were couched in the
usual form of implicit approbation; but that of the commons did not pass
without question. The earl of Egmont took exceptions to one paragraph,
in which they acknowledged his majesty's wisdom, as well as goodness,
in pursuing such measures as must contribute to maintain and render
permanent the general tranquillity of Europe; and declared their
satisfaction at the assurances his majesty had received from his allies,
that they were all attached to the same salutary object. His lordship
expatiated on the absurdity of these compliments at such a juncture,
when the peace of Europe was so precarious, and the English nation had
so much cause of complaint and dissatisfaction. He was seconded by some
other individuals, who declaimed with great vivacity against continental
connexions; and endeavoured to expose the weakness and folly of the
whole system of foreign measures which our ministry had lately
pursued. It must be owned, indeed, that they might have chosen a better
opportunity to compliment their sovereign on the permanency of the peace
than at this juncture, when they must have seen themselves on the very
brink of a new rupture with the most formidable power in Europe. But
the truth is, these addresses to the throne had been long considered as
compliments of course, implying no more than a respectful attachment
to their sovereign; accordingly, both houses agreed to their respective
addresses without division. The two grand committees of supply and
of ways and means, being established, the business of the house was
transacted without much altercation; and the people had great reason to
be satisfied with their moderate proceedings. Ten thousand seamen, and
the usual number of land forces, were retained for the service of the
ensuing year. They provided for the maintenance of the new colony of
Nova Scotia, the civil establishment of Georgia, the support of the
castles on the coast of Guinea, and the erection of a new fort at
Anarnabo, where the French had attempted to make a settlement; and they
enabled his majesty to fulfil his engagements with the king of Poland
and the elector of Bavaria.

The supplies, including grants for former deficiencies and services for
which no provision had been made in the course of the last year, did not
exceed two millions one hundred and thirty-two thousand seven hundred
and seven pounds, seventeen shillings and twopence halfpenny. In
order to defray which expense, they assigned the duty on malt, &c, the
land-tax at two shillings in the pound, the surplus of certain funds in
the exchequer, and the sum of four hundred and twenty thousand pounds
out of the sinking fund; so that the exceedings amounted to near three
hundred thousand pounds.*

     * Several duties on salt, as well as on red and white
     herrings delivered out for home consumption, were rendered
     perpetual, though subject to be redeemed by parliament; and
     it was provided that the debt contracted upon these duties
     being discharged, all the after-produce of them should
     become part of the sinking fund.

As for the national debt, it now stood at the enormous sum of
seventy-four millions three hundred and sixty-eight thousand four
hundred and fifty-one pounds, fifteen shillings and one penny; and the
sinking fund produced one million seven hundred and thirty-five thousand
five hundred and twenty-nine pounds, six shillings and tenpence one
farthing.


GAME ACT.

One of the first measures brought upon the carpet in the course of this
session, was an act containing regulations for the better preservation
of the game, of which so great havoc had been made by poachers, and
other persons unqualified to enjoy that diversion, that the total
extirpation of it was apprehended.


ACT FOR PERFORMING QUARANTINE.

The next step taken by the commons was an affair of much greater
consequence to the community, being a bill for obliging ships the more
effectually to perform quarantine, in order to prevent the plague from
being imported from foreign countries into Great Britain. For this
purpose it was ordained, that if this dreadful visitation should appear
in any ship to the northward of cape Finisterre, the master or commander
should immediately proceed to the harbour of New Grimsby, in one of the
islands of Scilly, and there communicate the discovery to some officer
of the customs; who should, with the first opportunity, transmit this
intelligence to another custom-house officer in the nearest port of
England, to be by him forwarded to one of his majesty's principal
secretaries of state. In the meantime the ship should remain at the said
island, and not an individual presume to go ashore until his majesty's
pleasure should be known. It was also provided, that in case the master
of a ship thus infected should not be able to make the islands of
Scilly, or be forced up either channel by violent winds, he should not
enter any frequented harbour; but remain in some open road, until he
could receive orders from his majesty, or the privy council; that,
during this interval, he should avoid all intercourse with the shore,
or any person or vessel whatsoever, on pain of being deemed guilty of
felony, and suffering death without benefit of clergy.


ACT FOR PREVENTING THE PLUNDERING OF SHIPWRECKED VESSELS.

In order the more effectually to repress the barbarous practice of
plundering ships which have the misfortune to suffer shipwreck--a
practice which prevailed upon many different parts of the British
coast--to the disgrace of the nation, and the scandal of human nature;
a bill was prepared, containing clauses to enforce the laws against such
savage delinquents, who prowl along the shore like hungry wolves, in
hope of preying upon their fellow-creatures; and certain provisions for
the relief of the unhappy sufferers.*

     * By the new law, the clerk of the peace in the county where
     the crime shall be committed, is obliged, upon receiving
     proper information, to prosecute the offenders at the
     expense of the county. It was likewise proposed, that in
     case no prosecution of this nature should be commenced
     within a certain limited time after the information should
     have been legally given, in that case the county might be
     sued by the person who had sustained the damage, and obliged
     to indemnify him for his loss; but this clause was rejected
     by the majority; and the bill having made its way through
     both houses, received the royal assent.

When the mutiny bill fell under deliberation, the earl of Egmont
proposed a new clause for empowering and requiring regimental
courts-martial to examine witnesses upon oath in all their trials. The
proposal occasioned a debate, in which the ministry were pretty equally
divided; but the clause was disapproved by the majority, and this annual
bill was enacted into a law without any alteration.


BILL RELATING TO THE BOUNTY OF CORN EXPORTED.

The next bill was framed in consequence of dirers petitions presented by
the exporters of corn, who complained that the bounties were not paid,
and prayed that the house would make proper provision for that purpose.
A bill was accordingly brought in, importing, that interest after the
rate of three per cent, should be allowed upon every debenture, for the
bounty on the exportation of com, payable by the receiver-general or
cashier of the customs, until the principal could be discharged out
of such customs or duties as are appropriated for the payment of this
bounty. This premium on the exportation of corn ought not to be granted,
except when the lowness of the market price in Great Britain proves that
there is a superabundance in the kingdom; otherwise the exporter will
find his account in depriving our own labourers of their bread, in order
to supply our rivals at an easier rate; for example, suppose wheat in
England should sell for twenty shillings a quarter, the merchant might
export into France, and afford it to the people of that kingdom for
eighteen shillings, because the bounty on exportation would, even at
that rate, afford him a considerable advantage.


TURKEY TRADE LAID OPEN.

A great number of merchants having presented petitions from different
parts of the kingdom, representing that the trade of Turkey was greatly
decreased, ascribing this diminution to the exclusive charter enjoyed
by a monopoly, and praying that the trade might be laid open to all his
majesty's subjects, one of the members for Liverpool moved for leave to
bring in a bill for this purpose. Such a measure had been twice before
proposed without success; but now it was adopted without opposition. A
bill was immediately introduced; and, notwithstanding all the interest
and efforts of the Turkey company, who petitioned the house against
it, and were heard by their counsel, it passed through both houses, and
received the royal sanction. By this regulation any British subject may
obtain the freedom of the Turkey company, by paying or rendering a fine
of twenty pounds; and all the members are secured from the tyranny of
oppressive bye-laws, contrived by any monopolizing cabal.*

     * Several other bills were passed; one for regulating the
     number of public houses, and the more easy conviction of
     persons selling ale and strong liquors without license--an
     act which empowered the justices of peace to tyrannize over
     their fellow-subjects: a second, enabling the magistrates of
     Edinburgh to improve, enlarge, and adorn the avenues and
     streets of that city, according to a concerted plan, to be
     executed by voluntary subscription: a third, allowing the
     exportation of wool and woollen yarn from Ireland into any
     port in Great Britain: and a fourth, prescribing the breadth
     of the wheels belonging to heavy carriages, that the high
     roads of the kingdom might be the better preserved.


NATURALIZATION OF THE JEWS.

But this session was chiefly distinguished by an act for naturalizing
Jews, and a bill for the better preventing clandestine marriages. The
first of these, which passed without much opposition in the house of
lords, from whence it descended to the commons, was entitled, "An act
to permit persons professing the Jewish religion to be naturalized by
parliament, and for other purposes therein mentioned." It was supported
by some petitions of merchants and manufacturers, who, upon examination,
appeared to be Jews, or their dependents; and countenanced by the
ministry, who thought they foresaw, in the consequences of such
a naturalization, a great accession to the monied interest, and a
considerable increase of their own influence among the individuals of
that community. They boldly affirmed, that such a law would greatly
conduce to the advantage of the nation; that it would encourage persons
of wealth to remove with their effects from foreign parts into Great
Britain, increase the commerce and the credit of the kingdom, and set a
laudable example of industry, temperance, and frugality. Such, however,
were not the sentiments of the lord-mayor, aldermen, and commons of
the city of London in common-council assembled, who, in a petition to
parliament, expressed their apprehension that the bill, if passed into
a law, would tend greatly to the dishonour of the christian religion,
endanger the excellent constitution, and be highly prejudicial to the
interest and trade of the kingdom in general, and of the city of
London in particular. Another petition to the same purpose was next day
presented to the house, subscribed by merchants and traders of the city
of London; who, among other allegations, observed, that the consequences
of such a naturalization would greatly affect their trade and commerce
with foreign nations, particularly with Spain and Portugal. Counsel
was heard, evidence examined, and the bill produced violent debates, in
which there seemed to be more passion than patriotism, more declamation
than argument. The adversaries of the bill affirmed, that such a
naturalization would deluge the kingdom with brokers, usurers, and
beggars; that the rich Jews, under the shadow of this indulgence,
would purchase lands, and even advowsons; so as not only to acquire an
interest in the legislature, but also to influence the constitution of
the church of Christ, to which they were the inveterate and professed
enemies; that the lower class of that nation, when thus admitted to the
right of denizens, would interfere with the industrious natives who earn
their livelihood by their labour; and by dint of the most parsimonious
frugality, to which the English are strangers, work at an under price;
so as not only to share, but even in a manner to exclude them from all
employment; that such an adoption of vagrant Jews into the community,
from all parts of the world, would rob the real subjects of their
birthright, disgrace the character of the nation, expose themselves
to the most dishonourable participation and intrusion, endanger the
constitution both in church and state, and be an indelible reproach upon
the established religion of the country. Some of these orators seemed
transported even to a degree of enthusiasm. They prognosticated that the
Jews would multiply so much in number, engross such wealth, and acquire
so great power and influence in Great Britain, that their persons would
be revered, their customs imitated, and Judaism become the fashionable
religion of the English. Finally, they affirmed that such an act was
directly flying in the face of the prophecy, which declares, that the
Jews shall be a scattered people, without country or fixed habitation,
until they shall be converted from their infidelity, and gathered
together in the land of their forefathers. These arguments and
apprehensions, which were in reality frivolous and chimerical, being
industriously circulated among the vulgar, naturally prejudiced against
the Jewish people, excited such a ferment throughout the nation, as
ought to have deterred the ministry from the prosecution of such an
unpopular measure; which, however, they had courage enough to maintain
against all opposition. The bill passed the ordeal of both houses, and
his majesty vouchsafed the royal sanction to this law in favour of the
Hebrew nation. The truth is, it might have increased the wealth, and
extended the commerce of Great Britain, had it been agreeable to the
people; and as the naturalized Jews would still have been excluded from
all civil and military offices, as well as from other privileges
enjoyed by their christian brethren, in all probability they would have
gradually forsaken their own unprofitable and obstinate infidelity,
opened their eyes to the shining truths of the gospel, and joined their
fellow-subjects in embracing the doctrines of Christianity. But no
ministry ought to risk an experiment, how plausible soever it might be,
if they found it, as this was, an object of the people's unconquerable
aversion. What rendered this unpopular measure the more impolitic, was
the unseasonable juncture at which it was carried into execution;
that is, at the eve of a general election for a new parliament, when a
minister ought carefully to avoid every step which may give umbrage to
the body of the people. The earl of Egmont, who argued against the bill
with equal power and vivacity, in describing the effect it might have
upon that occasion, "I am amazed," said he, "that this consideration
makes no impression.--When that day, which is not far off, shall arrive,
I shall not fear to set my foot upon any ground of election in the
kingdom, in opposition to any one man among you, or any new christian,
who has voted or appeared in favour of this naturalization."


MARRIAGE ACT.

Another bill, transmitted from the upper house, met with a reception
equally unfavourable among the commons, though it was sustained on the
shoulders of the majority, and thus forced its way to the throne,
where it obtained the royal approbation. The practice of solemnizing
clandestine marriages, so prejudicial to the peace of families, and so
often productive of misery to the parties themselves thus united, was
an evil that prevailed to such a degree as claimed the attention of
the legislature. The sons and daughters of great and opulent families,
before they had acquired knowledge and experience, or attained to the
years of discretion, were every day seduced in their affections, and
inveigled into matches big with infamy and ruin; and these were
greatly facilitated by the opportunities that occurred of being united
instantaneously by the ceremony of marriage, in the first transport of
passion, before the destined victim had time to cool or deliberate on
the subject. For this pernicious purpose, there was a band of profligate
miscreants, the refuse of the clergy, dead to every sentiment of
virtue, abandoned to all sense of decency and decorum, for the most part
prisoners for debt or delinquency, and indeed the very outcasts of human
society, who hovered about the verge of the Fleet-prison to intercept
customers, plying like porters for employment, and performed the
ceremony of marriage without license or question, in cellars, garrets,
or ale-houses, to the scandal of religion, and the disgrace of that
order which they professed. The ease with which this ecclesiastical
sanction was obtained, and the vicious disposition of those wretches,
open to the practices of fraud and corruption, were productive of
polygamy, indigence, conjugal infidelity, prostitution, and every curse
that could embitter the married state. A remarkable case of this nature
having fallen under the cognizance of the peers, in an appeal from an
inferior tribunal, that house ordered the judges to prepare a new bill
for preventing such abuses; and one was accordingly framed, under
the auspices of lord Hardwicke, at that time lord high chancellor
of England. In order to anticipate the bad effects of clandestine
marriages, this new statute enacted, that the banns should be regularly
published three successive Sundays, in the church of the parish where
the parties dwell; that no license should be granted to marry in any
place, where one of the parties has not dwelt at least a month, except
a special license by the archbishop; that if any marriage should be
solemnized in any other place than a church or a chapel without a
special license, or in a public chapel without having published the
banns, or obtained a license of some person properly qualified, the
marriage should he void, and the person who solemnized it transported
for seven years; that marriages by license, of parties under age,
without consent of parent or guardian, should be null and void, unless
the party under age be a widow, and the parent refusing consent a widow
married again: that when the consent of a mother or guardian is refused
from caprice, or such parent or guardian be _non compos mentis_, or
beyond sea, the minor should have recourse for relief to the court of
chancery; that no suit should be commenced to compel a celebration of
marriage, upon pretence of any contract; that all marriages should be
solemnized before two witnesses, and an entry be made in a book kept for
that purpose, whether it was by banns or license, whether either of the
parties was under age, or the marriage celebrated with the consent of
parent or guardian, and this entry to be signed by the minister, the
parties, and the witnesses; that a false license or certificate, or
destroying register books, should be deemed felony, either in principal
or accessary, and punished with death. The bill, when first considered
in the lower house, gave rise to a variety of debates; in which
the members appeared to be divided rather according to their real
sentiments, than by the rules of any political distinction; for some
principal servants of the government freely differed in opinion from the
minister, who countenanced the bill; while on the other hand, he was
on this occasion supported by certain chiefs of the opposition, and the
disputes were maintained with extraordinary eagerness and warmth. The
principal objections imported, that such restrictions on marriage would
damp the spirit of love and propagation; promote mercenary matches, to
the ruin of domestic happiness, as well as to the prejudice of posterity
and population; impede the circulation of property, by preserving the
wealth of the kingdom among a kind of aristocracy of opulent families,
who would always intermarry within their own pale; subject the poor to
many inconveniencies and extraordinary expense, from the nature of the
forms to be observed; and throw an additional power into the hands
of the chancellor. They affirmed, that no human power had a right
to dissolve a vow solemnly made in the sight of heaven; and that,
in proportion as the bill prevented clandestine marriages, it would
encourage fornication and debauchery, insomuch as the parties restrained
from indulging their mutual passions in an honourable manner, would be
tempted to gratify them by stealth, at the hazard of their reputation.
In a word, they foresaw a great number of evils in the train of this
bill, which have not yet been realized. On the other side, its advocates
endeavoured to refute these arguments, and some of them spoke with great
strength and precision. The bill underwent a great number of alterations
and amendments; which were not effected without violent contest and
altercation. At length, however, it was floated through both houses on
the tide of a great majority, and steered into the safe harbour of royal
approbation. Certain it is, the abuse of clandestine marriage might have
been removed upon much easier terms than those imposed upon the subject
by this bill; which, after all, hath been found ineffectual, as it
may be easily eluded by a short voyage to the continent, or a moderate
journey to North Britain, where the indissoluble knot may be tied
without scruple or interruption.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


DELIBERATIONS CONCERNING THE SUGAR COLONIES.

Over and above these new statutes, there were some other subjects which
occasionally employed the attention of the commons; such as the state
of the British sugar colonies, which was considered, in consequence
of petitions presented by the sugar refiners and grocers of London,
Westminster, and Bristol, complaining of the exorbitant price
demanded and given for sugars imported from Jamaica; desiring that the
proprietors of lands in Jamaica might be obliged to cultivate greater
quantities of ground for raising sugar-canes, or that they (the
petitioners) might have leave to import muscovado sugars from other
countries, when the price of those imported from Jamaica should exceed
a certain rate. This remonstrance was taken into consideration by a
committee of the whole house; and a great number of evidences and papers
being examined, they resolved, that the peopling of Jamaica with white
inhabitants, and cultivating the lands thereof, would be the most
proper measure for securing that island, and increasing the trade
and navigation between it and Great Britain, and other parts of
his majesty's dominions; that the endeavours hitherto used by the
legislature of Jamaica to increase the number of white inhabitants, and
enforce the cultivation of lands, in the manner that might best conduce
to the security and defence of that island, had not been effectual
for these purposes. The house ordered a bill to be founded on these
resolutions; but this was postponed until the ministry should receive
more full information touching the true state of that island. The
planters of Jamaica laboured under many grievances and hardships, from
divers heavy impositions and restrictions; and a detail of these was
transmitted in a representation to his majesty, which was referred to
the consideration of the commissioners of trade and plantations. The
cause of the planters was defended vigorously, and managed in the house
of commons by alderman Beckford, a gentleman of vast possessions in
the island of Jamaica, who perfectly well understood, and strenuously
supported, the interest of that his native country.


FATE OF THE REGISTER BILL.

Abortive also proved the attempt to establish a law for keeping an
annual register of marriages, births, deaths, the individuals who
received alms, and the total number of people in Great Britain. A bill
for this purpose was presented by Mr. Potter, a gentleman of pregnant
parts and spirited elocution; who, enumerating the advantages of such a
law, observed, that it would ascertain the number of the people, and the
collective strength of the nation; consequently, point out those places
where there is a defect or excess of population, and certainly determine
whether a general naturalization would be advantageous or prejudicial
to the community; that it would decide what number of men might, on any
sudden emergency, be levied for the defence of the kingdom; and whether
the nation is gainer or loser, by sending its natives to settle, and
our troops to defend distant colonies; that it would be the means of
establishing a local administration of civil government, or a police
upon certain fixed principles, the want of which hath been long a
reproach to the nation, a security to vice, and an encouragement to
idleness; that in many cases where all other evidence is wanting,
it would enable suitors to recover their right in courts of justice,
facilitate an equal and equitable assessment in raising the present
taxes, and laying future impositions; specify the lineal descents,
relations, and alliances of families; lighten the intolerable burdens
incurred by the public, from innumerable and absurd regulations relating
to the poor; provide for them by a more equal exertion of humanity,
and effectually screen them from all risk of perishing by hunger, cold,
cruelty, and oppression. Whether such a law would have answered the
sanguine expectations of its patron, we shall not pretend to determine;
though, in our opinion, it must have been attended with very salutary
consequences, particularly in restraining the hand of robbery and
violence, in detecting fraud, bridling the ferocity of a licentious
people, and establishing a happy system of order and subordination. At
first the bill met with little opposition, except from Mr. Thornton,
member for the city of York, who inveighed against it with great
fervour, as a measure that savoured of French policy, to which the
English nation ever had the utmost aversion. He affirmed, that the
method in which it was proposed this register should be kept, would
furnish the enemies of Great Britain with continual opportunities of
knowing the strength or weakness of the nation; that it would empower
an ill-designing minister to execute any scheme subversive of public
liberty, invest parish and petty officers of the peace with exorbitant
powers, and cost the nation about fifty thousand pounds a-year to carry
the scheme into execution. These arguments, which, we apprehend,
are extremely frivolous and inconclusive, had great weight with a
considerable number who joined in the opposition, while the ministry
stood neutral. Nevertheless, after having undergone some amendments, it
was conveyed to the lords, by whom it was, at the second reading, thrown
out as a scheme of very dangerous tendency. The legislature of Great
Britain have, on some occasions, been more startled at the distant
shadow of a bare possibility, than at the real approach of the most
dangerous innovation.


SIR HANS SLOANE'S MUSEUM PURCHASED BY PARLIAMENT.

From the usual deliberations on civil and commercial concerns, the
attention of the parliament, which had seldom or never turned upon
literary avocations, was called off by an extraordinary subject of this
nature. Sir Hans Sloane, the celebrated physician and naturalist,
well known through all the civilized countries of Europe for his ample
collection of rarities, culled from the animal, vegetable, and mineral
kingdoms, as well as of antiquities and curiosities of art, had
directed, in his last will, that this valuable museum, together with his
numerous library, should be offered to the parliament, for the use
of the public, in consideration of their paying a certain sum in
compensation to his heirs. His terms were embraced by the commons, who
agreed to pay twenty thousand pounds for the whole, supposed to be worth
four times that sum; and a bill was prepared for purchasing this museum,
together with the Harleian collection of manuscripts, so denominated
from its founder, Robert Harley, earl of Oxford, lord-high-treasurer of
England, and now offered to the public by his daughter, the duchess of
Portland. It was proposed, that these purchases should be joined to the
famous Cottonian library, and a suitable repository provided for them
and the king's library, which had long lain neglected and exposed to
the injuries of the weather in the old dormitory at Westminster.
Accordingly, trustees and governors, consisting of the most eminent
persons of the kingdom, were appointed, and regulations established
for the management of this noble museum, which was deposited in
Montagu-house, one of the most magnificent edifices in England, where it
is subjected, without reserve, to the view of the public, under certain
necessary restrictions, and exhibits a glorious monument of national
taste and liberality. *

     * The library of sir Hans Sloane consisted of above fifty
     thousand volumes, including about three hundred and fifty
     books of drawings, and three thousand five hundred and
     sixteen manuscripts, besides a multitude of prints. The
     museum comprehended an infinite number of medals, coins,
     urns, utensils, seals, cameos, intaglios, precious stones,
     vessels of agate and jasper, crystals, spars, fossils,
     metals, minerals, ore, earths, sands, salts, bitumens,
     sulphurs, ambergrise, talcs, mirre, testacea, corals,
     sponges, echini, echenites, asteri, trochi, crustatia,
     stellae marine, fishes, birds, eggs and nests, vipers,
     serpents, quadrupeds, insects, human calculi, anatomical
     preparations, seeds, gums, roots, dried plants, pictures,
     drawings, and mathematical instruments. All these articles,
     with a short account of each, are specified in thirty-eight
     volumes in folio, and eight in quarto.

In the beginning of June the session of parliament was closed by his
majesty, who mentioned nothing particular in his speech, but that the
state of foreign affairs had suffered no alteration since their meeting.

The genius of the English people is perhaps incompatible with a state of
perfect tranquillity; if it was not ruffled by foreign provocations,
or agitated by unpopular measures of domestic administration, it will
undergo temporary fermentations from the turbulent ingredients inherent
in its own constitution Tumults are excited, and faction kindled into
rage and inveteracy, by incidents of the most frivolous nature. At this
juncture the metropolis of England was divided and discomposed in a
surprising manner, by a dispute in itself of so little consequence to
the community, that it could not deserve a place in a general history,
if it did not serve to convey a characteristic idea of the English
nation. In the beginning of the year an obscure damsel, of low degree,
whose name was Elizabeth Canning, promulgated a report, which in a
little time attracted the attention of the public. She affirmed, that
on the first day of the new year, at night, she was seized under
Bedlam-wall by two ruffians, who having stripped her of her upper
apparel, secured her mouth with a gag, and threatened to murder her
should she make the least noise; that they conveyed her on foot about
ten miles, to a place called Enfieldwash, and brought her to the house
of one Mrs. Wells, where she was pillaged of her stays; and because
she refused to turn prostitute, confined in a cold, damp, separate, and
unfurnished apartment; where she remained a whole month, without any
other sustenance than a few stale crusts of bread, and about a gallon of
water; till at length she forced her way through a window, and ran home
to her mother's house almost naked, in the night of the twenty-ninth of
January. This story, improbable and unsupported, operated so strongly on
the passions of the people in the neighbourhood of Aldermanbury,
where Canning's mother lived, and particularly among fanatics of all
denominations, that they raised voluntary contributions, with surprising
eagerness, in order to bring the supposed delinquents to justice.
Warrants were granted for apprehending Wells, who kept the house at
Enfieldwash, and her accomplices, the servant maid, whose name was
Virtue Hall, and one Squires, an old gipsey-woman, which last was
charged by Canning of having robbed her of her stays. Wells, though
acquitted of the felony, was punished as a bawd. Hall turned evidence
for Canning, but afterwards recanted. Squires, the gipsey, was convicted
of the robbery, though she produced undoubted evidence to prove that she
was at Abbotsbury in Dorsetshire that very night in which the felony
was said to be committed, and Canning and her friends fell into
divers contradictions during the course of the trial. By this time the
prepossession of the common people in her favour had risen to such a
pitch of enthusiasm, that the most palpable truths which appeared on the
other side, had no other effect than that of exasperating them to the
most dangerous degree of rage and revenge. Some of the witnesses for
Squires, though persons of unblemished character, were so intimidated,
that they durst not enter the court; and those who had resolution enough
to give evidence in her behalf, ran the risk of assassination from the
vulgar that surrounded the place. On this occasion, sir Crisp Gascoyne,
lord-mayor of London, behaved with that laudable courage and humanity
which ought ever to distinguish the chief magistrate of such a
metropolis. Considering the improbability of the charge, the heat,
partiality, and blind enthusiasm with which it was prosecuted, and being
convinced of the old woman's innocence by a great number of affidavits,
voluntarily sent up from the country by persons of unquestionable
credit, he, in conjunction with some other worthy citizens, resolved
to oppose the torrent of vulgar prejudice. Application was made to
the throne for mercy; the case was referred to the attorney and
solicitor-general, who, having examined the evidences on both sides,
made their report in favour of Squires to the king and council; and this
poor old creature was indulged with his majesty's pardon. This affair
was now swelled up into such a faction as divided the greater part of
the kingdom, including the rich as well as the poor, the high as well
as the humble. Pamphlets and pasquinades were published on both sides
of the dispute, which became the general topic of conversation in all
assemblies, and people of all ranks espoused one or other party with
as much warmth and animosity as had ever inflamed the whigs and tories,
even at the most rancorous period of their opposition. Subscriptions
were opened, and large sums levied, on one side, to prosecute for
perjury the persons on whose evidence the pardon had been granted.
On the other hand, those who had interested themselves for the gipsey
resolved to support her witnesses, and, if possible, detect the
imposture of Canning. Bills of perjury were preferred on both sides.
The evidences for Squires were tried and acquitted; at first Canning
absconded; but afterwards surrendered to take her trial, and being,
after a long hearing, found guilty, was transported to the British
colonies. The zeal of her friends, however, seemed to be inflamed by her
conviction; and those who carried on the prosecution against her were
insulted, even to the danger of their lives. They supplied her with
necessaries of all sorts, paid for her transportation in a private
ship, where she enjoyed all the comforts and conveniences that could be
afforded in that situation, and furnished her with such recommendations
as secured to her a very agreeable reception in New England.


EXECUTION OF DR. CAMERON.

Next to this very remarkable transaction, the incident that principally
distinguished this year in England, was the execution of Doctor
Archibald Cameron, a native of North Britain, and brother to Cameron
of Lochiel, chief of that numerous and warlike tribe who had taken the
field with the prince-pretender. After the battle of Culloden, where he
was dangerously wounded, he found means to escape to the continent. His
brother, the doctor, had accompanied him in all his expeditions, though
not in a military capacity, and was included with him in the act of
attainder passed against those who had been concerned in the rebellion.
Notwithstanding the imminent danger attending such an attempt, the
doctor returned privately to Scotland, in order, as it was reported,
to recover a sum of money belonging to the pretender, which had been
embezzled by his adherents in that country. Whatever may have been
his inducement to revisit his native country under such a predicament,
certain it is, he was discovered, apprehended, and conducted to London,
confined in the Tower, examined by the privy-council, and produced in
the court of king's-bench, where his identity being proved by several
witnesses, he received sentence of death, and was executed at Tyburn.
The terror and resentment of the people, occasioned by the rebellion,
having by this time subsided, their humane passions did not fail to
operate in favour of this unfortunate gentleman; their pity was mingled
with esteem, arising from his personal character, which was altogether
unblemished, and his deportment on this occasion, which they could
not help admiring as the standard of manly fortitude and decorum. The
populace, though not very subject to tender emotions, were moved
to compassion and even to tears, by his behaviour at the place of
execution; and many sincere well-wishers to the present establishment
thought that the sacrifice of this victim, at such a juncture, could not
redound either to its honour or security.


TUMULTS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE KINGDOM.

The turbulent spirit, which is never totally extinguished in this
island, manifested itself in sundry tumults that broke out in
different parts of South Britain. The price of provisions, and bread
in particular, being raised to an exorbitant rate in consequence of an
absurd exportation of corn, for the sake of the bounty, a formidable
body of colliers, and other labouring people, raised an insurrection at
Bristol, began to plunder the corn vessels in the harbour, and commit
such outrages in the city, that the magistrates were obliged to have
recourse to military power. A troop of dragoons were sent to their
assistance, and the insurgents were quelled, though not without some
bloodshed. Commotions of the same kind were excited in Yorkshire,
Manchester, and several other places in the northern counties At Leeds,
a detachment of the king's troops were obliged in their own defence to
fire upon the rioters, eight or nine of whom were killed on the spot;
and, indeed, so little care had been taken to restrain the licentious
insolence of the vulgar by proper laws and regulations, duly executed
under the eye of civil magistracy, that a military power was found
absolutely necessary to maintain the peace of the kingdom.


DISTURBANCES IN FRANCE.

The tranquillity of the continent was not endangered by any new contest
or disturbance; yet the breach between the clergy and the parliament of
Paris was every day more and more widened, and the people were pretty
equally divided between superstition and a regard for civil liberty.
The parliament having caused divers ecclesiastics to be apprehended, for
having refused to administer the sacraments to persons in extremity, who
refused to subscribe to the bull Unigenitus, all of them declared they
acted according to the direction of the archbishop of Paris. Application
being made to this haughty prelate, he treated the deputies of the
parliament with the most supercilious contempt, and even seemed to brave
the power and authority of that body. They, on the other hand, proceeded
to take cognizance of the recusant clergy, until their sovereign ordered
them to desist. Then they presented remonstrances to his majesty,
reminding him of their privileges, and the duty of their station, which
obliged them to do justice on all their delinquents. In the meantime
they continued to perform their functions, and even commenced a
prosecution against the bishop of Orleans, whom they summoned to attend
their tribunal. Next day they received from Versailles a _lettre de
cachet_, accompanied by letters patent, commanding them to suspend all
prosecutions relating to the refusal of the sacraments; and ordering the
letters patent to be registered. Instead of obeying these commands, they
presented new remonstrances, for answers to which they were referred to
the king's former declarations. In consequence of this intimation, they
had spirit enough to resolve, "That, whereas certain evil-minded persons
had prevented truth from reaching the throne, the chambers remained
assembled, and all other business should be suspended." The affair was
now become very serious. His majesty, by fresh letters patent, renewed
his orders, and commanded them to proceed with their ordinary business,
on pain of incurring his displeasure. They forthwith came to another
resolution, importing, that they could not obey this injunction without
a breach of their duty and their oath. Next day _lettres de cachet_ were
issued, banishing to different parts of the kingdom all the members,
except those of the great chamber, which the court did not find more
tractable than their brethren. They forthwith resolved to abide by the
two resolutions mentioned above; and, as an instance of their unshaken
fortitude, ordered an ecclesiastic to be taken into custody for refusing
the sacraments. This spirited measure involved them in the fate of the
rest; for they were also exiled from Paris, the citizens of which did
not fail to extol their conduct with the loudest encomiums, and at the
same time to express their resentment against the clergy, who could not
stir abroad without being exposed to violence or insult. The example of
the parliament of Paris was followed by that of Rouen, which had courage
enough to issue orders for apprehending the bishop of Evreux, because he
had refused to appear when summoned to their tribunal. Their decrees
on this occasion being annulled by the king's council of state, they
presented a bold remonstrance, which, however, had no other effect than
that of exasperating the ministry. A grand deputation being ordered to
attend the king, they were commanded to desist from intermeddling in
disputes relating to the refusal of the sacraments, and to register this
injunction. At their return they had recourse to a new remonstrance; and
one of their principal counsellors, who had spoken freely in the debates
on this subject, was arrested by a party of dragoons, who carried him
prisoner to the castle of Dourlens. In a word, the body of the people
declared for the parliament, in opposition to ecclesiastical tyranny;
and had they not been overawed by a formidable standing army, would
certainly have taken up arms in defence of their liberties; while the
monarch weakly suffered himself to be governed by priestly delusions;
and, secure in his military appointment, seemed to set the rest of his
subjects at defiance. Apprehensive, however, that these disputes would
put an entire stop to the administration of justice, he, by letters
patent, established a royal chamber for the prosecution of suits civil
and criminal, which was opened with a solemn mass performed in the
queen's chapel at the Louvre, where all the members assisted. On this
occasion another difficulty occurred. The letters patent, constituting
this new court, ought to have been registered by the parliament which
was now no more. To remedy this defect, application was made to the
inferior court of the Chatelet, which refusing to register them, one
of its members was committed to the Bastile, and another absconded.
Intimidated by this exertion of despotic power, they allowed the king's
officers to enter the letters in their register; but afterwards adopted
more vigorous resolutions. The lieutenant,-civil appearing in their
court, all the counsellors rose up and retired, leaving him alone, and
on the table an _arret_, importing, that whereas the confinement of one
of their members, the prosecution of another, who durst not appear, and
the present calamities of the nation, gave them just apprehensions for
their own persons; they had, after mature deliberation, thought proper
to retire. Thus a dangerous ferment was excited by the king's espousing
the cause of spiritual insolence and oppression against the general
voice of his people, and the plainest dictates of reason and common
sense.


PROCEEDINGS OF THE DIET RELATIVE TO EAST FRIEZELAND.

The property of East Friezeland continued still to be the source of
contention between the electors of Bran-denburgh and Hanover. The
interest of his Britannic majesty being powerfully supported by the
house of Austria, the minister of that power at the diet proposed that
the affair should be taken into immediate consideration. He was seconded
by the minister of Brunswick; but the envoy from Brandenburgh, having
protested in form against this procedure, withdrew from the assembly,
and the Brunswick minister made a counter-protestation, after which
he also retired. Then a motion being made, that this dispute should be
referred to the decision of the Aulic council at Vienna, it was carried
in the affirmative by a majority of fourteen voices. His Prussian
majesty's final declaration with regard to this affair was afterwards
presented to the diet, and answered in the sequel by a memorial from
his Britannic majesty as elector of Hanover. Some other petty disputes
likewise happened between the regency of Hanover and the city of
Munster; and the former claiming some bailiwicks in the territories of
Bremen, sequestered certain revenues belonging to this city, in Stade
and Ferden, till these claims should be satisfied.


EXTRAORDINARY TREATY.

The court of Vienna having dropped for the present the scheme for
electing a king of the Romans, concluded a very extraordinary treaty
with the duke of Modena, stipulating that his serene highness should
be appointed perpetual governor of the duchy of Milan, with a salary of
ninety thousand florins, on condition that he should maintain a body of
four thousand men, to be at the disposal of the empress-queen; that her
imperial majesty should have a right to place garrisons in the citadels
of Mirandola and Reggio, as well as in the castle of Massa-Carrara:
that the archduke Peter Leopold, third son of their imperial majesties,
should espouse the daughter of the hereditary prince of Modena, by the
heiress of Massa-Carrara; and in case of her dying without heirs male,
the estates of that house and the duchy of Mirandola should devolve
to the archduke; but in case of her having male issue, that she should
enjoy the principality of Fermia, and other possessions in Hungary,
claimed by the duke of Modena, for her fortune; finally, that on the
extinction of the male branch of the house of Este, all the dominions of
the duke of Modena should devolve to the house of Austria.


CONFERENCES WITH RESPECT TO NOVA SCOTIA BROKE UP.

While the powers on the continent of Europe were thus employed in
strengthening their respective interests, and concerting measures for
preventing any interruption of the general tranquillity, matters were
fast ripening to a fresh rupture between the subjects of Great Britain
and France, in different parts of North America. We have already
observed that commissaries had been appointed, and conferences opened at
Paris, to determine the disputes between the two crowns, relating to the
boundaries of Nova Scotia; and we took notice in general of the little
arts of evasion practised by the French commissaries, to darken and
perplex the dispute, and elude the pretensions of his Britannic majesty.
They persisted in employing these arts of chicanery and cavil with such
perseverance, that the negotiation proved abortive, the conferences
broke up, and every thing seemed to portend approaching hostilities.
But, before we proceed to a detail of the incidents which were the
immediate forerunners of the war, we will endeavour to convey a just
idea of the dispute concerning Nova Scotia; which, we apprehend, is but
imperfectly understood, though of the utmost importance to the interest
of Great Britain.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


DESCRIPTION OF NOVA SCOTIA.

Nova Scotia, called by the French Acadia, lies between the forty-fourth
and fiftieth degrees of north latitude, having New England and the
Atlantic ocean to the south and south-west, and the river and gulph of
St. Lawrence to the north and north-east. The winter, which continues
near seven months in this country, is intensely cold; and without the
intervention of any thing that can be called spring, it is immediately
succeeded by a summer, the heat of which is almost insupportable, but of
no long continuance. The soil in general is thin and barren, though some
parts of it are said to be equal to the best land in England. The whole
country is covered with a perpetual fog, even after the summer has
commenced. It was first possessed by the French, before they made any
establishment in Canada; who, by dint of industry and indefatigable
perseverance, in struggling with the many difficulties they necessarily
laboured under in the infancy of this settlement, subsisted tolerably
well, and increased considerably, with very little assistance from
Europe; whilst we, even now, should lose the immense expense we have
already been at to settle a colony there, and should see all our
endeavours to that end defeated, if the support of the royal hand was
withdrawn but for a moment. This country, by the possession of which an
enemy would be enabled greatly to annoy all our other colonies, and, if
in the hands of the French, would be of singular service both to their
fishery and their sugar islands, has frequently changed hands from the
French to the English, and from the English back again to the French,
till our right to it was finally settled by the twelfth article of the
treaty of Utrecht, by which all the country included within the ancient
limits of what was called Nova Scotia or Acadia, was ceded to the
English. This article was confirmed by the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle,
but, for want of ascertaining distinctly what were the bounds intended
to be fixed by the two nations with respect to this province, disputes
arose, and commissaries, as we have observed, were appointed by both
sides to adjust the litigation.

The commissaries of the king of Great Britain conformed themselves
to the rule laid down by the treaty itself, and assigned those as the
ancient limits of this country, which had always passed as such, from
the very earliest time of any certainty, down to the conclusion of the
treaty; which the two crowns had frequently declared to be such, and
which the French had often admitted and allowed. These limits are, the
southern bank of the river St. Lawrence to the north, and Pentagoet to
the west: the country situated between these boundaries is that which
the French received by the treaty of St. Germain's, in the year one
thousand six hundred and thirty-two, under the general name of Acadia.
Of this country, thus limited, they continued in possession from that
period to the year one thousand six hundred and fifty-four, when a
descent was made upon it, under the command of colonel Sedgwick. That
these were then the undisputed limits of Acadia, his Britannic majesty's
commissaries plainly proved, by a letter of Louis XIII. to the sieurs
Charnisay and La Tour, regulating their jurisdictions in Acadia; by
the subsequent commissions of the French king to the same persons, as
governors of Acadia, in the sequel; and by that which was afterwards
granted to the sieur Denys, in the year one thousand six hundred and
fifty-four; all of which extend the bounds of this country from the
river St. Lawrence to Pentagoet and New England. That these were
the notions of the French with respect to the ancient limits of this
province, was further confirmed by the demands made by their ambassador
in the course of that same year, for the restitution of the forts
Pentagoet, St. John's, and Port Eoyal, as forts situated in Acadia. In
the year one thousand six hundred and sixty-two, upon the revival of the
claim of France to the country of Acadia, which had been left undecided
by the treaty of Westminster, the French ambassador, then at the court
of London, assigned Pentagoet as the western, and the river St. Lawrence
as the northern, boundary of that country; and alleged the restitution
of Acadia in the year one thousand six hundred and thirty-two, and
the possession taken by France in consequence thereof, as well as the
continuation of that possession, with the same limits, to the year
one thousand six hundred and fifty-four, as proofs of the equity and
validity of the claim he then made; in which claim and in the manner of
supporting it, he was particularly approved of by the court of
France. The same court afterwards thought it so clear, upon former
determinations, and her own former possessions, that the true ancient
boundaries of Acadia were Pentagoet to the west, and the river St.
Lawrence to the north, that she desired no specification of limits in
the treaty of Breda, but was contented with the restitution of Acadia,
generally named; and, upon a dispute which arose in the execution
of this treaty, France re-asserted, and Great Britain, after some
discussion, agreed to the above-mentioned limits of Acadia; and France
obtained possession of that country, so bounded, under the treaty of
Breda. The sense of France upon this subject, in the years one
thousand six hundred and eighty-five, and one thousand six hundred and
eighty-seven, was also clearly manifested in the memorials delivered at
that time by the French ambassador at the court of London, complaining
of some encroachments made by the English upon the coast of Acadia: he
described the country as extending from isle Percée, which lies at the
entrance of the river St. Lawrence, to St. George's island; and again,
in a subsequent complaint, made by Mons. Barillon and Mons. Bonrepaus
to the court of Great Britain, against the judge of Pemaquid, for having
seized the effects of a French merchant at Pentagoet, which, said they,
was situated in Acadia, as restored to France by the treaty of Breda. To
explain the sense of France, touching the bounds of Acadia in the year
one thousand seven hundred, the British commissaries produced a proposal
of the French ambassador, then residing in Great Britain, to restrain
the limits of that country to the river St-George. They also instanced
the surrender of Port Royal in the year one thousand seven hundred and
ten, in which Acadia is described with the same limits with which France
had received it in the years one thousand six hundred and thirty-two,
and one thousand six hundred and sixty-seven. And further to ascertain
the sense of both crowns, even at the treaty of Utrecht itself, they
produced the queen of Great Britain's instructions to her ambassadors,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and eleven, in which they were
directed to insist, "That his most christain majesty should quit all
claim or title, by virtue of any former treaty, or otherwise, to the
country called Nova Scotia, and expressly to Port Royal, otherwise
Annapolis Royal." To these they added a manifest demonstration, founded
on indisputable facts, proving that the recital of the several sorts
of right which France had ever pretended to this country, and the
specification of both terms, Acadia or Nova Scotia, were intended by
Great Britain to obviate all doubts which had ever been made concerning
the limits of Acadia, and to comprehend with more certainty all that
country which France had ever received as such; finally, to specify what
France considered as Acadia. During the treaty, they referred to the
offers of that crown in the year one thousand seven hundred and twelve,
in which she proposed to restrain the boundary of Acadia to the river
St. George, as a departure from its real boundary, in case Great Britain
would restore to her the possession of that country. From all these
facts it plainly appears that Great Britain demanded nothing but what
the fair construction of the words of the treaty of Utrecht necessarily
implies; and that it is impossible for any thing to have more evident
marks of candour and fairness in it, than the demand of the English on
this occasion. From the variety of evidence brought in support of this
claim, it evidently results that the English commissaries assigned no
limits as the ancient limits of Acadia, but those which France
herself determined to be such in the year one thousand six hundred
and thirty-two; and which she possessed, in consequence of that
determination, till the year one thousand six hundred and fifty-four;
that in one thousand six hundred and sixty-two, France claimed, and
received in one thousand six hundred and sixty-nine, the country which
Great Britain now claims as Acadia, restored to France by the treaty
of Breda under that general denomination; that France never considered
Acadia as having any other limits than those which were assigned to it
from the year one thousand six hundred and thirty-two, to the year one
thousand seven hundred and ten; and that, by the treaty of Utrecht, she
engaged to transfer that very same country as Acadia, which France has
always asserted and possessed, and Great Britain now claims, as such.
Should the crown of France, therefore, be ever willing to decide what
are the ancient limits of Acadia, by her own declarations so frequently
made in like discussions upon the same point, by her possessions of this
country for almost a century, and by her description of Acadia, during
the negotiation of that very treaty upon which this doubt is raised,
she cannot but admit the claim of Great Britain to be conformable to the
treaty of Utrecht, and to the description of the country transferred
to Great Britain by the twelfth article of that treaty. There is a
consistency in the claim of the English, and a completeness in the
evidence brought in support of it, which is seldom seen in discussions
of this sort; for it rarely happens, in disputes of such a nature
between two crowns, that either of them can safely offer to have its
pretensions decided by the known and repeated declarations, or the
possessions of the other. To answer the force of this detail of
conclusive historical facts, and to give a new turn to the real question
in dispute, the French commissaries, in their memorial, laid it down as
a distinction made by the treaty of Utrecht, that the ancient limits of
Acadia, referred to by that treaty, are different from any with which
that country may have passed under the treaties of St. Germain's and
Breda; and then endeavoured to show, upon the testimonies of maps and
historians, that Acadia and its limits were anciently confined to the
south-eastern part of the peninsula. In support of this system, the
French commissaries had recourse to ancient maps and historians, who,
as they asserted, had ever confined Acadia to the limits they assigned.
They alleged, that those commissions of the French government over
Acadia, which the English cited as evidence of the limits they claimed,
were given as commissions over Acadia and the country around it, and not
over Acadia only; that the whole of the country claimed by the English
as Acadia, could not possibly be supposed ever to be considered as such,
because many parts of that territory always did, and still do, preserve
particular and distinct names. They affirmed New France to be a province
in itself; and argued that many parts of what we claim as Acadia can
never have been in Acadia, because historians and the French commissions
of government expressly place them in New France. They asserted, that no
evidence can be drawn of the opinion of any crown, with respect to the
limits of any country, from its declaration during the negotiation of
a treaty: and, in the ends relying upon maps and historians for the
ancient limits of Acadia, they pretended that the express restitution of
St. Germain's, and the possession taken by France in consequence of
the treaty of Breda, after a long discussion of the limits and the
declaration of France during the negotiation of the treaty of Utrecht,
were foreign to the point in question. In refutation of these maxims,
the English commissaries proved, from an examination of the maps and
historians cited by the French in support of their system, that if this
question was to be decided upon the authorities which they themselves
allowed to belong, and to be applicable to, this discussion, the limits
which they assigned were utterly inconsistent with the best maps of all
countries, which are authorities in point for almost every part of
the claim of Great Britain. They showed that the French historians,
Champlain and Denys, and particularly this last, with his commission
in the year one thousand six hundred and fifty-five, assigned the same
northern and western limits to Acadia which they did; and that Escarbot,
another of their historians, as far as any evidence can be drawn from
his writings, agrees entirely with the former two. They observed, that
all these evidences fall in with and confirmed the better authorities of
treaties, and the several transactions between the two crowns for near
a century past; and that the French commissaries, by deviating from
treaties, and the late proceedings of the two crowns, to ancient
historians and maps, only made a transition from an authentic to an
insufficient sort of evidence, and led the English commissaries into an
inquiry which proved that both the proper and the improper, the regular
and the foreign evidence, upon which this matter had been rested,
equally confuted the limits alleged by the French commissaries as the
ancient limits of Acadia.


CHAPTER IX.

     _Ambitious Schemes of the French in North America..... Rise
     and Conduct of the Ohio Company..... Letter from the
     Governor of Virginia to the French Commander at Riviere-au-
     Beuf..... Perfidious Practices of the French in Nova
     Scotia..... Major Laurence defeats the French Neutrals.....
     British Ambassador at Paris amused with general Promises.....
     Session opened..... Supplies granted..... Repeal of the Act
     for naturalizing Jews..... Motion for repealing a former Act
     favourable to the Jews..... East India Mutiny Bill..... Case
     of Le ------ Session closed..... Death of Mr. Pelham.....
     Change in the Ministry..... New Parliament assembled and
     prorogued..... Disputes in the Irish Parliament.....
     Transactions in the East Indies..... Account of the English
     Settlements on the Malabar and Coromandel Coast.....
     Disputes about the Government of Arcot..... Mahommed Ali
     Khan supported by the English..... Mr. Clive takes
     Arcot..... and defeats the Enemy in the Plains of Arani, and
     at Koveripauk..... He reduces three Forts, and takes M.
     d'Anteuil..... Chunda Saib taken and put to Death, and his
     Army routed...... Convention between the East India
     Companies of England and France..... General View of the
     British Colonies in North America..... New England and New
     York..... New Jersey..... Pennsylvania..... Maryland.....
     Virginia..... The two Carolinas..... Georgia..... The
     French surprise Logs-Town, on the Ohio..... Conference with
     the Indians at Albany..... Colonel Washington defeated and
     taken by the French on the Ohio..... Divisions among the
     British Colonies..... The hereditary Prince of Hesse-Cassel
     professes the Roman Catholic Religion..... Parliament of
     Paris recalled from Exile..... Affairs of Spain and
     Portugal..... Session opened..... Supplies granted..... Bill
     in behalf or Chelsea Pensioners..... Oxfordshire
     Election..... Message from the King to the House of
     Commons..... Court of Versailles amuses the English
     Ministry..... Session closed_


AMBITIOUS SCHEMES OF THE FRENCH.

While the British ministry depended upon the success of the conferences
between the commissaries of the two crowns at Paris, the French were
actually employed in executing their plans of encroachment upon the
British colonies of North America. Their scheme was to engross the whole
fur trade of that continent; and they had already made great progress
in extending a chain of forts, connecting their settlements on the river
Mississippi with their possessions in Canada, along the great lakes
of Erie and Ontario, which last issues into the river St. Lawrence. By
these means they hoped to exclude the English from all communication and
traffic with the Indian nations, even those that lay contiguous to the
British settlements, and confine them within a line of their drawing,
beyond which they should neither extend their trade nor plantations.
Their commercial spirit did not keep pace with the gigantic strides
of their ambition; they could not supply all those Indians with the
necessaries they wanted, so that many of the natives had recourse to
the English settlements; and this commerce produced a connexion, in
consequence of which the British adventurers ventured to travel with
merchandise as far as the banks of the river Ohio, that runs into the
Mississippi, a great way on the other side of the Apalachian mountains,
beyond which none of our colonists had ever attempted to penetrate.
The tract of country lying along the Ohio is so fertile, pleasant,
and inviting, and the Indians, called Twightees, who inhabit those
delightful plains, were so well disposed towards a close alliance with
the English, that, as far back as the year one thousand seven hundred
and sixteen, Mr. Spotswood, governor of Virginia, proposed a plan for
erecting a company to settle such lands upon this river as should be
ceded to them by treaty with the natives; but the design was at that
time frustrated, partly by the indolence and timidity of the British
ministry, who were afraid of giving umbrage to the French, and partly by
the jealousies and divisions subsisting between the different colonies
of Great Britain. The very same circumstances encouraged the French to
proceed in their project of invasion. At length they penetrated from
the banks of the river St. Lawrence, across lake Champlain, and upon
the territory of New York, built with impunity, and indeed without
opposition, the fort of Crown Point, the most insolent and dangerous
encroachment that they had hitherto carried into execution.


RISE AND CONDUCT OF THE OHIO COMPANY.

Governor Spotswood's scheme for an Ohio company was revived immediately
after the peace of Aix-la-Cha-pelle, when certain merchants of London,
who traded to Maryland and Virginia, petitioned the government on this
subject, and were indulged not only with a grant of a great tract of
ground to the southward of Pennsylvania, which they promised to settle,
but also with an exclusive privilege of trading with the Indians on
the banks of the river Ohio. This design no sooner transpired, than
the French governor of Canada took the alarm, and wrote letters to the
governors of New York and Pennsylvania giving them to understand, that
as the English inland traders had encroached on the French territories
and privileges, by trading with the Indians under the protection of his
sovereign, he would seize them wherever they could be found, if they did
not immediately desist from that illicit practice. No regard being paid
to this intimation, he next year caused three British traders to be
arrested. Their effects were confiscated, and they themselves conveyed
to Quebec, from whence they were sent prisoners to Rochelle in France,
and there detained in confinement. In this situation they presented a
remonstrance to the earl of Albemarle, at that time English ambassador
in Paris, and he claiming them as British subjects, they were set at
liberty. Although, in answer to his lordship's memorial, the court
of Versailles promised to transmit orders to the French governors in
America, to use all their endeavours for preventing any disputes that
might have a tendency to alter the good correspondence established
between the two nations; in all probability the directions given
were seemingly the very reverse of these professions, for the French
commanders, partisans, and agents in America, took every step their
busy genius could suggest, to strengthen their own power, and weaken the
influence of the English, by embroiling them with the Indian nations.
This task they found the more easy, as the natives had taken offence
against the English, when they understood that their lands were given
away without their knowledge, and that there was a design to build forts
in their country without their consent and concurrence. Indeed, the
person whom the new company employed to survey the banks of the Ohio,
concealed his design so carefully, and behaved in other respects in such
a dark mysterious manner, as could not fail to arouse the jealousy of a
people naturally inquisitive, and very much addicted to suspicion. How
the company proposed to settle this acquisition in despite of the
native possessors, it is not easy to conceive, and it is still more
unaccountable that they should have neglected the natives, whose consent
and assistance they might have procured at a very small expense. Instead
of acting such a fair, open, and honourable part, they sent a Mr. Gist
to make a clandestine survey of the country, as far as the falls of the
river Ohio; and, as we have observed above, his conduct alarmed both
the French and Indians. The erection of this company was equally
disagreeable to the separate traders of Virginia and Pennsylvania, who
saw themselves on the eve of being deprived of a valuable branch of
traffic, by the exclusive charter of a monopoly; and therefore they
employed their emissaries to foment the jealousy of the Indians. The
French having in a manner commenced hostilities against the English,
and actually built forts on the territories of the British allies at
Niagara, and on the lake Erie, Mr. Hamilton, governor of Pennsylvania,
communicated this intelligence to the assembly of the province, and
represented the necessity of erecting truck-houses, or places of
strength and security, on the river Ohio, to which the traders might
retire in case of insult or molestation. The proposal was approved, and
money granted for the purpose; but the assembly could not agree about
the manner in which they should be erected; and in the meantime the
French fortified themselves at leisure, and continued to harass the
traders belonging to the British settlements. Repeated complaints of
these encroachments and depredations being represented to Mr. Dinwiddie,
governor of Virginia, he, towards the latter end of this very year, sent
major Washington with a letter to the commanding officer of a fort which
the French had built on the Riviere-au-Beuf, which falls into the Ohio,
not far from the lake Erie. In this letter Mr. Dinwiddie expressed his
surprise that the French should build forts and make settlements on the
river Ohio, in the western part of the colony of Virginia, belonging
to the Crown of Great Britain. He complained of these encroachments, as
well as of the injuries done to the subjects of Great Britain, in open
violation of the law of nations, and of the treaties actually subsisting
between the two crowns. He desired to know by whose authority and
instructions his Britannic majesty's territories had been invaded; and
required him to depart in peace, without further prosecuting a plan
which must interrupt the harmony and good understanding which his
majesty was desirous to continue and cultivate with the most christian
king. To this spirited intimation the officer replied, that it was not
his province to specify the evidence, and demonstrate the right of the
king his master to the lands situated on the river Ohio; but he would
transmit the letter to the marquis du Quesne, and act according to the
answer he should receive from that nobleman. In the meantime, he said
he did not think himself obliged to obey the summons of the English
governor; that he commanded the fort by virtue of an order from his
general, to which he was determined to conform with all the precision
and resolution of a good officer. Mr. Dinwiddie expected no other reply,
and therefore had projected a fort to be erected near the forks of the
river. The province undertook to defray the expense, and the stores for
that purpose were already provided; but by some fatal over sight, the
concurrence of the Indians was neither obtained nor solicited, and
therefore they looked upon this measure with an evil eye, as a manifest
invasion of their property.


PERFIDY OF THE FRENCH.

While the French thus industriously extended their encroachments to the
southward, they were not idle in the gulf of St. Lawrence, but seized
every opportunity of distressing the English settlement of Nova Scotia.
We have already observed, that the town of Halifax was no sooner built,
than they spirited up the Indians of that neighbourhood to commit
hostilities against the inhabitants, some of whom they murdered, and
others they carried prisoners to Louisbourg, where they sold them for
arms and ammunition, the French pretending that they maintained this
traffic from motives of pure compassion, in order to prevent the
massacre of the English captives, whom, however, they did not set at
liberty without exacting an exorbitant ransom. As these skulking parties
of Indians were generally directed and headed by French commanders,
repeated complaints were made to the governor of Louisbourg, who still
answered, that his jurisdiction did not extend over the Indians,
and that their French conductors were chosen from the inhabitants of
Annapolis, who thought proper to remain in that country after it was
ceded to the English, and were in fact the subjects of Great Britain.
Even while the conferences were carried on for ascertaining the limits
of Nova Scotia, the governor of Canada detached M. la Come, with some
regular troops, and a body of militia, to fortify a post on the bay
of Chignecto, on pretence that this and a great part of the peninsula
belonged to his government. The possession of this post not only secured
to the Indians of the continent a free entrance into the peninsula,
and a safe retreat in case of pursuit; but also encouraged the French
inhabitants of Annapolis to rise in open rebellion against the English
government.


MAJOR LAURENCE DEFEATS THE FRENCH NEUTRALS.

In the spring of the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty, general
Cornwallis, governor of Halifax, detached major Laurence with a few men
to reduce them to obedience. At his approach they burned their town
to ashes, forsook their possessions, and threw themselves under the
protection of M. la Corne, who, thus reinforced, found himself at the
head of fifteen hundred men, well provided with arms and ammunition.
Major Laurence being unable to cope with him in the field, demanded
an interview, at which he desired to know for what cause the French
inhabitants of Nova Scotia had shaken off their allegiance to the crown
of Great Britain, and violated the neutrality which they had hitherto
affected to profess. The French officer, without pretending to account
for their behaviour, gave him to understand in general terms, that he
had orders to defend his post, and these orders he was determined to
obey. The English major finding himself too weak to attack their united
force, and having no orders to commit hostilities against any but the
Indians and their open abettors, returned to Halifax, without having
been able to fulfil the purpose of his expedition. Immediately after
his retreat, the French neutrals (so they were called) returned to
their habitations which they had abandoned, and, in conjunction with the
Indians, renewed their depredations upon the inhabitants of Halifax
and its dependent settlements. The English governor, justly incensed
at these outrages, and seeing they would neither submit to the English
government themselves, nor allow others to enjoy it with tranquillity,
resolved to expel them effectually from the country they so ill deserved
to possess. Major Laurence was again detached with a thousand men,
transported by sea to Chignecto, where he found the French and Indians
intrenched in order to dispute his landing. Notwithstanding this
opposition, he made a descent with a few companies, received and
returned a smart fire, and rushing into their intrenchments, obliged
them to fly with the utmost precipitation, leaving a considerable
number killed and wounded on the spot. The fugitives saved themselves
by crossing a river, on the farther bank of which la Corne stood at the
head of his troops, drawn up in order to receive them as friends and
dependents. He had by this time erected a fort, which he denominated
Beau Séjour; and now the English built another on the opposite side of
the river, which was called after its founder St. Laurence. This being
provided with a good garrison, served as a check upon the French, and in
some measure restrained the incursions of these barbarians. Not that it
effectually answered this purpose; for the Indians and Neutrals still
seized every opportunity of attacking the English in the interior parts
of the peninsula. In the course of the succeeding year they surprised
the little town of Dartmouth, on the other side of Halifax-bay, where
they killed and scalped a great number of people, and carried off some
prisoners. For these expeditions the French always supplied them with
boats, canoes, arms, and ammunition; and indeed they were conducted with
such care and secrecy, that it was almost impossible to prevent their
success. One sure remedy against the sudden and stolen incursions of
those savages might have been found in the use of staunch hounds, which
would have run upon the foot, detected the skulking parties of the
Indians, and frustrated all their ambuscades; but this expedient, so
easy and practicable, was never tried, though frequently recommended in
public to the attention of the government, and the consideration of the
colonists. The Indians continued to plunder and massacre the British
subjects with impunity, and were countenanced by the French government
in that country, who now strengthened their lodgement on the neck of
the peninsula with an additional fort, distinguished by the name of
Bayeverte; and built a third at the mouth of St. John's river, on the
north side of the bay of Fundy.


BRITISH AMBASSADOR AT PARIS AMUSED WITH GENERAL PROMISES.

All these previous steps to a rupture with England were taken with great
deliberation, while the commissaries of both nations were disputing
about the limits of the very country which they thus arrogantly usurped;
and they proceeded to perfect their chain of forts to the southward,
without paying the least regard to the expostulations of the English
governors, or to a memorial presented at Versailles by the earl of
Albemarle, the British minister. He demanded that express orders should
be sent to M. de la Jonquire, the commander for the French in America,
to desist from violence against the British subjects in that country;
that the fort of Niagara should be immediately razed; that the subjects
of Great Britain, who had been made prisoners, should be set at liberty,
and indemnified for the losses they had sustained; and that the persons
who had committed these excesses should be punished in an exemplary
manner. True it is, six Englishmen, whom they had unjustly taken, were
immediately dismissed; and the ambassador amused with general promises
of sending such instructions to the French governor in America, as
should anticipate any cause of complaint for the future; but, far from
having any intention to perform these promises, the court of Versailles,
without all doubt, exhorted la Jonquire to proceed in bringing its
ambitious schemes to perfection.


SESSION OPENED.

Every incident in America seemed to prognosticate war, when the session
of parliament was opened on the fifteenth day of November; yet his
majesty, on this occasion, told them that the events of the year had
not made it necessary for him to offer any thing in particular to their
consideration relating to foreign affairs. He even declared that the
continuance of the public tranquillity, and the general state of Europe,
remained upon the same footing as when they last parted; and assured
them of his steadiness in pursuing the most effectual measures to
preserve to his people the blessings of peace. He expressed uncommon
concern that the horrid crimes of robbery and murder were of late rather
increased than diminished, and earnestly recommended this important
object to their serious attention. Affectionate addresses were
presented by both houses in answer to this harangue; and, what was very
remarkable, they were proposed and passed without question or debate.

The commons continued the same number of seamen and land-forces for
the ensuing year, which had been granted in the last session, and made
suitable provision for all the exigences of the state. The whole supply
amounted to two millions seven hundred and ninety-seven thousand nine
hundred and sixteen pounds, ten shillings and twopence, to be raised by
a land-tax of two shillings in the pound, a malt-tax, a continuation of
certain duties on wine, vinegar, cider, and beer imported, a sum taken
from the sinking-fund, and the overplus of certain grants, funds, and
duties. The provisions made considerably exceeded the grants; but this
excess was chargeable with the interest of what should be borrowed upon
the credit in the land or malt-tax, there being a clause of credit in
both, as also with the deficiency (if any should happen) in the sums
they were computed to produce. The house agreed to all these resolutions
almost unanimously; indeed, no opposition was made to any of them, but
that for continuing the same number of land-forces, which was carried by
a great majority.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


REPEAL OF THE ACT FOR NATURALIZING JEWS.

The act for permitting Jews to be naturalized, which had, during the
last session, triumphed over such an obstinate opposition, was by this
time become the object of national horror and execration. Every part of
the kingdom resounded with the reproach of the ministry who had enforced
such an odious measure; and the two brothers, who engrossed the greater
part of the administration, trembled at the prospect of what this
clamour might produce at the general election, this being the last
session of the present parliament. So eager were the ministers to annul
this unpopular measure, that, immediately after the peers had agreed
to the nature and forms of an address to his majesty, the duke of
Newcastle, with that precipitation so peculiar to his character, poured
forth an abrupt harangue in that house, importing, that the disaffected
had made a handle of the act passed last session in favour of the Jews,
to raise discontents among many of his majesty's good subjects; and as
the act was in itself of little importance, he was of opinion it ought
to be repealed; for this purpose he presented a bill ready framed,
which was read and committed, though not without some debate. The
naturalization bill, now devoted as a sacrifice to the resentment of
the people, containing a clause disabling all naturalized Jews from
purchasing, inheriting, or receiving any advowson or presentation, or
right to any ecclesiastical benefice or promotion, school, hospital,
or donative; and by the first draft of the bill, which his grace now
presented, it was intended that this clause should not be repealed. It
was the opinion, however, of the majority, that such a clause standing
unrepealed might imply, that the Jews, by being thus expressly excluded
from the possession of any ecclesiastical right of presentation, would
be considered as having the power and privilege of purchasing and
inheriting any lay-property in the kingdom. On this consideration an
amendment was made in the bill, the clause in question was left out, and
the whole act of naturalization repealed without exception.*

     * The reverend bench of bishops had, with a laudable spirit
     of christian meekness and philanthropy, generally approved
     of the indulgence granted to their Hebrew brethren; and now
     they acquiesced in the proposed repeal with the same passive
     discretion, though one of the number contended for the
     saving clause which the duke of Newcastle had recommended.

Though the lords, in general, concurred in the expediency of the repeal,
it was opposed by some few, as too great a sacrifice to the idle and
unfounded clamours of the multitude; and upon this side of the debate
a great power of elocution was displayed by earl Temple, who had lately
succeeded to this title on the death of his mother, a nobleman of
distinguished abilities, and the most amiable disposition, frank,
liberal, humane, and zealously attached to the interest and honour of
his country. In the lower house, the members of both parties seemed to
vie with each other in demonstrations of aversion to this unpopular act.
On the very first day of the session, immediately after the motion for
an address to his majesty, sir James Dash-wood, an eminent leader in the
opposition, gave the commons to understand, that he had a motion of very
great importance to make, which would require the attention of every
member, as soon as the motion for the address should be discussed; he
therefore desired they would not quit the house, until he should have
an opportunity to explain his proposal. Accordingly, they had no sooner
agreed to the motion for an address of thanks to his majesty, than
he stood up again, and having expatiated upon the just and general
indignation which the act of the preceding session, in favour of the
Jews, had raised among the people, he moved to order that the house
should be called over on Tuesday the fourth day of December, for taking
that act into consideration; but being given to understand, that it was
not usual to appoint a call of the house for any particular purpose,
he agreed that the motion should be general. It was seconded by lord
Parker, his opposite in political interests; the house agreed to it
without opposition, and the call was ordered accordingly. They were
anticipated, however', by the lords, who framed and transmitted to them
a bill on the same subject, to the purport of which the commons made
an objection; for every member, having the fear of the general election
before his eyes, carefully avoided every expression which could give
umbrage to his constituents; but violent opposition was made to the
preamble, which ran in the following strain:--"Whereas an act of
parliament was made and passed in the twenty-fifth year of his majesty's
reign, intituled, An act to permit persons professing the Jewish
religion, to be naturalized by parliament, and for other purposes
therein mentioned; and whereas occasion has been taken, from the said
act, to raise discontents and disquiets in the minds of his majesty's
subjects, be it enacted, &c." This introduction was considered as
an unjust reflection upon the body of the people in general, and in
particular upon those who had opposed the bill in the course of the
preceding session. Sir Roger Newdigate therefore moved, that the
expression should be varied to this effect: "Whereas great discontents
and disquietudes had from the said act arisen." The consequence of this
motion was an obstinate debate, in which it was supported by the earl of
Egmont, and divers other able orators; but Mr. Pel ham and Mr. Pitt were
numbered among its opponents. The question being put for the proposed
alteration, it was of course carried in the negative; the bill, after
the third reading, passed _nemine contradicente_, and in due time
obtained the royal assent.


MOTION FOE REPEALING A FORMER ACT FAVOURABLE TO THE JEWS.

Even this concession of the ministry did not allay the resentment of the
people, and their apprehension of encroachment from the Jews. Another
act still subsisted, by virtue of which any person professing the Jewish
religion might become a free denizen of Great Britain, after having
resided seven years in any of his majesty's colonies in America; and
this was now considered as a law, having the same dangerous tendency, of
which the other was now in a fair way of being convicted. It was moved,
therefore, in the lower house, that a part of this former act might be
read; then the same member made a motion for an address to his majesty,
desiring that the house might have the perusal of the lists transmitted
from the American colonies to the commissioners for trade and
plantations, containing the names of all such persons professing the
Jewish religion, as had entitled themselves to the benefit of the said
act, since the year one thousand seven hundred and forty. These lists
were accordingly presented, and left upon the table for the perusal
of the members; but as this act contained no limitation of time within
which the benefit of it should be claimed, and as this claim was
attended with a good deal of trouble and some expense, very few persons
had availed themselves of it in that period. Nevertheless, as a great
number of Jews were already entitled to claim this indulgence, and as
it remained an open channel through which Great Britain might be deluged
with those people, all of whom the law would hold as natural-born
subjects, and their progeny as freed from all tha restriction contained
in the act with respect to naturalized foreigners, lord Harley moved for
leave to bring in a bill to repeal so much of the said act as related to
persons professing the Jewish religion, who should come to settle in
any British colony after a certain time. The motion was seconded by sir
James Dashwood, and supported by the earl of Egmont; but being found
unequal to the interest and elocution of Mr. Pelham and Mr. Pitt, was
rejected by the majority.

{1754}


EAST-INDIA MUTINY BILL.

The next object that claimed the attention of the commons, was a bill
for improving the regulations already made to prevent the spreading of
a contagious distemper, which raged among the horned cattle in different
parts of the kingdom. The last bill of this session that had the good
fortune to succeed, was brought in for punishing mutiny and desertion of
officers and soldiers in the service of the East India company, and for
the punishment of offences committed in the East Indies and the island
of St. Helena. This being a measure of a very extraordinary nature, all
the members were ordered to attend the house on the day fixed for
the second reading; at the same time all charters, commissions, and
authorities, by which any power relative to a military jurisdiction, or
the exercise of martial law, had been granted or derived from the crown
to the said company, were submitted to the perusal of the members. The
bill was by many considered as a dangerous extension of military power,
to the prejudice of the civil rights enjoyed by British subjects, and
as such violently contested by the earl of Egmont, lord Strange, and
Mr. Alderman Beckford. Their objections were answered by the
solicitor-general and Mr. Yorke. The bill, after some warm debates,
being espoused by the ministry, was enacted into a law, and despatched
to the East Indies by the first opportunity.

Some other motions were made, and petitions presented on different
subjects, which, as they miscarried, it will be unnecessary to
particularize. It may not be amiss, however, to record an exemplary act
of justice done by the commons on a person belonging to a public
office, whom they detected in the practice of fraud and imposition.
Notwithstanding the particular care taken in the last session, to
prevent the monopolizing of tickets in the state lottery, all
those precautions had been eluded in a scandalous manner by certain
individuals, intrusted with the charge of delivering the tickets to
the contributors, according to the intent of the act, which expressly
declared that not more than twenty should be sold to any one person.
Instead of conforming to these directions of the legislature, they and
their friends engrossed great numbers, sheltering themselves under a
false list of feigned names for the purpose; by which means they not
only defeated the equitable intention of the commons, but in some
measure injured the public credit; inasmuch as their avarice had
prompted them to subscribe for a greater number than they had cash to
purchase, so that there was a deficiency in the first payment, which
might have had a bad effect on the public affairs. These practices were
so flagrant and notorious as to attract the notice of the lower house,
where an inquiry was begun, and prosecuted with a spirit of real
patriotism, in opposition to a scandalous cabal, who endeavoured with
equal eagerness and perseverance to screen the delinquents. All their
efforts however proved abortive; and a committee, appointed to examine
particulars, agreed to several severe resolutions against one Le ----,
who had amassed a large fortune by this and other kinds of peculation.
They voted him guilty of a breach of trust, and a direct violation of
the lottery act; and an address was presented to his majesty, desiring
he might be prosecuted by the attorney-general for these offences. He
was accordingly sued in the court of king's bench, and paid a fine of
one thousand pounds, for having committed frauds by which he had
gained forty times that sum; but he was treated with such gentleness as
remarkably denoted the clemency of that tribunal.


SESSION CLOSED.

The session ended in the beginning of April, when the king gave the
parliament to understand, that he should say nothing at present on
foreign affairs; but assured them of his fixed resolution to exert his
whole power in maintaining the general tranquillity, and adhering to
such measures for that purpose as he had hitherto pursued in conjunction
with his allies. He, in very affectionate terms, thanked both houses
for the repeated proofs they had given of their zealous attachment
and loyalty to his person and government. He enumerated the salutary
measures they had taken for lessening the national debt, and augmenting
the public credit, extending navigation and commerce, reforming the
morals of the people, and improving the regulations of civil economy. He
concluded with declaring, that he securely relied upon the loyalty and
good affection of his people, and had no other aim than their permanent
happiness. In a little time after the close of this session they were
dissolved by proclamation, and new writs issued by the lord-chancellor
for convoking a new parliament. The same ceremonies were practised
with respect to the convocations of Canterbury and York, though they no
longer retained their former importance; nor indeed were they suffered
to sit and deliberate upon the subjects which formerly fell under their
cognizance and discussion.


DEATH OF MR. PELHAM. CHANGE IN THE MINISTRY.

In the beginning of March, the ministry of Great Britain had been left
without a head by the death of Mr. Pelham, which was not only sincerely
lamented by his sovereign, but also regretted by the nation in general,
to whose affection he had powerfully recommended himself by the candour
and humanity of his conduct and character, even while he pursued
measures which they did not entirely approve. The loss of such a
minister was the more deeply felt by the government at this juncture,
being the eve of a general election for a new parliament, when every
administration is supposed to exert itself with redoubled vigilance and
circumspection. He had already concerted the measures for securing
a majority, and his plan was faithfully executed by his friends and
adherents, who still engrossed the administration. His brother, the duke
of Newcastle, was appointed first lord commissioner of the treasury,
and succeeded as secretary of state by sir Thomas Robinson, who had long
resided as ambassador at the court of Vienna. The other department
of this office was still retained by the earl of Holdernesse, and the
function of chancellor of the exchequer was performed as usual by the
lord chief-justice of the king's bench, until a proper person could be
found to fill that important office; but in the course of the summer it
was bestowed upon Mr. Legge, who acquitted himself with equal honour and
capacity. Divers other alterations were made of less importance to the
public, sir George Lyttelton was appointed cofferer, and the earl of
Hillsborough comptroller of the household. Mr. George Grenville, brother
to earl Temple, became treasurer of the navy; and Mr. Charles Townshend,
of whom we shall have occasion to speak in the sequel, took his place
as a commissioner at the board of admiralty, in the room of lord
Barrington, made master of the wardrobe. Lord Hardwicke, the chancellor,
was promoted to the dignity of an earl. The place of lord chief-justice
of the king's-bench becoming vacant by the death of sir William Lee, was
filled with sir Dudley Ryder, and he was succeeded by Mr. Murray in the
office of attorney-general.


NEW PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED AND PROROGUED.

The elections for the new parliament generally succeeded according to
the wish of the ministry; for opposition was now dwindled down to the
lowest state of imbecility. It had received a mortal wound by the death
of the late prince of Wales, whose adherents were too wise to pursue an
_ignis fatuus_, without any prospect of success or advantage. Some
of them had prudently sung their palinodia to the ministry, and been
gratified with profitable employments; while others, setting too great
a price upon their own importance, kept aloof till the market was over,
and were left to pine in secret over their disappointed ambition.
The maxims of tory-ism had been relinquished by many, as the barren
principles of a losing game; the body of the people were conciliated
to the established government; and the harmony that now, for the first
time, subsisted among all the branches of the royal family, had a
wonderful effect in acquiring a degree of popularity which they had
never before enjoyed. The writs being returned, the new parliament was
opened on the last day of May by the duke of Cumberland, and some other
peers, who acted by virtue of a commission from his majesty. The commons
having chosen for their speaker the right hon. Arthur Onslow, who had
honourably filled that high office in four preceding parliaments, he
was presented and approved by the commissioners. Then the lord
high-chancellor harangued both houses, giving them to understand, that
his majesty had indulged them with this early opportunity of
coming together, in order to complete without loss of time certain
parliamentary proceedings, which he judged would be for the satisfaction
of his good subjects; but he did not think proper to lay before them any
points of general business, reserving every thing of that nature to the
usual time of their assembling in the winter. On the fifth day of June
this short session was closed, and the parliament prorogued by the
lords-commissioners.


DISPUTES IN THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

In the beginning of this year violent disputes arose between the
government and the house of commons in Ireland, on the almost forgotten
subjects of privilege and prerogative. The commons conceived they had an
undoubted right to apply the surplus of their revenue towards national
purposes, without the consent of their sovereign; and accordingly, in
the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-nine, prepared a bill
with this preamble, "Whereas, on the twenty-fifth day of March last,
a considerable balance remained in the hands of the vice-treasurer
or receivers-general of the kingdom, or their deputy or deputies,
unapplied; and it will be for your majesty's service, and for the ease
of your faithful subjects in this kingdom, that so much thereof as can
be conveniently spared should be paid, agreeably to your majesty's most
gracious intentions, in discharge of part of the national debt." This
appropriation gave great offence to the advocates for prerogatives in
England, who affirmed that the commons had no right to apply any part
of the unappropriated revenue, nor even to take any such affair into
consideration, without the previous consent of the crown, expressed in
the most explicit terms. It was in consequence of this doctrine, that
the duke of Dorset, lord-lieutenant of Ireland, told them in the next
session of parliament, held in the year one thousand seven hundred
and fifty-one, he was commanded by the king to aquaint them, that his
majesty, ever attentive to the ease and happiness of his subjects, would
graciously consent and recommend it to them, that such a part of the
money then remaining in the treasury, as should be thought consistent
with the public service, be applied towards the further reduction of
the national debt. This declaration alarmed the commons, zealous as they
were for the preservation of their privileges; and in their address of
thanks, which, like that of the parliament of Great Britain, used
always to echo back the words of the speech, they made no mention of his
majesty's consent; but only acknowledged his gracious attention to
their ease and happiness, in recommending to them the application of
the surplus. They accordingly resolved to apply one hundred and twenty
thousand pounds of that overplus towards the discharge of the national
debt; and, in the preamble of the bill, framed for this purpose, made
no mention of his majesty's consent, though before they had acknowledged
his goodness in recommending this application. The ministry in England
were highly offended at this purposed omission, which they construed
into a wilful encroachment on the prerogative; and the bill was sent
back with an alteration in the preamble, signifying his majesty's
consent as well as recommendation. The Irish house of commons being
at that time deeply engaged in a minute inquiry into the conduct of
a gentleman, a servant of the crown, and a member of their own house,
accused of having misapplied a large sum of money, with which he had
been intrusted for rebuilding or repairing the barracks, were now
unwilling to embroil themselves farther with the government, until this
affair should be discussed. They therefore passed the bill with the
alteration, and proceeded with their inquiry. The person was convicted
of having misapplied the public money, and ordered to make the barracks
fit for the reception and accommodation of the troops at his own
expense. They did not, however, neglect to assert what they thought
their rights and privileges, when the next opportunity occurred. The
duke of Dor-get, when he opened the session of this year, repeated the
expression of his majesty's gracious consent, in mentioning the surplus
of the public money. They again omitted that word in their address; and
resolved, in their bill of application, not only to sink this odious
term, but likewise to abate in their complaisance to the crown, by
leaving out that expression of grateful acknowledgment, which had met
with such a cold reception above. By this time the contest had kindled
up two violent factions, and diffused a general spirit of resentment
through the whole Irish nation. The committee who prepared the bill,
instead of inserting the usual compliments in the preamble, mentioned
nothing but a recital of facts, and sent it over in a very plain dress,
quite destitute of all embroidery. The ministry, intent upon vindicating
the prerogative from such an unmannerly attack, filled up the omissions
of the committee, and sent it back with this alteration: "And your
majesty, ever attentive to the ease and happiness of your faithful
subjects, has been graciously pleased to signify that you would consent,
and to recommend it to us, that so much of the money remaining in your
majesty's treasury as should be necessary to be applied to the discharge
of the national debt, or such part thereof as should be thought
expedient by parliament." This then being the crisis which was to
determine a constitutional point of such importance, namely, whether the
people in parliament assembled have a right to deliberate upon, and vote
the application of any part of the unappropriated revenue, without
the previous consent of the crown; those who were the most zealously
attached to the liberties of their country, resolved to exert themselves
in opposing what they conceived to be a violation of those liberties;
and the bill, with its alterations, was rejected by a majority of five
voices. The success of their endeavours was celebrated with the most
extravagant rejoicing, as a triumph of patriotism over the arts of
ministerial corruption; and, on the other hand, all the servants of the
crown, who had joined the popular cry on this occasion, were in a little
time dismissed from their employments. The rejection of the bill was a
great disappointment to the creditors of the public, and the circulation
of cash was almost stagnated. These calamities were imputed to arbitrary
designs in the government; and the people began to be inflamed with
an enthusiastic spirit of independency, which might have produced
mischievous effects, had not artful steps been taken to bring over
the demagogues, and thus divert the stream of popular clamour from the
ministry to those very individuals who had been the idols of popular
veneration. The speaker of the house of commons was promoted to
the dignity of an earl; and some other patriots were gratified with
lucrative employments. His majesty's letter arrived for paying off
seventy-five thousand five hundred pounds of the national debt. The
circulation was thus animated, and the resentment of the populace
subsiding, the kingdom retrieved its former tranquillity.


TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

The ambition and intrigues of the French court, by which the British
interest was invaded and disturbed on the continent of America, had also
extended itself to the East Indies, where they endeavoured to embroil
the English company with divers nabobs or princes, who governed
different parts of the peninsula intra Gangem. That the reader may have
a clear and distinct idea of these transactions, we shall exhibit
a short sketch of the English forts and settlements in that remote
country. The first of these we shall mention is Surat, [348] _[See
note 2U, at the end of this Vol.]_ in the province so called, situated
between the twenty-first and twenty-second degrees of north latitude;
from hence the peninsula stretches into the Indian ocean as far as the
latitude of eight north, ending in a point at Cape Comorin, which is the
southern extremity. To the northward this peninsula joins to Indostan,
and at its greatest breadth extends seven hundred miles. Upon the west,
east, and south, it is washed by the sea. It comprehends the kingdoms
of Malabar, Decan, Golconda, and Bisnagar, with the principalities of
Gingi, Tanjaour, and Madura. The western side is distinguished by
the name of the Malabar coast: the eastern takes the denomination of
Coromandel; and in different parts of this long sweep, from Surat round
Cape Comorin to the bottom of the bay of Bengal, the English and other
European powers have, with the consent of the mogul, established forts
and trading settlements. All these kingdoms, properly speaking, belong
to the mogul; but his power was so weakened by the last invasion of
Kouli Khan, that he has not been able to assert his empire over this
remote country; the tributary princes of which, and even the nabobs, who
were originally governors appointed under their authority, have rendered
themselves independent, and exert an absolute dominion over their
respective territories, without acknowledging his superiority either by
tribute or homage. These princes, when they quarrel among themselves,
naturally have recourse to the assistance of such European powers as
are settled in or near their dominions; and in the same manner the East
Indian companies of the European powers which happen to be at war with
each other, never fail to interest the nabobs in the dispute.

[Illustration: 349.jpg BOMBAY]


ACCOUNT OF THE ENGLISH SETTLEMENTS.

The next English settlement to Surat, on the coast of the peninsula, is
Bombay, in the kingdom of Decan, a small island, with a very convenient
harbour, above five-and-forty leagues to the south of Surat. The town
is very populous; but the soil is barren, and the climate unhealthy; and
the commerce was rendered very precarious by the neighbourhood of
the famous corsair Angria, until his port of Geria was taken, and his
fortifications demolished. The English company likewise carry on some
traffic at Dabul, about forty leagues further to the south, in the
province of Cuncan. In the same southerly progression, towards the
point of the peninsula, we arrive at Carwar, in the latitude of fifteen
degrees, where there is a small fort and factory belonging to the
company, standing on the south side of a bay, with a river capable of
receiving ships of pretty large burden. The climate here is remarkably
salubrious; the country abounds with provisions of all sorts, and the
best pepper of India grows in this neighbourhood. The next English
settlement we find at Tilli-cherry, where the company has erected
a fort, to defend their commerce of pepper and cardamomoms from the
insults of the rajah, who governs this part of Malabar. Hither the
English trade was removed from Calicut, a large town that stands fifteen
leagues to the southward of Tillicherry, and was as well frequented
as any port on the coast of the Indian peninsula. The most southerly
settlement which the English possess on the Malabar coast, is that
of Anjengo, between the eighth and ninth degrees of latitude. It is
defended by a regular fort, situated on a broad river, which falls into
the sea, and would be very commodious for trade, were not the water on
the bar too shallow to admit ships of considerable burden. Then turning
the Cape, and passing through the strait of Chilao, formed by the island
of Ceylon, we arrive on the coast of Côromandel, which forms the eastern
side of the isthmus. Prosecuting our course in a northern direction,
the first English factory we reach is that of Fort St. David's, formerly
called Tegapatan, situated in the latitude of eleven degrees forty
minutes north, within the kingdom of Gingi. It was, about six and-twenty
years ago, sold by a Mahratta prince to the East India company,
and, next to Bombay, is the most considerable settlement we have yet
mentioned.*

     * The trade consists of long cloths of different colours,
     sallampores, morees, dimities, ginghams, and succations.

Its territory extends about eight miles along the coast, and half that
space up to the country, which is delightfully watered by a variety
of rivers; the soil is fertile, and the climate healthy. The fort is
regular, well provided with cannon, ammunition, and a numerous garrison,
which is the more necessary, on account of the neighbourhood of the
French settlement at Pon-dicherry. But the chief settlement belonging
to the company on this coast is that of Madras, or Fort St. George,
standing farther to the northward, between the thirteenth and fourteenth
degrees of latitude, and not a great way from the diamond mines of
Golconda. It is seated on a flat, barren, scorching sand, so near the
sea, that in bad weather the walls are endangered by the mighty surges
rolled in from the ocean. As the soil is barren, the climate is so
intensely hot that it would be altogether uninhabitable, were not the
heat mitigated by the sea breezes. On the land side it is defended by
a salt water river, which, while it contributes to the security of the
place, robs the inhabitants of one great comfort, by obstructing
the springs of fresh water. The fort is a regular square, the town
surrounded with walls well mounted with artillery, and the place,
including the Black Town, is very populous. Madras, with several
villages in the neighbourhood, was purchased of the king of Golconda,
before the mogul became sovereign of this country. The governor of this
place is not only president of Fort St. George, but also of all the
other settlements on the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel, as far as the
island of Sumatra. He lives in great pomp, having inferior judges, who
pass sentence of death occasionally on malefactors of any nation, except
the subjects of Great Britain. All the company's affairs are directed
by him and his council, who are invested with the power of inflicting
corporal punishment, short of life and member, upon such Europeans as
are in the service, and dispose of all places of trust and profit. By
virtue of an act passed in the course of this very session, the military
officers belonging to the company were permitted to hold courts-martial,
and punish their soldiers according to the degree of their delinquency.
In a word, Madras is of the utmost importance to the company for
its strength, wealth, and the great returns it makes in calicoes and
muslins. Towards the latter end of the last century, the English company
had a flourishing factory at Masulipatam, standing on the north side
of the river Nagundi, which separates the provinces of Golconda and
Bisnagar, in the latitude of sixteen degrees and thirty minutes; but now
there is no European settlement here, except a Dutch factory, maintained
for carrying on the chintz commerce. At Visgapatam, situated still
farther to the northward, the English possess a factory regularly
fortified on the side of the river, which, however, a dangerous bar
has rendered unfit for navigation. The adjacent country affords cotton
cloths, and the best stripped muslins of India. It is chiefly for the
use of this settlement that the company maintains a factory at Ganjam,
the most eastern town in the province or kingdom of Golconda, situated
in a country abounding with rice and sugar-canes. Still farther to
the north coast, in the latitude of twenty-two degrees, the company
maintains a factory at Balasore, which was formerly very considerable;
but hath been of very little consequence since the navigation of the
river Huguely Avas improved. At this place every European ship bound for
Bengal and the Ganges takes in a pilot. The climate is not counted very
salubrious; but the adjacent country is fruitful to admiration, and here
are considerable manufacture of cotton and silk. Without skilful pilots,
the English would find it very difficult to navigate the different
channels through which the river Ganges discharges itself into the sea
at the bottom of the bay of Bengal. On the southern branch is a town
called Pepely, where there was formerly an English factory, but this was
removed to Huguely, one hundred and sixty miles farther up the river;
a place which, together with the company's settlement at Calcutta, were
the emporiums of their commerce for the whole kingdom of Bengal. Indeed
Huguely is now abandoned by the English, and their whole trade
centers at Calcutta or Fort William, which is a regular fortification,
containing lodgings for the factors and writers, store-houses for the
company's merchandise, and magazines for their ammunition. As for the
governor's house, which likewise stands within the fort, it is one of
the most regular structures in all India. Besides these settlements
along the sea-coast of the peninsula, and on the banks of the Ganges,
the English East India company possess certain inland fac tories
and posts for the convenience and defence of their commerce, either
purchased of the nabobs and rajahs, or conquered in the course of the
war. As the operations we propose to record were confined to the coasts
of Malabar and Coromandel, or the interior countries which form the
peninsula intra Gangem, it will be unnecessary to describe the factory
at Bencoolen, on the island of Sumatra, or any settlement which the
English possess in other parts of the East Indies.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


DISPUTE ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT OF ARCOT.

In order to understand the military transactions of the English company
in India, the reader will take notice, that immediately after the peace
of Aix-la-Chapelle, mons. Dupleix, who commanded for the French in that
country, began by his intrigues to sow the seeds of dissension among
the nabobs, that he might be the better able to fish in troubled waters.
Nizam Almuluck, the mogul's viceroy of Decan, having the right of
nominating a governor of the Carnatic, now more generally known by the
name of the nabob of Arcot, appointed Anaverdy Khan to that office, in
the year one thousand seven hundred and forty-five. The viceroy dying,
was succeeded in his viceroyalty, or subaship, by his second son
Nazirzing, whom the mogul confirmed. He was opposed in his pretensions
by his own cousin Muzapherzing, who had recourse to the assistance
of M. Dupleix, and obtained from him a reinforcement of Europeans and
artillery, in consideration of many presents and promises, which he
fulfilled in the sequel. Thus reinforced, and joined by one Chunda Saib,
an active Indian chief, he took the field against his kinsman Nazirzing,
who was supported by a body of English troops under colonel Laurence.
The French, dreading an engagement, retired in the night; and
Muzapherzing, seeing himself abandoned by all his own troops, appealed
to the clemency of his cousin, who spared his life, but detained him as
a state prisoner. In this situation, he formed a conspiracy against
his kinsman's life, with Nazirzing's prime minister, and the nabobs
of Cadupab and Condaneor, then in his camp; and the conspirators were
encouraged in their scheme by Dupleix and Chunda Saib, who had retired
to Pondicherry. Thus stimulated, they murdered Nazirzing in his camp,
and proclaimed Muzapherzing viceroy of Decan. In the tents of the
murdered viceroy they found an immense treasure, of which a great
share fell to M. Dupleix, whom Muzapherzing the usurper at this time
associated in the government. By virtue of this association, the
Frenchman assumed the state and formalities of an eastern prince; and
he and his colleague Muzapherzing appointed Chunda Saib nabob of Arcot;
Anaverdy Khan, the late nabob, had been, in the year one thousand seven
hundred and forty-nine, defeated and slain by Muzapherzing and Chunda
Saib, with the assistance of their French auxiliaries; and his son
Mahommed Ali Khan had put himself under the protection of the English
at Madras, and was confirmed by Nazirzing, as his father's successor in
the nabobship, or government of Arcot. This government, therefore,
was disputed between Mahommed Ali Khan, appointed by the legal viceroy
Nazirzing, supported by the English company, and Chunda Saib, nominated
by the usurper Muzapherzing, and protected by Dupleix, who commanded at
Pondicherry. Muzapherzing did not long survive his usurpation. In the
year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-one, the same nabobs who had
promoted him to his kinsman's place, thinking themselves ill rewarded
for their services, fell upon him suddenly, routed his troops, and
put him to death: and next day the chiefs of the army proclaimed
Sallabatzing, brother to Nazirzing, viceroy of Decan; on the other
hand, the mogul appointed Gauzedy Khan, who was the elder brother
of Sallabatzing; and this prince confirmed Mahommed Ali Khan in the
government of Arcot; but the affairs of the mogul's court were then
in such confusion, that he could not spare an army to support the
nomination he had made. Chunda Saib, nabob of Arcot, having been deposed
by the great mogul, who placed Anaverdy Khan in his room, ha resolved to
recover his government by force, and had recourse to the French general
at Pondicherry, who reinforced him with two thousand sepoys, or soldiers
of the country, sixty caffrees, and four hundred and twenty French
troops, on condition that, if he proved successful in his enterprise,
he should cede to the French the town of Velur, in the neighbourhood of
Pondicherry, with its dependencies, consisting of forty-five villages.
Thus reinforced, he defeated his rival Anaverdy Khan, who lost his life
in the engagement, reassumed the government of Arcot, and punctually
performed the conditions which had been stipulated by his French allies.


MAHOMMED ALI KHAN SUPPORTED BY THE ENGLISH.

Mahommed Ali Khan, at the death of his father, had fled to
Tiruchirapalli,* and solicited the assistance of the English, who
favoured him with a reinforcement of money, men, and ammunition, under
the conduct of major Laurence, a brave and experienced officer.

     * Tiruchirapalli, commonly called Triehinoply, situated near
     tha river Cauveri, above two hundred miles to the southward
     of Madras, is the capital of a small kingdom belonging to
     the government of Arcot, and hounded on the east by the
     kingdom of Tanjore.

By dint of this supply, he gained some advantages over the enemy,
who were obliged to retreat; but no decisive blow was given. Mahommed
afterwards repaired in person to fort St. David's, to demand more
powerful succours, alleging that his fate was connected with the
interest of the English company, which in time would be obliged to
abandon the whole coast, should they allow the enemy to proceed in their
conquests. In consequence of these representations, he received another
strong reinforcement, under the command of captain Cope; but nothing
of importance was attempted, and the English auxiliaries retired. Then
Mahommed was attacked by the enemy, who obtained a complete victory over
him. Finding it impossible to maintain his footing by his own strength,
he entered into a close alliance with the English, and ceded to them
some commercial points which had been long in dispute. Then they
detached captain Cope to put Tiruchirapalli in a posture of defence;
while captain de Gingins, a Swiss officer, marched at the head of four
hundred Europeans to the nabob's assistance. The two armies being pretty
equal in strength, lay encamped in sight of each other a whole month;
during which nothing happened but a few skirmishes, which generally
terminated to the advantage of the English auxiliaries. In order to make
a diversion, and divide the French forces, the company resolved to send
a detachment into the province of Arcot; and this was one of the
first occasions upon which the extraordinary talents of Mr. Clive were
displayed. He had entered into the service of the East India company as
a writer, and Avas considered as a person very indifferently qualified
for succeeding in any civil station of life. He now offered his service
in a military capacity, and actually began his march to Arcot, at the
head of two hundred and ten Europeans, with five hundred sepoys.*

     * The sepoys are the mercenaries of the country, who are
     hired as soldiers occasionally by all parties.


MR. CLIVE TAKES ARCOT.

Such was the resolution, secrecy, and despatch, with which he conducted
this enterprise, that the enemy knew nothing of his motions until he
was in possession of the capital, which he took without opposition. The
inhabitants, expecting to be plundered, offered him a large sum to spare
their city; but they derived their security from the generosity and
discretion of the conqueror. He refused the proffered ransom, and issued
a proclamation, intimating, that those who were willing to remain in
their houses should be protected from insult and injury, and the rest
have leave to retire with all their effects, except provisions, for
which he promised to pay the full value. By this sage conduct he
conciliated the affection of the people so entirely, that even those who
quitted the place supplied him with exact intelligence of the enemy's
designs, when he was besieged in the sequel. The town was in a little
time invested by Rajah Saib, son of Chunda Saib, at the head of a
numerous army, and the operations of the siege were conducted by
European engineers. Though their approaches were retarded by the
repeated and resolute sallies of Mr. Clive, they at length effected
two breaches supposed to be practicable; and on the fourteenth day of
October, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-one, gave a
general assault. Mr. Clive, having received intimation of their design,
had made such preparations for their reception, that they were repulsed
in every quarter with great loss, and obliged to raise the siege with
the utmost precipitation.

This gallant Englishman, not contented with the reputation he had
acquired from his noble defence, was no sooner reinforced by a
detachment under captain Kirkpatrick from Trichinopoly, than he marched
in pursuit of the enemy, whom he overtook in the plains of Arani.
There, on the third day of December, he attacked them with irresistible
impetuosity; and, after an obstinate dispute, obtained a complete
victory at a very small expense. The forts of Timery, Caujeveram, and
Arani, surrendered to the terror of his name, rather than to the force
of his arms; and he returned to Fort St. David's in triumph. He had
enjoyed a very few weeks of repose, when he was summoned to the field by
fresh incursions of the enemy. In the beginning of the year one thousand
seven hundred and fifty-two, he marched with a small detachment to
Madras, where he was joined by a reinforcement from Bengal, the whole
number not exceeding three hundred Europeans, and assembled a body of
the natives, that he might have at least the appearance of an army. With
these he proceeded to Koveripauk, about fifteen miles from Ar-cot, where
he found the French and Indians, consisting of fifteen hundred sepoys,
seventeen hundred horse, a body of natives, and one hundred and fifty
Europeans, with eight pieces of cannon. Though they were advantageously
posted and intrenched, and the day was already far advanced, Mr. Clive
advanced against them with his usual intrepidity; but the victory
remained for some time in suspense. It was now dark, and the battle
doubtful, when Mr. Clive sent round a detachment to fall in the rear
of the French battery. This attack was executed with great resolution,
while the English in front entered the entrenchments with their bayonets
fixed; and, though very little tinctured with discipline, displayed the
spirit and activity of hardy veterans. This double attack disconcerted
the enemy in such a manner, that they soon desisted from all opposition.
A considerable carnage ensued; yet the greater part of the enemy, both
horse and foot, saved themselves by flight, under cover of the darkness.
The French, to a man, threw down their arms, and surrendered themselves
prisoners of war; and all the cannon and baggage fell into the hands of
the victor.


MR. CLIVE REDUCES THREE FORTS, &c.

The province of Arcot being thus cleared of the enemy, Mr. Clive with
his forces returned to Fort St. David's, where he found major Laurence
just arrived from England,* to take upon him the command of the troops
in the company's service.

     * Major Laurence had sailed for England in the year 1750.

On the eighteenth day of March, this officer, accompanied by Mr. Clive,
took the field, and was joined by captain de Gingins at Tiruchirapalli.
From hence he detached Mr. Clive with four hundred European soldiers, a
few Mahratta horse, and a body of sepoys, to cut off the enemy's retreat
to Pondicherry. In the course of this expedition he dislodged a strong
body of the foe posted at Samiaveram, and obliged Chunda Saib to throw a
body of troops into a strong fortified temple, or pagoda, upon the river
Koleroon, which was immediately invested. The commanding officer,
in attempting to escape, was slain with some others, and the rest
surrendered at discretion. They were still in possession of another
fortified temple, which he also besieged in form, and reduced by
capitulation. Having subdued these forts, he marched directly to
Volconda, whither he understood the French commander d'Anteuil had
retired. He found that officer intrenched in a village, from whence
he drove him with precipitation, and made himself master of the French
cannon. The enemy attempted to save themselves in a neighbouring
fort; but the gates being shut against them by the governor, who was
apprehensive that they would be followed pell-mell by the English, Mr.
Clive attacked them with great fury, and made a considerable slaughter;
but his humanity being shocked at this carnage, he sent a flag of
truce to the vanquished, with terms of capitulation, which they readily
embraced. These articles imported, that D'Anteuil, and three other
officers, should remain prisoners on parole for one year; that the
garrison should be exchanged, and the money and stores be delivered to
the nabob whom the English supported.


CHUNDA SAIB TAKEN AND PUT TO DEATH.

During these transactions, Chunda Saib lay encamped with an army of
thirty thousand men at Syrinham, an island in the neighbourhood of
Tiruchirapalli, which he longed eagerly to possess. Hither major
Laurence marched with his Indian allies,* and took his measures so well,
that the enemy's provisions were entirely intercepted.

     * His army consisted of twelve hundred Europeans and
     Topasses in battalions, two thousand sepoys, with the forces
     of the nabob, the kings of Tanjore, Muissack, and the
     Mahrattas; amounting to fifteen hundred horse and ten
     thousand infantry. Topasses are descendants from the
     Portuguese. The Mahrattas are native Indians of a very
     numerous and powerful nation, which hath more than once
     given law to the mogul.

Chunda Saib, in attempting to fly, was taken prisoner by the nabob of
Tanjore, an ally of the English company, who ordered his head to be
struck off, in order to prevent the disputes which otherwise would have
arisen among the captors. *

     * Chunda Saib demanded leave of the Tanjore general to pass
     through his camp to Tanjore, and this request was granted;
     but instead of being allowed to pass, he was detained
     prisoner, and as the allies could not agree about the manner
     in which he should be disposed of, some of the Tanjore
     officers, of their own accord, ended the dispute by cutting
     off his head.

The main body of the army being attacked by major Laurence, and totally
defeated, the island of Syrinham was surrendered, and about a thousand
European French soldiers, under the command of Mr. Law, nephew to the
famous Law who schemed the Mississippi company, fell into the hands of
the conquerors, including thirty officers, with forty pieces of cannon,
and ten mortars. M. Dupleix, though exceedingly mortified by this
disaster, resolved to maintain the cause which he had espoused. He
proclaimed Rajah Saib, the son of Chunda Saib, nabob of Arcot; and
afterwards pretended that he himself had received from the mogul sanids
or commissions, appointing him governor of all the Carnatic, from the
river Kristnah to the sea; but these sanids appeared in the sequel to be
forged. In order to complete the comedy, a supposed messenger from
Delhi was received at Pondicherry as ambassador from the mogul. Dupleix,
mounted on an elephant, preceded by music and dancing women, in the
oriental manner, received in public his commission from the hands of the
pretended ambassador. He affected the eastern state, kept his Durbar or
court, where he appeared sitting cross-legged on a sofa, and received
presents as prince of the country from his own council, as well as from
the natives. In the meantime, hostilities continued between the forces
of the two companies, as auxiliaries to the contending nabobs. The
English, under major Kinnier, made an unsuccessful attempt upon Gingee,
a strong town situated to the west of Pondicherry. Major Laurence
defeated a strong body of French and natives, commanded by Dupleix's
nephew, M. de Kerjean, in the neighbourhood of Pondicherry, and took him
prisoner, together with fifteen officers; after this success, Mr. Clive
reduced the forts of Cove-long and Chengalput, the last very strong,
situated about forty miles to the southward of Madras. On the other
hand, M. Dupleix intercepted at sea captain Schaub, with his whole Swiss
company, whom he detained prisoners at Pondicherry, although the two
nations were not at war with each other. During these transactions,
Sallabatzing, with a body of French under M. de Bussy, advanced towards
Aurengabad, which was the seat of government; but he was opposed by a
chief of the Mahrattas, at the head of a numerous army. In the meantime,
Gauzedy Khan, the elder brother of Sallabatzing, whom the mogul had
appointed viceroy of Decan, took possession of his government at
Aurengabad, where, in fourteen days after his arrival, he was poisoned
by his own sister. The mogul immediately appointed his son Schah Abadin
Khan to succeed his father; and this prince actually raised an army to
come and take possession; but the mogul's affairs requiring his presence
at Delhi, he was obliged to postpone his design, so that Sallabatzing
was left without a competitor, and made a present to the French of all
the English settlements to the northward. Thus concluded the year one
thousand seven hundred and fifty-two. Next campaign was chiefly confined
to the neighbourhood of Trichinopoly, where major Laurence made several
vigorous attacks upon the enemy's army, and obtained many advantages;
which, however, did not prove decisive, because he was so much
out-numbered that he could never follow his blow.


CONVENTION BETWEEN THE EAST INDIA COMPANIES OF ENGLAND AND FRANCE.

In the course of this year, the mogul was deposed by his general Schah
Abadin Khan, the viceroy of Decan, who raised to the throne Allum Geer,
another prince of the blood. In the succeeding year, a negotiation was
Bet on foot by Mr. Saunders, governor of Madras, and M. Dupleix;
and conferences were opened at Sadrass, a Dutch settlement between
Pondicherry and Fort St. George; but this proved abortive; and many
other gallant efforts were made by major Laurence in the territory of
Trichinopoly, which still continued to be the scene of action. In the
course of this year admiral Watson arrived on the coast of Coromandel
with a squadron of ships of war, having on board a regiment commanded by
colonel Aldercroon; at the same time the ships from France brought
over to Pondicherry the sieur Godeheu, commissary-general and
governor-general of all their settlements, at whose arrival Dupleix
departed for Europe. The new governor immediately wrote a letter to
Mr. Saunders, professing the most pacific inclinations, and proposing a
suspension of arms between the two companies until their disputes could
be amicably adjusted. This proposal was very agreeable to the governor
and council at Madras, and a cessation of arms actually took place
in the month of October, in the year one thousand seven hundred and
fifty-four. Deputies being sent to Pondicherry, a provisional treaty
and truce were concluded, on condition that neither of the two companies
should for the future interfere in any difference that might arise
between the princes of the country. The other articles related to the
places and settlements that should be retained or possessed by the
respective companies, until fresh orders relating to this agreement
should arrive from the courts of London and Versailles, transmitted by
the two East India companies of France and England. Until such orders
should arrive, it was stipulated that neither nation should be allowed
to procure any new grant or cession, or to build forts for the defence
of new establishments; and that they should not proceed to any cession,
retrocession, or evacuation of what they then possessed; but every thing
should remain on the footing of _uti possidetis_. How pacific soever the
sentiments of the French subjects might have been at this period in
the East Indies, certain it is, the designs of the French governors in
America were altogether hostile, and their conduct hastening towards a
rupture, which kindled up a bloody war in every division of the globe.


GENERAL VIEW OF THE BRITISH COLONIES IN NORTH AMERICA.

As this war may be termed a native of America, and the principal scenes
of it were acted on that continent, we shall, for the information of the
reader, sketch out the situation of the then British colonies as they
bordered on each other, and extended along the sea coast, from the
gulf of St. Lawrence as far south as the country of Florida. We shall
enumerate the Indian nations that lie scattered about their confines,
and delineate the manner in which the French hemmed them in by a
surprising line of fortifications. Should we comprehend Hudson's Bay,
with the adjacent countries, and the banks of Newfoundland, in this
geographical detail, we might affirm that Great Britain at that time
possessed a territory along the sea-coast, extending seventeen hundred
miles in a direct line, from the sixtieth to the thirty-first degree of
northern latitude; but as these two countries were not concerned in this
dispute, we shall advance from the northward to the southern side of the
gulf of St. Lawrence; and beginning with Acadia or Nova Scotia, describe
our settlements as they lie in a southerly direction, as far as the gulf
of Florida. This great tract of country, stretching fifteen degrees
of latitude, is washed on the east by the Atlantic Ocean; the southern
boundary is Spanish Florida; but to the westward the limits are
uncertain, some affirming that the jurisdiction of the colonies
penetrates through the whole continent, as far as the South Sea; while
others, with more moderation, think they are naturally bounded by the
river Illinois that runs into the Mississippi, and in a manner connects
that river with the chain of lakes known by the names of Michigan,
Huron, Erie, and Ontario, the three first communicating with each other,
and the last discharging itself into the river St. Lawrence, which,
running by Montreal and Quebec, issues into the bay of the same
denomination, forming the northern boundary of Nova Scotia. The French,
who had no legal claim to any lands on the south side of this river,
nevertheless, with an insolence of ambition peculiar to themselves, not
only extended their forts from the source of the St. Lawrence, through
an immense tract of that country, as far as the Mississippi, which
disembogues itself into the gulf of Florida; but also, by a series of
unparalleled encroachments, endeavoured to contract the English colonies
within such narrow limits as would have cut off almost one half of their
possessions. As we have already given a geographical description of Nova
Scotia, and mentioned the particulars of the new settlement of Halifax,
we shall now only observe, that it is surrounded on three sides by the
sea, the gulf, and river of St. Lawrence; that its original boundary to
the west was the river Pentagoet; but it is now contracted within the
river St. Croix, because the crown of Great Britain did, in the year
one thousand six hundred and sixty-three, grant to the duke of York the
territory of Sagadahack, stretching from St. Croix to the river of this
name; which was in the sequel, by an express charter from the crown,
annexed to the province of Massachusett's Bay, one of the four
governments of New England. This country, situated next to Nova Scotia,
lies between the forty-first and forty-fifth degrees of north latitude,
extending near three hundred miles in length, and about two hundred in
breadth, if we bound it by those tracts which the French possessed: no
part of the settlements of this country, however, stretches above sixty
miles from the sea. The summer is here intensely hot, and the winter
proportionably severe; nevertheless, the climate is healthy, and the
sky generally serene. The soil is not favourable to any of the European
kinds of grain; but produces great plenty of maize, which the people
bake into bread, and brew into beer, though their favourite drink
is made of molasses hopped, and impregnated with the tops of the
spruce-fir, which is a native of this country. The ground raises good
flax and tolerable hemp. Here are great herds of black cattle, some of
them very large in size, a vast number of excellent hogs, a breed of
small horses, graceful, swift, and hardy; and large flocks of sheep,
whose wool, though not so fine as that of England, is manufactured with
great success.

New England is composed of the four provinces known by the names of
New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. It is
bounded on the south by New York, extending northerly on both sides of
the river Hudson, about two hundred miles into the country possessed by
the Indians of the Five Nations, whom the French distinguish by the name
of the Irroquois; but in breadth this province does not exceed fifty
miles, though it comprehends Long Island, lying to the southward of
Connecticut. The capital, which derives from the province the name
of New York, is situated on an excellent harbour in the island of
Manahatton, extending fourteen miles in length, and five in breadth,
at the mouth of the noble river Hudson, which is navigable for above two
hundred miles. At the distance of one hundred and fifty miles from New
York, stands the town of Albany, upon the same river. In this place all
the treaties and other transactions were negotiated between the English
and the Irroquois, a confederacy of five Indian nations, who, by their
union, courage, and military skill, had reduced a great number of other
Indian tribes, and subdued a territory more extensive than the whole
kingdom of France. They were about fourscore years ago able to bring
ten thousand warriors into the field; but now their number is so greatly
diminished by wars, epidemical diseases, and the use of spirituous
liquors, that they cannot raise above fifteen hundred men, even though
they have admitted into their confederacy the nation of the Tuscaroras,
whom the English drove from the confines of Carolina. The Mohawk Indians
inhabit the country advanced from Albany. The northern extremities
of New Hampshire and New York are divided by the lakes Champlain and
Sacrament, between which the French had raised the fort of Crown Point.

Contiguous to New York, and lying along the coast, in a southerly
direction, is the small province of New Jersey, bounded on the west by
the river Delaware, which divides it from Pennsylvania, extending about
one hundred and fifty miles in length, but in breadth not more than
one third of that extent. The climate, soil, and produce of these two
provinces, as well as of Pennsylvania, are similar. They yield great
quantities of grain, sheep, horses, hogs, and horned cattle; all kinds
of poultry and game in great abundance; vegetables of every sort in
perfection, and excellent fruit, particularly peaches and melons. Their
vast forests abound with oak, ash, beech, chesnut, cedar, walnut-tree,
cypress, hickory, sassafras, and pine; but the timber is not counted so
fit for shipping as that of New England and Nova Scotia. These provinces
produce great quantities of flax and hemp. New York affords mines of
iron, and very rich copper ore is found in New Jersey.

Pennsylvania, lying to the southward of New York and New Jersey, is
bounded on the other side by Maryland, stretching two hundred and fifty
miles in length, two hundred in breadth, and having no communication
with the sea, except by the mouth of the river Delaware. This province
was originally settled by Quakers, under the auspices of the celebrated
William Penn, whose descendants are still proprietaries of the country.
Philadelphia, the capital, stands on a tongue of land at the confluence
of the two navigable rivers, the Delaware and Sculkel, disposed in the
form of a regular oblong, and designed by the original plan to extend
from the one to the other. The streets, which are broad, spacious, and
uniform, cross each other at right angles, leaving proper spaces for
churches, markets, and other public edifices. The houses are neatly
built of brick, the quays spacious and magnificent, the warehouses
large and numerous, and the docks commodious and well contrived for ship
building. Pennsylvania is understood to extend as far northerly as
the banks of the lake Erie, where the French erected a fort. They also
raised another at some distance to the southward of the Riviere-au-Beuf,
and made other encroachments on this colony.

Adjoining to part of Pennsylvania, on the sea-coast, lies the province
of Maryland, a tract of land situated along the bay of Chesapeak,
in length about one hundred and forty miles, and nearly of the same
breadth, bounded on the north by Pennsylvania, on the east by the
Atlantic Ocean, and by the river Potowmack on the south. This country
was first planted with Roman catholics by lord Baltimore, to whom
Charles II. granted it by patent. In the sequel, however, people of all
religions were admitted into this settlement, and indulged with liberty
of conscience, and at present the reigning religion is that of the
English church. The climate is very sultry in summer, and not very
salubrious. The soil is fruitful, and produces a great quantity of
tobacca, which the people cultivate as their staple commodity. The seat
of government is established at Annapolis, a small town beautifully
situated on the river Patuxent.

Tracing the sea-coast still southerly, the next settlement is Virginia,
watered on the north by the river Potowmack, which is the boundary
between this and the colony last described, having the bay of Chesapeak
to the east, bounded on the south by Carolina, and extending westward
without any prescribed limits, though the plantations have reached no
farther than the great Allegany mountains; so that the province, as now
possessed, stretches in length above two hundred and forty miles, and
in breadth not above two hundred, lying between the fifty-fifth and
fortieth degrees of latitude. In sailing to Virginia, navigators steer
through a strait formed by two points, called the Capes, into the bay of
Chesapeak, a large inlet that runs three hundred miles into the country
from south to north, covered from the Atlantic Ocean by the eastern side
of Maryland, and a small portion of Virginia on the same peninsula. This
noble bay is about eighteen miles broad for a considerable space, and
seven at its narrowest part, yielding generally nine fathoms depth of
water; on both sides it receives many navigable rivers, those on the
Virginia side being known by the names of James River, York River, the
Rappahannock, and Potowmack. This country, especially towards the sea,
lies very low and swampy, and the soil is extremely fertile. The air
and weather are variable, the heats of summer excessive, the frosts of
winter sudden, and intensely cold; so that, upon the whole, the climate
is neither very agreeable nor healthy, the people being particularly
subject to agues and pleuritic disorders. The province abounds with vast
forests of timber; the plains are covered with a surprising luxuriancy
of vegetables, flowers, and flowering shrubs, diffusing the most
delicious fragrance. The ground yields plenty of corn, and every sort
of fruit in great abundance and perfection. Horned cattle and hogs
have here multiplied to admiration, since they were first imported from
Europe. The animals, natives of this and the neighbouring countries, are
deer, panthers or tigers, bears, wolves, foxes, squirrels, racoons, and
creatures called opossums, with an infinite variety of beautiful birds,
and a diversity of serpents, among which the rattlesnake is the most
remarkable.

Virginia is bounded to the south by the two Carolinas, situated between
the forty-sixth and thirty-first degrees of latitude; the length
amounting to upwards of four hundred miles, and the breadth extending
near three hundred, as far as the Indian nations called the Catawbas,
the Creeks, and Cherokees. The country of Carolina is divided into two
governments, of which the most northern is the most inconsiderable. The
climate in both is the same, as well as the soil: the first is warm,
though not unhealthy; the last extremely fertile, yielding every thing
in plenty which is produced in Virginia, besides abundance of excellent
oranges, and some commodities which are not found to the northward.
North Carolina, though not so opulent, is more populous than the
southern part. The colonists of North Carolina carry on a considerable
traffic in tar, pitch, turpentine, staves, shingles, lumber, corn, peas,
pork, and beef; tobacco, deer skins, indigo, wheat, rice, bee's-wax,
tallow, bacon, and hog's-lard, cotton, and squared timber; live cattle,
with the skins of beaver, racoon, fox, minx, wild-cat, and otter. South
Carolina is much better cultivated; the people are more civilized,
and the commerce more important. The capital of this province, called
Charles Town, is finely situated at the confluence of two navigable
rivers, having the advantage of a commodious harbour. Their trade,
exclusive of the articles we have already mentioned as common to this
government and that of North Carolina, consists of two chief staple
commodities, rice and indigo, which they cultivate with great success;
and they have likewise made some progress in the culture of silk.

The most southern of all our settlements on this coast is Georgia,
extending about sixty miles from north to South, along the sea-shore;
but widening in the inland parts to above one hundred and fifty,
and stretching almost three hundred from the sea to the Apalachian
mountains. This country differs very little from that of South Carolina,
with which it borders; yet the summer is here more hot, and the soil not
so fertile. Savannah, the capital, stands commodiously for trade, about
ten miles from the sea, on a river of the same name, navigable with
large boats two hundred miles farther up to the second town called
Augusta, a place that flourishes by the Indian trade of skins, which the
inhabitants carry on with their neighbours the Creeks, the Chickesaws,
and the Cherokees, who are the most numerous and powerful tribes in
America. Georgia is bounded on the south by the river Attamaha, at no
great distance from the Spanish fort of St. Augustine.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


THE FRENCH SURPRISE LOG'S TOWN.

Having thus exhibited a succinct view of the British colonies in North
America, for the information of the reader, we shall now resume the
thread of our history, and particularize the transactions by which
the present year was distinguished on this extensive continent. The
government of England having received nothing but evasive answers from
the court of France, touching the complaints that were made of the
encroachments in America, despatched orders to all the governors of
that country to repel force by force, and drive the French from their
settlements on the river Ohio. Accordingly, the provinces of Virginia
and Pennsylvania took this important affair into their consideration;
but while they deliberated, the French vigorously prosecuted their
designs on the other side of the mountains. They surprised Log's Town,
which the Virginians had built upon the Ohio; made themselves masters
of the Block-house and Truck-house, where they found skins and other
commodities to the amount of twenty thousand pounds, and destroyed all
the British traders, except two who found means to escape. At the same
time, M. de Contrecour, with a thousand men and eighteen pieces of
cannon, arrived in three hundred canoes from Venango, a fort they had
raised on the banks of the Ohio, and reduced by surprise a British fort
which the Virginians had built on the forks of the Monangahela, that
runs into the same river.


CONFERENCE WITH THE INDIANS.

These hostilities were followed by divers skirmishes between the people
of the two nations, which were fought with various success. At length
the governors of the English settlements received orders from England to
form a political confederacy for their mutual defence; and the governor
of New York was directed to confer with the chiefs of the Six Nations,
with a view to detach them from the French interest by dint of promises
and presents of value, sent over for that purpose. A congress was
accordingly appointed at Albany, to which place the governor of New
York repaired, accompanied by commissioners from all the other British
settlements; but a very small number of Indians arrived, and even these
seemed to be indifferent to the advances and exhortations that were made
by the English orator. The truth is, the French had artfully weaned them
from their attachment to the subjects of Great Britain. Nevertheless,
they accepted the presents, renewed their treaties with the king of
England, and even demanded his assistance in driving the French from the
posts and possessions they had usurped within the Indian territories. It
was in consequence of the measures here taken, that colonel Washington
was detached from Virginia with four hundred men, and occupied a post on
the banks of the river Ohio, where he threw up some works, and erected
a kind of occasional fort, in hopes of being able to defend himself in
that situation, until he should be joined by a reinforcement from New
York, which, how ever, did not arrive.


COLONEL WASHINGTON DEFEATED AND TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

While he remained in this situation, de Viller, a French commander, at
the head of nine hundred men, being on his march to dislodge Washington,
detached one Jamonville, an inferior officer, with a small party, and
a formal summons to colonel Washington, requiring him to quit the fort,
which he pretended was built on ground belonging to the French, or their
allies. So little regard was paid to this intimation, that the English
fell upon this party, and, as the French affirm, without the least
provocation, either slew or took the whole detachment. De Viller,
incensed at these unprovoked hostilities, marched up to the attack,
which Washington for some time sustained under manifold disadvantages.
At length, however, he surrendered the fort upon capitulation, for the
performance of which he left two officers as hostages in the hands of
the French; and in his retreat was terribly harassed by the Indians,
who plundered his baggage, and massacred his people. This event was no
sooner known in England, than the British ambassador at Paris received
directions to complain of it to the French ministry, as an open
violation of the peace; but this representation had no effect.


DIVISIONS AMONG THE BRITISH COLONIES.

Both nations by this time foresaw that a rupture would be inevitable,
and each resolved to make suitable preparations. France continued to
send reinforcements of men, and supplies of ammunition to Quebec, for
the prosecution of her ambitious projects; and the ministry of Great
Britain transmitted salutary cautions to the governors of the provinces
in North America, exhorting them to join their endeavours for repelling
the incursions of the enemy. Such an union as seemed necessary for their
common preservation was not easily effected. The different colonies were
divided by different views and interests, both religious and political;
besides, every settlement was distracted into factions, formed by
the governor and the demagogues of the assembly; in other words, an
opposition like that in parliament, and a continual struggle between the
liberties of the people and the prerogative of the proprietor, whether
sovereign or subject. Mr. Dinwiddie, governor of Virginia, having
demanded a certain perquisite or fee for every patent he should pass for
land, the assembly voted his demand illegal, arbitrary, and oppressive.
They declared that every man who paid it should be deemed an enemy to
his country, and sent over an agent to London to solicit the suppression
of this imposition. The representatives of the people in Pennsylvania
wasted the time in vain deliberations and violent disputes with their
proprietors, while the enemy infested their frontiers. The colony of New
York was filled with discontent and animosity. Sir Danvers Osborn, who
had been appointed governor of this province, died immediately after his
arrival at New York, and the instructions he had received were exposed
to public censure. The preamble inveighed severely against the want of
duty, allegiance, loyalty, and unanimity, which had lately appeared so
notorious in the assembly of that province, who had violated the royal
commission and instructions, by assuming to themselves the power to
dispose of public money in the laws which they had occasionally passed.
This gentleman was, therefore, directed to insist upon the reformation
of all those public abuses, and upon the establishment of a certain
supply for the service of the government, as well as upon the settlement
of a salary for himself. Moreover, his majesty, in these instructions,
signified his will and pleasure, that all money raised for the supply
and support of government, or upon any emergency for immediate service,
should be disposed of and applied properly to the use for which it might
be granted, by warrant from the governor, by and with the advice
and consent of the council of the province, and no otherwise; that,
nevertheless, the assembly should be permitted, from time to time, to
view and examine the accounts of money disposed of, by virtue of laws
which they had enacted; that if any member of the council, or officer
holding place of trust or profit within the government, should, in any
manner whatever, give his assent to, or in anywise advise or concur with
the assembly in passing any act or vote, whereby the royal prerogative
might be lessened or impaired, or any money be raised or disposed of
for the public service, contrary to, or inconsistent with, the method
prescribed by these instructions, the governor should forthwith
remove or suspend such counsellor or officer so offending, and give an
immediate account of his proceedings to the commissioners of trade and
plantations. These were peremptory injunctions, which plainly proved
that the ministry was determined to support the prerogative with a
high hand; but it must be owned, at the same time, that abundance of
provocation had been given by the insolent opposition of some turbulent
individuals, who had exerted all their influence in disturbing and
distressing the views and designs of the government. While the British
colonies in America were, by these divisions, in a great measure
disabled from making vigorous efforts against the common enemy, the
administration at home began to exert itself for their defence..
Officers were appointed for two regiments, consisting of two battalions
each, to be raised in America, and commanded by sir William Pepperel and
governor Shirley, who had enjoyed the same command in the last war, and
a body of troops was destined for the same service.


HEREDITARY PRINCE OF HESSE-CASSEL PROFESSES THE CATHOLIC RELIGION.

The most remarkable incident that marked this year on the continent of
Europe, was the conversion of the hereditary prince of Hesse-Cassel,
who had espoused the princess Mary of England. He now declared himself a
Roman-catholic, and was supposed to have been cajoled to this profession
by the promises of certain powers, who flattered his ambition, in order
to weaken the protestant interest in Germany. His father, though deeply
affected by his son's apostacy, did not fail to take immediate measures
for preventing the evil consequences which might otherwise have
flowed from his defection. He forthwith, assembled the states of the
landgraviate, in order to take such measures as might appear necessary
to maintain the religion, laws, and constitution of the country; and the
prince was laid under certain restrictions, which he did not find it
an easy task to set aside. It was enacted, that when the regency should
devolve to him by succession, he should not have it in his power to
alter the established laws, or grant any church to persons of the Roman
communion, for the public exercise of their religion; and that he should
be excluded from all share in the education of his sons, the eldest
of whom should be put in possession of the country of Hanau upon his
father's accession to the regency of the landgraviate. These resolutions
were guaranteed by the kings of Prussia and Denmark, by the maritime
powers, and the evangelic body of the empire.


PARLIAMENT OF PARIS RECALLED FROM EXILE.

The exile of the parliament of Paris, far from having intimidated the
other tribunals from performing what they apprehended to be their duty,
served only to inflame the discontents of the people, and to animate
all the courts of justice to a full exertion of their authority. The
chatelot continued to prosecute those priests, who refused the sacrament
to persons whose consciences would not allow them to subscribe to the
bull Unigenitus, even after three of their members were sent to the
Bastile. The same prosecutions were carried on, and bold remonstrances
published by, the parliaments of Aix and Rouen. In a word, the whole
kingdom was filled with such confusion as threatened a total suppression
of justice, in a general spirit of disaffection and universal anarchy.
The prelates, meanwhile, seemed to triumph in the combustion they had
raised. They entered into associations to support each other; they
intrigued at court, and harassed the king with insolent declarations,
till he grew tired of their proceedings, and opened his eyes to the
fatal consequences of their pride and obstinacy. He even took an
opportunity of exhorting the archbishop of Paris to act more suitably to
the character of a clergyman. He recalled the parliament from exile,
and they returned in triumph, amidst the acclamations of the people,
who celebrated their arrival at Paris with the most extravagant
demonstrations of joy; and the archbishop, notwithstanding the king's
express declaration to the contrary, still persisting in countenancing
the recusant priests, was banished to Conflans-sous-Charenton.


AFFAIRS OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

In Spain, the interest of Great Britain was so warmly espoused, and so
powerfully supported by Mr. Wall, who had been resident in England, that
the French party, though countenanced by the queen-mother, and sustained
with all the influence of the marquis de la Ensenada, the prime
minister, was totally defeated. The king being convinced that it would
be for the interest of his subjects to live on good terms with England,
and well apprized of Ensenada's intrigues, ordered that minister to be
arrested and confined, and bestowed upon Mr. Wall the best part of his
employments. Nevertheless, the Spaniards in the West Indies continued
to oppress the subjects of Great Britain, employed in cutting logwood in
the bay of Honduras; and representations on this head being made to the
court of Madrid, the dispute was amicably adjusted between Mr. Wall
and sir Benjamin Keene, the British ambassador. While the interest of
Britain thus triumphed in Spain, it seemed to lose ground at the court
of Lisbon. His Portuguese majesty had formed vast projects of an active
commerce, and even established an East India company; in the meantime he
could not help manifesting his chagrin at the great quantities of gold
which were yearly exported from his dominions, as the balance due from
his subjects on English commodities. In his endeavours to check this
traffic, which he deemed so detrimental to his subjects, he inflicted
hardships on the British merchants settled at Lisbon: some were
imprisoned on frivolous pretences; others deprived of their property,
and obliged to quit the kingdom. He insisted upon laying an imposition
of two per cent, on all the Portuguese gold that should be exported;
but the profits of the trade would not bear such an exaction. Meanwhile,
there being a scarcity of corn in Portugal, the kingdom was supplied
from England; and the people having nothing but gold to purchase
this necessary supply, the king saw the necessity of conniving at the
exportation of his coin, and the trade reverted into its former channel.


SESSION OPENED.

On the fourteenth day of November, the king of Great Britain opened the
session of parliament with an harangue, which intimated nothing of
an approaching rupture. He said, that the general state of affairs in
Europe had undergone very little alteration since their last meeting;
that he had lately received the strongest assurances from his good
brother the king of Spain, of friendship and confidence, which he would
cultivate with harmony and good faith. He declared his principal view
should be to strengthen the foundation, and secure the duration of a
general peace; to improve the present advantages of it for promoting
the trade of his good subjects, and protecting those possessions which
constituted one great source of their wealth and commerce. Finally, he
exhorted them to complete their plan for appropriating the forfeited
estates in the highlands to the service of the public. He probably
avoided mentioning the encroachments of France, that he might supply
no handle for debates on the address, which was carried in both houses
almost without opposition. The government seemed determined to humble
the insolence of the French councils; and this disposition was so
agreeable to the people in general, that they grudged no expense, and
heartily concurred with the demands of the ministry.

The commons granted for the service of the ensuing year, four millions
seventy-three thousand seven hundred and twenty-nine pounds; one million
of that sum expressly given to enable his majesty to augment his forces
by land and sea. Thirty-two thousand pounds were allotted as a subsidy
to the king of Poland, and twenty thousand to the elector of Bavaria.
These gratifications met with little or no opposition in the committee
of supply; because it was taken for granted, that, in case of a rupture,
France would endeavour to avail herself of her superiority by land,
by invading his Britannic majesty's German dominions; and therefore
it might be necessary to secure the assistance of such allies on the
continent. That they prognosticated aright, with respect to the designs
of that ambitious power, will soon appear in the course of this history;
which will also demonstrate how little dependence is to be placed upon
the professed attachment of subsidiary princes. The supplies were raised
by the standing branches of the revenue, the land-tax and malt-tax,
and a lottery for one million; one hundred thousand pounds of it to be
deducted for the service of the public, and the remaining nine hundred
thousand to be charged on the produce of the sinking-fund, at the rate
of three per cent, per annum, to commence from the fifth day of
January, in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six. The civil
transactions of this session were confined to a few objects. Divers new
regulations were made for encouraging and improving the whale and white
herring fishery, as well as for finishing and putting in a proper state
of defence a new fort, lately built at Anamabo on the coast of Africa.


BILL IN BEHALF OF CHELSEA PENSIONERS.

Mr. Pitt, the paymaster-general of the forces, brought in a bill, which
will ever remain a standing monument of his humanity. The poor
disabled veterans who enjoyed the pension of Chelsea hospital, were so
iniquitously oppressed by a set of miscreants, who supplied them with
money per advance, at the most exorbitant rates of usury, that many of
them, with their families, were in danger of starving; and the intention
of government in granting such a comfortable subsistence, was in a great
measure defeated. Mr. Pitt, perceiving that this evil originally flowed
from the delay of the first payment, which the pensioner could not touch
till the expiration of a whole year after he had been put upon the list,
removed this necessity of borrowing, by providing in the bill, that half
a year's pension should be advanced half a year before it is due; and
the practice of usury was effectually prevented by a clause, enacting,
that all contracts should be void by which any pension might be
mortgaged. This humane regulation was unanimously approved, and having
passed through both houses with uncommon expedition, received the royal
assent.

Notwithstanding the unanimity manifested by the commons, in every thing
relating to the measures for acting vigorously against the common enemy
of the nation, they were remarkably disturbed and divided by a contested
election of members for Oxfordshire. In the course of this dispute, the
strength and influence of what they called the old and new interest, or,
to speak more intelligibly, of the tories and whigs in that county, were
fully displayed. The candidates sustained on the shoulders of the
old interest, were lord viscount Wenman and sir James Dashwood: their
competitors, whom the new interest supported, and of consequence the
ministry countenanced, were lord Parker and sir Edward Turner. Never was
any contention of this kind maintained with more spirit and animosity,
or carried on at a greater expense. One would have imagined that each
side considered it as a dispute which must have determined whether the
nation should enjoy its ancient liberty, or tamely submit to the fetters
of corruption. Noblemen and gentlemen, clergymen and ladies, employed
all their talents and industry in canvassing for either side, throughout
every township and village in the county. Scandal emptied her whole
quiver of insinuation, calumny, and lampoon; corruption was not remiss
in promises and presents: houses of entertainment were opened; and
nothing was for some time to be seen but scenes of tumult, riot,
and intoxication. The revenue of many an independent prince on the
continent, would not have been sufficient to afford such sums of money
as were expended in the course of this dispute. At length they proceeded
to election, and the sheriff made a double return of all the four
candidates, so that not one of them could sit, and the county remained
without a representative until this ambiguous affair could be decided
in the house of commons. About the middle of November, petitions being
presented by the four candidates, as well as by the gentlemen, clergy,
and other freeholders of the county, complaining of an undue election,
and double return, the matter of these petitions was heard at the bar of
the house on the third day of December. The counsel for lord Wenman and
sir James Dashwood alleged that they had the majority of votes upon the
poll, and this circumstance was admitted by the counsel on the other
side; then they proceeded to prove by evidence, that, after closing
the poll, the sheriff declared the majority of votes to be in favour of
these two candidates, and adjourned the court from the twenty-third day
of April to the eighth of May; so that the scrutiny demanded and
granted on the behalf of lord Parker and sir Edward Turner could not
be discussed before the last day of the month, when the writ was
returnable; that the scrutiny did not begin till the ninth day of May,
when the time was protracted by disputes about the manner in which
it should be carried on; that lord Parker and sir Edward Turner were
allowed to object, through the whole poll, to the votes on the other
side, on pretence that their competitors should be permitted to answer
these objections, and, in their turn, object through the whole poll to
the voters for lord Parker and sir Edward Turner, who should, in
the last place, have leave to answer: that lord Wenman and sir James
Dashwood had disapproved of this method, because they apprehended
it might induce their competitors to make such a number of frivolous
objections, that they should not have time to answer one half of them,
much less to make objections of their own before the writ should be
returned: that they foresaw such a number of frivolous objections were
made, as engrossed the attention of the court till the twenty-seventh
day of May; so that they could not begin to answer any of these
objections till the twenty-eighth; and on the thirtieth, the sheriff,
having closed the scrutiny, made the double return. The proof being
exhibited, the counsel insisted, that as they had established a majority
on the poll, and demonstrated that this majority neither was nor could
be overthrown by such an unfinished scrutiny, it was incumbent on the
other side to proceed upon the merits of the election, by endeavouring
to overthrow that majority of which their clients were in possession. A
question in the house being carried to the same purpose, lord Wenman
and sir James Dashwood objected to five hundred and thirty voters on
the other side, whom they proposed to disqualify. Their counsel examined
several witnesses, to prove the partiality of the sheriff in favour of
lord Parker and sir Edward Turner, and to detect these candidates in the
practice of bribery; for which purpose they produced a letter in their
own handwriting.

{1755}

They afterwards proceeded to disqualify particular voters, and summed up
their evidence on the twenty-first day of January. Then the counsel for
the other side began to refute the charge of partiality and corruption;
and to answer the objections that had been made to particular voters.
They produced evidence to prove, that customary freeholds, or customary
holdings, had voted in elections in the counties at Glamorgan, Monmouth,
Gloucester, Wells, and Hereford; and that the customary tenants of the
manor of Woodstock, in Oxfordshire, had been reputed capable of voting,
and even voted at elections for that county. In a word, they continued
to examine evidences, argue and refute, prove and disprove, until the
twenty-third day of April, when, after some warm debates and divisions
in the house, lord Parker and sir Edward Turner were declared duly
elected; and the clerk of the crown was ordered to amend the return,
by erasing the names of lord Wenman and sir James Dashwood. Many, who
presumed to think for themselves, without recollecting the power and
influence of the administration, were astonished at the issue of this
dispute, which, however, might have easily been foreseen; inasmuch,
as, during the course of the proceedings, most if not all of the many
questions debated in the house, were determined by a great majority
in favour of the new interest. A great number of copyholders had been
admitted to vote at this election, and the sheriff incurred no censure
for allowing them to take the oath appointed by law to be taken by
freeholders: nevertheless, the commons carefully avoided determining
the question, whether copyholders possessed of the yearly value of forty
shillings, clear of all deductions, have not a right to vote for knights
to represent the shire within which their copyhold estates are situated?
This point being left doubtful by the legislature, puts it often in the
power of the sheriff to return which of the candidates he pleases to
support; for if the majority of the voting copyholders adheres to the
interest of his favourite, he will admit their votes both on the poll
and the scrutiny; whereas, should they be otherwise disposed, he will
reject them as unqualified What effect this practice may have upon the
independency of parliament, every person must perceive who reflects,
that, in almost all the counties of England, the high sheriffs are
annually appointed by the minister for the time being.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


MESSAGE FROM THE KING TO THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

The attention of the legislature was chiefly turned upon the conduct of
France, which preserved no medium, but seemed intent upon striking some
important blow, that might serve as a declaration of war. At Brest, and
other ports in that kingdom, the French were employed in equipping a
powerful armament, and made no scruple to own it was intended for North
America. Towards the latter end of March, sir Thomas Eobinson, secretary
of state, brought a message from the king to the parliament, intimating,
that his majesty having at the beginning of the session declared his
principal object was to preserve the public tranquillity, and at the
same time to protect those possessions which constitute one great source
of the commerce and wealth of his kingdoms, he now found it necessary
to acquaint the house of commons, that the present situation of affairs
made it requisite to augment his forces by sea and land, and to take
such other measures as might best tend to preserve the general peace
of Europe, and secure the just rights and possessions of his crown in
America, as well as to repel any attempts whatsoever that might be made
to support or countenance any designs which should be formed against his
majesty and his kingdoms; and his majesty doubted not but his faithful
commons, on whose affection and zeal he entirely relied, would enable
him to make such augmentations, and to take such measures for supporting
the honour of his crown, and the true interest of his people, and for
the security of his dominions in the present critical conjuncture, as
the exigency of affairs might require; in doing which his majesty
would have as much regard to the ease of his good subjects as should be
consistent with their safety and welfare. In answer to this message, a
very warm and affectionate address was presented to his majesty; and
it was on this occasion that the million was granted for augmenting his
forces by sea and land. [357] _[See note 2 X at the end of this Vol.]_
The court of Versailles, notwithstanding the assiduity and despatch
which they were exerting in equipping armaments, and embarking troops,
for the support of their ambitious schemes in America, still continued
to amuse the British ministry with general declarations, that no
hostility was intended, nor the least infringement of the treaty.


COURT OF VERSAILLES AMUSES THE ENGLISH MINISTRY.

The earl of Albemarle, the English ambassador at Paris, having lately
died in that city, these assurances were communicated to the court of
London by the marquis de Mirepoix, who resided in England with the same
character which he had supported since his first arrival, with equal
honour and politeness. On this occasion he himself was so far imposed
upon by the instructions he had received, that he believed the
professions of his court were sincere, and seriously endeavoured to
prevent a rupture between the two nations. At length, however, their
preparations were so notorious that he began to suspect the consequence;
and the English ministry produced such proofs of their insincerity
and double dealing, that he seemed to be struck with astonishment and
chagrin. He repaired to France, and upbraided the ministry of Versailles
for having made him the tool of their dissimulation. They referred him
to the king, who ordered him to return to London, with fresh assurances
of his pacific intentions; but his practice agreed so ill with his
professions, that the ambassador had scarce obtained an audience to
communicate them, when undoubted intelligence arrived, that a powerful
armament was ready to sail from Brest and Rochfort. The government of
Great Britain, roused by this information, immediately took the most
expeditious methods for equipping a squadron; and towards the latter end
of April, admiral Boscawen sailed with eleven ships of the line and one
frigate, having on board a considerable number of land forces, to attend
the motions of the enemy; but more certain and particular intelligence
arriving soon after touching the strength of the French fleet, which
consisted of twenty-five ships of the line, besides frigates and
transports, with a great quantity of warlike stores, and four thousand
regular troops, commanded by the baron Dieskau, admiral Holbourne was
detached with six ships of the line, and one frigate, to reinforce Mr.
Boscawen; and a great number of capital ships were put in commission.
In the beginning of May the French fleet, commanded by Mr. Macnamara, an
officer of Irish extraction, sailed from Brest, directing his course
to North America; but, after having proceeded beyond the chops of the
English channel, he returned with nine of the capital ships, while the
rest of the armament continued their course, under the direction of M.
Bois de la Mothe.


SESSION CLOSED.

On the twenty-fifth day of April the king went to the house of lords,
where, after giving the royal assent to the bills then depending;
for granting a certain sum out of the sinking fund for the relief of
insolvent debtors, for the better regulation of marine forces on shore,
for the better raising of marines and seamen, and to several other
public and private bills; his majesty put an end to the session of
parliament by a speech, in which he acquainted the two houses, that the
zeal they had shown for supporting the honour, rights, and possessions
of his crown, had afforded him the greatest satisfaction; that his
desire to preserve the public tranquillity had been sincere and uniform;
that he had religiously adhered to the stipulations of the treaty of
Aix-la-Chapelle, and made it his care not to injure or offend any power
whatsoever; but that he never could entertain a thought of purchasing
the name of peace at the expense of suffering encroachments upon, or of
yielding up, what justly belonged to Great Britain, either by ancient
possession or by solemn treaties; that the vigour and firmness of his
parliament, on this important occasion, had enabled him to be prepared
for such contingencies as might happen; that if reasonable and
honourable terms of accommodation could be agreed upon, he would be
satisfied, and, at all events, rely on the justice of his cause,
the effectual support of his people, and the protection of Divine
Providence. The parliament was then prorogued to the twenty-seventh of
May.


CHAPTER X.

     _Preparations for War..... Earl Paulet's Motion against the
     King's going to Hanover..... Regency appointed during his
     Majesty's Absence..... Boscawen's Expedition..... Alcide and
     Lys taken..... French Ambassador recalled..... Their Trade
     greatly distressed..... Affairs of the English in
     America..... Col. Monckton takes Beau-Sejour..... General
     Braddock's unfortunate Expedition..... He falls into an
     Ambuscade; is defeated, and killed..... Disagreement between
     the Governor and Assembly of Pennsylvania..... Expedition
     against Crown Point and Niagara resolved on..... Gen.
     Johnson encamps at lake George..... where he is attacked by
     the French, who are entirely defeated..... Bravery of
     Captain M'Ginnes..... Gen. Johnson created a Baronet.....
     Description of Fort Oswego and Lake Ontario..... Neglect of
     the English in not fortifying it..... Expedition against
     Niagara..... Gen. Shirley returns to Albany..... End of the
     Campaign in America......Fruitless Intrigues of the French
     in Spain and Germany..... Treaty of the King of Great
     Britain with the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel..... News of the
     Capture of the Alcide and Lys reaches England..... The King
     returns from Hanover, and concludes a Treaty with
     Russia..... Declaration of the French Ministry at the Court
     of Vienna..... Spirited Declaration of the King of
     Prussia..... The French make another unsuccessful Attempt
     upon the Court of Spain..... The Imperial Court refuses
     Auxiliaries to England..... The French take the Blandford
     Man of War, but return it..... State of the English and
     French Navies.....  Session opened..... Remarkable Addresses
     of the Lords and Commons..... His Majesty's Answer.....
     Alterations in the Ministry..... Mr. Fox made Secretary of
     State..... Supplies voted..... Earthquake at Lisbon.....
     Relief voted by Parliament to the Portuguese..... Troops,
     &c, voted..... Mutiny Bill, Marine, and Mariners' Acts
     continued..... Act for raising a Regiment of Foot in North
     America..... Maritime Laws of England extended to
     America..... Quiet of Ireland restored..... Treaty concluded
     with Prussia..... New   Militia   Bill passed by the
     Commons, but rejected by the Lords..... Session closed_


PREPARATIONS FOR WAR.

Whilst all Europe was in suspense about the fate of the English and
French squadrons, preparations for a vigorous sea war were going forward
in England with an unparalleled spirit and success. Still the French
court flattered itself that Great Britain, out of tenderness to his
majesty's German dominions, would abstain from hostilities. Mirepoix
continued to have frequent conferences with the British ministry, who
made no secret that their admirals, particularly Boscawen, had orders
to attack the French ships wherever they should meet them; on the other
hand, Mons. de Mirepoix declared, that his master would consider the
first gun fired at sea in an hostile manner as a declaration of war.
This menace, far from intimidating the English, animated them to
redouble their preparations for war. The press for seamen was carried
on with extraordinary vigour in all parts of this kingdom, as well as in
Ireland; and great premiums were given not only by the government,
but also, over and above his majesty's bounty, by almost all the
considerable cities and towns in England, to such as should enlist
voluntarily for sailors or soldiers. Other branches of the public
service went on with equal alacrity; and such was the eagerness of
the people to lend their money to the government, that instead of one
million, which was to be raised by way of lottery, three millions eight
hundred and eighty thousand pounds were subscribed immediately.


EARL PAULET'S MOTION.

The situation of affairs requiring his majesty to go to Germany this
summer, great apprehensions arose in the minds of many, lest the French
should either intercept him in his journey, or prevent his return. Earl
Paulet had made a motion in the house of lords, humbly to represent to
his majesty, "That it was an article in the original act of settlement
by which the succession of these kingdoms devolved to his electoral
house, that the king should not go to his foreign dominions without
the consent of parliament; and that this was a principal article in the
compact between the crown and the people; that though this article was
repealed in the late reign, yet, till of late, it had always been the
custom for his majesty to acquaint the parliament with his intended
departure to his German dominions, both in regard to the true sense
and spirit of the act that placed him on the throne, as well as for the
paternal kindness of his royal heart, and the condescension he had
been so good to show to his parliament on all occasions; but that his
majesty's declaration of his design to visit his electoral estates had
always come on the last day of a session, when it was too late for the
great constitutional council of the crown to offer such advice as might
otherwise have been expedient and necessary; that his majesty's leaving
his kingdoms in a conjuncture so pregnant with distress, so denunciative
of danger, would not only give the greatest advantage to such as
might be disposed to stir up disaffection and discontent, and to the
constitutional and national enemies of England; but would also fill his
loyal subjects with the most affecting concern, and most gloomy fears,
as well for their own safety, as for that of their sovereign, whose
invaluable life, at all times of the utmost consequence to his people,
was then infinitely so, by reason of his great experience, the
affection of every one to his royal person, and the minority of the heir
apparent." Such was the purport of this motion; but it was not seconded
by any of the other lords.


REGENCY APPOINTED.

The general uneasiness, on account of his majesty's departure, was
greatly increased by an apprehension that there would, during his
absence, be no good agreement amongst the regency, which consisted of
the following persons: his royal highness William duke of Cumberland;
Thomas lord archbishop of Canterbury; Philip earl of Hardwicke, lord
high chancellor; John earl of Granville, president of the council;
Charles duke of Marlborough, lord privy-seal; John duke of Rutland,
steward of the household; Charles duke of Grafton, lord-chamberlain;
Archibald duke of Argyle; the duke of Newcastle, first commissioner
to the treasury; the duke of Dorset, master of the horse; the earl of
Holdernesse, one of the secretaries of state; the earl of Rochford,
groom of the stole; the marquis of Hartington, lord lieutenant of
Ireland; lord Anson, first commissioner of the admiralty; sir Thomas
Eobinson, secretary of state; and Henry Fox, esq., secretary at war. His
majesty set out from St. James' on the twenty-eighth of April early in
the morning, and embarked at Harwich in the afternoon, landed the next
day at Helvoetsluys, and arrived in Hanover on the second of May.


BOSCAWEN'S EXPEDITION.

Admiral Boscawen, with eleven ships of the line and a frigate, having
taken on board two regiments at Plymouth, sailed from thence on the
twenty-seventh of April for the banks of Newfoundland, and in a few days
after his arrival there, the French fleet from Brest came to the same
station, under the command of M. Bois de la Mothe. But the thick fogs
which prevail upon these coasts, especially at that time of the year,
kept the two armaments from seeing each other; and part of the French
squadron escaped up the river St. Lawrence, whilst another part of
them went round, and got into the same river through the straits of
Belleisle, by a way which was never known to be attempted before by
ships of the line. However, whilst the English fleet lay off Cape Race,
which is the southernmost point of Newfoundland, and was thought to be
the most proper situation for intercepting the enemy, two French ships,
the Alcide, of sixty-four guns and four hundred and eighty men, and the
Lys, pierced for fifty-four guns, but mounting only twenty-two, having
eight companies of land-forces on board, being separated from the rest
of their fleet in the fog, fell in with the Dunkirk, captain Howe,
and the Defiance, captain Andrews, two sixty gun ships of the English
squadron; and after a smart engagement, which lasted some hours, and in
which captain (afterwards lord) Howe behaved with the greatest skill
and intrepidity, were both taken, with several considerable officers and
engineers, and about eight thousand pounds in money. Though the capture
of these ships, from which the commencement of the war may in fact be
dated, fell greatly short of what was hoped for from this expedition;
yet, when the news of it reached England, it was of infinite service to
the public credit of every kind, and animated the whole nation, who
now saw plainly that the government was determined to keep no further
measures with the French, but justly to repel force by force, and put
a stop to their sending more men and arms to invade the property of the
English in America, as they had hitherto done with impunity. The French,
who, for some time, did not even attempt to make reprisals on our
shipping, would gladly have chosen to avoid a war at that time, and to
have continued extending their encroachments on our settlements, till
they had executed their grand plan of securing a communication from
the Mississippi to Canada, by a line of forts, many of which they had
already erected.


FRENCH AMBASSADOR RECALLED.

Upon the arrival of the news of this action at Paris, the French
ambassador, M. de Mirepoix, was recalled from London, and M. de Bussy
from Hanover, where he had just arrived, to attend the king of England
in a public character. They complained loudly of Boscawen's attacking
the ships, as a breach of national faith; but it was justly retorted on
the part of England, that their encroachments in America had rendered
reprisals both justifiable and necessary. The resolution of making them
was the effect of mature deliberation in the English council. The vast
increase of the French marine of late years, which in all probability
would soon be employed against Great Britain, occasioned an order for
making reprisals general in Europe as well as in America; and that all
French ships, whether outward or homeward bound, should be stopped, and
brought into British ports. To give the greater weight to these orders,
it was resolved to send out those admirals who had distinguished
themselves most towards the end of the last war. Accordingly, on
the twenty-first of July, sir Edward Hawke sailed on a cruise to the
westward, with eighteen ships of the line, a frigate, and a sloop; but,
not meeting with the French fleet, these ships returned to England
about the latter end of September and the beginning of October; on the
fourteenth of which last month another fleet, consisting of twenty-two
ships of the line, two frigates, and two sloops, sailed again on a
cruise to the westward, under admiral Byng, in hopes of intercepting the
French squadron under Duguay, and likewise that commanded by La Mothe,
in case of its return from America. But this fleet likewise returned to
Spithead on the twenty-second of November, without having been able
to effect any thing, though it was allowed by all that the admiral had
acted judiciously in the choice of his stations.

While these measures were pursued, for the general security of the
British coasts and trade in Europe, several new ships of war were begun,
and finished with the utmost expedition, in his majesty's docks: twelve
frigates and sloops, contracted for in private yards, were completed by
the month of August; and twenty-four ships and twelve colliers were then
taken into the service of the government, to be fitted out as vessels
of war, to carry twenty guns and one hundred and twenty men each. In the
meantime the French trade was so annoyed by the English cruisers, that
before the end of this year three hundred of their merchant ships, many
of which, from St. Domingo and Martinique, were extremely rich, and
eight thousand of their sailors were brought into English ports.
By these captures the British ministry answered many purposes: they
deprived the French of a great body of seamen, and withheld from them a
very large property, the want of which greatly distressed their people,
and ruined many of their traders. Their outward-bound merchant ships
were insured at the rate of thirty per cent., whilst the English paid no
more than the common insurance. This intolerable burden was felt by all
degrees of people amongst them: their ministry was publicly reviled,
even by their parliaments; and the French name, from being the terror,
began to be the contempt of Europe. Their uneasiness was also not a
little heightened by new broils between their king and the parliament
of Paris, occasioned by the obstinacy of the clergy of that kingdom,
who seemed determined to support the church, in all events, against the
secular tribunals, and as much as possible to enforce the observance
of the bull Unigenitus, which had long been the occasion of so many
disputes among them. However, the parliament continuing firm, and the
French king approving of its conduct, the ecclesiastics thought proper
to submit for the present, and in their general assembly this year,
granted him a free gift of sixteen millions of livres, which he demanded
of them--a greater sum than they had ever given before, even in time of
war.


AFFAIRS OF THE ENGLISH IN AMERICA.

In the beginning of this year the assembly of Massachusetts Bay in New
England, passed an act prohibiting all correspondence with the French at
Louisbourg; and early in the spring they raised a body of troops, which
was transported to Nova Scotia, to assist lieutenant-governor Laurence
in driving the French from the encroachments they had made upon that
province. Accordingly, towards the end of May, the governor sent a large
detachment of troops, under the command of lieutenant-colonel Monckton,
upon this service; and three frigates and a sloop were despatched up
the bay of Fundy, under the command of captain Rous, to give their
assistance by sea. The troops, upon their arrival at the river
Massaguash, found the passage stopped by a large number of regular
forces, rebel neutrals, or Acadians, and Indians, four hundred and
fifty of whom occupied a block-house, with cannon mounted on their side
of the river; and the rest were posted within a strong breast-work of
timber, thrown up by way of outwork to the block-house. The English
provincials attacked this place with such spirit, that the enemy were
obliged to fly, and leave them in possession of the breast-work; then
the garrison in the block-house deserted it, and left the passage of the
river free. From thence colonel Monckton advanced to the French fort of
Beau-Sejour, which he invested, as far at least as the small number of
his troops would permit, on the twelfth of June; and after four days
bombardment, obliged it to surrender, though the French had twenty-six
pieces of cannon mounted, and plenty of ammunition, and the English had
not yet placed a single cannon upon their batteries. The garrison was
sent to Louisbourg, on condition of not bearing arms in America for the
space of six months; and the Acadians, who had joined the French,
were pardoned, in consideration of their having been forced into that
service. Colonel Monckton, after putting a garrison into this place,
and changing its name to that of Cumberland, the next day attacked and
reduced the other French fort upon the river Gaspereau, which runs into
Bay Verte; where he likewise found a large quantity of provisions and
stores of all kinds, that being the chief magazine for supplying
the French Indians and Acadians with arms, ammunition, and other
necessaries. He then disarmed these last, to the number of fifteen
thousand; and in the meantime, captain Rous with his ships sailed to
the mouth of the river St. John, to attack the new fort the French had
erected there; but they saved him that trouble, by abandoning it
upon his appearance, after having burst their cannon, blown up their
magazine, and destroyed, as far as they had time, all the works they had
lately raised. The English had but twenty men killed, and about the same
number wounded, in the whole of this expedition, the success of which
secured the tranquillity of Nova Scotia.


BRADDOCK'S UNFORTUNATE EXPEDITION.

While the new Englanders were thus employed in reducing the French in
Nova Scotia, preparations were made in Virginia for attacking them upon
the Ohio. A fort was built, which was likewise called Fort Cumberland,
and a camp formed at Will's-Creek. On the fourteenth of January of
this year, major-general Brad-dock, with colonel Dunbar's and colonel
Halket's regiments of foot, sailed from Cork, in Ireland, for Virginia,
where they all landed safe before the end of February. This general
might consequently have entered upon action early in the spring, had
he not been unfortunately delayed by the Virginian contractors for the
army, who, when he was ready to march, had neither provided a sufficient
quantity of provisions for his troops, nor a competent number of
carriages for his army. This accident was foreseen by almost every
person who knew any thing of our plantations upon the continent of
America; for the people of Virginia, who think of no produce but their
tobacco, and do not raise corn enough even for their own subsistence,
being, by the nature of their country, well provided with the
conveniency of water conveyance, have but few wheel carriages, or beasts
of burden; whereas Pennsylvania, which abounds in corn, and most other
sorts of provisions, has but little water-carriage, especially in its
western settlements, where its inhabitants have great numbers of carts,
waggons, and horses. Mr. Braddock should therefore certainly, in point
of prudence, have landed in Pennsylvania: the contract for supplying his
troops should have been made with some of the chief planters there, who
could easily have performed their engagements; and if his camp had been
formed near Frank's Town, or somewhere upon the south-west borders of
that province, he would have had but eighty miles to march from thence
to Fort Du Quesne, instead of an hundred and thirty miles that he had
to advance from Will's-Creek, where he did encamp, through roads neither
better nor more practicable than the other would have been. This error,
in the very beginning of the expedition, whether owing to an injudicious
preference fondly given to the Virginians in the lucrative job of
supplying these troops, or to any other cause, delayed the march of
the army for some weeks, during which it was in the utmost distress
for necessaries of all kinds; and would probably have defeated the
expedition entirely for that summer, had not the contractors found means
to procure some assistance from the back settlements of Pennsylvania.
But even when these supplies did arrive, they consisted of only fifteen
waggons, and an hundred draft horses, instead of an hundred and fifty
waggons and three hundred horses, which the Virginian contractors had
engaged to furnish, and the provisions were so bad that they could not
be used. However, some gentlemen in Pennsylvania, being applied to in
this exigency, amply made up for these deficiencies, and the troops were
by this means supplied with every thing they wanted. Another, and still
more fatal error was committed in the choice of the commander for
this expedition. Major-general Braddock, who was appointed to it, was
undoubtedly a man of courage, and expert in all the punctilios of
a review, having been brought up in the English guards; but he was
naturally very haughty, positive, and difficult of access; qualities ill
suited to the temper of the people amongst whom he was to command. His
extreme severity in matters of discipline had rendered him unpopular
among the soldiers; and the strict military education in which he had
been trained from his youth, and which he prided himself on scrupulously
following, made him hold the American militia in great contempt, because
they could not go through their exercise with the same dexterity and
regularity as a regiment of guards in Hyde Park, little knowing,
or indeed being able to form any idea of the difference between the
European manner of fighting, and an American expedition through woods,
deserts, and morasses. Before he left England, he received, in the
hand-writing of colonel Napier, a set of instructions from the duke of
Cumberland. By these, the attempt upon Niagara was in a great measure
referred to him, and the reduction of Crown Point was to be left chiefly
to the provincial forces. But above all, his royal highness, both
verbally and in this writing, frequently cautioned him carefully to
beware of an ambush or surprise. Instead of regarding this salutary
caution, his conceit of his own abilities made him disdain to ask the
opinion of any under his command; and the Indians, who would have been
his safest guards against this danger in particular, were so disgusted
by the haughtiness of his behaviour, that most of them forsook his
banners. Under these disadvantages he began his march from Fort
Cumberland on the tenth of June, at the head of about two thousand two
hundred men, for the meadows, where colonel Washington was defeated the
year before. Upon his arrival there, he was informed that the French at
Fort du Quesne, which had lately been built on the same river, near
its confluence with the Monangahela, expected a reinforcement of five
hundred regular troops: therefore, that he might march with a greater
despatch, he left colonel Dunbar with eight hundred men, to bring up
the provisions, stores, and heavy baggage, as fast as the nature of the
service would permit; and with the other twelve hundred, together with
ten pieces of cannon, and the necessary ammunition, and provisions,
he marched on with so much expedition, that he seldom took any time
to reconnoitre the woods or thickets he was to pass through; as if the
nearer he approached the enemy, the farther he was removed from danger.

On the eighth of July, he encamped within ten miles of Fort du Quesne.
Though colonel Dunbar was then near forty miles behind him, and his
officers, particularly sir Peter Halket, earnestly entreated him to
proceed with caution, and to employ the friendly Indians who were with
him, by way of advanced guard, in case of ambuscades; yet he resumed
his march the next day, without so much as endeavouring to obtain any
intelligence of the situation or disposition of the enemy, or even
sending out any scouts to visit the woods and thickets on both sides of
him, as well as in front. With this carelessness he was advancing, when,
about noon, he was saluted with a general fire upon his front, and all
along his left flank, from an enemy so artfully concealed behind the
trees and bushes, that not a man of them could be seen. The vanguard
immediately fell back upon the main body, and in an instant the panic
and confusion became general; so that most of the troops fled with great
precipitation, notwithstanding all that their officers, some of whom
behaved very gallantly, could do to stop their career. As to Braddock
himself, instead of scouring the thickets and bushes from whence the
fire came, with grape shot from the ten pieces of cannon he had with
him, or ordering flanking parties of his Indians to advance against
the enemy, he obstinately remained upon the spot where he was, and gave
orders for the few brave officers and men who staid with him, to form
regularly, and advance. Meanwhile his men fell thick about him, and
almost all his officers were singled out, one after another, and killed
or wounded; for the Indians, who always take aim when they fire, and aim
chiefly at the officers, distinguished them by their dress. At last,
the general, whose obstinacy seemed to increase with the danger, after
having had some horses shot under him, received a musket shot through
the right arm and lungs, of which he died in a few hours, having been
carried off the field by the bravery of lieutenant-colonel Gage, another
of his officers. When he dropped, the confusion of the few that remained
turned it into a downright and very disorderly flight across a river
which they had just passed, though no enemy appeared, or attempted to
attack them. All the artillery, ammunition, and baggage of the army were
left to the enemy, and, among the rest, the general's cabinet, with all
his letters and instructions, which the French court afterwards made
great use of in their printed memorials or manifestoes. The loss of
the English in this unhappy affair amounted to seven hundred men.
Their officers, in particular, suffered much more than in the ordinary
proportion of batteries in Europe. Sir Peter Halket fell by the very first
fire, at the head of his regiment; and the general's secretary, son to
governor Shirley, was killed soon after. Neither the number of men which
the enemy had in this engagement, nor the loss which they sustained,
could be so much as guessed at; but the French afterwards gave out,
that their number did not, in the whole, exceed four hundred men, mostly
Indians; and that their loss was quite inconsiderable, as it probably
was, because they lay concealed in such a manner that the English knew
not whither to point their muskets. The panic of these last continued so
long, that they never stopped till they met the rear division; and even
then they infected those troops with their terrors; so that the army
retreated without stopping, till they reached Fort Cumberland, though
the enemy did not so much as attempt to pursue, nor ever appeared in
sight, either in the battle, or after the defeat. On the whole, this was
perhaps the most extraordinary victory that ever was obtained, and the
farthest flight that ever was made.

Had the shattered remains of this army continued at Fort Cumberland, and
fortified themselves there, as they might easily have done, during the
rest of the summer, they would have been such a check upon the French
and their scalping Indians, as would have prevented many of those
ravages that were committed in the ensuing winter upon the western
borders of Virginia and Pennsylvania; but, instead of taking that
prudent step, their commander left only the sick and wounded at that
fort, under the protection of two companies of the provincial militia,
posted there by way of garrison, and began his march on the second of
August, with about sixteen hundred men, for Philadelphia; where those
troops could be of no immediate service. From thence they were ordered
away to Albany, in New York, by general Shirley, on whom the chief
command of the troops in America had devolved by the death of
major-general Braddock. Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, were by
these means left entirely to the care of themselves, which they might
have done effectually, had they been united in their councils; but the
usual disputes between their governors and assemblies, defeated every
salutary plan that was proposed. Pennsylvania, the most powerful of the
three, was rendered quite impotent, either for its own defence or that
of its neighbours, by these unhappy contests; though, at last, the
assembly of that province, sensible of the danger to which they were
exposed, and seeing the absolute necessity of providing a standing
military force, and of erecting some forts to defend their western
frontier, passed a bill for raising fifty thousand pounds. But even
this sum, small as it was, even to a degree of ridicule, considering the
richness of the province and the extent of its frontier, could not be
obtained; the governor positively refusing to give his assent to the
act of the assembly, because they had taxed the proprietaries estates
equally with those of the inhabitants, which, he said, he was ordered
by his instructions, not to consent to, nor indeed any new tax upon the
proprietaries: and the assembly, consisting chiefly of members whose
estates lay in the eastern or interior parts of the province, as
positively refusing to alter their bill. One would be apt to think,
that, in a case of such urgent necessity, the governor might have
ventured to give his assent to the bill under a protest, that it should
not prejudice the rights of the proprietaries upon any future occasion;
but as he did not, the bill was dropped, and the province left
defenceless; by which means it afterwards suffered severely, to the
destruction of many of the poor inhabitants upon the western frontier,
and to the impressing the Indians with a contemptible opinion of the
English, and the highest esteem of the French.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


EXPEDITION AGAINST CROWN POINT AND NIAGARA RESOLVED ON.

Our colonies to the north of Pennsylvania were more active, and more
successful in their preparations for war. New York, following the
example of New England, passed an act to prohibit the sending of
provisions to any French port or settlement on the continent of North
America, or any of the adjacent islands; and also for raising forty-five
thousand pounds, on estates real and personal, for the better defence of
their colony, which lay more exposed than any other to a French invasion
from Crown Point. However, this sum, great as it might seem to them,
was far from being sufficient; nor, indeed, could they have provided
properly for their security, without the assistance of our other
colonies to the east of them; but with their help, and the additional
succour of the small body of regular troops expected under Colonel
Dunbar, they boldly resolved upon offensive measures, which when
practicable are always the safest; and two expeditions, one against the
French fort at Crown Point, and the other against their fort at Niagara,
between the lakes Ontario and Erie, were set on foot at the same time.
The former of these expeditions was appointed to be executed under the
command of general Johnson, a native of Ireland, who had long resided
upon the Mohawk river, in the western parts of New York, where he had
acquired a considerable estate, and was universally beloved, not only by
the inhabitants, but also by the neighbouring Indians, whose language he
had learnt, and whose affections he had gained by his humanity towards
them. The expedition against Niagara was commanded by general Shirley
himself.

The rendezvous of the troops for both these expeditions was appointed to
be at Albany, where most of them arrived before the end of June; but the
artillery, batteaux, provisions, and other necessaries for the attempt
upon Crown Point, could not be prepared till the eighth of August, when
general Johnson set out with them from Albany for the Carrying-place
from Hudson's river to Lake George. There the troops had already
arrived, under the command of major-general Lyman, and consisted of
between five and six thousand men, besides Indians, raised by the
governments of Boston, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and New
York. Every thing was then prepared as fast as possible for a march; and
towards the end of the month, general Johnson advanced about fourteen
miles forward with his troops, and encamped in a very strong situation,
covered on each side by a thick wooded swamp, by Lake George in his
rear, and by a breast-work of trees, cut down for that purpose, in
his front. Here he resolved to wait the arrival of his batteaux, and
afterwards to proceed to Ticonderoga, at the other end of the lake, from
whence it was but about fifteen miles to the fort at the south end of
Lake Colaer, or Champlain, called Fort Frederick by the French, and by
us Crown Point. Whilst he was thus encamped, some of his Indian scouts,
of which he took care to send out numbers along both sides, and to
the farther end of Lake George, brought him intelligence that
a considerable number of the enemy were then on their march from
Ticonderoga, by the way of the south bay, towards the fortified
encampment, since called Fort Edward, which general Lyman had built
at the Carrying-place; and in which four or five hundred of the New
Hampshire and New York men had been left as a garrison. Upon this
information general Johnson sent two expresses, one after the other,
to colonel Blanchard their commander, with orders to call in all his
out-parties, and to keep his whole force within the intrenchments. About
twelve o'clock at night, those who had been sent upon the second express
returned with an account of their having seen the enemy within four
miles of the camp at the Carrying-place, which they scarcely doubted
their having by that time attacked. Important as the defence of this
place was for the safety of the whole army, and imminent as the danger
seemed to be, it does not appear that the general then called any
council of war, or resolved upon any thing for its relief; but early the
next morning he called a council, wherein it was unadvisedly resolved
to detach a thousand men, with a number of Indians, to intercept, or, as
the general's expression was in his letter, to catch the enemy in
their retreat, either as victors, or as defeated in their design. This
expedient was resolved on, though no one knew the number of the enemy,
nor could obtain any information in that respect from the Indian scouts,
because the Indians have no words or signs for expressing any large
number, which, when it exceeds their reckoning, they signify by pointing
to the stars in the firmament, or to the hair of their head; and this
they often do to denote a number less than a thousand, as well as to
signify ten thousand, or any greater number.

Between eight and nine o'clock in the morning a thousand men, with two
hundred Indians, were detached under the command of colonel Williams;
but they had not been gone two hours when those in the camp began to
hear a close firing, at about three or four miles' distance, as they
judged; as it approached nearer and nearer, they rightly supposed that
the detachment was overpowered, and retreating towards the camp; which
was soon confirmed by some fugitives, and presently after by whole
companies, who fled back in great confusion. In a very short time after,
the enemy appeared marching in regular order up to the centre of the
camp, where the consternation was so great, that, if they had attacked
the breastwork directly, they might probably have thrown all into
confusion, and obtained an easy victory; but fortunately for the
English, they halted for some time at about an hundred and fifty yards'
distance, and from thence began their attack with platoon firing, too
far off to do much hurt, especially against troops who were defended by
a strong breastwork. On the contrary, this ineffectual fire served only
to raise the spirits of these last, who, having prepared their artillery
during the time that the French halted, began to play it so briskly
upon the enemy, that the Canadians and Indians in their service fled
immediately into the woods on each side of the camp, and there squatted
under bushes, or skulked behind trees, from whence they continued firing
with very little execution, most of their shot being intercepted by the
brakes and thickets; for they never had the courage to advance to the
verge of the wood. Baron Dieskau, who commanded the French, being thus
left alone with his regular troops at the front of the camp, finding he
could not make a close attack upon the centre with his small number
of men, moved first to the left, and then to the right, at both which
places he endeavoured to force a passage, but was repulsed, being
unsupported by the irregulars. Instead of retreating, as he ought in
prudence to have done, he still continued his platoon and bush firing
till four o'clock in the afternoon, during which time his regular troops
suffered greatly by the fire from the camp, and were at last thrown into
confusion; which was no sooner perceived by general Johnson's men, than
they, without waiting for orders, leaped over their breastwork, attacked
the enemy on all sides, and after killing and taking a considerable
number of them, entirely dispersed the rest. The French, whose numbers
at the beginning of this engagement amounted to about two thousand men,
including two hundred grenadiers, eight hundred Canadians, and the rest
Indians of different nations, had between seven and eight hundred men
killed, and thirty taken prisoners; among the latter was baron Dieskau
himself, whom they found at a little distance from the field of battle,
dangerously wounded, and leaning on the stump of a tree for his support.
The English lost about two hundred men, and those chiefly of the
detachment under Colonel Williams; for they had very few either killed
or wounded in the attack upon their camp, and not any of distinction,
except colonel Tit-comb killed, and the general himself and major
Nichols wounded. Among the slain of the detachment, which would probably
have been entirely cut off had not lieutenant-colonel Cole been sent out
from the camp with three hundred men, with which he stopped the enemy's
pursuit, and covered the retreat of his friends, were colonel Williams,
major Ashly, six captains, and several subalterns, besides private men;
and the Indians reckoned that they had lost forty men, besides the brave
old Hendrick, the Mohawk sachem, or chief captain.


BRAVERY OF CAPTAIN M'GINNES.

When baron Dieskau set out from Ticonderoga, his design was only to
surprise and cut off the intrenched camp, now called Fort Edward, at the
Carrying-place, where there were but four or five hundred men. If he
had executed this scheme, our army would have been thrown into great
difficulties; for it could neither have proceeded farther, nor have
subsisted where it was, and he might have found an opportunity to attack
it with great advantage in its retreat. But when he was within four
or five miles of that fort, his people were informed that there were
several cannon there, and none at the camp; upon which they all desired
to be led on to this last, which he the more readily consented to, as he
himself had been told by an English prisoner, who had left this camp
but a few days before, that it was quite defenceless, being without any
lines, and destitute of cannon; which, in effect, was true at that time;
for the cannon did not arrive, nor was the breast-work erected, till
about two days before the engagement. To this misinformation, therefore,
must be imputed this step, which would otherwise be inconsistent with
the general character and abilities of baron Dieskau. A less justifiable
error seems to have been committed by general Johnson, in not detaching
a party to pursue the enemy when they were defeated and fled. Perhaps
he was prevented from so doing by the ill fate of the detachment he had
sent out in the morning under colonel Williams. However that may be, his
neglect in this respect had like to have been fatal the next day to a
detachment sent from Fort Edward, consisting of an hundred and twenty
men of the New Hampshire regiment, under captain M'Ginnes, as a
reinforcement to the army at the camp. This party fell in with between
three and four hundred men of Dieskau's troops, near the spot where
colonel Williams had been defeated the day before; but M'Ginnes, having
timely notice by his scouts of the approach of an enemy, made such a
disposition, that he not only repulsed the assailants, but defeated and
entirely dispersed them, with the loss only of two men killed, eleven
wounded, and five missing. He himself unfortunately died of the wounds
he received in this engagement, a few days after he arrived at the camp
with his party. It was now judged too late in the year to proceed to the
attack of Crown Point, as it would have been necessary, in that case,
to build a strong fort in the place where the camp then was, in order
to secure a communication with Albany, from whence only the troops could
expect to be reinforced, or supplied with fresh stores of ammunition
or provisions. They therefore set out upon their return soon after this
engagement, having first erected a little stockaded fort, at the hither
end of Lake George, in which they left a small garrison, as a future
prey for the enemy; a misfortune which might easily have been foreseen,
because this whole army being country militia, was to be disbanded, and
return to their respective homes, as they actually did soon after their
retreat to Albany. This was all the glory, this all the advantage, that
the English nation acquired by such an expensive expedition. But so
little had the English been accustomed of late to hear of victory, that
they rejoiced at this advantage, as if it had been an action of the
greatest consequence. The general was highly applauded for his conduct,
and liberally rewarded; for he was created a baronet by his majesty, and
presented with five thousand pounds by the parliament.


DESCRIPTION OF FORT OSWEGO, &c

The preparations for general Shirley's expedition against Niagara, were
not only deficient, but shamefully slow; though it was well known that
even the possibility of his success must, in a great measure, depend
upon his setting out early in the year, as will appear to any person who
considers the situation of our fort at Oswego, this being the only way
by which he could proceed to Niagara. Oswego lies on the south-east
side of the lake Ontario, near three hundred miles almost due west from
Albany in New York. The way to it from thence, though long and tedious,
is the more convenient, as the far greatest part of it admits of water
carriage, by what the inhabitants called batteaux, which are a kind of
light flat-bottomed boats, widest in the middle, and pointed at each
end, of about fifteen hundred weight burden, and managed by two men
called batteau-men, with paddles and setting poles, the rivers being in
many places too narrow to admit of oars. From Albany to the village of
Schenactady, about sixteen miles, is a good waggon road. From thence
to the little falls in the Mohawk-river, being sixty-five miles, the
passage is by water-carriage up that river, and consequently against
the stream, which in many places is somewhat rapid, and in others so
shallow, that, when the river is low, the watermen are obliged to get
out and draw their batteaux over the rifts. At the little falls is a
postage or land-carriage for about a mile, over a ground so marshy that
it will not bear any wheel carriage; but a colony of Germans settled
there, attend with sledges, on which they draw the loaded batteaux to
the next place of embarkation upon the same river. From thence they
proceed by water up that river for fifty miles, to the Carrying-place,
near the head of it, where there is another postage, the length of which
depends upon the dryness or wetness of the season, but is generally
above six or eight miles over in the summer months. Here the batteaux
are again carried upon sledges, till they come to a narrow river, called
Wood's Creek, down which they are wafted on a gentle stream for about
forty miles into the lake Oneyada, which stretches from east to west
about thirty miles, and is passed with great ease and safety in calm
weather. At the western end of the lake is the river Onondaga, which,
after a course of between twenty and thirty miles, unites with the river
Cayuga, or Seneca, and their united streams run into the lake Ontario,
at the place where Oswego fort is situated. But this river is so rapid
as to be sometimes dangerous, besides its being full of rifts and rocks;
and about twelve miles on this side of Oswego there is a fall of
eleven feet perpendicular, where there is consequently a postage, which
however, does not exceed forty yards. From thence the passage is easy
quite to Oswego. The lake Ontario, on which this fort stands, is near
two hundred and eighty leagues in circumference; its figure is oval, and
its depth runs from twenty to twenty-five fathoms. On the north side of
it are several little gulfs. There is a communication between this
lake and that of the Hurons by the river Tanasuate, from whence it is a
land-carriage of six or eight leagues to the river Toronto, which
falls into it. The French have two forts of consequence on this lake;
Frontenac, which commands the river St. Lawrence, where the lake
communicates with it; and Niagara, which commands the communication
between the lake Ontario and the lake Erie. But of these forts, and
this last lake, which is one of the finest in the world, we shall have
occasion to speak hereafter.

Though we had long been in possession of fort Oswego, and though it lay
greatly exposed to the French, particularly to those of Canada, upon any
rupture between the two nations, we had never taken care to render
it tolerably defensible, or even to build a single vessel fit for
navigating the lake: nor was this strange neglect ever taken effectual
notice of, till the beginning of this year, when, at a meeting which
general Braddock had in April with the governors and chief gentlemen of
several of our colonies at Alexandria, in Virginia, it was resolved to
strengthen both the fort and garrison at Oswego, and to build some large
vessels at that place. Accordingly a number of shipwrights and workmen
were sent thither in May and June. At the same time captain Bradstreet
marched thither with two companies of an hundred men each, to reinforce
the hundred that were there before under captain King, to which number
the garrison had been increased since our contests with France began
to grow serious. For a long time before, not above twenty-five men
were left to defend this post, which from its great importance, and the
situation of affairs at this juncture, most certainly required a much
stronger garrison than was put into it even at this juncture; but
economy was the chief thing consulted in the beginning of this war, and
to that in a great measure was owing its long duration.


EXPEDITION AGAINST NIAGARA.

From the above description of the passage from Albany to Oswego, it is
plain how necessary it was that the troops intended for this expedition
should have set out early in the spring. But instead of that, the very
first of them, colonel Schuyler's New Jersey regiment, did not begin
their march till after the beginning of July, and just as Shirley's and
Pepperell's regiments were preparing to follow, the melancholy account
of Braddock's disaster arrived at Albany, where it so damped the
spirits of the people, and spread such a terror, that many of the troops
deserted, and most of the batteau-men dispersed and ran home, by which
means even all the necessary stores could not be carried along with the
troops. Notwithstanding this disappointment, Mr. Shirley set out from
Albany before the end of July, with as many of the troops and stores as
he could procure a conveyance for, hoping to be joined in his route
by great numbers of the Indians of the Six Nations, to whom he sent
invitations to that effect as he passed by their settlements; but they,
instead of complying with his desire, absolutely declared against all
hostilities on that side of the country; and insisted that Oswego, being
a place of traffic and peace, ought not to be disturbed either by the
English or the French, as if they could have persuaded both parties to
agree to such a local truce. Upon this refusal, Mr. Shirley proceeded
forward, being joined by a very few Indians, and arrived at Oswego on
the seventeenth or eighteenth of August; but the rest of the troops and
artillery did not arrive till the last day of that month; and even
then, their store of provisions was not sufficient to enable them to
go against Niagara, though some tolerably good vessels had by this time
been built and got ready for that purpose. The general now resolved to
take but six hundred men with him for the attack of Niagara, and to
leave the rest of his army, consisting of about fourteen hundred more,
at Oswego, to defend that place, in case the French should attack it
in his absence, which there was reason to apprehend they might, as they
then had a considerable force at fort Frontenac, from whence they could
easily cross over the lake Ontario to Oswego. However, he was still
obliged to wait at Oswego for provisions, of which at length a small
supply arrived on the twenty-sixth of September, barely sufficient to
support his men during their intended expedition, and to allow twelve
days' short subsistence for those he left behind. But by this time the
rainy boisterous season had begun, on which account most of his Indians
had already left him and were returned home; and the few that remained
with him declared that there was no crossing the lake Ontario in
batteaux at that season, or any time before the next summer. In this
perplexity he called a council of war, which, after weighing all
circumstances, unanimously resolved to defer the attempt upon Niagara
till the next year, and to employ the troops, whilst they remained at
Oswego, in building barracks, and erecting, or at least beginning to
erect, two new forts, one on the east side of the river Onondaga, four
hundred and fifty yards distant from the old fort, which it was to
command, as well as the entrance of the harbour, and to be called
Ontario-fort; and the other four hundred and fifty yards west of the old
fort, to be called Oswego new fort.


GENERAL SHIRLEY RETURNS TO ALBANY.

These things being agreed on, general Shirley, with the greatest part
of the troops under his command, set out on his return to Albany on the
twenty-fourth of October, leaving colonel Mercer, with a garrison of
about seven hundred men, at Oswego; though repeated advice had been
received, that the French had then at least a thousand men at their fort
at Frontenac, upon the same lake; and, what was still worse, the new
forts were not yet near completed; but left to be finished by the hard
labour of colonel Mercer and his little garrrison, with the addition
of this melancholy circumstance, that, if besieged by the enemy in
the winter, it would not be possible for his friends to come to his
assistance. Thus ended this year's unfortunate campaign, during which
the French, with the assistance of their Indian allies, continued their
murders, scalping, captivating, and laying waste the western frontiers
of Virginia and Pennsylvania, during the whole winter.

The ministers of the two warring powers were very busily employed this
year at most of the courts of Europe; but their transactions were kept
extremely secret. The French endeavoured to inspire the Spaniards with
a jealousy of the strength of the English by sea, especially in America;
and the Spanish court seemed inclined to accept of the office of
mediator; but Mr. Wall, who was perfectly well acquainted with the state
of affairs between England and France, seconded the representations of
the British ministry, which demonstrated, that, however willing Great
Britain might be to accept of the mediation of Spain, she could not
agree to any suspension of arms in America, which France insisted on
as a preliminary condition, without hazarding the whole of her interest
there; and that the captures which had been made by the English were the
necessary consequences of the encroachments and injustice of the French,
particularly in that country. Upon this remonstrance, all further talk
of the mediation of Spain was dropped, and the ministry of Versailles
had recourse to the princes of Germany; amongst whom the elector of
Cologn was soon brought over to their party, so as to consent to their
forming magazines in his territories in Westphalia. This was a plain
indication of their design against Hanover, which they soon after made
his Britannic majesty, who was then at Hanover, an offer of sparing, if
he would agree to certain conditions of neutrality for that
electorate, which he rejected with disdain. Then the count d'Aubeterre,
envoy-extraordinary from France at the court of Vienna, proposed a
secret negotiation with the ministers of the empress-queen. The secret
articles of the treaty of Petersburgh, between the two empresses, had
stipulated a kind of partition of the Prussian territories, in case that
prince should infringe the treaty of Dresden; but his Britannic
majesty, though often invited, had always refused to agree to any such
stipulation; and the king of Poland, howsoever he might be inclined to
favour the scheme, did not dare to avow it formally, till matters should
be more ripe for carrying it into execution. The court of Vienna,
whose favourite measure this was, began to listen to d'Aubeterre's
insinuations, and by degrees entered into negotiations with him, which,
in the end, were productive of that unnatural confederacy between the
empress-queen and the king of France, of which further notice will be
taken in the occurrences of the next year, when the treaty between them,
into which they afterwards found means secretly to bring the empress of
Russia, was concluded at Versailles.


TREATY WITH THE LANDGRAVE OF HESSE-CASSEL.

The king of England taking it for granted that the French would invade
Hanover, in consequence of their rupture with Great Britain, which
seemed to be near at hand, began to take measures for the defence of
that electorate. To this end, during his stay at Hanover, he concluded,
on the eighteenth day of June, a treaty with the landgrave of
Hesse-Cassel, by which his serene highness engaged to hold in readiness,
during four years, for his majesty's service, a body of eight thousand
men, to be employed, if required, upon the continent, or in Britain, or
Ireland; but not on board the fleet or beyond the seas; and also, if
his Britannic majesty should judge it necessary or advantageous for his
service, to furnish and join to this body of eight thousand men, within
six months after they should be demanded, four thousand more, of
which seven hundred were to be horse or dragoons, and each regiment of
infantry to have two field pieces of cannon. [364] _[See note 2 Y, at
the end of this Vol.]_ Another treaty was begun with Russia about the
same time; but this did not take effect during his majesty's residence
at Hanover: that others were not concluded was the more surprising, as
our subsidy-treaty with Saxony had then expired, and that with Bavaria
was near expiring, and as the securing of these two princes in our
interest was at least as necessary towards forming a sufficient
confederacy upon the continent for the defence of Hanover, as it was to
secure the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel. If the reason of their not being
engaged, and no other seems so probable, was, that they refused to renew
their treaties with England upon any terms, all that can be said is,
that they were guilty of flagrant ingratitude, as they had both received
a subsidy from this kingdom for many years in time of peace, when
they neither were nor could be of any service to the interest of Great
Britain.


NEWS OF THE CAPTURE OF THE ALCIDE AND LYS REACHES ENGLAND.

On the fifteenth of July, an express arrived from admiral Boscawen, with
an account of his having taken the two French ships of war, the Alcide
and the Lys. This was certainly contrary to the expectation of the court
of France; for had they apprehended any such attack, they would not have
ordered Mr. Macnamara to return to Brest with the chief part of their
squadron; nor was it perhaps less contrary to the expectation of some
of our own ministry; but as matters had been carried so far, it was then
too late to retreat; and, therefore, orders were soon after given to
all our ships of war to make reprisals upon the French, by taking their
ships wherever they should meet them. Sir Edward Hawke sailed from
Portsmouth on the twenty-first of July, with eighteen ships of war,
to watch the return of the French fleet from America; which, however,
escaped him, and arrived at Brest on the third day of September.
Commodore Frankland sailed from Spithead for the West Indies on the
thirteenth of August, with four ships of war, furnished with orders to
commit hostilities, as well as to protect our trade and sugar-islands
from any insult that the French might offer; and the duke de Mirepoix,
their ambassador at the court of London, set out for Paris on the
twenty-second of July, without taking leave.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}


THE KING RETURNS FROM HANOVER, AND CONCLUDES A TREATY WITH RUSSIA.

A war being thus in some measure begun, his majesty thought proper,
perhaps for that reason, to return to his British dominions sooner than
usual; for he left Hanover on the eighth of September, and arrived on
the fifteenth at Kensington, where the treaty of alliance between him
and the empress of Russia, which he had begun during his absence, was
concluded on the thirtieth of the same month. By this treaty her Russian
majesty engaged to hold in readiness in Livonia, upon the frontiers of
Lithuania, a body of troops consisting of forty thousand infantry, with
the necessary artillery, and fifteen thousand cavalry; and also on the
coast of the same province, forty or fifty galleys, with the necessary
crews; to be ready to act, upon the first order, in his majesty's
service, in case, said the fifth article, which was the most remarkable,
that the dominions of his Britannic majesty in Germany should be invaded
on account of the interests or disputes which regard his kingdoms; her
imperial majesty declaring that she would look upon such an invasion
as a case of the alliance of the year one thousand seven hundred and
forty-two; and that the said dominions should be therein comprised in
this respect; but neither these troops nor galleys were to be put in
motion, unless his Britannic majesty, or his allies, should be somewhere
attacked; in which case the Russian general should march as soon as
possible after requisition, to make a diversion with thirty thousand
infantry, and fifteen thousand cavalry; and should embark on board the
galleys the other ten thousand infantry to make a descent according to
the exigency of the affair. On the other side, his Britannic majesty
engaged to pay to her Russian majesty an annual subsidy of an hundred
thousand pounds sterling a year, each year to be paid in advance, and
to be reckoned from the day of the exchange of the ratifications, to the
day that these troops should upon requisition march out of Russia; from
which day the annual subsidy to her imperial majesty was to be five
hundred thousand pounds sterling, to be paid always four months in
advance, until the troops should return into the Russian dominions, and
for three months after their return. His Britannic majesty, who was to
be at liberty to send once every year into the said province of Livonia
a commissary, to see and examine the number and condition of the said
troops, further engaged, that, in case her Russian majesty should
be disturbed in this diversion, or attacked herself, he would famish
immediately the succour stipulated in the treaty of one thousand seven
hundred and forty-two, and that in case a war should break out, he
should send, into the Baltic a squadron of his ships, of a force
suitable to the circumstances. This was the chief substance of the
treaty, which, by agreement of both parties, was to subsist for four
years from the exchange of the ratifications; but in the seventh article
these words were unluckily inserted: "Considering also the proximity of
the countries wherein the diversion in question will probably be made,
and the facility her troops will probably have of subsisting immediately
in an enemy's country, she takes upon herself alone, during such a
diversion, the subsistence and treatment of the said troops by sea
and land." And in the eleventh article it was stipulated, that all the
plunder the Russian army should take from the enemy should belong to
them. That his Britannic majesty, who now knew enough of the court of
Vienna to be sensible that he could expect no assistance from thence,
in case his German dominions were invaded, should enter into this
convention with the empress of Russia, in order to strengthen his
defence upon the continent, was extremely natural; especially as he had
lately lived in great friendship with her, and her transactions with
the court of France had been so secret, by passing through only that
of Vienna, that he had not yet been informed of them; neither had the
project of the treaty of Versailles then come to his knowledge, or to
that of the king of Prussia, nor had either of these princes yet made
any formal advances to the other.


DECLARATION OF THE FRENCH MINISTRY AT THE COURT OF VIENNA.

The first intimation that appeared publicly of the negotiations of
France with the empress of Germany, was when the French minister, count
d'Aubeterre, declared at Vienna, "That the warlike designs with which
the king his master was charged, were sufficiently confuted by his great
moderation, of which all Europe had manifold proofs; that his majesty
was persuaded this groundless charge had given as much indignation to
their imperial majesties as to himself; that he was firmly resolved to
preserve to Christendom that tranquillity which it enjoyed through his
good faith, in religiously observing the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle; but
that if his Britannic majesty's allies should take part in the war
which was kindled in America, by furnishing succours to the English, his
majesty would be authorized to consider and treat them as principals in
it." France likewise made the same declaration to other courts.


SPIRITED DECLARATION OF PRUSSIA.

The words and stipulation in the above-recited clause, in the seventh
article of the treaty of Great Britain with Russia, were looked on as
a menace levelled at the king of Prussia, who, having some time found
means to procure a copy of this treaty, and seeing it in that light,
boldly declared, by his ministers at all the courts of Europe, that he
would oppose, with his utmost force, the entrance of any foreign troops
into the empire, under any pretence whatever. This declaration was
particularly displeasing to the French, who had already marched large
bodies of troops towards the frontiers of the empire, and erected
several great magazines in Westphalia, with the permission of the
elector of Cologn, for which the English minister at his court was, in
August, ordered to withdraw from thence without taking leave. However,
as soon as this declaration of the king of Prussia was notified to the
court of Versailles, they sent an ambassador-extraordinary, the duke
de Nivernois, to Berlin, to try to persuade his majesty to retract
his declaration, and enter into a new alliance with them. His Prussian
majesty received this ambassador in such a manner as seemed to denote a
disposition to agree to every thing he had to propose. This awakened in
England a jealousy that his declaration alone was not to be relied on,
but that it was necessary to bring him under some solemn engagement;
especially as the French had by this time a numerous army near the Lower
Rhine, with magazines provided for their march all the way to Hanover;
and if the king of Prussia suffered them to pass through his dominions,
that electorate must be swallowed up before the Russian auxiliaries
could possibly be brought thither, or any army be formed for protecting
it.* For this reason a negotiation was set on foot by Great Britain at
Berlin, but as it was not concluded before the beginning of the next
year, we shall defer entering into the particulars of it till we come to
that period.

     * Perhaps the elector of Hanover was more afraid of the
     Prussian monarch than of the most christian king, knowing
     with what ease and rapidity this enterprising neighbour
     could, in a few days, subdue the whole electorate.


THE FRENCH MAKE ANOTHER UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT UPON THE COURT OF SPAIN.

Meanwhile the French made another attempt upon the court of Madrid,
loudly complaining of the taking their two men of war by Boscawen's
squadron, before any declaration of war was made, representing it as
a most unjustifiable proceeding, which threatened a dissolution of all
faith amongst nations. This produced a strong memorial from sir Benjamin
Keene, our minister at that court, importing, "That it was well known
that the French fleet carried troops, ammunition, and every thing
necessary for defending the countries which the French had unjustly
usurped in America, and of which the English claimed the property; that
the rules of self-defence authorize every nation to render fruitless any
attempt that may tend to its prejudice; that this right had been
made use of only in taking the two French ships of war; and that the
distinction of place might be interpreted in favour of the English,
seeing the two ships were taken on the coasts of the countries where
the contest arose." In answer to this observation, the French minister
represented the vast number of ships which had been taken in the
European seas; for in fact the English ports soon began to be filled
with them, in consequence of the general orders for making reprisals.
But the court of Madrid was so far from being persuaded by any thing he
could say, that it gave his Britannic majesty the strongest assurances
of its friendship, and of its intention to take no part in the
differences between him and France, but such as should be conciliatory,
and tending to restore the public tranquillity.


THE IMPERIAL COURT REFUSES AUXILIARIES TO ENGLAND.

On the other hand, his Britannic majesty required, as king of
Great Britain, the auxiliaries stipulated to him by treaty from the
empress-queen. But these were refused, under pretence, that as the
contest between him and France related to America only, it was not a
case of the alliance; though at the same time the French made no scruple
of owning, that they intended to make a powerful descent on Great
Britain early in the spring. When, a little while after, France being
employed in making great preparation for a land war in Europe, the king
of England required her to defend her own possessions, the barrier in
the Low Countries, with the number of men stipulated by the treaty,
which countries, acquired by English blood and English treasure, had
been given to her on that express condition, she declared that she could
not spare troops for that purpose, on account of her dangerous enemy the
king of Prussia; and afterwards, when he was secured by his treaty with
England, she urged that as a reason for her alliance with France. It
must be owned, however, for the sake of historical truth, that this was
no bad reason, considering the power, the genius, and the character of
that prince, who hovered over her dominions with an army of one hundred
and fifty thousand veterans. It must likewise be owned, that she
undertook to procure the French king's consent to a neutrality for
Hanover, which would have effectually secured that electorate from the
invasion of every other power but Prussia itself; and it is no strained
conjecture to suppose, that the dread of this very power was the true
source of those connexions in Germany, which entailed such a ruinous
continental war upon Great Britain.


THE FRENCH TAKE THE BLANDFORD.

Though the English continued to make reprisals upon the French, not only
in the seas of America, but also in those of Europe, by taking every
ship they could meet with, and detaining them, their cargoes, and crews;
yet the French, whether from a consciousness of their want of power by
sea, or that they might have a more plausible plea to represent England
as the aggressor, were so far from returning these hostilities, that
their fleet, which escaped sir Edward Hawke, having, on the thirteenth
of August, taken the Blandford ship of war, with governor Lyttelton on
board, going to Carolina, they set the governor at liberty, as soon
as the court was informed of the ship's being brought into Nantes, and
shortly after released both the ship and the crew. However, at the
same time, their preparations for a land war still went on with great
diligence, and their utmost arts and efforts were fruitlessly exerted
to persuade the Spaniards and Dutch to join with them against Great
Britain.


STATE OF THE ENGLISH AND FRENCH NAVIES.

In England the preparations by sea became greater than ever, several
new ships of war were put in commission, and many others taken into the
service of the government; the exportation of gunpowder was forbid; the
bounties to seamen were continued, and the number of those that either
entered voluntarily, or were pressed, increased daily, as did also the
captures from the French, among which was the Espérance, of seventy
guns, taken as she was going from Rochefort to Brest to be manned. The
land-forces of Great Britain were likewise ordered to be augmented;
several new regiments were raised, and all half-pay officers, and the
out-pensioners belonging to Chelsea-hospital, were directed to send in
their names, ages, and time of service, in order that such of them as
were yet able to serve might be employed again if wanted. The English
navy, so early as in the month of September of this year, consisted
of one ship of an hundred and ten guns, five of an hundred guns each,
thirteen of ninety, eight of eighty, five of seventy-four, twenty-nine
of seventy, four of sixty-six, one of sixty-four, thirty-three of
sixty, three of fifty-four, twenty-eight of fifty, four of forty-four,
thirty-five of forty, and forty-two of twenty, four sloops of war of
eighteen guns each, two of sixteen, eleven of fourteen, thirteen
of twelve, and one of ten, besides a great number of bomb-ketches,
fire-ships, and tenders; a force sufficient to oppose the united
maritime strength of all the powers in Europe; whilst that of the
French, even at the end of this year, and including the ships then
upon the stocks, amounted to no more than six ships of eighty guns,
twenty-one of seventy-four, one of seventy-two, four of seventy,
thirty-one of sixty-four, two of sixty, six of fifty, and thirty-two
frigates.


SESSION OPENED.

Such was the situation of the two kingdoms, when, on the thirteenth of
November, the parliament met, and his majesty opened the session with
a speech from the throne, in which he acquainted them--"That the most
proper measures had been taken to protect our possessions in America,
and to regain such parts thereof as had been encroached upon, or
invaded; that to preserve his people from the calamities of war, as well
as to prevent a general war from being lighted up in Europe, he had been
always ready to accept reasonable and honourable terms of accommodation,
but that none such had been proposed by France; that he had also
confined his views and operations to hinder France from making new
encroachments, or supporting those already made; to exert his people's
right to a satisfaction for hostilities committed in time of profound
peace, and to disappoint such designs, as, from various appearances
and preparations, there was reason to think had been formed against
his kingdoms and dominions; that the king of Spain earnestly wished the
preservation of the public tranquillity, and had given assurances of his
intention to continue in the same pacific sentiments; that he himself
had greatly increased his naval armaments, and augmented his land-forces
in such a manner as might be least burdensome; and, finally, that he
had concluded a treaty with the empress of Russia, and another with the
landgrave of Hesse-Cassel, which should be laid before them."


REMARKABLE ADDRESSES OF BOTH HOUSES.

In answer to this speech, both houses voted most loyal addresses,
but not without a warm opposition, in each, to some of the particular
expressions; for it having been proposed in the house of lords to insert
in their address the words following, viz.: "That they looked upon
themselves as obliged, by the strongest ties of duty, gratitude,
and honour, to stand by and support his majesty in all such wise and
necessary measures and engagements as his majesty might have taken in
vindication of the rights of his crown, or to defeat any attempts which
might be made by France in resentment for such measures, and to assist
his majesty in disappointing or repelling all such enterprises as might
be formed, not only against his kingdoms, but also against any other of
his dominions (though not belonging to the crown of Great Britain), in
case they should be attacked on account of the part which his majesty
had taken for maintaining the essential interests of his kingdoms;" the
inserting of these words in their address was opposed by earl Temple,
and several other lords; because, by the first part of them, they
engaged to approve of the treaties with Russia and Hesse-Cassel, neither
of which they had ever seen; nor could it be supposed that either of
them could be of any advantage to this nation; and by the second part
of these words it seemed to be resolved, to engage this nation in
a continental connexion for the defence of Hanover, which it was
impossible for England to support, and which would be so far from being
of any advantage to it at sea, or in America, that it might at last
disable the nation from defending itself in either of those parts of the
world. But upon putting the question, the inserting of these words was
agreed to by a great majority, and accordingly they stand as part of the
address of the house upon that occasion.


HIS MAJESTY'S ANSWER.

To this remarkable address his majesty returned the following as
remarkable answer: "My lords, I give you my hearty thanks for this
dutiful and affectionate address. I see, with the greatest satisfaction,
the zeal you express for my person and government, and for the true
interest of your country, which I am determined to adhere to. The
assurances which you give me for the defence of my territories abroad,
are a strong proof of your affection for me, and regard for my honour.
Nothing shall divert me from pursuing those measures which will
effectually maintain the possessions and rights of my kingdoms, and
procure reasonable and honourable terms of accommodation."--The address
of the house of commons breathed the same spirit of zeal and gratitude,
and was full of the warmest assurances of a ready support of his
majesty, and of his foreign dominions, if attacked in resentment of
his maintaining the rights of his crown and kingdom; and his majesty's
answer to it was to the same effect as that to the house of lords. The
same, or nearly the same words, relating to the treaties concluded by
his majesty, and to the defence of his foreign dominions, were proposed
to be inserted in this address, which was opposed by William Pitt, esq.,
then paymaster of his majesty's forces; the right hon. Henry Legge,
esq., then chancellor and un-der-treasurer of his majesty's exchequer,
and one of the commissioners of the treasury; and by several other
gentlemen in high posts under the government, as well as by many others;
but, upon putting the question, it was by a considerable majority agreed
to insert the words objected to; and very soon after, Mr. Pitt, Mr.
Legge, and most, if not all, of the gentlemen who had appeared in the
opposition, were dismissed from their employments. In the meantime, a
draft came over from Russia for part of the new subsidy stipulated to
that crown; but some of the ministry, who were then at the head of
the finances, refused to pay it, at least before the treaty should be
approved of by parliament.


ALTERATIONS IN THE MINISTRY.

Sir Thomas Robinson had not been long in possession of the office of
secretary of state, before it was generally perceived, that, though an
honest well meaning man, and a favourite with the king, his abilities
were not equal to the functions of that post. Much less were they so at
this juncture, when the nation was on the point of being engaged in
a difficult and expensive war, and plunged into foreign measures and
connexions, which would require the utmost skill of an able politician
to render them palatable to the people. Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox, though
they scarce ever agreed in any other particular, had generally united
in opposing his measures, and their superior influence in the house
of commons, and universally acknowledged abilities, though of very
different kinds, had always prevailed; uncommon as it was, to see two
persons who held considerable places under the government, one of them
being paymaster-general, and the other secretary at war, oppose, upon
almost every occasion, a secretary of state who was supposed to know
and speak the sentiments of his master. Sir Thomas himself soon grew
sensible of his want of sufficient weight in the senate of the nation;
and therefore, of his own accord, on the tenth of November, wisely and
dutifully resigned the seals of his office to his majesty, who delivered
them to Mr. Fox, and appointed sir Thomas master of the wardrobe, with
a pension to him during his life, and after his death to his sons. Lord
Barrington succeeded Mr. Fox as secretary at war; and soon after sir
George Lyttelton was made chancellor of the exchequer, and a lord of the
treasury, in the room of Mr. Legge, who had declared himself against the
new continental system. However, notwithstanding these changes in the
ministry, very warm debates arose in both houses, when the treaties
of Russia and Hesse-Cassel came to be considered by them; some of the
members were for referring them to a committee; but this motion was
over-ruled, in consideration of his majesty's having engaged in them
to guard against a storm that seemed ready to break upon his electoral
dominions, merely on account of our quarrel with the French. They
were at length approved of by a majority of three hundred and eighteen
against one hundred and twenty-six, in the house of commons; and by
eighty-four against eleven, in the house of lords.

The house of commons then proceeded to provide for the service of the
ensuing year, and for the deficiencies of the provisions for the
former. Fifty thousand seamen, including nine thousand one hundred and
thirty-eight marines, were voted, on the twenty-fourth of November,
for the service of the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-six,
together with two millions six hundred thousand pounds for their
maintenance; and thirty-four thousand two hundred and sixty-three land
soldiers, with nine hundred and thirty thousand six hundred and three
pounds, six shillings and ninepence, for their support. An hundred
thousand pounds were voted as a subsidy to the empress of Russia;
fifty-four thousand one hundred and forty pounds, twelve shillings and
sixpence, to the landgrave of Hesse-Cassel; and ten thousand pounds to
the elector of Bavaria.


EARTHQUAKE AT LISBON.

During these transactions, the public was overwhelmed with consternation
by the tidings of a dreadful earthquake, which, on the first November,
shook all Spain and Portugal, and many other places in Europe, and laid
the city of Lisbon in ruins. When the news of this great calamity first
reached England, it was feared the consequences of it might affect our
public credit, considering the vast interest which the English merchants
had in the Portuguese trade; but fortunately, it afterwards proved
inconsiderable, in comparison of what had been apprehended; the quarter
in which the English chiefly lived, and where they had their warehouses,
having suffered the least of any part of the city; and most of the
English merchants then residing there, together with their families,
being at their country houses, to avoid the insults to which they might
have been exposed from the Portuguese populace, during the celebration
of their _auto-da-fe_, which was kept that very day. The two first
shocks of this dreadful visitation continued near a quarter of an hour,
after which the water of the river Tagus rose perpendicularly above
twenty feet, and subsided to its natural bed in less than a minute.
Great numbers of houses, of which this city then contained about
thirty-six thousand, extending in length near six miles, in form of a
crescent, on the ascent of a hill upon the north shore of the mouth of
the river Tagus, within nine miles from the ocean, were thrown down by
the repeated commotions of the earth, together with several magnificent
churches, monasteries, and public buildings. But what entirely completed
the ruin of this then most opulent capital of the Portuguese dominions,
was a devouring conflagration, partly fortuitous or natural, but chiefly
occasioned by a set of impious villains, who, unawed by the tremendous
scene at that very instant passing before their eyes, with a wickedness
scarcely to be credited, set fire even to the falling edifices in
different parts of the city, to increase the general confusion, that
they might have the better opportunity to rob and plunder their already
desolated fellow-citizens. Out of three hundred and fifty thousand
inhabitants, which Lisbon was then supposed to contain, about ten
thousand perished by this calamity; and the survivors, deprived of their
habitations, and destitute even of the necessaries of life, were forced
to seek for shelter in the open fields.


RELIEF VOTED TO THE PORTUGUESE.

As soon as his majesty received an account of this deplorable event,
from his ambassador at the court of Madrid, he sent a message to both
houses of parliament, on the twenty-eighth of November, acquainting
them therewith, and desiring their concurrence and assistance towards
speedily relieving the unhappy sufferers; and the parliament thereupon,
to the honour of British humanity, unanimously voted, on the eighth of
December, a gift of an hundred thousand pounds for the distressed people
of Portugal. A circumstance which enhances the merit of this action is,
that though the English themselves were, at that very time, in great
want of grain, a considerable part of the sum was sent in corn, flour,
rice, and a large quantity of beef from Ireland; supplies which came
very seasonably for the poor Portuguese, who were in actual want of
the necessaries of life. Their king was so affected by this instance of
British generosity, that, to show his gratitude for the timely relief,
he ordered Mr. Castres, the British resident at his court, to give
the preference, in the distribution of these supplies, to the British
subjects who had suffered by the earthquake; accordingly, about a
thirtieth part of the provisions, and two thousand pounds in money,
were set apart for that purpose; and his Portuguese majesty returned his
thanks, in very warm terms, to the British crown and nation.

