Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


THE SEABOARD PARISH

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

VOL. I.


CONTENTS OF VOL. I.


   I. HOMILETIC
  II. CONSTANCE'S BIRTHDAY
 III. THE SICK CHAMBER
  IV. A SUNDAY EVENING
   V. MY DREAM
  VI. THE KEW BABY
 VII. ANOTHER SUNDAY EVENING
VIII. THEODORA'S DOOM
  IX. A SPRING CHAPTER
   X. AN IMPORTANT LETTER
  XI. CONNIE'S DREAM
 XII. THE JOURNEY
XIII. WHAT WE DID WHEN WE ARRIVED
 XIV. MORE ABOUT KILKHAVEN
  XV. THE OLD CHURCH
 XVI. CONNIE'S WATCH-TOWER
XVII. MY FIRST SERMON IN THE SEABOARD PARISH


CHAPTER I.

HOMILETIC.


Dear Friends,--I am beginning a new book like an old sermon; but, as you
know, I have been so accustomed to preach all my life, that whatever I say
or write will more or less take the shape of a sermon; and if you had not
by this time learned at least to bear with my oddities, you would not have
wanted any more of my teaching. And, indeed, I did not think you would want
any more. I thought I had bidden you farewell. But I am seated once again
at my writing-table, to write for you--with a strange feeling, however,
that I am in the heart of some curious, rather awful acoustic contrivance,
by means of which the words which I have a habit of whispering over to
myself as I write them, are heard aloud by multitudes of people whom I
cannot see or hear. I will favour the fancy, that, by a sense of your
presence, I may speak the more truly, as man to man.

I'd just love to take her round the Park in that car."
But the rest of that day, not to mention many successive days, was devoted
to other matters than love-making. Shoals of interviewers descended on
Curtis and Hermione, on Devar, on Uncle Horace and Aunt Louisa, on Brodie,
even on Mrs. Morgan Apjohn when it was discovered that she came to lunch,
and on "Vancouver" Devar when he arrived at the Central Station that evening.
Steingall's orders were imperative, however. Not a syllable was to
be uttered about the one topic concerning which the press was hungering
for information, because the shooting affray in Market Street had now
become known, and the gray car had been dragged out of the Hudson, and the
reporters were agog for the news which was withheld at headquarters. It
was then that the magic word, _sub judice_, proved very useful. Even in
outspoken America, witnesses do not retail their evidence to all and sundry
when men's lives are at stake, and it was quickly determined to charge
all five prisoners under one and the same indictment.

Yet, for reasons never understood by the public, Balusky and Viviadi were
discharged, and Jean de Courtois was deported. Martiny was sentenced
to capital punishment, and Lamotte received a long term of imprisonment.
But these eventualities came long after Curtis and Hermione had been remarried
in strict privacy, and in the presence of a small but select circle of
friends, an occasion which supplied Aunt Louisa with fresh oceans of talk
for the delectation of society in Bloomington, Indiana.

At the wedding breakfast, Steingall made a speech.

"Once," he said, "when the present happy event did not seem to be quite so
easy of attainment as it looks to all of us now, my friend Mr.
Curtis, playing upon a weakness of mine in the matter of literary allusions,
suggested that I should substitute Niflheim for Ewigkeit as a simile. I
didn't know what Niflheim meant, but I have ascertained since that it is
a Scandinavian word describing a region of cold and darkness, a place,
therefore, where people might easily get lost.
Well, it might have suited certain conditions I had then in my mind, but Mr.
Curtis will never go to Scandinavian mythology when he wants to describe
New York. To my thinking, it will figure in his mind as more akin to Elysium."

Clancy led the applause with sardonic appreciation, whereupon his chief
allowed a severe eye to dwell on him, though his glance traveled instantly
to the egg-shell dome of Otto Schmidt, whose aid had been invaluable
in stilling certain qualms in the breast of authority.

"My singularly boisterous and most esteemed friend, Mr. Clancy," he continued,
"seems to be delighted by the success of that trope. I might gladden your
hearts with some which he has coined, because the bride and bridegroom
owe more, far more, to him than they imagine at this moment. I remember----"

A loud "No, no!" from Clancy indicated that revelations were imminent.

"Well," said Steingall, "I forget just what he said on one memorable night
when four semi-intoxicated stokers held up a downtown saloon, but I do wish
to assure you of this--if it were not for Clancy's genius as a detective,
and his splendid qualities of heart and mind as a man, this wedding might
never have taken place, or, if that is putting a strain on your imagination,
let me say that its principals would have encountered difficulties
which are now, happily, the dim ghosts of what might have been."

Curtis took an opportunity later to ask Steingall what those cryptic
words meant, and the Chief of the Bureau set at rest a doubt which
had long perplexed him.Old age is but a mask; let us not call
the mask the face. Is the acorn old, because its cup dries and drops it
from its hold--because its skin has grown brown and cracks in the earth?
Then only is a man growing old when he ceases to have sympathy with the
young. That is a sign that his heart has begun to wither. And that is a
dreadful kind of old age. The heart needs never be old. Indeed it should
always be growing younger. Some of us feel younger, do we not, than when
we were nine or ten? It is not necessary to be able to play at leapfrog to
enjoy the game. There are young creatures whose turn it is, and perhaps
whose duty it would be, to play at leap-frog if there was any necessity for
putting the matter in that light; and for us, we have the privilege, or if
we will not accept the privilege, then I say we have the duty, of enjoying
their leap-frog. But if we must withdraw in a measure from sociable
relations with our fellows, let it be as the wise creatures that creep
aside and wrap themselves up and lay themselves by that their wings may
grow and put on the lovely hues of their coming resurrection. Such a
withdrawing is in the name of youth. And while it is pleasant--no one knows
how pleasant except him who experiences it--to sit apart and see the drama
of life going on around him, while his feelings are calm and free, his
vision clear, and his judgment righteous, the old man must ever be ready,
should the sweep of action catch him in its skirts, to get on his tottering
old legs, and go with brave heart to do the work of a true man, none the
less true that his hands tremble, and that he would gladly return to his
chimney-corner. If he is never thus called out, let him examine himself,
lest he should be falling into the number of those that say, "I go, sir,"
and go not; who are content with thinking beautiful things in an Atlantis,
Oceana, Arcadia, or what it may be, but put not forth one of their fingers
to work a salvation in the earth. Better than such is the man who, using
just weights and a true balance, sells good flour, and never has a thought
of his own.

I have been talking--to my reader is it? or to my supposed group of
grandchildren? I remember--to my companions in old age. It is time I
returned to the company who are hearing my whispers at the other side of
the great thundering gallery. I take leave of my old friends with one word:
We have yet a work to do, my friends; but a work we shall never do aright
after ceasing to understand the new generation. We are not the men, neither
shall wisdom die with us. The Lord hath not forsaken his people because the
young ones do not think just as the old ones choose. The Lord has something
fresh to tell them, and is getting them ready to receive his message. When
we are out of sympathy with the young, then I think our work in this world
is over. It might end more honourably.

Now, readers in general, I have had time to consider what to tell you
about, and how to begin. My story will be rather about my family than
myself now. I was as it were a little withdrawn, even by the time of which
I am about to write. I had settled into a gray-haired, quite elderly, yet
active man--young still, in fact, to what I am now. But even then, though
my faith had grown stronger, life had grown sadder, and needed all my
stronger faith; for the vanishing of beloved faces, and the trials of them
that are dear, will make even those that look for a better country both for
themselves and their friends, sad, though it will be with a preponderance
of the first meaning of the word _sad_, which was _settled_, _thoughtful_.

I am again seated in the little octagonal room, which I have made my study
because I like it best. It is rather a shame, for my books cover over every
foot of the old oak panelling. But they make the room all the pleasanter
to the eye, and after I am gone, there is the old oak, none the worse, for
anyone who prefers it to books.

I intend to use as the central portion of my present narrative the history
of a year during part of which I took charge of a friend's parish, while
my brother-in-law, Thomas Weir, who was and is still my curate, took the
entire charge of Marshmallows. What led to this will soon appear. I will
try to be minute enough in my narrative to make my story interesting,
although it will cost me suffering to recall some of the incidents I have
to narrate.


CHAPTER II.

CONSTANCE'S BIRTHDAY.


Was it from observation of nature in its association with human nature, or
from artistic feeling alone, that Shakspere so often represents Nature's
mood as in harmony with the mood of the principal actors in his drama? I
know I have so often found Nature's mood in harmony with my own, even
when she had nothing to do with forming mine, that in looking back I have
wondered at the fact. There may, however, be some self-deception about it.
At all events, on the morning of my Constance's eighteenth birthday, a
lovely October day with a golden east, clouds of golden foliage about the
ways, and an air that seemed filled with the ether of an _aurum potabile_,
there came yet an occasional blast of wind, which, without being absolutely
cold, smelt of winter, and made one draw one's shoulders together with the
sense of an unfriendly presence. "He will go with you. I am so sorry to
trouble you, Mr. Brand; and I have not even said, 'How do you do?'"
To hear this beautiful voice after so long a silence--to find those calm,
dark, friendly eyes regarding him--bewildered him, or gave him courage,
he knew not which. He said to her, with a quick flush on his forehead,
"May I come back to tell you how I succeed?"
She only hesitated for a second.

"If you have time. If you care to take the trouble."
He carried away with him the look of her face--that filled his heart
with sunlight. In the hansom, into which he bundled his unkempt
companion, if only he had known enough Russian, he would have
expressed gratitude to him.Members of families where
children have not been taught from their earliest years that the great
privilege of possession is the right to bestow, may regard this as an
improbable assertion; but others will know that it might well enough be
true, even if I did not say that so it was. But there was always the choice
of some individual treat, which was determined solely by the preference of
the individual in authority. Constance had chosen "a long ride with papa."

I suppose a parent may sometimes be right when he speaks with admiration of
his own children. The probability of his being correct is to be determined
by the amount of capacity he has for admiring other people's children.
However this may be in my own case, I venture to assert that Constance did
look very lovely that morning. She was fresh as the young day: we were
early people--breakfast and prayers were over, and it was nine o'clock as
she stood on the steps and I approached her from the lawn.

"O, papa! isn't it jolly?" she said merrily.

"Very jolly indeed, my dear," I answered, delighted to hear the word from
the lips of my gentle daughter. She very seldom used a slang word, and when
she did, she used it like a lady. Shall I tell you what she was like? Ah!
you could not see her as I saw her that morning if I did. I will, however,
try to give you a general idea, just in order that you and I should not be
picturing to ourselves two very different persons while I speak of her.

She was rather little, and so slight that she looked tall. I have often
observed that the impression of height is an affair of proportion, and has
nothing to do with feet and inches. She was rather fair in complexion,
with her mother's blue eyes, and her mother's long dark wavy hair. She
was generally playful, and took greater liberties with me than any of the
others; only with her liberties, as with her slang, she knew instinctively
when, where, and how much. For on the borders of her playfulness there
seemed ever to hang a fringe of thoughtfulness, as if she felt that the
present moment owed all its sparkle and brilliance to the eternal sunlight.
And the appearance was not in the least a deceptive one. The eternal was
not far from her--none the farther that she enjoyed life like a bird, that
her laugh was merry, that her heart was careless, and that her voice rang
through the house--a sweet soprano voice--singing snatches of songs (now a
street tune she had caught from a London organ, now an air from Handel
or Mozart), or that she would sometimes tease her elder sister about her
solemn and anxious looks; for Wynnie, the eldest, had to suffer for her
grandmother's sins against her daughter, and came into the world with a
troubled little heart, that was soon compelled to flee for refuge to the
rock that was higher than she. Ah! my Constance! But God was good to you
and to us in you.

"Where shall we go, Connie?" I said, and the same moment the sound of the
horses' hoofs reached us.

"Would it be too far to go to Addicehead?" she returned.

"It is a long ride," I answered.

"Too much for the pony?"

"O dear, no--not at all. I was thinking of you, not of the pony."

"I'm quite as able to ride as the pony is to carry me, papa. And I want to
get something for Wynnie. Do let us go."

"Very well, my dear," I said, and raised her to the saddle--if I may say
_raised_, for no bird ever hopped more lightly from one twig to another
than she sprung from the ground on her pony's back.

In a moment I was beside her, and away we rode.

The shadows were still long, the dew still pearly on the spiders' webs, as
we trotted out of our own grounds into a lane that led away towards the
high road. Our horses were fresh and the air was exciting; so we turned
from the hard road into the first suitable field, and had a gallop to begin
with. Constance was a good horse-woman, for she had been used to the saddle
longer than she could remember. She was now riding a tall well-bred pony,
with plenty of life--rather too much, I sometimes thought, when I was out
with Wynnie; but I never thought so when I was with Constance. Another
field or two sufficiently quieted both animals--I did not want to have all
our time taken up with their frolics--and then we began to talk.

"You are getting quite a woman now, Connie, my dear," I said.

"Quite an old grannie, papa," she answered.

"Old enough to think about what's coming next," I said gravely.

"O, papa! And you are always telling us that we must not think about the
morrow, or even the next hour. But, then, that's in the pulpit," she added,
with a sly look up at me from under the drooping feather of her pretty hat.

"You know very well what I mean, you puss," I answered. "And I don't say
one thing in the pulpit and another out of it."

She was at my horse's shoulder with a bound, as if Spry, her pony, had been
of one mind and one piece with her. She was afraid she had offended me. She
looked up into mine with as anxious a face as ever I saw upon Wynnie.

"O, thank you, papa!" she said when I smiled. "I thought I had been rude. I
didn't mean it, indeed I didn't. But I do wish you would make it a little
plainer to me. I do think about things sometimes, though you would hardly
believe it."

"What do you want made plainer, my child?" I asked.

"When we're to think, and when we're not to think," she answered.

I remember all of this conversation because of what came so soon after.

"If the known duty of to-morrow depends on the work of to-day," I answered,
"if it cannot be done right except you think about it and lay your plans
for it, then that thought is to-day's business, not to-morrow's."

"Dear papa, some of your explanations are more difficult than the things
themselves. May I be as impertinent as I like on my birthday?" she asked
suddenly, again looking up in my face.

We were walking now, and she had a hold of my horse's mane, so as to keep
her pony close up.

"Yes, my dear, as impertinent as you like--not an atom more, mind."

"Well, papa, I sometimes wish you wouldn't explain things so much. I seem
to understand you all the time you are preaching, but when I try the text
afterwards by myself, I can't make anything of it, and I've forgotten every
word you said about it."

"Perhaps that is because you have no right to understand it."

"I thought all Protestants had a right to understand every word of the
Bible," she returned.

"If they can," I rejoined. "But last Sunday, for instance, I did not expect
anybody there to understand a certain bit of my sermon, except your mamma
and Thomas Weir."

"How funny! What part of it was that?"

"O! I'm not going to tell you. You have no right to understand it. But most
likely you thought you understood it perfectly, and it appeared to you, in
consequence, very commonplace."

"In consequence of what?"

"In consequence of your thinking you understood it."

"O, papa dear! you're getting worse and worse. It's not often I ask you
anything--and on my birthday too! It is really too bad of you to bewilder
my poor little brains in this way."

"I will try to make you see what I mean, my pet. No talk about an idea that
you never had in your head at all, can make you have that idea. If you had
never seen a horse, no description even, not to say no amount of remark,
would bring the figure of a horse before your mind. Much more is this the
case with truths that belong to the convictions and feelings of the heart.
Suppose a man had never in his life asked God for anything, or thanked
God for anything, would his opinion as to what David meant in one of his
worshipping psalms be worth much? The whole thing would be beyond him. If
you have never known what it is to have care of any kind upon you, you
cannot understand what our Lord means when he tells us to take no thought
for the morrow."

"But indeed, papa, I am very full of care sometimes, though not perhaps
about to-morrow precisely. But that does not matter, does it?"

"Certainly not. Tell me what you are full of care about, my child, and
perhaps I can help you."

"You often say, papa, that half the misery in this world comes from
idleness, and that you do not believe that in a world where God is at work
every day, Sundays not excepted, it could have been intended that women any
more than men should have nothing to do. Now what am I to do? What have I
been sent into the world for? I don't see it; and I feel very useless and
wrong sometimes."

"I do not think there is very much to complain of you in that respect,
Connie. You, and your sister as well, help me very much in my parish. You
take much off your mother's hands too. And you do a good deal for the poor.
You teach your younger brothers and sister, and meantime you are learning
yourselves."

"Yes, but that's not work."

"It is work. And it is the work that is given you to do at present. And you
would do it much better if you were to look at it in that light. Not that I
have anything to complain of."

"But I don't want to stop at home and lead an easy, comfortable life, when
there are so many to help everywhere in the world."

"Is there anything better in doing something where God has not placed you,
than in doing it where he has placed you?"

"No, papa. But my sisters are quite enough for all you have for us to do at
home. Is nobody ever to go away to find the work meant for her? You won't
think, dear papa, that I want to get away from home, will you?"

"No, my dear. I believe that you are really thinking about duty. And
now comes the moment for considering the passage to which you began by
referring:--What God may hereafter require of you, you must not give
yourself the least trouble about. Everything he gives you to do, you must
do as well as ever you can, and that is the best possible preparation for
what he may want you to do next. If people would but do what they have to
do, they would always find themselves ready for what came next. And I do
not believe that those who follow this rule are ever left floundering on
the sea-deserted sands of inaction, unable to find water enough to swim
in."

"Thank you, dear papa. That's a little sermon all to myself, and I think I
shall understand it even when I think about it afterwards. Now let's have a
trot."

"There is one thing more I ought to speak about though, Connie. It is not
your moral nature alone you ought to cultivate. You ought to make yourself
as worth God's making as you possibly can. Now I am a little doubtful
whether you keep up your studies at all."

She shrugged her pretty shoulders playfully, looking up in my face again.

"I don't like dry things, papa."

"Nobody does."

"Nobody!" she exclaimed. "How do the grammars and history-books come to be
written then?"

In talking to me, somehow, the child always put on a more childish tone
than when she talked to anyone else. I am certain there was no affection in
it, though. Indeed, how could she be affected with her fault-finding old
father?

"No. Those books are exceedingly interesting to the people that make them.
Dry things are just things that you do not know enough about to care for
them. And all you learn at school is next to nothing to what you have to
learn."

"What must I do then?" she asked with a sigh. "Must I go all over my French
Grammar again? O dear! I do hate it so!"

"If you will tell me something you like, Connie, instead of something you
don't like, I may be able to give you advice. Is there nothing you are fond
of?" I continued, finding that she remained silent.

"I don't know anything in particular--that is, I don't know anything in the
way of school-work that I really liked. I don't mean that I didn't try
to do what I had to do, for I did. There was just one thing I liked--the
poetry we had to learn once a week. But I suppose gentlemen count that
silly--don't they?"

"On the contrary, my dear, I would make that liking of yours the foundation
of all your work. Besides, I think poetry the grandest thing God has given
us--though perhaps you and I might not quite agree about what poetry was
poetry enough to be counted an especial gift of God. Now, what poetry do
you like best?"

"Mrs. Hemans's, I think, papa."

"Well, very well, to begin with. 'There is,' as Mr. Carlyle said to a
friend of mine--'There is a thin vein of true poetry in Mrs. Hemans.' But
it is time you had done with thin things, however good they may be. Most
people never get beyond spoon-meat--in this world, at least, and they
expect nothing else in the world to come. I must take you in hand myself,
and see what I can do for you. It is wretched to see capable enough
creatures, all for want of a little guidance, bursting with admiration of
what owes its principal charm to novelty of form, gained at the cost of
expression and sense. Not that that applies to Mrs. Hemans. She is simple
enough, only diluted to a degree. But I hold that whatever mental food you
take should be just a little too strong for you. That implies trouble,
necessitates growth, and involves delight."

"I sha'n't mind how difficult it is if you help me, papa. But it is
anything but satisfactory to go groping on without knowing what you are
about."

I ought to have mentioned that Constance had been at school for two years,
and had only been home a month that very day, in order to account for my
knowing so little about her tastes and habits of mind. We went on talking a
little more in the same way, and if I were writing for young people only,
I should be tempted to go on a little farther with the account of what we
said to each other; for it might help some of them to see that the thing
they like best should, circumstances and conscience permitting, be made the
centre from which they start to learn; that they should go on enlarging
their knowledge all round from that one point at which God intended them to
begin. But at length we fell into a silence, a very happy one on my part;
for I was more than delighted to find that this one too of my children was
following after the truth--wanting to do what was right, namely, to obey
the word of the Lord, whether openly spoken to all, or to herself in the
voice of her own conscience and the light of that understanding which is
the candle of the Lord. I had often said to myself in past years, when
I had found myself in the company of young ladies who announced their
opinions--probably of no deeper origin than the prejudices of their
nurses--as if these distinguished them from all the world besides; who were
profound upon passion and ignorant of grace; who had not a notion whether a
dress was beautiful, but only whether it was of the newest cut--I had often
said to myself: "What shall I do if my daughters come to talk and think
like that--if thinking it can be called?" but being confident that
instruction for which the mind is not prepared only lies in a rotting
heap, producing all kinds of mental evils correspondent to the results of
successive loads of food which the system cannot assimilate, my hope had
been to rouse wise questions in the minds of my children, in place of
overwhelming their digestions with what could be of no instruction or
edification without the foregoing appetite. Now my Constance had begun to
ask me questions, and it made me very happy. We had thus come a long way
nearer to each other; for however near the affection of human animals may
bring them, there are abysses between soul and soul--the souls even of
father and daughter--over which they must pass to meet. And I do not
believe that any two human beings alive know yet what it is to love as love
is in the glorious will of the Father of lights.

I linger on with my talk, for I shrink from what I must relate.

We were going at a gentle trot, silent, along a woodland path--a brown,
soft, shady road, nearly five miles from home, our horses scattering about
the withered leaves that lay thick upon it. A good deal of underwood and
a few large trees had been lately cleared from the place. There were many
piles of fagots about, and a great log lying here and there along the side
of the path. One of these, when a tree, had been struck by lightning, and
had stood till the frosts and rains had bared it of its bark. Now it lay
white as a skeleton by the side of the path, and was, I think, the cause of
what followed. All at once my daughter's pony sprang to the other side of
the road, shying sideways; unsettled her so, I presume; then rearing and
plunging, threw her from the saddle across one of the logs of which I have
spoken. I was by her side in a moment. To my horror she lay motionless. Her
eyes were closed, and when I took her up in my arms she did not open them.
I laid her on the moss, and got some water and sprinkled her face. Then she
revived a little; but seemed in much pain, and all at once went off into
another faint. I was in terrible perplexity.

Presently a man who, having been cutting fagots at a little distance, had
seen the pony careering through the wood, came up and asked what he could
do to help me. I told him to take my horse, whose bridle I had thrown over
the latch of a gate, and ride to Oldcastle Hall, and ask Mrs. Walton to
come with the carriage as quickly as possible. "Tell her," I said, "that
her daughter has had a fall from her pony, and is rather shaken. Ride as
hard as you can go."

The man was off in a moment; and there I sat watching my poor child, for
what seemed to be a dreadfully long time before the carriage arrived. She
had come to herself quite, but complained of much pain in her back; and,
to my distress, I found that she could not move herself enough to make the
least change of her position. She evidently tried to keep up as well as she
could; but her face expressed great suffering: it was dreadfully pale, and
looked worn with a month's illness. All my fear was for her spine.

At length I caught sight of the carriage, coming through the wood as
fast as the road would allow, with the woodman on the box, directing the
coachman. It drew up, and my wife got out. She was as pale as Constance,
but quiet and firm, her features composed almost to determination. I had
never seen her look like that before. She asked no questions: there was
time enough for that afterwards. She had brought plenty of cushions and
pillows, and we did all we could to make an easy couch for the poor girl;
but she moaned dreadfully as we lifted her into the carriage. We did our
best to keep her from being shaken; but those few miles were the longest
journey I ever made in my life.

When we reached home at length, we found that Ethel, or, as we commonly
called her, using the other end of her name, Wynnie--for she was named
after her mother--had got a room on the ground-floor, usually given to
visitors, ready for her sister; and we were glad indeed not to have to
carry her up the stairs. Before my wife left, she had sent the groom off to
Addicehead for both physician and surgeon. A young man who had settled at
Marshmallows as general practitioner a year or two before, was waiting for
us when we arrived. He helped us to lay her upon a mattress in the position
in which she felt the least pain. But why should I linger over the
sorrowful detail? All agreed that the poor child's spine was seriously
injured, and that probably years of suffering were before her. Everything
was done that could be done; but she was not moved from that room for nine
months, during which, though her pain certainly grew less by degrees, her
want of power to move herself remained almost the same.

When I had left her at last a little composed, with her mother seated by
her bedside, I called my other two daughters--Wynnie, the eldest, and
Dorothy, the youngest, whom I found seated on the floor outside, one on
each side of the door, weeping--into my study, and said to them: "My
darlings, this is very sad; but you must remember that it is God's will;
and as you would both try to bear it cheerfully if it had fallen to your
lot to bear, you must try to be cheerful even when it is your sister's part
to endure."

"O, papa! poor Connie!" cried Dora, and burst into fresh tears.

Wynnie said nothing, but knelt down by my knee, and laid her cheek upon it.

"Shall I tell you what Constance said to me just before I left the room?" I
asked.

"Please do, papa."

"She whispered, 'You must try to bear it, all of you, as well as you can.
I don't mind it very much, only for you.' So, you see, if you want to make
her comfortable, you must not look gloomy and troubled. Sick people like to
see cheerful faces about them; and I am sure Connie will not suffer nearly
so much if she finds that she does not make the household gloomy."

This I had learned from being ill myself once or twice since my marriage.
My wife never came near me with a gloomy face, and I had found that it
was quite possible to be sympathetic with those of my flock who were ill
without putting on a long face when I went to see them. Of course, I do not
mean that I could, or that it was desirable that I should, look cheerful
when any were in great pain or mental distress. But in ordinary conditions
of illness a cheerful countenance is as a message of _all's well_, which
may surely be carried into a sick chamber by the man who believes that the
heart of a loving Father is at the centre of things, that he is light all
about the darkness, and that he will not only bring good out of evil
at last, but will be with the sufferer all the time, making endurance
possible, and pain tolerable. There are a thousand alleviations that people
do not often think of, coming from God himself. Would you not say, for
instance, that time must pass very slowly in pain? But have you never
observed, or has no one ever made the remark to you, how strangely fast,
even in severe pain, the time passes after all?

"We will do all we can, will we not," I went on, "to make her as
comfortable as possible? You, Dora, must attend to your little brothers,
that your mother may not have too much to think about now that she will
have Connie to nurse."

They could not say much, but they both kissed me, and went away leaving
me to understand clearly enough that they had quite understood me. I then
returned to the sick chamber, where I found that the poor child had fallen
asleep.

My wife and I watched by her bedside on alternate nights, until the pain
had so far subsided, and the fever was so far reduced, that we could allow
Wynnie to take a share in the office. We could not think of giving her
over to the care of any but one of ourselves during the night. Her chief
suffering came from its being necessary that she should keep nearly one
position on her back, because of her spine, while the external bruise and
the swelling of the muscles were in consequence so painful, that it needed
all that mechanical contrivance could do to render the position endurable.
But these outward conditions were greatly ameliorated before many days were
over.

This is a dreary beginning of my story, is it not? But sickness of all
kinds is such a common thing in the world, that it is well sometimes to
let our minds rest upon it, lest it should take us altogether at unawares,
either in ourselves or our friends, when it comes. If it were not a good
thing in the end, surely it would not be; and perhaps before I have done my
readers will not be sorry that my tale began so gloomily. The sickness in
Judaea eighteen hundred and thirty-five years ago, or thereabouts, has no
small part in the story of him who came to put all things under our feet.
Praise be to him for evermore!

It soon became evident to me that that room was like a new and more sacred
heart to the house. At first it radiated gloom to the remotest corners; but
soon rays of light began to appear mingling with the gloom. I could see
that bits of news were carried from it to the servants in the kitchen, in
the garden, in the stable, and over the way to the home-farm. Even in the
village, and everywhere over the parish, I was received more kindly, and
listened to more willingly, because of the trouble I and my family were in;
while in the house, although we had never been anything else than a loving
family, it was easy to discover that we all drew more closely together in
consequence of our common anxiety. Previous to this, it had been no unusual
thing to see Wynnie and Dora impatient with each other; for Dora was
none the less a wild, somewhat lawless child, that she was a profoundly
affectionate one. She rather resembled her cousin Judy, in fact--whom
she called Aunt Judy, and with whom she was naturally a great favourite.
Wynnie, on the other hand, was sedate, and rather severe--more severe, I
must in justice say, with herself than with anyone else. I had sometimes
wished, it is true, that her mother, in regard to the younger children,
were more like her; but there I was wrong. For one of the great goods that
come of having two parents, is that the one balances and rectifies the
motions of the other. No one is good but God. No one holds the truth, or
can hold it, in one and the same thought, but God. Our human life is often,
at best, but an oscillation between the extremes which together make the
truth; and it is not a bad thing in a family, that the pendulums of father
and mother should differ in movement so far, that when the one is at one
extremity of the swing, the other should be at the other, so that they meet
only in the point of _indifference_, in the middle; that the predominant
tendency of the one should not be the predominant tendency of the other.
I was a very strict disciplinarian--too much so, perhaps, sometimes:
Ethelwyn, on the other hand, was too much inclined, I thought, to excuse
everything. I was law, she was grace. But grace often yielded to law, and
law sometimes yielded to grace. Yet she represented the higher; for in the
ultimate triumph of grace, in the glad performance of the command from love
of what is commanded, the law is fulfilled: the law is a schoolmaster to
bring us to Christ. I must say this for myself, however, that, although
obedience was the one thing I enforced, believing it the one thing upon
which all family economy primarily depends, yet my object always was to set
my children free from my law as soon as possible; in a word, to help them
to become, as soon as it might be, a law unto themselves. Then they would
need no more of mine. Then I would go entirely over to the mother's higher
side, and become to them, as much as in me lay, no longer law and truth,
but grace and truth. But to return to my children--it was soon evident not
only that Wynnie had grown more indulgent to Dora's vagaries, but that Dora
was more submissive to Wynnie, while the younger children began to
obey their eldest sister with a willing obedience, keeping down their
effervescence within doors, and letting it off only out of doors, or in the
out-houses.

When Constance began to recover a little, then the sacredness of that
chamber began to show itself more powerfully, radiating on all sides a yet
stronger influence of peace and goodwill. It was like a fountain of gentle
light, quieting and bringing more or less into tune all that came within
the circle of its sweetness. This brings me to speak again of my lovely
child. For surely a father may speak thus of a child of God. He cannot
regard his child as his even as a book he has written may be his. A man's
child is his because God has said to him, "Take this child and nurse it
for me." She is God's making; God's marvellous invention, to be tended
and cared for, and ministered unto as one of his precious things; a young
angel, let me say, who needs the air of this lower world to make her wings
grow. And while he regards her thus, he will see all other children in the
same light, and will not dare to set up his own against others of God's
brood with the new-budding wings. The universal heart of truth will thus
rectify, while it intensifies, the individual feeling towards one's own;
and the man who is most free from poor partisanship in regard to his own
family, will feel the most individual tenderness for the lovely human
creatures whom God has given into his own especial care and responsibility.
Show me the man who is tender, reverential, gracious towards the children
of other men, and I will show you the man who will love and tend his own
best, to whose heart his own will flee for their first refuge after God,
when they catch sight of the cloud in the wind.


CHAPTER III.

THE SICK CHAMBER.


In the course of a month there was a good deal more of light in the smile
with which my darling greeted me when I entered her room in the morning.
Her pain was greatly gone, but the power of moving her limbs had not yet
even begun to show itself.

One day she received me with a still happier smile than I had yet seen upon
her face, put out her thin white hand, took mine and kissed it, and said,
"Papa," with a lingering on the last syllable.

"What is it, my pet?" I asked.

"I am so happy!"

"What makes you so happy?" I asked again.

"I don't know," she answered. "I haven't thought about it yet. But
everything looks so pleasant round me. Is it nearly winter yet, papa? I've
forgotten all about how the time has been going."

"It is almost winter, my dear. There is hardly a leaf left on the
trees--just two or three disconsolate yellow ones that want to get away
down to the rest. They go fluttering and fluttering and trying to break
away, but they can't."

"That is just as I felt a little while ago. I wanted to die and get away,
papa; for I thought I should never be well again, and I should be in
everybody's way.--I am afraid I shall not get well, after all," she added,
and the light clouded on her sweet face.

"Well, my darling, we are in God's hands. We shall never get tired of you,
and you must not get tired of us. Would you get tired of nursing me, if I
were ill?"

"O, papa!" And the tears began to gather in her eyes.

"Then you must think we are not able to love so well as you."

"I know what you mean. I did not think of it that way. I will never think
so about it again. I was only thinking how useless I was."

"There you are quite mistaken, my dear. No living creature ever was
useless. You've got plenty to do there."

"But what have I got to do? I don't feel able for anything," she said; and
again the tears came in her eyes, as if I had been telling her to get up
and she could not.

"A great deal of our work," I answered, "we do without knowing what it is.
But I'll tell you what you have got to do: you have got to believe in God,
and in everybody in this house."

"I do, I do. But that is easy to do," she returned.

"And do you think that the work God gives us to do is never easy? Jesus
says his yoke is easy, his burden is light. People sometimes refuse to do
God's work just because it is easy. This is, sometimes, because they cannot
believe that easy work is his work; but there may be a very bad pride in
it: it may be because they think that there is little or no honour to be
got in that way; and therefore they despise it. Some again accept it with
half a heart, and do it with half a hand. But, however easy any work may
be, it cannot be well done without taking thought about it. Then,
rapidly ascending the steps, he crosses the bridge, descends the other side,
and again jumps into a gondola. All this the work of a few seconds.

But it was obvious he had been expected. He gave no instructions to the two
men in this second gondola.

They instantly went to work, and with a rapid and powerful stroke sent the
boat along--with an occasional warning cry as they swept by the
entrance to one or other of the smaller canals.

Finally, they abruptly left the Grand Canal, close by the Corte d'Appello,
and shot into a narrow opening that seemed little more than a slit between
the buildings.

Here they had to go more cautiously; the orange light of their lamp
shining as they passed on the empty archways, and on the iron-barred
windows, and slimy steps.

And always this strange silence in the dead or sleeping city, and
the monotonous plash of the oars, and the deep low cry of "Sia
premi!"

or "Sia stali!" to give warning of their approach.

But, indeed, that warning was unnecessary; they were absolutely
alone in this labyrinth of gloomy water-ways.

At length they shot beneath a low bridge, and stopped at some steps immediately
beyond.

Here one of the men, getting out, proceeded to act as guide to the stranger.
They had not far to go.

They passed first of all into a long, low, and foul-smelling archway,
in the middle of which was a narrow aperture protected by an iron
gate.

The man lit a candle, opened the gate, and preceded his companion along a
passage and up a stone staircase. The atmosphere of the place was damp
and sickly; the staircase was not more than three feet in width; the
feeble glimmer of the candle did but little to dispel the darkness. Even
that was withdrawn; for the guide, having knocked thrice at a door,
blew out the candle, and retreated down-stairs.

"_The night is dark, brother._"
"_The dawn is near._"
Instantly the door was thrown open; the dark figure of a man was seen against
the light; he said, "Come in! come in!" and his hand was outstretched.
The stranger seemed greatly surprised.

"What, you, Calabressa!" he exclaimed. "Your time has not yet expired!"

"What, no? My faith, I have made it expire!" said the other, airily, and
introducing a rather badly pronounced French word or two into his Italian.
"But come in, come in; take a seat.

You are early; you may have to wait."
He was an odd-looking person, this tall, thin, elderly man, with
the flowing yellow-white hair and the albino eyes.

There was a semi-military look about his braided coat; but, on the other
hand, he wore the cap of a German student--of purple velvet, with a
narrow leather peak. He seemed to be proud of his appearance. He had a gay
manner.

"Yes, I am escaped. Ah, how fine it is! You walk about all day as you please;
you smoke cigarettes; you have your coffee; you go to look at the young
English ladies who come to feed the pigeons in the place."

He raised two fingers to his lips, and blew a kiss to all the world.

"Such complexions! A wild rose in every cheek!

But listen, now; this is not about an English young lady. I go up to the
Church of St.
Mark--besides the bronze horses.

I am enjoying the air, when I hear a sound; I turn; over there I see open
windows; ah!

the figure in the white dressing-gown! It is the _diva_ herself. They
play the _Barbiere_ to-night, and she is practicing as she dusts her
room. _Una voce poco fa_--it thrills all through the square.

She puts the ornaments on the mantel-piece straight. _Lo giurai, la
vincero!

_--she goes to the mirror and makes the most beautiful attitude.

Ah, what a spectacle--the black hair all down--the white dressing-gown--_In
sono docile_"--and again he kissed his two fingers. Then he said,
"But now, you.

You do not look one day older. And how is Natalie?"

"Natalie is well, I believe," said the other, gravely.

"You are a strange man. You have not a soft heart for the pretty creatures
of the world; you are implacable. The little Natalushka, then; how is she?"

"The little Natalushka is grown big now; she is quite a woman."
"A woman! She will marry an Englishman, and become very rich: is not that
so?"
"Natalie--I mean, Natalushka will not marry," said the other coldly.
"She knows she is very useful to me.

She knows I have no other."
"_Maintenant_: the business--how goes that?"
"Elsewhere, well; in England, not quite so well," said Ferdinand Lind.
"But what can you expect? The English think they have no need of co-operation,
except to get their groceries cheap. Why, everything is done in the open
air there. If a scoundrel gets a lash too many in prison, you have it
before Parliament next week.

If a school-boy is kicked by his master, you have all the newspapers in the
country ablaze.
The newspapers govern England. A penny journal has more power than the
commander-in-chief."

"Then why do you remain in England?"
"It is the safest for me, personally. Then there is most to be done there.
Again, it is the head-quarters of money. Do you see, Calabressa?
One must have money, or one cannot work."
The albino-looking man lit a cigarette.

"You despair, then, of England? No, you never despair."
"There is a prospect. The Southern Englishman is apathetic; he is interested
only, as I have said, in getting his tea and sugar cheap.
But the Northern Englishman is vigorous. The trades' associations in the
North are vast, powerful, wealthy; but they are suspicious of anything
foreign. Members join us; the associations will not.

But what do you think of this, Calabressa: if one were to have the
assistance of an Englishman whose father was one of the great
iron-masters; whose name is well known in the north; who has a large
fortune, and a strong will?"

"You have got such a man?"
"Not yet. He is only a Friend. But if I do not misjudge him, he will be
a Companion soon. He is a man after my own heart; once with us, all the
powers of the earth will not turn him back."
"And his fortune?"
"He will help us with that also, no doubt."
"But how did it occur to Providence to furnish you with an assistant so
admirably equipped?"
"Do you mean how did I chance to find him? Through a young English lord--an
amiable youth, who is a great friend of Natalie's--of Natalushka's. Why, he
has joined us, too--"
"An English milord!"

"Yes; but it is merely from poetical sympathy. He is pleasant and warm-hearted,
but to us not valuable; and he is poor."

At this moment a bell rung, apparently in the adjoining apartment.

Calabressa jumped from his chair, and hastened to a door on his left, which
he opened. A _portiere_ prevented anything being seen in the chamber
beyond.

"Has the summons been answered?"

a voice asked, from the other side.

"Yes, sir," said Calabressa. "Brother Lind is here."
"That is well."
The door was again shut, and Calabressa resumed his seat.

"Brother Lind," said he, in a low voice, though he leaned back in his chair,
and still preserved that gay manner, "I suppose you do not know why you have
been summoned?"
"Not I."
"_Bien._ But suppose one were to guess? Suppose there is a gentleman
somewhere about who has been carrying his outraging of one's common
notions of decency just a little too far? Suppose it is necessary to make
an example? You may be noble, and have great wealth, and honor, and smiles
from beautiful women; but if some night you find a little bit of steel
getting into your heart, or if some morning you find your coffee
as you drink it burn all the way down until you can feel it burn
no more--what then?

You must bid good-bye to your mistresses, and to your gold plates and
feasts, and your fountains spouting perfumes, and all your titles; is not
that so?"
"But who is it?"

said Lind, suddenly bending forward.

The other regarded him for a moment, playfully.

"What if I were to mention the '_Starving Cardinal_?'"
"Zaccatelli!"

exclaimed Lind, with a ghastly pallor appearing for a moment in the powerful
iron-gray face.

Calabressa only laughed.

"Oh yes, it is beautiful to have all these fine things. And the unhappy
devils who are forced to pawn their last sticks of furniture at the Monte
di Pieta, rather than have their children starve when bread is dear; how
it must gratify them to think of his Eminence seizing the funds of that
flourishing institution to buy up the whole of the grain in the Papal
States! What an admirable speculation! How kind to the poor, on the part of
the Secretary to the Vicar of Christ! What!--do you think because I am a
cardinal I am not to make a profit in corn? I tell you those people have
no business to be miserable--they have no business to go and pawn their
things; if I am allowed to speculate with the funds, why not? _Allons
donc!_--It is a devilish fine world, merry gentlemen!"
"But--but why have they summoned me?" Lind said, in the same low
voice.

"Who knows?" said the other, lightly. "I do not.

Come, tell me more about the little Natalushka. Ah, do I not remember
the little minx, when she came in, after dinner, among all those men,
with her '_Eljen a haza_!' What has she grown to? what has she become?"

"Natalie is a good girl," said her father; but he was thinking of other
things.

"Beautiful?"
"Some would say so."

"But not like the English young ladies?"

"Not at all."
"I thought not. I remember the black-eyed little one--with her pride in
Batthyany, and her hatred in Gorgey, and all the rest of it. The little
Empress!--with her proud eyes, and her black eyelashes.

Do you remember at Dunkirk, when old Anton Pepczinski met her for
the first time?

'_Little Natalushka, if I wait for you, will you marry me when you grow
up?_" Then the quick answer, "_I am not to be called any longer by my
nursery name; but if you will fight for my country, I will marry
you when I grow up._'"
Light-hearted as this man Calabressa was, having escaped from prison,
and eagerly inclined for chatter, after so long a spell of enforced
silence, he could not fail to perceive that his companion was hardly
listening to him.

"Mais, mon frere, a quoi bon le regarder?" he said, peevishly.

"If it must come, it will come. Or is it the poor cardinal you pity? That
was a good name they invented for him, anyway--_il cardinale affamatore_."

Again the bell rung, and Ferdinand Lind started. When he turned to the
door, it was with a look on his face of some anxiety and apprehension--a
look but rarely seen there. Then the _portiere_ was drawn aside to let
some one come through: at the same moment Lind caught a brief glimpse
of a number of men sitting round a small table.

The person who now appeared, and whom Lind saluted with great respect, was
a little, sallow-complexioned man, with an intensely black beard
and mustache, and a worn expression of face.

He returned Lind's salutation gravely, and said,
"Brother, the Council thank you for your prompt answer to the
summons.

Meanwhile, nothing is decided.

You will attend here to-morrow night."
"At what hour, Brother Granaglia?"

"Ten. You will now be conveyed back to the Rialto steps; from thence you
can get to your hotel."

Lind bowed acquiescence; and the stranger passed again through the
_portiere_ and disappeared.

CHAPTER X.

VACILLATION.

"Evelyn, I distrust that man Lind."
The speaker was George Brand, who kept impatiently pacing up and down those
rooms of his, while his friend, with a dreamy look on the pale and fine
face, lay back in an easy-chair, and gazed out of the clear panes before
him. It was night; the blinds had not been drawn; and the row of windows,
framed by their scarlet curtains, seemed a series of dark-blue pictures,
all throbbing with points of golden fire.

"Is there any one you do not distrust?" said Lord Evelyn, absently.

"I hope so. But with regard to Lind: I had distinctly to let him know he must
not assume that I am mixed up in any of his schemes until I definitely
say so. When, in answer to my vague proposal, he told me I had already
pledged myself, I confess I was startled for a moment. Of course it was all
very well for him afterward to speak of my declared sympathy, and of my
promise to reveal nothing, as being quite enough, at least for the earlier
stage. If that is so, you may easily acquire adherents. But either I join
with a definite pledge, or not at all."
"I am inclined to think you had better not join," said Lord Evelyn,
calmly.

After that there was silence; and Brand's companion lay and looked
on the picture outside, that was so dark and solemn and still.

In the midst of all that blaze of various and trembling lights was the
unseen river--unseen but for the myriad reflections that showed
the ripples of the water; then the far-reaching rows of golden
stars, spanning the bridges, and marking out the long Embankment
sweep beyond St.

Thomas's Hospital. On the other side black masses of houses--all their
commonplace detail lost in the mysterious shadow; and over them
the silver crescent of the moon just strong enough to give an edge
of white to a tall shot-tower.

Then far away in the east, in the clear dark sky, the dim gray ghost of a
dome; scarcely visible, and yet revealing its presence; the great
dome of St.

Paul's.

This beautiful, still scene--the silence was so intense that the footfall of
a cab-horse crossing Waterloo Bridge could be faintly heard, as
the eye followed the light slowly moving between the two rows of
golden stars--seemed to possess but little interest for the owner
of these rooms.

For the moment he had lost altogether his habitual air of proud
reserve.

"Evelyn," he said, abruptly, "was it not in these very rooms you insisted
that, if the work was good, one need not be too scrupulous about
one's associates?"

"I believe so," said the other, indifferently: he had almost lost hope of
ever overcoming his friend's inveterate suspicion.

"Well," Brand said, "there is something in that. I believe in the work
that Lind is engaged in, if I am doubtful about him. And if it pleases
you or him to say that I have joined you merely because I express sympathy,
and promise to say nothing, well and good. But you: you are more than that?"

The question somewhat startled Lord Evelyn; and his pale face flushed a
little.

"Oh yes," he said; "of course. I--I cannot precisely explain to you."
"I understand. But, if I did really join, I should at least have you for a
companion."
Lord Evelyn turned and regarded him.

"If you were to join, it might be that you and I should never see each other
again in this world. Have I not told you?--Your first pledge is that of
absolute obedience; you have no longer a right to your own life; you become
a slave, that others may be free."
"And you would have me place myself in the power of a man like Lind?" Brand
exclaimed.

"If it were necessary," said Lord Evelyn, "I should hold myself
absolutely at the bidding of Lind; for I am convinced he is an
honest man, as he is a man of great ability and unconquerable energy
and will.

But you would no more put yourself in Lind's power than in mine. Lind is a
servant, like the rest of us. It is true he has in some ways a sort of
quasi-independent position, which I don't quite understand; but as regards
the Society that I have joined, and that you would join, he is a
servant, as you would be a servant.

But what is the use of talking?

Your temperament isn't fitted for this kind of work."

"I want to see my way clear," Brand said, almost to himself.

"Ah, that is just it; whereas, you must go blindfold."
Thereafter again silence. The moon had risen higher now; and the paths
in the Embankment gardens just below them had grown gray in the
clearer light.

Lord Evelyn lay and watched the light of a hansom that was rattling along
by the side of the river.

"Do you remember," said Brand, with a smile, "your repeating some verses here
one night; and my suspecting you had borrowed the inspiration somewhere?
My boy, I have found you out.

What I guessed was true. I made bold to ask Miss Lind to read, that
evening I came up with them from Dover."

"I know it," said Lord Evelyn, quietly.

"You have seen her, then?" was the quick question.

"No; she wrote to me."

"Oh, she writes to you?" the other said.

"Well, you see, I did not know her father had gone abroad, and I called.
As a rule, she sees no one while her father is away; on the other hand,
she will not say she is not at home if she is at home.

So she wrote me a note of apology for refusing to see me; and in it she told
me you had been very kind to them, and how she had tried to read,
and had read very badly, because she feared your criticism--"
"I never heard anything like it!"

Brand said; and then he corrected himself. "Well, yes, I have; I
have heard you, Evelyn.

You have been an admirable pupil."
"Now when I think of it," said his friend, putting his hand in his
breast-pocket, "this letter is mostly about you, Brand.

Let me see if there is anything in it you may not see. No; it is all very
nice and friendly."

He was about to hand over the letter, when he stopped.

"I do believe," he said, looking at Brand, "that you are capable of thinking
Natalie wrote this letter on purpose you should see it."
"Then you do me a great injustice," Brand said, without anger.

"And you do her a great injustice.

I do not think it needs any profound judge of character to see what that
girl is."
"For that is one thing I could never forgive you, Brand."

"What?"

"If you were to suspect Natalie Lind."

This was no private and confidential communication that passed into
Brand's hand, but a frank, gossiping, sisterly note, stretching out
beyond its initial purpose.

And there was no doubt at all that it was mostly about Brand himself; and
the reader grew red as he went on. He had been so kind to them at Dover;
and so interested in her papa's work; and so anxious to be of service
and in sympathy with them. And then she spoke as if he were definitely
pledged to them; and how proud she was to have another added to the list
of her friends. George Brand's face was as red as his beard when he
folded up the letter. He did not immediately return it.

"What a wonderful woman that is!" said he, after a time. "I did not think
it would be left for a foreigner to teach me to believe in England."

Lord Evelyn looked up.

"Oh," Brand said, instantly, "I know what you would ask: 'What is my belief
worth?' 'How much do I sympathize?'

Well, I can give you a plain answer: a shilling in the pound income-tax.
If England is this stronghold of the liberties of Europe--if it is her
business to be the lamp-bearer of freedom--if she must keep her shores
inviolate as the refuge of those who are oppressed and persecuted, well,
then, I would pay a shilling income-tax, or double that, treble that, to
give her a navy that would sweep the seas.

For a big army there is neither population, nor sustenance, nor
room; but I would give her such a navy as would let her put the
world to defiance."

"I wish Natalie would teach you to believe in a few other things while
she is about it," said his friend, with a slight and rather sad smile.

"For example?"
"In human nature a little bit, for example.

In the possibility of a woman being something else than a drawing-room
peacock, or worse.

Do you think she could make you believe that it is possible for a
woman to be noble-minded, unselfish, truth-speaking, modest, and
loyal-hearted?"

"I presume you are describing Natalie Lind herself."
"Oh," said his friend, with a quick surprise, "then you admit there may be
an exception, after all?

You do not condemn the whole race of them now, as being incapable of even
understanding what frank dealing is, or honor, or justice, or
anything beyond their own vain and selfish caprices?"

George Brand went to the window.

"Perhaps," said he, "my experience of women has been unfortunate,
unusual.

I have not had much chance, especially of late years, of studying them in
their quiet domestic spheres. But otherwise I suppose my experience is not
unusual. Every man begins his life, in his salad days, by believing the world
to be a very fine thing, and women particularly to be very wonderful
creatures--angels, in short, of goodness, and mercy, and truth, and all
the rest of it. Then, judging by what I have seen and heard, I should
say that about nineteen men out of twenty get a regular facer--just
at the most sensitive period of their life; and then they suddenly
believe that women are devils, and the world a delusion.

It is bad logic; but they are not in a mood for reason.

By-and-by the process of recovery begins: with some short, with others
long. But the spring-time of belief, and hope, and rejoicing--I doubt
whether that ever comes back."
He spoke without any bitterness. If the facts of the world were so, they
had to be accepted.

"I swallowed my dose of experience a good many years ago," he
continued, "but I haven't got it out of my blood yet.

However, I will admit to you the possibility of there being a few women
like Natalie Lind."
"Well, this is better, at all events," Lord Evelyn said, cheerfully.

"Beauty, of course, is a dazzling and dangerous thing," Brand said; "for
a man always wants to believe that fine eyes and a sweet voice have a sweet
soul behind them. And very often he finds behind them something in the
shape of a soul that a dog or a cat would be ashamed to own. But as for
Natalie Lind, I don't think one can be deceived. She shows too much.
She vibrates too quickly--too inadvertently--to little chance touches. I did
suspect her, I will confess. I thought she was hired to play the part of
decoy. But I had not seen her for ten minutes before I was convinced she
was playing no part at all."
"But goodness gracious, Brand, what are we coming to?" Lord Evelyn said,
with a laugh. "What! We already believe in England, and patriotism,
and the love of freedom? And we are prepared to admit that there
is one woman--positively, in the world, one woman--who is not a
cheat and a selfish coquette? Why, where are we to end?"
"I don't think I said only one woman," Brand replied, quite
good-naturedly; and then he added, with a smile, "You ask where we
are to end. Suppose I were to accept your new religion, Evelyn?
Would that please you? And would it please her, too?"
"Ah!" said his companion, looking up with a quick glance of
pleasure.
But he would argue no more.
"Perhaps I have been too suspicious. It is a habit; I have had to
look after myself pretty much through the world; and I don't overvalue
the honesty of people I don't know. But when I once set my hand to
the work, I am not likely to draw back."
"You could be of so much more value to them than I can," said Lord
Evelyn, wistfully. "I don't suppose you spend more than half of
your income."
"Oh, as to that," said Brand, at once, "that is a very different
matter.
If they like to take myself and what I can do, well and good; money
is a very different thing."
His companion raised himself in his chair; and there was surprise
on his face.
"How can you help them so well as with your money?" he cried. "Why,
it is the very thing they want most."
"Oh, indeed!" said Brand, coldly. "You see, Evelyn, my father was
a business man; and I may have inherited a commercial way of looking
at things. If I were to give away a lot of money to unknown people,
for unknown purposes, I should say that I was being duped, and that
they were putting the money in their own pocket."
"My dear fellow!" Lord Evelyn protested; "the need of money is most
urgent. There are printing-presses to be kept going; agents to be
paid; police-spies to be bribed--there is an enormous work to be
done, and money must be spent."
"All the same," said Brand, who was invariably most resolved when
he was most quiet in his manner, "I shall prefer not running the
chance of being duped in that direction. Besides, I am bound in
honor not to do anything of the kind. I can fling myself away--this
is my own lookout; and my life, or the way I spend it, is not of
great consequence to me.But what I wanted to say was, that there can be no
reason why Connie should not enjoy what God has given her, although he has
not thought fit to give as much to everybody; and above all, that we shall
not help those right whom God gives us to help, if we do not believe that
God is caring for every one of them as much as he is caring for every one
of us. There was once a baby born in a stable, because his poor mother
could get no room in a decent house. Where she lay I can hardly think. They
must have made a bed of hay and straw for her in the stall, for we know the
baby's cradle was the manger. Had God forsaken them? or would they not have
been more _comfortable_, if that was the main thing, somewhere else? Ah! if
the disciples, who were being born about the same time of fisher-fathers
and cottage-mothers, to get ready for him to call and teach by the time he
should be thirty years of age--if they had only been old enough, and had
known that he was coming--would they not have got everything ready for him?
They would have clubbed their little savings together, and worked day and
night, and some rich women would have helped them, and they would have
dressed the baby in fine linen, and got him the richest room their money
would get, and they would have made the gold that the wise men brought into
a crown for his little head, and would have burnt the frankincense before
him. And so our little manger-baby would have been taken away from us. No
more the stable-born Saviour--no more the poor Son of God born for us all,
as strong, as noble, as loving, as worshipful, as beautiful as he was poor!
And we should not have learned that God does not care for money; that if he
does not give more of it it is not that it is scarce with him, or that he
is unkind, but that he does not value it himself. And if he sent his own
son to be not merely brought up in the house of the carpenter of a little
village, but to be born in the stable of a village inn, we need not suppose
because a man sleeps under a haystack and is put in prison for it next day,
that God does not care for him."

"But why did Jesus come so poor, papa?"

"That he might be just a human baby. That he might not be distinguished
by this or by that accident of birth; that he might have nothing but a
mother's love to welcome him, and so belong to everybody; that from the
first he might show that the kingdom of God and the favour of God lie not
in these external things at all--that the poorest little one, born in the
meanest dwelling, or in none at all, is as much God's own and God's care
as if he came in a royal chamber with colour and shine all about him. Had
Jesus come amongst the rich, riches would have been more worshipped
than ever. See how so many that count themselves good Christians honour
possession and family and social rank, and I doubt hardly get rid of them
when they are all swept away from them. The furthest most of such reach is
to count Jesus an exception, and therefore not despise him. See how, even
in the services of the church, as they call them, they will accumulate
gorgeousness and cost. Had I my way, though I will never seek to rouse
men's thoughts about such external things, I would never have any vessel
used in the eucharist but wooden platters and wooden cups."

"But are we not to serve him with our best?" said my wife.

"Yes, with our very hearts and souls, with our wills, with our absolute
being. But all external things should be in harmony with the spirit of his
revelation. And if God chose that his Son should visit the earth in homely
fashion, in homely fashion likewise should be everything that enforces and
commemorates that revelation. All church-forms should be on the other side
from show and expense. Let the money go to build decent houses for God's
poor, not to give them his holy bread and wine out of silver and gold and
precious stones--stealing from the significance of the _content_ by the
meretricious grandeur of the _continent_. I would send all the church-plate
to fight the devil with his own weapons in our overcrowded cities, and in
our villages where the husbandmen are housed like swine, by giving them
room to be clean and decent air from heaven to breathe. When the people
find the clergy thus in earnest, they will follow them fast enough, and the
money will come in like salt and oil upon the sacrifice. I would there were
a few of our dignitaries that could think grandly about things, even as
Jesus thought--even as God thought when he sent him. There are many of
them willing to stand any amount of persecution about trifles: the same
enthusiasm directed by high thoughts about the kingdom of heaven as within
men and not around them, would redeem a vast region from that indifference
which comes of judging the gospel of God by the church of Christ with its
phylacteries and hems."

"There is one thing," said Wynnie, after a pause, "that I have often
thought about--why it was necessary for Jesus to come as a baby: he could
not do anything for so long."

"First, I would answer, Wynnie, that if you would tell me why it is
necessary for all of us to come as babies, it would be less necessary for
me to tell you why he came so: whatever was human must be his. But I would
say next, Are you sure that he could not do anything for so long? Does a
baby do nothing? Ask mamma there. Is it for nothing that the mother lifts
up such heartfuls of thanks to God for the baby on her knee? Is it nothing
that the baby opens such fountains of love in almost all the hearts around?
Ah! you do not think how much every baby has to do with the saving of the
world--the saving of it from selfishness, and folly, and greed. And for
Jesus, was he not going to establish the reign of love in the earth? How
could he do better than begin from babyhood? He had to lay hold of
the heart of the world. How could he do better than begin with his
mother's--the best one in it. Through his mother's love first, he grew into
the world. It was first by the door of all the holy relations of the family
that he entered the human world, laying hold of mother, father, brothers,
sisters, all his friends; then by the door of labour, for he took his share
of his father's work; then, when he was thirty years of age, by the door of
teaching; by kind deeds, and sufferings, and through all by obedience unto
the death. You must not think little of the grand thirty years wherein he
got ready for the chief work to follow. You must not think that while he
was thus preparing for his public ministrations, he was not all the time
saving the world even by that which he was in the midst of it, ever laying
hold of it more and more. These were things not so easy to tell. And you
must remember that our records are very scanty. It is a small biography we
have of a man who became--to say nothing more--the Man of the world--the
Son of Man. No doubt it is enough, or God would have told us more; but
surely we are not to suppose that there was nothing significant, nothing
of saving power in that which we are not told.--Charlie, wouldn't you have
liked to see the little baby Jesus?"

"Yes, that I would. I would have given him my white rabbit with the pink
eyes."

"That is what the great painter Titian must have thought, Charlie; for he
has painted him playing with a white rabbit,--not such a pretty one as
yours."

"I would have carried him about all day," said Dora, "as little Henny
Parsons does her baby-brother."

"Did he have any brother or sister to carry him about, papa?" asked Harry.

"No, my boy; for he was the eldest. But you may be pretty sure he carried
about his brothers and sisters that came after him."

"Wouldn't he take care of them, just!" said Charlie.

"I wish I had been one of them," said Constance.

"You are one of them, my Connie. Now he is so great and so strong that he
can carry father and mother and all of us in his bosom."

Then we sung a child's hymn in praise of the God of little children, and
the little ones went to bed. Constance was tired now, and we left her with
Wynnie. "Oh, signore," she said, with a proud indignation, "do not speak
to me as if I were a child.

Cannot one see what is behind all this secrecy?
Cannot one see that you know well what has been done in England by your
friends and colleagues?

You put this man, who is too proud, too noble, to withdraw from his
word, on a service that involves the certain sacrifice of his life!

and there is no honor attached to this sacrifice--so he himself has
admitted.

What does that mean?

--what can it mean--but assassination?"

He drew back his head a little bit, as if startled, and stared at her.

"My dear young lady--"
But her courage had not returned to her for nothing. She raised the
beautiful, dark, pathetic eyes, and regarded him with an indignant
fearlessness.

"That is what any one might guess," she said. "But there is more.
Signore, you and your friends meditate the assassination of the King
of Italy! and you call on an Englishman--an Englishman who has no love
of secret and blood-stained ways--" 
"Stefan!"

the mother cried, quickly, and she placed her hand on the general's
arm; "do not be angry.

Do not heed her--she is a child--she is quick to speak.

Believe me, there are other reasons for our coming to you."
"Yes, yes, my friend Natalie; all in good time. But I am most anxious to put
myself right with the signorina your daughter first of all.

Now, my dear young lady," he said, taking her hand, and putting it on his
arm, and gently compelling her to walk with him toward the opener space
where the sea-air was cool, "I again apologize to you for having
spoken unwittingly--" 
"Oh, signore, do not trouble about that!

It is no matter of courtesy or politeness that is in the question: it is the
life of one of one's dearest friends. There are other times for politeness."

"Stefan," the mother interposed, anxiously, "do not heed her--she is
agitated."
"My dear Natalie," said the general, smiling, "I admire a brave
woman as I admire a brave man. Do not I recognize another of you
Berezolyis?She set off running with it to the house, and I followed,
much fearing she would miss her way in the dark, and fall. I could hardly
get up with her, so eager was she to save the child. She darted up to her
own room, where the fire was not yet out.

"Run to the kitchen, Harry, and get some hot water. Take the two jugs
there--you can empty them in the sink: you won't know where to find
anything. There will be plenty in the boiler."

By the time I returned with the hot water, she had taken off the child's
covering, and was sitting with it, wrapped in a blanket, before the fire.
The little thing was cold as a stone, and now silent and motionless. We
had found it just in time. The face was worn and pallid, but when lit up
with excitement it was capable of much expression; and Mr.

O'Halloran, when he did become excited, got very much excited indeed.

He had laid aside his pipe, and was just finishing his gin and
soda-water, taken from Mr.

Atkinson's private store.

However, the lion so seldom roars when it is expected to roar.

Instead of the extraordinary creature whom Lord Evelyn had been
describing, Brand found merely an Irish newspaper-reporter, who was
either tired, or indifferent, or sleepy.

They talked about some current topic of the hour for a few minutes; and then
Mr. O'Halloran, with a yawn, rose and said he must go home for breakfast.

"Stay a bit, O'Halloran," Lord Evelyn said, in despair; "I--I wanted--the
fact is, Mr. Brand has been asking me about Ferdinand Lind--"
"Oh," said the bushy-headed man, with a quick glance of scrutiny
at the tall Englishman.

"No, no," he added, with a smile, addressing himself directly to Brand,
"it is no use your touching anything of that kind.
You would want to know too much.

You would want to have the earth dug away from over the catacombs
before you went below to follow a solitary guide with a bit of
candle.

You could never be brought to understand that the cardinal principle
of all secret societies has been that obedience is an end and aim
in itself, and faith the chiefest of all the virtues.

You wouldn't take anything on trust; you have the pure English
temperament."

Brand laughed, and said nothing. But O'Halloran sat down again, and began
to talk in an idle, hap-hazard sort of fashion of the various
secret societies, religious, social, political that had become known
to the world; and of their aims, and their working, and how they
had so often fallen away into the mere preservation of mummeries,
or declared themselves only by the commission of useless deeds of
revenge.

"Ah," said Brand, eagerly, "that is precisely what I have been urging on
Lord Evelyn. How can you know, in joining such an association, that you
are not becoming the accomplices of men who are merely planning
assassination? And what good can come of that? How are you likely to gain
anything by the dagger? The great social and political changes of the world
come in tides; you can neither retard them nor help them by sticking
pins in the sand."

"I am not so sure," said the other, doubtfully. "A little wholesome terrorism
has sometimes played its part. The 1868 amnesty to the Poles in Siberia
was not so long after--not more than a year after, I think--that little
business of Berezowski. Faith, what a chance that man had!"
"Who?"
"Berezowski," said he, with an air of contemplation. "The two biggest scoundrels
in the world in one carriage; and he had two shots at them.
Well, well, Orsini succeeded better."
"Succeeded?" said George Brand. "Do you call that success? He had the
reward that he richly merited, at all events."
"You do not think he was successful?" he said, calmly. "Then you do not
know how the kingdom of Italy came by its liberty. Who do you think was the
founder of that kingdom of Italy?--which God preserve till it become
something better than a kingdom! Not Cavour, with all his wiliness;
not your Galantuomo, the warrior who wrote up Aspromonte in the face
of all the world as the synonyme for the gratitude of kings; not Garibaldi,
who, in spite of Aspromonte, has become now merely the _concierge_ to the
House of Savoy. The founder of the kingdom of Italy was Felix Orsini--and
whether heaven or hell contains him, I drink his health!"
He suited the action to the word. Brand looked on, not much impressed.

"That is all nonsense, O'Halloran!" Lord Evelyn said, bluntly.

"I tell you," O'Halloran said, with some vehemence, "that the 14th of
January, 1858, kept Louis Napoleon in such a state of tremor, that he would
have done a good deal more than lend his army to Sardinia to sweep the
Austrians out rather than abandon himself to the fate that Cavour plainly
and distinctly indicated. But for the threat of another dose of Orsini
pills, do you think you would ever have heard of Magenta and
Solferino?"

He seemed to rouse himself a bit now.

"No," he said, "I do not approve of assassination as a political weapon.

It seldom answers.

But it has always been the policy of absolute governments, and of
their allies the priests and the police, to attribute any murders
that might occur to the secret societies, and so to terrify stupid
people.

It is one of the commonest slanders in history. Why, everybody knows how
Fouche humbugged the First Napoleon, and got up vague plots to prove
that he, and he alone, knew what was going on. When Karl Sand killed
Kotzebue--oh, of course, that was a fine excuse for the German
kings and princes to have another raid against free speech, though
Sand declared he had nothing in the world to do with either the
Tugendbund or any such society.

Who now believes that Young Italy killed Count Rossi?

Rossi was murdered by the agents of the clericals; it was distinctly
proved. But any stick is good enough to beat a dog with. No matter what
the slander is, so long as you can get up a charge, either for the imprisoning
of a dangerous enemy or for terrifying the public mind.

You yourself, Mr.

Brand--I can see that your only notion of the innumerable secret societies
now in Europe is that they will probably assassinate people. That's what
they said about the Carbonari too.

The objects of the Carbonari were plain as plain could be; but no
sooner had General Pepe kicked out Ferdinand and put in a constitutional
monarch, than Austria must needs attribute every murder that was
committed, to those detestable Carbonari, so that she should call
upon Prussia and Russia to join her in strangling the infant liberties
of Europe.

You see, we can't get at those Royal slanderers.

We can get at a man like Sir James Graham, when we force him to
apologize in the House of Commons for having said that Mazzini instigated
the assassination of the spies Emiliani and Lazzareschi."'
"But, good heavens!" exclaimed Brand, "does anybody doubt that that was
a political double murder?"
O'Halloran shrugged his shoulders, and smiled.

"You may call it murder if you like; others might call it a fitting
punishment.

But all I was asking you to do was to remove from your mind that bugbear
that the autocratic governments of Europe have created for their own uses.
No secret society--if you except those Nihilists, who appear to have gone
mad altogether--I say, no secret society of the present day recognizes
political assassination as a normal or desirable weapon; though it may
have to be resorted to in extreme cases. You, as an individual, might, in
certain circumstances, lawfully kill a man; but that is neither the custom,
nor the object, nor the chief thought of your life."
"And are there many of these societies?" Brand asked.

O'Halloran had carelessly lit himself another pipe.

"Europe is honey-combed with them. They are growing in secret as rapidly
as some kindred societies are growing in the open. Look at the German
socialists--in 1871 they polled only 120,000 votes; in 1874 they polled
340,000: I imagine that Herr Furst von Bismarck will find some difficulty
in suppressing that Frankenstein monster he coquetted so long with. Then
the Knights of Labor in America: you will hear something of them
by-and-by, or I am mistaken. In secret and in the open alike there
is a vast power growing and growing, increasing in volume and bulk from
hour to hour, from year to year, God only knows in what fashion it will
reveal itself. But you may depend on it that when the spark does spring
out of the cloud--when the clearance of the atmosphere is due--people will
look back on 1688, and 1798, and 1848 as mere playthings. The Great
Revolution is still to come; it may be nearer than some imagine."
He had grown more earnest, both in his manner and his speech.

"Well," George Brand said, "timid people may reassure themselves. Where
there are so many societiets, there will be as many different aims.
Some, like the wilder German socialists, will want a general participation
of property; others a demolition of the churches and crucifixion of the
priests; others the establishment of a Universal Republic. There may
be a great deal of powder stored up, but it will all go off in different
directions, in little fireworks."
A quick light gleamed in those deep-set, lion-like eyes.

"Very well said!" was the scornful comment. "The Czar himself could not have
expressed his belief, or at least his hope, more neatly. But let me tell
you, sir, that the masses of mankind are not such hopeless idiots as are
some of the feather-headed orators and writers who speak for them; and
that you will appeal to them in vain if you do not appeal to their sense
of justice, and their belief in right, and in the eternal laws of God.
You may have a particular crowd go mad, or a particular city go mad; but
the heart of the people beats true, and if you desire a great political
change, you must appeal to their love of fair and honest dealing as between
man and man. And even if the aims of these societies are diverse, what
then? What would you think, now, if it were possible to construct a common
platform, where certain aims at least could be accepted by all, and become
bonds to unite those who are hoping for better things all over the earth?
That did not occur to you as a possible thing, perhaps? You have only
studied the ways of kings and governments--each one for itself. 'Come
over my boundary, and I will cleave your head; or, rather, I will send
my common people to do it, for a little blood-letting from time to time
is good for that vile and ignorant body.' But the vile and ignorant
body may begin to tire of that recurrent blood-letting, and might perhaps
even say, 'Brother across the boundary, I have no quarrel with you. You are
poor and ignorant like myself; the travail of the earth lies hard on you;
I would rather give you my hand. If I have any quarrel, surely it is with
the tyrants of the earth, who have kept both you and me enslaved; who have
taken away our children from us; who have left us scarcely bread. How long,
O Lord, how long?

We are tired of the reign of Cæsar; we are beaten down with it; who
will help us now to establish the reign of Christ?"

He rose.

Despite the unkempt hair, this man looked quite handsome now, while
this serious look was in his face.

Brand began to perceive whence his friend Evelyn had derived at least
some of his inspiration.

"Meanwhile," O'Halloran said, with a light, scornful laugh,
"Christianity has been of excellent service to Cæsar; it has been
the big policeman of Europe.

Do you think these poor wretches would have been so patient if they had
not believed there was some compensation reserved for them beyond the grave?
They would have had Cæsar by the throat by this time."

"Then that scheme of co-operation you mentioned," Brand said,
somewhat hastily--for he saw that O'Halloran was about to leave--"that
is what Ferdinand Lind is working at?"

The other started.

"I cannot give you any information on that point," said O'Halloran, gravely.
"And I do not think you are likely to get much anywhere if you are
only moved by curiosity, however sympathetic and well-wishing."

He took up his hat and stick.

"Good-bye, Mr. Brand," said he; and he looked at him with a kindly look.
"As far as I can judge, you are now in the position of a man at a partly
opened door, half afraid to enter, and too curious to draw back. Well,
my advice to you is--Draw back. Or at least remember this: that before you
enter that room you must be without doubt--_and without fear_."

CHAPTER VI.

BON VOYAGE!

Fear he had none. His life was not so valuable to him that he would have
hesitated about throwing himself into any forlorn-hope, provided that
he was satisfied of the justice of the cause. He had dabbled a little in
philosophy, and not only believed that the ordinary altruistic
instincts of mankind could be traced to a purely utilitarian origin,
but also that, on the same theory, the highest form of personal
gratification might be found in the severest form, of self-sacrifice.

He did not pity a martyr; he envied him. But before the martyr's joy
must come the martyr's faith. Without that enthusiastic belief in the
necessity and nobleness and value of the sacrifice, what could there be but
physical pain and the despair of a useless death?

But, if he had no fear, he had a superabundance of doubt. He had not all the
pliable, receptive, imaginative nature of his friend, Lord Evelyn.

He had more than the ordinary Englishman's distrust of secrecy.

He was not to be won over by the visions of a St.

Simon, the eloquence of a Fourier, the epigrams of a Proudhon: these were
to him but intellectual playthings, of no practical value. It was, doubtless,
a novelty for a young man brought up as Lord Evelyn had been to associate
with a gin-drinking Irish reporter, and to regard him as the mysterious
apostle of a new creed; Brand only saw in O'Halloran a light-headed,
imaginative, talkative person, as safe to trust to for guidance as a
will-o'-the-wisp.

It is true that for the time being he had been thrilled by the
passionate fervor of Natalie Lind's singing; and many a time since
he could have fancied that he heard in the stillness of the night
that pathetic and vibrating appeal--
"When, when will the Lord cry, 'Revenge, it is mine?'"

But he dissociated her from her father's schemes altogether. No doubt she
was moved by the generous enthusiasm of a young girl. She had a warm,
human, sympathetic heart; the cry of the poor and the suffering
appealed to her; and she was confident in the success of projects
of which she had been prudently kept ignorant.

This was George Brand's reading. He would not have Natalie Lind associated
with Leicester Square and a lot of garlic-eating revolutionaries.

"But who is this man Lind?" he asked, impatiently, of Lord Evelyn. He
had driven up to his friend's house in Clarges Street, had had
luncheon with him, and they were now smoking a cigarette in the
library.

"You mean his nationality?" said his friend, laughing. "That has puzzled me,
too. He seems, at all events, to have had his finger in a good
many pies.

He escaped into Turkey with Bem, I know: and he has been imprisoned
in Russia; and once or twice I have heard him refer to the amnesty that was
proclaimed when Louis Napoleon was presented with an heir.

But whether he is Pole, or Jew, or Slav, there is no doubt about his
daughter being a thorough Hungarian."
"Not the least," said Brand, with decision.

"I have seen lots of women of that type in Pesth, and in Vienna, too: if
you are walking in the Prater you can always tell the Hungarian
women as they drive past.

But you rarely see one as beautiful as she is."
After awhile Lord Evelyn said,
"This is Natalie's birthday.

By-and-by I am going along to Bond Street to buy some little thing for
her."

"Then she allows you to make her presents?"

Brand said, somewhat coldly.

"She and I are like brother and sister now," said the pale, deformed
lad, without hesitation.

"If I were ill, I think she would be glad to come and look after
me."

"You have already plenty of sisters who would do that.'"

"By-the-way, they are coming to town next week with my mother. You must
come and dine with us some night, if you are not afraid to face
the chatter of such a lot of girls."

"Have they seen Miss Lind?"

"No, not yet."

"And how will you explain your latest craze to them, Evelyn? They are very
nice girls indeed, you know; but--but--when they set full cry on you--I
suppose some day I shall have to send them a copy of a newspaper from
abroad, with this kind of thing in it: '_Compeared yesterday before
the Correctional Tribunal, Earnest Francis D'Agincourt, Baron
Evelyn, charged with having in his possession two canisters of an
explosive compound and fourteen empty missiles.

Further, among the correspondence of the accused was found--_'"
"'_A letter from an Englishman named Brand_,'" continued Lord Evelyn, as
he rose and went to the window, "'_apparently written under the
influence of nightmare._' Come, Brand, I see the carriage is below.

Will you drive with me to the jeweller's?"
"Certainly," said his friend; and at this moment the carriage was announced.
"I suppose it wouldn't do for me to buy the thing? You know I have more money
to spend on trinkets than you have."
They were very intimate friends indeed. Lord Evelyn only said, with a
smile,
"I am afraid Natalie wouldn't like it."
But this choosing of a birthday present was a terrible business. The jeweller
was as other jewellers: his designs were mostly limited to the
representation of two objects--a butterfly for a woman, and a
horseshoe for a man.

At last Brand, who had been walking about from time to time, espied,
in a distant case, an object which instantly attracted his attention.
It was a flat piece of wood or board, covered with blue velvet; and on
this had been twined an unknown number of yards of the beautiful thread-like
gold chain common to the jewellers' shop-windows in Venice.

"Here you are, Evelyn," Brand said at once. "Why not buy a lot of this
thin chain, and let her make it into any sort of decoration that she
chooses?"
"It is an ignominious way out of the difficulty," said the other: but he
consented; and yard after yard of the thread-like chain was unrolled.
When allowed to drop together, it seemed to go into no compass at all.

They went outside.

"What are you going to do now, Brand?"
The other was looking cheerless enough.

"I?" he said, with the slightest possible shrug. "I suppose I must go down
to the club, and yawn away the time till dinner."

"Then why not come with me? I have a commission or two from my sisters--one
as far out as Notting Hill; but after that we can drive back through the
Park and call on the Linds. I dare say Lind will be home by that time."

Lord Evelyn's friend was more than delighted. As they drove from place to
place he was a good deal more talkative than was his wont; and, among other
things, confessed his belief that Ferdinand Lind seemed much too hard-headed
a man to be engaged in mere visionary enterprises. But somehow the conversation
generally came round to Mr. Lind's daughter; and Brand seemed very anxious
to find out to what degree she was cognizant of her father's schemes. On
this point Lord Evelyn knew nothing.

At last they arrived at the house in Curzon Street, and found Mr.

Lind just on the point of entering.

He stayed to receive them; went up-stairs with them to the drawing-room,
and then begged them to excuse him for a few minutes. Presently Natalie
Lind appeared.

How this man envied his friend Evelyn the frank, sister-like way in which
she took the little present, and thanked him, for that and his kind
wishes!

"Ah, do you know," she said, "what a strange birthday gift I had given me
this morning? See!"

She brought over the old-fashioned silver locket, and told them the
whole story.

"Is it not strange?" she said. "'_From Natalie to Natalushka_:' that is,
from myself to myself. What can it mean?"
"Have you not asked your father, then, about his mysterious messenger?" Brand
said. He was always glad to ask this girl a question, for she looked him
so straight in the face with her soft, dark eyes, as she answered,
"He has only now come home. I will directly."
"But why does your father call you Natalushka, Natalie?" asked Lord
Evelyn.

There was the slightest blush on the pale, clear face.

"It was a nickname they gave me, I am told, when I was child. They used
to make me angry."
"And now, if one were to call you Natalushka?"
"My anger would be too terrible," she said, with a smile. "Papa alone dares
to do that."
Presently her father came into the room.

"Oh, papa," said she, "I have discovered who the lady is whom you got
to bring me the flowers. And see! she has given me this strange
little locket. Look at the inscription--'_From Natalie to Natalushka_.'"

Lind only glanced at the locket. His eyes were fixed on the girl.

"Where did you see the--the lady?" he asked, coldly.

"In the Park. But she did not stay a moment, or speak; she hurried on, and
Anneli thought she was crying. I almost think so too. Who was it, papa? May
I speak to her, if I see her again?"
Mr. Lind turned aside for a moment. Brand, who was narrowly watching him,
was convinced that the man was in a passion of rage. But when he turned
again he was outwardly calm.

"You will do nothing of the kind, Natalie," he said in measured tones.
"I have warned you before against making indiscriminate acquaintances; and
Anneli, if she is constantly getting such stupidities into her head, must
be sent about her business. I do not wish to hear anything more about
it. Will you ring and ask why tea has not been sent up?"
The girl silently obeyed. Her father had never spoken to her in this
cold, austere tone before. She sat down at a small table, apart.

Mr. Lind talked for a minute or two with his guests; then he said,
"Natalie, you have the zither there; why do you not play us something?"

She turned to the small instrument, and, after a second or two, played a
few notes: that was all. She rose and said, "I don't think I can play this
afternoon, papa;" and then she left the room.

Mr. Lind pretended to converse with his guests as before; and tea came in;
but presently he begged to be excused for a moment, and left the
room.

George Brand rose, and took a turn or two up and down.

"It would take very little," he muttered--for his teeth were set--"to
make me throw that fellow out of the window!"

"What do you mean?"

Lord Evelyn said, in great surprise.

"Didn't you see? She left the room to keep from crying. That miserable Polish
cutthroat--I should like to kick him down-stairs!"

But at this moment the door opened, and father and daughter entered,
arm-in-arm.

Natalie's face was a little bit flushed, but she was very gentle
and affectionate; they had made up that brief misunderstanding, obviously.
And she had brought in her hand a mob-cap of black satin:
would Lord Evelyn allow her to try the effect of twisting those beautiful
golden threads through it?

"Natalushka," said her father, with great good-humor, "it is your birthday.
Do you think you could persuade Lord Evelyn and Mr. Brand to come
to your dinner-party?"
It was then explained to the two gentlemen that on this great
anniversary it was the custom of Mr. Lind, when in London, to take
his daughter to dine at some French or Italian restaurant in Regent
Street or thereabouts. In fact, she liked to play at being abroad
for an hour or two; to see around her foreign faces, and hear foreign
tongues.
"I am afraid you will say that it is very easy to remind yourself
of the Continent," said Mr. Lind, smiling--"that you have only to
go to a place where they give you oily food and bad wine."
"On the contrary," said Brand, "I should thing it very difficult
in London to imagine yourself in a foreign town; for London is
drained.
However, I accept the invitation with pleasure."
"And I," said Lord Evelyn. "Now, must we be off to dress?"
"Not at all," said Natalie. "Do you not understand that you are
abroad, and walking into a restaurant to dine? And now I will play
you a little invitation--not to dinner; for you must suppose you
have dined--and you come out on the stairs of the hotel, and step
into the black gondola."We don't want it to get common to us
with too much use. We may think it as much as we like; thinking does not
spoil it; but saying spoils many things, and especially beautiful words.
Now we must let Wynnie finish what she was saying."

"I was saying, papa, that I can't help feeling as if--I know it can't be
true--but I feel as if Jesus spoke unkindly to his mother when he said that
to her."

I looked at the page and read the words, "How is it that ye sought me? wist
ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" And I sat silent for a
while.

"Why don't you speak, papa?" said Harry.

"I am sitting wondering at myself, Harry," I said. "Long after I was your
age, Wynnie, I remember quite well that those words troubled me as they now
trouble you. But when I read them over now, they seemed to me so lovely
that I could hardly read them aloud. I can recall the fact that they
troubled me, but the mode of the fact I scarcely can recall. I can hardly
see now wherein lay the hurt or offence the words gave me. And why is that?
Simply because I understand them now, and I did not understand them then.
I took them as uttered with a tone of reproof; now I hear them as uttered
with a tone of loving surprise. But really I cannot feel sure what it was
that I did not like. And I am confident it is so with a great many things
that we reject. We reject them simply because we do not understand them.
Therefore, indeed, we cannot with truth be said to reject them at all. It
is some false appearance that we reject. Some of the grandest things in
the whole realm of truth look repellent to us, and we turn away from them,
simply because we are not--to use a familiar phrase--we are not up to them.
They appear to us, therefore, to be what they are not. Instruction sounds
to the proud man like reproof; illumination comes on the vain man like
scorn; the manifestation of a higher condition of motive and action
than his own, falls on the self-esteeming like condemnation; but it is
consciousness and conscience working together that produce this impression;
the result is from the man himself, not from the higher source. From the
truth comes the power, but the shape it assumes to the man is from the man
himself."

"You are quite beyond me now, papa," said Wynnie.

"Well, my dear," I answered, "I will return to the words of the boy Jesus,
instead of talking more about them; and when I have shown you what they
mean, I think you will allow that that feeling you have about them is all
and altogether an illusion."

"There is one thing first," said Connie, "that I want to understand. You
said the words of Jesus rather indicated surprise. But how could he be
surprised at anything? If he was God, he must have known everything."

"He tells us himself that he did not know everything. He says once that
even _he_ did not know one thing--only the Father knew it."

"But how could that be if he was God?"

"My dear, that is one of the things that it seems to me impossible I should
understand. Certainly I think his trial as a man would not have been
perfect had he known everything. He too had to live by faith in the Father.
And remember that for the Divine Sonship on earth perfect knowledge was not
necessary, only perfect confidence, absolute obedience, utter holiness.
There is a great tendency in our sinful natures to put knowledge and power
on a level with goodness. It was one of the lessons of our Lord's life that
they are not so; that the one grand thing in humanity is faith in God; that
the highest in God is his truth, his goodness, his rightness. But if Jesus
was a real man, and no mere appearance of a man, is it any wonder that,
with a heart full to the brim of the love of God, he should be for a moment
surprised that his mother, whom he loved so dearly, the best human being
he knew, should not have taken it as a matter of course that if he was not
with her, he must be doing something his Father wanted him to do? For this
is just what his answer means. To turn it into the ordinary speech of our
day, it is just this: 'Why did you look for me? Didn't you know that I must
of course be doing something my Father had given me to do?' Just think of
the quiet sweetness of confidence in this. And think what a life his must
have been up to that twelfth year of his, that such an expostulation with
his mother was justified. It must have had reference to a good many things
that had passed before then, which ought to have been sufficient to make
Mary conclude that her missing boy must be about God's business somewhere.
If her heart had been as full of God and God's business as his, she would
not have been in the least uneasy about him. And here is the lesson of his
whole life: it was all his Father's business. The boy's mind and hands
were full of it. The man's mind and hands were full of it. And the risen
conqueror was full of it still. For the Father's business is everything,
and includes all work that is worth doing. We may say in a full grand
sense, that there is nothing but the Father and his business."

"But we have so many things to do that are not his business," said Wynnie,
with a sigh of oppression.

"Not one, my darling. If anything is not his business, you not only have
not to do it, but you ought not to do it. Your words come from the want of
spiritual sight. We cannot see the truth in common things--the will of God
in little everyday affairs, and that is how they become so irksome to us.
Show a beautiful picture, one full of quiet imagination and deep thought,
to a common-minded man; he will pass it by with some slight remark,
thinking it very ordinary and commonplace. That is because he is
commonplace. Because our minds are so commonplace, have so little of the
divine imagination in them, therefore we do not recognise the spiritual
meaning and worth, we do not perceive the beautiful will of God, in the
things required of us, though they are full of it. But if we do them we
shall thus make acquaintance with them, and come to see what is in them.
The roughest kernel amongst them has a tree of life in its heart."

"I wish he would tell me something to do," said Charlie. "Wouldn't I do
it!"

I made no reply, but waited for an opportunity which I was pretty sure was
at hand, while I carried the matter a little further.

"But look here, Wynnie; listen to this," I said, "'And he went down with
them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them.' Was that not doing
his Father's business too? Was it not doing the business of his Father in
heaven to honour his father and his mother, though he knew that his days
would not be long in that land? Did not his whole teaching, his whole
doing, rest on the relation of the Son to the Father and surely it was
doing his Father's business then to obey his parents--to serve them, to be
subject to them. It is true that the business God gives a man to do may be
said to be the peculiar walk in life into which he is led, but that is only
as distinguishing it from another man's peculiar business. God gives us
all our business, and the business which is common to humanity is
more peculiarly God's business than that which is one man's and not
another's--because it lies nearer the root, and is essential. It does not
matter whether a man is a farmer or a physician, but it greatly matters
whether he is a good son, a good husband, and so on. O my children!" I
said, "if the world could but be brought to believe--the world did I say?--
if the best men in the world could only see, as God sees it, that service
is in itself the noblest exercise of human powers, if they could see that
God is the hardest worker of all, and that his nobility are those who do
the most service, surely it would alter the whole aspect of the church.
Menial offices, for instance, would soon cease to be talked of with that
contempt which shows that there is no true recognition of the fact that
the same principle runs through the highest duty and the lowest--that the
lowest work which God gives a man to do must be in its nature noble, as
certainly noble as the highest. This would destroy condescension, which
is the rudeness, yes, impertinence, of the higher, as it would destroy
insolence, which is the rudeness of the lower. He who recognised the
dignity of his own lower office, would thereby recognise the superiority of
the higher office, and would be the last either to envy or degrade it. He
would see in it his own--only higher, only better, and revere it. But I am
afraid I have wearied you, my children."

"O, no, papa!" said the elder ones, while the little ones gaped and said
nothing.

"I know I am in danger of doing so when I come to speak upon this subject:
it has such a hold of my heart and mind!--Now, Charlie, my boy, go to bed."

But Charlie was very comfortable before the fire, on the rug, and did not
want to go. First one shoulder went up, and then the other, and the corners
of his mouth went down, as if to keep the balance true. He did not move to
go. I gave him a few moments to recover himself, but as the black frost
still endured, I thought it was time to hold up a mirror to him. When he
was a very little boy, he was much in the habit of getting out of temper,
and then as now, he made a face that was hideous to behold; and to cure him
of this, I used to make him carry a little mirror about his neck, that the
means might be always at hand of showing himself to him: it was a sort of
artificial conscience which, by enabling him to see the picture of his own
condition, which the face always is, was not unfrequently operative in
rousing his real conscience, and making him ashamed of himself. But now the
mirror I wanted to hold up to him was a past mood, in the light of which
the present would show what it was.

"Charlie," I said, "a little while ago you were wishing that God would give
you something to do. And now when he does, you refuse at once, without even
thinking about it."

"How do you know that God wants me to go to bed?" said Charlie, with
something of surly impertinence, which I did not meet with reproof at once
because there was some sense along with the impudence.

"I know that God wants you to do what I tell you, and to do it pleasantly.
Do you think the boy Jesus would have put on such a face as that--I wish I
had the little mirror to show it to you--when his mother told him it was
time to go to bed?"

And now Charlie began to look ashamed. I left the truth to work in him,
because I saw it was working. Had I not seen that, I should have compelled
him to go at once, that he might learn the majesty of law. But now that his
own better self, the self enlightened of the light that lighteneth every
man that cometh into the world, was working, time might well be afforded it
to work its perfect work. I went on talking to the others. In the space of
not more than one minute, he rose and came to me, looking both good and
ashamed, and held up his face to kiss me, saying, "Goodnight, papa." I bade
him good-night, and kissed him more tenderly than usual, that he might know
that it was all right between us. I required no formal apology, no begging
of my pardon, as some parents think right. It seemed enough to me that
his heart was turned. It is a terrible thing to run the risk of changing
humility into humiliation. Humiliation is one of the proudest conditions
in the human world. When he felt that it would be a relief to say more
explicitly, "Father, I have sinned," then let him say it; but not till
then. To compel manifestation is one surest way to check feeling.

My readers must not judge it silly to record a boy's unwillingness to go to
bed. It is precisely the same kind of disobedience that some of them are
guilty of themselves, and that in things not one whit more important than
this, only those things happen to be _their_ wish at the moment, and not
Charlie's, and so gain their superiority.


CHAPTER VIII.

THEODORA'S DOOM.


Try not to get weary, respected reader, of so much of what I am afraid
most people will call tiresome preaching. But I know if you get anything
practicable out of it, you will not be so soon tired of it. I promise you
more story by and by. Only an old man, like an old horse, must be allowed
to take very much his own way--go his own pace, I should have said. I am
afraid there must be a little more of a similar sort in this chapter.

On the Monday morning I set out to visit one or two people whom the
severity of the weather had kept from church on the Sunday. The last severe
frost, as it turned out, of the season, was possessing the earth. The sun
was low in the wintry sky, and what seemed a very cold mist up in the air
hid him from the earth. I was walking along a path in a field close by a
hedge. A tree had been cut down, and lay upon the grass. A short distance
from it lay its own figure marked out in hoar-frost. There alone was there
any hoar-frost on the field; the rest was all of the loveliest tenderest
green. I will not say the figure was such an exact resemblance as a
photograph would have been; still it was an indubitable likeness. It
appeared to the hasty glance that not a branch not a knot of the upper
side of the tree at least was left unrepresented in shining and glittering
whiteness upon the green grass. It was very pretty, and, I confess, at
first, very puzzling. I walked on, meditating on the phenomenon, till at
length I found out its cause. The hoar-frost had been all over the field in
the morning. The sun had been shining for a time, and had melted the frost
away, except where he could only cast a shadow. As he rose and rose,
the shadow of the tree had shortened and come nearer and nearer to its
original, growing more and more like as it came nearer, while the frost
kept disappearing as the shadow withdrew its protection. When the shadow
extended only to a little way from the tree, the clouds came and covered
the sun, and there were no more shadows, only one great one of the clouds.
Then the frost shone out in the shape of the vanished shadow. It lay at a
little distance from the tree, because the tree having been only partially
lopped, some great stumps of boughs held it up from the ground, and thus,
when the sun was low, his light had shone a little way through beneath, as
well as over the trunk.

My reader needs not be afraid; I am not going to "moralise this spectacle
with a thousand similes." I only tell it him as a very pretty phenomenon.
But I confess I walked on moralising it. Any new thing in nature--I mean
new in regard to my knowledge, of course--always made me happy; and I was
full of the quiet pleasure it had given me and of the thoughts it had
brought me, when, as I was getting over a stile, whom should I see in the
next field, coming along the footpath, but the lady who had made herself so
disagreeable about Theodora. The sight was rather a discord in my feeling
at that moment; perhaps it would have been so at any moment. But I prepared
myself to meet her in the strength of the good humour which nature had just
bestowed upon me. For I fear the failing will go with me to the grave
that I am very ready to be annoyed, even to the loss of my temper, at the
urgings of ignoble prudence.

"Good-morning, Miss Bowdler," I said.

"Good-morning, Mr. Walton," she returned "I am afraid you thought me
impertinent the other week; but you know by this time it is only my way."

"As such I take it," I answered with a smile.

She did not seem quite satisfied that I did not defend her from her own
accusation; but as it was a just one, I could not do so. Therefore she went
on to repeat the offence by way of justification.

"It was all for Mrs. Walton's sake. You ought to consider her, Mr. Walton.
She has quite enough to do with that dear Connie, who is likely to be an
invalid all her days--too much to take the trouble of a beggar's brat as
well."

"Has Mrs. Walton been complaining to you about it, Miss Bowdler?" I asked.

"O dear, no!" she answered. "She is far too good to complain of anything.
That's just why her friends must look after her a bit, Mr. Walton."

"Then I beg you won't speak disrespectfully of my little Theodora."

"O dear me! no. Not at all. I don't speak disrespectfully of her."

"Even amongst the class of which she comes, 'a beggar's brat' would be
regarded as bad language."

"I beg your pardon, I'm sure, Mr. Walton! If you _will_ take offence--"

"I do take offence. And you know there is One who has given especial
warning against offending the little ones."

Miss Bowdler walked away in high displeasure--let me hope in conviction of
sin as well. She did not appear in church for the next two Sundays. Then
she came again. But she called very seldom at the Hall after this, and I
believe my wife was not sorry.

Now whether it came in any way from what that lady had said as to my wife's
trouble with Constance and Theodora together, I can hardly tell; but,
before I had reached home, I had at last got a glimpse of something like
the right way, as it appeared to me, of bringing up Theodora. When I went
into the house, I looked for my wife to have a talk with her about it; but,
indeed, it always necessary to find her every time I got home. I found her
in Connie's room as I had expected. Now although we were never in the habit
of making mysteries of things in which there was no mystery, and talked
openly before our children, and the more openly the older they grew, yet
there were times when we wanted to have our talks quite alone, especially
when we had not made up our minds about something. So I asked Ethelwyn to
walk out with me.

"I'm afraid I can't just this moment, husband," she answered. She was in
the way of using that form of address, for she said it meant everything
without saying it aloud. "I can't just this moment, for there is no one at
liberty to stay with Connie."

"O, never mind me, mamma," said Connie cheerfully. "Theodora will take care
of me," and she looked fondly at the child, who was lying by her side fast
asleep.

"There!" I said. And both, looked up surprised, for neither knew what I
meant. "I will tell you afterwards," I said, laughing. "Come along, Ethel."

"You can ring the bell, you know, Connie, if you should want anything, or
your baby should wake up and be troublesome. You won't want me long, will
you, husband?"

"I'm not sure about that. You must tell Susan to watch for the bell."

Susan was the old nurse.

Ethel put on her hooded cloak, and we went out together. I took her across
to the field where I had seen the hoary shadow. The sun had not shone out,
and I hoped it would be there to gladden her dear eyes as it had gladdened
mine; but it was gone. The warmth of the sun, without his direct rays, had
melted it away, as sacred influences will sometimes do with other shadows,
without the mind knowing any more than the grass how the shadow departed.
There, reader! I have got a bit of a moral in about it before you knew what
I was doing. But I was sorry my wife could see it only through my eyes and
words. Then I told her about Miss Bowdler, and what she had said. Ethel
was very angry at her impertinence in speaking so to me. That was a wife's
feeling, you know, and perhaps excusable in the first impression of the
thing.

"She seems to think," she said, "that she was sent into the world to keep
other people right instead of herself. I am very glad you set her down, as
the maids say."

"O, I don't think there's much harm in her," I returned, which was easy
generosity, seeing my wife was taking my part. "Indeed, I am not sure that
we are not both considerably indebted to her; for it was after I met her
that a thought came into my head as to how we ought to do with Theodora."

"Still troubling yourself about that, husband?"

"The longer the difficulty lasts, the more necessary is it that it should
be met," I answered. "Our measures must begin sometime, and when, who can
tell? We ought to have them in our heads, or they will never begin at all."

"Well, I confess they are rather of a general nature at present--belonging
to humanity rather than the individual, as you would say--consisting
chiefly in washing, dressing, feeding, and apostrophe, varied with
lullabying. But our hearts are a better place for our measures than our
heads, aren't they?"

"Certainly; I walk corrected. Only there's no fear about your heart. I'm
not quite so sure about your head."

"Thank you, husband. But with you for a head it doesn't matter, does it?"

"I don't know that. People should always strengthen the weaker part, for no
chain is stronger than its weakest link; no fortification stronger than
its most assailable point. But, seriously, wife, I trust your head nearly,
though not quite, as much as your heart. Now to go to business. There's
one thing we have both made up our minds about--that there is to be no
concealment with the child. God's fact must be known by her. It would be
cruel to keep the truth from her, even if it were not sure to come upon her
with a terrible shock some day. She must know from the first, by hearing it
talked of--not by solemn and private communication--that she came out of
the shrubbery. That's settled, is it not?"

"Certainly. I see that to be the right way," responded Ethelwyn.

"Now, are we bound to bring her up exactly as our own, or are we not?"

"We are bound to do as well for her as for our own."

"Assuredly. But if we brought her up just as our own, would that, the facts
being as they are, be to do as well for her as for our own?"

"I doubt it; for other people would not choose to receive her as we have
done."

"That is true. She would be continually reminded of her origin. Not that
that in itself would be any evil; but as they would do it by excluding or
neglecting her, or, still worse, by taking liberties with her, it would be
a great pain. But keeping that out of view, would it be good for herself,
knowing what she will know, to be thus brought up? Would it not be kinder
to bring her up in a way that would make it easier for her to relieve the
gratitude which I trust she will feel, not for our sakes--I hope we are
above doing anything for the sake of the gratitude which will be given for
it, and which is so often far beyond the worth of the thing done--"

  "Alas! the gratitude of men
  Hath oftener left me mourning,"

said Ethel.

"Ah! you understand that now, my Ethel!"

"Yes, thank you, I do."

"But we must wish for gratitude for others' sake, though we may be willing
to go without it for our own. Indeed, gratitude is often just as painful as
Wordsworth there represents it. It makes us so ashamed; makes us think how
much more we _might_ have done; how lovely a thing it is to give in return
for such common gifts as ours; how needy the man or woman must be in whom a
trifle awakes so much emotion."

"Yes; but we must not in justice think that it is merely that our little
doing seems great to them: it is the kindness shown them therein, for
which, often, they are more grateful than for the gift, though they can't
show the difference in their thanks."

"And, indeed, are not aware of it themselves, though it is so. And yet, the
same remarks hold good about the kindness as about the gift. But to return
to Theodora. If we put her in a way of life that would be recognisant of
whence she came, and how she had been brought thence, might it not be
better for her? Would it not be building on the truth? Would she not be
happier for it?"


"You are putting general propositions, while all the time you have
something particular and definite in your own mind; and that is not fair to
my place in the conference," said Ethel. "In fact, you think you are trying
to approach me wisely, in order to persuade, I will not say _wheedle_, me
into something. It's a good thing you have the harmlessness of the dove,
Harry, for you've got the other thing."

"Well, then, I will be as plain as ever I can be, only premising that what
you call the cunning of the serpent--"

"Wisdom, Harry, not cunning."

"Is only that I like to give my arguments before my proposition. But here
it is--bare and defenceless, only--let me warn you--with a whole battery
behind it: it is, to bring up little Theodora as a servant to Constance."

My wife laughed.

"Well," she said, "for one who says so much about not thinking of the
morrow, you do look rather far forward."

"Not with any anxiety, however, if only I know that I am doing right."

"But just think: the child is about three months old."

"Well; Connie will be none the worse that she is being trained for her. I
don't say that she is to commence her duties at once."

"But Connie may be at the head of a house of her own long before that."

"The training won't be lost to the child though. But I much fear, my love,
that Connie will never be herself again. There is no sign of it. And Turner
does not give much hope."

"O Harry, Harry, don't say so! I can't bear it. To think of the darling
child lying like that all her life!"

"It is sad, indeed; but no such awful misfortune surely, Ethel. Haven't
you seen, as well as I, that the growth of that child's nature since her
accident has been marvellous? Ten times rather would I have her lying there
such as she is, than have her well and strong and silly, with her bonnets
inside instead of outside her head."

"Yes, but she needn't have been like that. Wynnie never will."

"Well, but God does all things not only well, but best, absolutely best.
But just think what it would be in any circumstances to have a maid that
had begun to wait upon her from the first days that she was able to toddle
after something to fetch it for her."

"Won't it be like making a slave of her?"

"Won't it be like giving her a divine freedom from the first? The lack of
service is the ruin of humanity."

"But we can't train her then like one of our own."

"Why not"? Could we not give her all the love and all the teaching?"

"Because it would not be fair to give her the education of a lady, and then
make a servant of her."

"You forget that the service would be part of her training from the first;
and she would know no change of position in it. When we tell her that she
was found in the shrubbery, we will add that we think God sent her to
take care of Constance. I do not believe myself that you can have perfect
service except from a lady. Do not forget the true notion of service as the
essence of Christianity, yea, of divinity. It is not education that unfits
for service: it is the want of it."

"Well, I know that the reading girls I have had, have, as a rule, served me
worse than the rest."

"Would you have called one of those girls educated? Or even if they had
been educated, as any of them might well have been, better than nine-tenths
of the girls that go to boarding-schools, you must remember that they had
never been taught service--the highest accomplishment of all. To that
everything aids, when any true feeling of it is there. But for service of
this high sort, the education must begin with the beginning of the dawn of
will. How often have you wished that you had servants who would believe in
you, and serve you with the same truth with which you regarded them! The
servants born in a man's house in the old times were more like his children
than his servants. Here is a chance for you, as it were of a servant born
in your own house. Connie loves the child: the child will love Connie, and
find her delight in serving her like a little cherub. Not one of the maids
to whom you have referred had ever been taught to think service other than
an unavoidable necessity, the end of life being to serve yourself, not to
serve others; and hence most of them would escape from it by any marriage
almost that they had a chance of making. I don't say all servants are like
that; but I do think that most of them are. I know very well that most
mistresses are as much to blame for this result as the servants are; but
we are not talking about them. Servants nowadays despise work, and yet are
forced to do it--a most degrading condition to be in. But they would not be
in any better condition if delivered from the work. The lady who despises
work is in as bad a condition as they are. The only way to set them free
is to get them to regard service not only as their duty, but as therefore
honourable, and besides and beyond this, in its own nature divine. In
America, the very name of servant is repudiated as inconsistent with human
dignity. There is _no_ dignity but of service. How different the whole
notion of training is now from what it was in the middle ages! Service was
honourable then. No doubt we have made progress as a whole, but in some
things we have degenerated sadly. The first thing taught then was how to
serve. No man could rise to the honour of knighthood without service. A
nobleman's son even had to wait on his father, or to go into the family of
another nobleman, and wait upon him as a page, standing behind his chair at
dinner. This was an honour. No notion of degradation was in it. It was a
necessary step to higher honour. And what was the next higher honour? To be
set free from service? No. To serve in the harder service of the field; to
be a squire to some noble knight; to tend his horse, to clean his armour,
to see that every rivet was sound, every buckle true, every strap strong;
to ride behind him, and carry his spear, and if more than one attacked him,
to rush to his aid. This service was the more honourable because it was
harder, and was the next step to higher honour yet. And what was this
higher honour? That of knighthood. Wherein did this knighthood consist? The
very word means simply _service_. And for what was the knight thus waited
upon by his squire? That he might be free to do as he pleased? No, but that
he might be free to be the servant of all. By being a squire first, the
servant of one, he learned to rise to the higher rank, that of servant of
all. His horse was tended, this armour observed, his sword and spear and
shield held to his hand, that he might have no trouble looking after
himself, but might be free, strong, unwearied, to shoot like an arrow to
the rescue of any and every one who needed his ready aid. There was a grand
heart of Christianity in that old chivalry, notwithstanding all its abuses
which must be no more laid to its charge than the burning of Jews and
heretics to Christianity. It was the lack of it, not the presence of it
that occasioned the abuses that coexisted with it. Train our Theodora as a
holy child-servant, and there will be no need to restrain any impulse of
wise affection from pouring itself forth upon her. My firm belief is that
we should then love and honour her far more than if we made her just like
one of our own."

"But what if she should turn out utterly unfit for it?"

"Ah! then would come an obstacle. But it will not come till that discovery
is made."

"But if we should be going wrong all the time?"

"Now, there comes the kind of care that never troubles me, and which I so
strongly object to. It won't hurt her anyhow. And we ought always to act
upon the ideal; it is the only safe ground of action. When that which
contradicts and resists, and would ruin our ideal, opposes us, then we
must take measures; but not till then can we take measures, or know what
measures it may be necessary to take. But the ideal itself is the only
thing worth striving after. Remember what our Lord himself said: 'Be ye
therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.'"

"Well, I will think about it, Harry. There is time enough."

"Plenty. No time only not to think about it. The more you think about it
the better. If a thing be a good thing, the more you think about it the
better it will look; for its real nature will go on coming out and showing
itself. I cannot doubt that you will soon see how good it is."

We then went home. It was only two days after that my wife said to me--

"I am more than reconciled to your plan, husband. It seems to me
delightful."

When we reentered Connie's room, we found that her baby had just waked, and
she had managed to get one arm under her, and was trying to comfort her,
for she was crying.


CHAPTER IX.

A SPRING CHAPTER.


More especially now in my old age, I find myself "to a lingering motion
bound." I would, if I might, tell a tale day by day, hour by hour,
following the movement of the year in its sweet change of seasons. This
may not be, but I will indulge myself now so far as to call this a spring
chapter, and so pass to the summer, when my reader will see why I have
called my story "The Seaboard Parish."

I was out one day amongst my people, and I found two precious things:
one, a lovely little fact, the other a lovely little primrose. This was
a pinched, dwarfish thing, for the spring was but a baby herself, and so
could not mother more than a brave-hearted weakling. The frost lay all
about it under the hedge, but its rough leaves kept it just warm enough,
and hardly. Now, I should never have pulled the little darling; it would
have seemed a kind of small sacrilege committed on the church of nature,
seeing she had but this one; only with my sickly cub at home, I felt
justified in ravening like a beast of prey. I even went so far in my greed
as to dig up the little plant with my fingers, and bear it, leaves and all,
with a lump of earth about it to keep it alive, home to my little woman--a
present from the outside world which she loved so much. And as I went there
dawned upon me the recollection of a little mirror in which, if I could
find it, she would see it still more lovely than in a direct looking at
itself. So I set myself to find it; for it lay in fragments in the drawers
and cabinets of my memory. And before I got home I had found all the pieces
and put them together; and then it was a lovely little sonnet which a
friend of mine had written and allowed me to see many years before. I was
in the way of writing verses myself; but I should have been proud to have
written this one. I never could have done that. Yet, as far as I knew, it
had never seen the light through the windows of print. It was with some
difficulty that I got it all right; but I thought I had succeeded very
nearly, if not absolutely, and I said it over and over, till I was sure I
should not spoil its music or its meaning by halting in the delivery of it.

"Look here, my Connie, what I have brought you," I said.

She held out her two white, half-transparent hands, took it as if it had
been a human baby and looked at it lovingly till the tears came in her
eyes. She would have made a tender picture, as she then lay, with her two
hands up, holding the little beauty before her eyes. Then I said what I
have already written about the mirror, and repeated the sonnet to her. Here
it is, and my readers will owe me gratitude for it. My friend had found
the snowdrop in February, and in frost. Indeed he told me that there was a
tolerable sprinkling of snow upon the ground:

  "I know not what among the grass thou art,
    Thy nature, nor thy substance, fairest flower,
    Nor what to other eyes thou hast of power
  To send thine image through them to the heart;
  But when I push the frosty leaves apart,
    And see thee hiding in thy wintry bower,
    Thou growest up within me from that hour,
  And through the snow I with the spring depart.

  I have no words. But fragrant is the breath,
    Pale Beauty, of thy second life within.
  There is a wind that cometh for thy death,
    But thou a life immortal dost begin,
  Where, in one soul, which is thy heaven, shall dwell
  Thy spirit, beautiful Unspeakable!"

"Will you say it again, papa?" said Connie; "I do not quite understand it."

"I will, my dear. But I will do something better as well. I will go and
write it out for you, as soon as I have given you something else that I
have brought."

"Thank you, papa. And please write it in your best Sunday hand, that I may
read it quite easily."

I promised, and repeated the poem.

"I understand it a little better," she said; "but the meaning is just like
the primrose itself, hidden up in its green leaves. When you give it me in
writing, I will push them apart and find it. Now, tell me what else you
have brought me."

I was greatly pleased with the resemblance the child saw between the plant
and the sonnet; but I did not say anything in praise; I only expressed
satisfaction. Before I began my story, Wynnie came in and sat down with us.

"I have been to see Miss Aylmer, this morning," I said. "She feels the loss
of her mother very much, poor thing."

"How old was she, papa?" asked Connie.

"She was over ninety, my dear; but she had forgotten how much herself, and
her daughter could not be sure about it. She was a peculiar old lady,
you know. She once reproved me for inadvertently putting my hat on the
tablecloth. 'Mr. Shafton,' she said, 'was one of the old school; he would
never have done that. I don't know what the world is coming to.'"

My two girls laughed at the idea of their papa being reproved for bad
manners.

"What did you say, papa?" they asked.

"I begged her pardon, and lifted it instantly. 'O, it's all right now, my
dear,' she said, 'when you've taken it up again. But I like good manners,
though I live in a cottage now.'"

"Had she seen better days, then?" asked Wynnie.

"She was a farmer's daughter, and a farmer's widow. I suppose the chief
difference in her mode of life was that she lived in a cottage instead of a
good-sized farmhouse."

"But what is the story you have to tell us?"

"I'm coming to that when you have done with your questions."

"We have done, papa."

"After talking awhile, during which she went bustling a little about the
cottage, in order to hide her feelings, as I thought, for she has a good
deal of her mother's sense of dignity about her,--but I want your mother to
hear the story. Run and fetch her, Wynnie."

"O, do make haste, Wynnie," said Connie.

When Ethelwyn came, I went on.

"Miss Aylmer was bustling a little about the cottage, putting things to
rights. All at once she gave a cry of surprise, and said, 'Here it is, at
last!' She had taken up a stuff dress of her mother's, and was holding it
in one hand, while with the other she drew from the pocket--what do you
think?"

Various guesses were hazarded.

"No, no--nothing like it. I know you _could_ never guess. Therefore it
would not be fair to keep you trying. A great iron horseshoe. The old woman
of ninety years had in the pocket of the dress that she was wearing at the
very moment when she died, for her death was sudden, an iron horseshoe."

"What did it mean? Could her daughter explain it?"

"That she proceeded at once to do. 'Do you remember, sir,' she said,
'how that horseshoe used to hang on a nail over the chimneypiece?' 'I do
remember having observed it there,' I answered; 'for once when I took
notice of it, I said to your mother, laughing, "I hope you are not afraid
of witches, Mrs. Aylmer?" And she looked a little offended, and assured me
to the contrary.' 'Well,' her daughter went on, 'about three months ago, I
missed it. My mother would not tell me anything about it. And here it is!
I can hardly think she can have carried it about all that time without me
finding it out, but I don't know. Here it is, anyhow. Perhaps when she felt
death drawing nearer, she took it from somewhere where she had hidden it,
and put it in her pocket. If I had found it in time, I would have put it
in her coffin.' 'But why?' I asked. 'Do tell me the story about it, if you
know it.' 'I know it quite well, for she told me all about it once. It is
the shoe of a favourite mare of my father's--one he used to ride when he
went courting my mother. My grandfather did not like to have a young man
coming about the house, and so he came after the old folks were gone to
bed. But he had a long way to come, and he rode that mare. She had to go
over some stones to get to the stable, and my mother used to spread straw
there, for it was under the window of my grandfather's room, that her shoes
mightn't make a noise and wake him. And that's one of the shoes,' she said,
holding it up to me. 'When the mare died, my mother begged my father for
the one off her near forefoot, where she had so often stood and patted her
neck when my father was mounted to ride home again.'"

"But it was very naughty of her, wasn't it," said Wynnie, "to do that
without her father's knowledge?"

"I don't say it was right, my dear. But in looking at what is wrong, we
ought to look for the beginning of the wrong; and possibly we might find
that in this case farther back. If, for instance, a father isn't a father,
we must not be too hard in blaming the child for not being a child. The
father's part has to come first, and teach the child's part. Now, if I
might guess from what I know of the old lady, in whom probably it was
much softened, her father was very possibly a hard, unreasoning, and
unreasonable man--such that it scarcely ever came into the daughter's head
that she had anything else to do with regard to him than beware of the
consequences of letting him know that she had a lover. The whole thing, I
allow, was wrong; but I suspect the father was first to blame, and far
more to blame than the daughter. And that is the more likely from the high
character of the old dame, and the romantic way in which she clung to the
memory of the courtship. A true heart only does not grow old. And I have,
therefore, no doubt that the marriage was a happy one. Besides, I daresay
it was very much the custom of the country where they were, and that makes
some difference."

"Well, I'm sure, papa, you wouldn't like any of us to go and do like that,"
said Wynnie.

"Assuredly not, my dear," I answered, laughing. "Nor have I any fear of
it. But shall I tell you what I think would be one of the chief things to
trouble me if you did?"

"If you like, papa. But it sounds rather dreadful to hear such an _if_"
said Wynnie.

"It would be to think how much I had failed of being such a father to you
as I ought to be, and as I wished to be, if it should prove at all possible
for you to do such a thing."

"It's too dreadful to talk about, papa," said Wynnie; and the subject was
dropped.

She was a strange child, this Wynnie of ours. Whereas most people are in
danger of thinking themselves in the right, or insisting that they are
whether they think so or not, she was always thinking herself in the
wrong. Nay more, she always expected to find herself in the wrong. If the
perpetrator of any mischief was inquired after, she always looked into her
own bosom to see whether she could not with justice aver that she was the
doer of the deed. I believe she felt at that moment as if she had been
deceiving me already, and deserved to be driven out of the house. This came
of an over-sensitiveness, accompanied by a general dissatisfaction with
herself, which was not upheld by a sufficient faith in the divine sympathy,
or sufficient confidence of final purification. She never spared herself;
and if she was a little severe on the younger ones sometimes, no one was
yet more indulgent to them. She would eat all their hard crusts for them,
always give them the best and take the worst for herself. If there was any
part in the dish that she was helping that she thought nobody would like,
she invariably assigned it to her own share. It looked like a determined
self-mortification sometimes; but that was not it. She did not care for her
own comfort enough to feel it any mortification; though I observed that
when her mother or I helped her to anything nice, she ate it with as much
relish as the youngest of the party. And her sweet smile was always ready
to meet the least kindness that was offered her. Her obedience was perfect,
and had been so for very many years, as far as we could see. Indeed, not
since she was the merest child had there been any contest between us.
Now, of course, there was no demand of obedience: she was simply the best
earthly friend that her father and mother had. It often caused me some
passing anxiety to think that her temperament, as well as her devotion to
her home, might cause her great suffering some day; but when those thoughts
came, I just gave her to God to take care of. Her mother sometimes said
to her that she would make an excellent wife for a poor man. She would
brighten up greatly at this, taking it for a compliment of the best sort.
And she did not forget it, as the sequel will show. She would choose to sit
with one candle lit when there were two on the table, wasting her eyes to
save the candles. "Which will you have for dinner to-day, papa, roast beef
or boiled?" she asked me once, when her mother was too unwell to attend to
the housekeeping. And when I replied that I would have whichever she liked
best--"The boiled beef lasts longest, I think," she said. Yet she was not
only as liberal and kind as any to the poor, but she was, which is rarer,
and perhaps more important for the final formation of a character,
carefully just to everyone with whom she had any dealings. Her sense of
law was very strong. Law with her was something absolute, and not to be
questioned. In her childhood there was one lady to whom for years she
showed a decided aversion, and we could not understand it, for it was the
most inoffensive Miss Boulderstone. When she was nearly grown up, one of
us happening to allude to the fact, she volunteered an explanation. Miss
Boulderstone had happened to call one day when Wynnie, then between three
and four was in disgrace--_in the corner_, in fact. Miss Boulderstone
interceded for her; and this was the whole front of her offending.

"I _was_ so angry!" she said. "'As if my papa did not know best when I
ought to come out of the corner!' I said to myself. And I couldn't bear her
for ever so long after that."

Miss Boulderstone, however, though not very interesting, was quite a
favourite before she died. She left Wynnie--for she and her brother were
the last of their race--a death's-head watch, which had been in the family
she did not know how long. I think it is as old as Queen Elizabeth's time.
I took it to London to a skilful man, and had it as well repaired as
its age would admit of; and it has gone ever since, though not with the
greatest accuracy; for what could be expected of an old death's-head,
the most transitory thing in creation? Wynnie wears it to this day, and
wouldn't part with it for the best watch in the world.

I tell the reader all this about my daughter that he may be the more able
to understand what will follow in due time. He will think that as yet my
story has been nothing but promises. Let him only hope that I will fulfil
them, and I shall be content.

Mr. Boulderstone did not long outlive his sister. Though the old couple,
for they were rather old before they died, if, indeed, they were not born
old, which I strongly suspect, being the last of a decaying family that had
not left the land on which they were born for a great many generations--
though the old people had not, of what the French call sentiments, one
between them, they were yet capable of a stronger and, I had almost said,
more romantic attachment, than many couples who have married from love; for
the lady's sole trouble in dying was what her brother _would_ do without
her; and from the day of her death, he grew more and more dull and
seemingly stupid. Nothing gave him any pleasure but having Wynnie to dinner
with him. I knew that it must be very dull for her, but she went often, and
I never heard her complain of it, though she certainly did look fagged--not
_bored_, observe, but fagged--showing that she had been exerting herself to
meet the difficulties of the situation. When the good man died, we found
that he had left all his money in my hands, in trust for the poor of the
parish, to be applied in any way I thought best. This involved me in much
perplexity, for nothing is more difficult than to make money useful to the
poor. But I was very glad of it, notwithstanding.

My own means were not so large as my readers may think. The property my
wife brought me was much encumbered. With the help of her private fortune,
and the income of several years (not my income from the church, it may be
as well to say), I succeeded in clearing off the encumbrances. But even
then there remained much to be done, if I would be the good steward that
was not to be ashamed at his Lord's coming. First of all there were many
cottages to be built for the labourers on the estate. If the farmers would
not, or could not, help, I must do it; for to provide decent dwellings for
them, was clearly one of the divine conditions in the righteous tenure of
property, whatever the human might be; for it was not for myself alone, or
for myself chiefly, that this property was given to me; it was for those
who lived upon it. Therefore I laid out what money I could, not only in
getting all the land clearly in its right relation to its owner, but
in doing the best I could for those attached to it who could not help
themselves. And when I hint to my reader that I had some conscience in
paying my curate, though, as they had no children, they did not require so
much as I should otherwise have felt compelled to give them, he will easily
see that as my family grew up I could not have so much to give away of
my own as I should have liked. Therefore this trust of the good Mr.
Boulderstone was the more acceptable to me.

One word more ere I finish this chapter.--I should not like my friends to
think that I had got tired of our Christmas gatherings, because I have made
no mention of one this year. It had been pretermitted for the first time,
because of my daughter's illness. It was much easier to give them now than
when I lived at the vicarage, for there was plenty of room in the old hall.
But my curate, Mr. Weir, still held a similar gathering there every Easter.

Another one word more about him. Some may wonder why I have not mentioned
him or my sister, especially in connection with Connie's accident. The fact
was, that he had taken, or rather I had given him, a long holiday. Martha
had had several disappointing illnesses, and her general health had
suffered so much in consequence that there was even some fear of her lungs,
and a winter in the south of France had been strongly recommended. Upon
this I came in with more than a recommendation, and insisted that they
should go. They had started in the beginning of October, and had not
returned up to the time of which I am now about to write--somewhere in the
beginning of the month of April. But my sister was now almost quite well,
and I was not sorry to think that I should soon have a little more leisure
for such small literary pursuits as I delighted in--to my own enrichment,
and consequently to the good of my parishioners and friends.


CHAPTER X.

AN IMPORTANT LETTER.


It was, then, in the beginning of April that I received one morning an
epistle from an old college friend of mine, with whom I had renewed my
acquaintance of late, through the pleasure which he was kind enough to say
he had derived from reading a little book of mine upon the relation of the
mind of St. Paul to the gospel story. His name was Shepherd--a good name
for a clergyman. In his case both Christian name and patronymic might
remind him well of his duty. David Shepherd ought to be a good clergyman.

As soon as I had read the letter, I went with it open in my hand to find my
wife.

"Here is Shepherd," I said, "with a clerical sore-throat, and forced to
give up his duty for a whole summer. He writes to ask me whether, as he
understands I have a curate as good as myself--that is what the old fellow
says--it might not suit me to take my family to his place for the summer.
He assures me I should like it, and that it would do us all good. His
house, he says, is large enough to hold us, and he knows I should not like
to be without duty wherever I was. And so on Read the letter for yourself,
and turn it over in your mind. Weir will come back so fresh and active that
it will be no oppression to him to take the whole of the duty here. I will
run and ask Turner whether it would be safe to move Connie, and whether the
sea-air would be good for her."

"One would think you were only twenty, husband--you make up your mind so
quickly, and are in such a hurry."

The fact was, a vision of the sea had rushed in upon me. It was many years
since I had seen the sea, and the thought of looking on it once more, in
its most glorious show, the Atlantic itself, with nothing between us and
America, but the round of the ridgy water, had excited me so that my wife's
reproof, if reproof it was, was quite necessary to bring me to my usually
quiet and sober senses. I laughed, begged old grannie's pardon, and set off
to see Turner notwithstanding, leaving her to read and ponder Shepherd's
letter.

"What do you think, Turner?" I said, and told him the case. He looked
rather grave.

"When would you think of going?" he asked.

"About the beginning of June."

"Nearly two months," he said, thoughtfully. "And Miss Connie was not the
worse for getting on the sofa yesterday?"

"The better, I do think."

"Has she had any increase of pain since?"

"None, I quite believe; for I questioned her as to that."

He thought again. He was a careful man, although young.

"It is a long journey."

"She could make it by easy stages."

"It would certainly do her good to breathe the sea-air and have such a
thorough change in every way--if only it could be managed without fatigue
and suffering. I think, if you can get her up every day between this and
that, we shall be justified in trying it at least. The sooner you get her
out of doors the better too; but the weather is scarcely fit for that yet."

"A good deal will depend on how she is inclined, I suppose."

"Yes. But in her case you must not mind that too much. An invalid's
instincts as to eating and drinking are more to be depended upon than those
of a healthy person; but it is not so, I think with regard to anything
involving effort. That she must sometimes be urged to. She must not judge
that by inclination. I have had, in my short practice, two patients, who
considered themselves _bedlars_, as you will find the common people in
the part you are going to, call them--bedridden, that is. One of them I
persuaded to make the attempt to rise, and although her sense of inability
was anything but feigned, and she will be a sufferer to the end of her
days, yet she goes about the house without much inconvenience, and I
suspect is not only physically but morally the better for it. The other
would not consent to try, and I believe lies there still."

"The will has more to do with most things than people generally suppose,"
I said. "Could you manage, now, do you think, supposing we resolve to make
the experiment, to accompany us the first stage or two?"

"It is very likely I could. Only you must not depend upon me. I cannot tell
beforehand. You yourself would teach me that I must not be a respecter of
persons, you know."

I returned to my wife. She was in Connie's room.

"Well, my dear," I said, "what do you think of it?"

"Of what?" she asked.

"Why, of Shepherd's letter, of course," I answered.

"I've been ordering the dinner since, Harry."

"The dinner!" I returned with some show of contempt, for I knew my wife was
only teasing me. "What's the dinner to the Atlantic?"

"What do you mean by the Atlantic, papa?" said Connie, from whose roguish
eyes I could see that her mother had told her all about it, and that _she_
was not disinclined to get up, if only she could.

"The Atlantic, my dear, is the name given to that portion of the waters of
the globe which divides Europe from America. "I?" said Natalie. "Oh no, it
is very little that I can do.

The work is too difficult and arduous for women, perhaps.

But there is one thing that women can do--they can love and honor
those who are working for them."

It was spoken impulsively--probably the girl was thinking only of her
father.

But at the moment she happened to look up, and there were Rosalys
D'Agincourt's calmly observant eyes fixed on her.

Then some vague echo of what she had said rushed in upon her; she was
bewildered by the possible interpretation others might put on the
words; and the quick, sensitive blood mounted to her forehead.

But fortunately Lady Evelyn, who had missed the whole thing, happened
at this very instant to begin talking of orchids, and Natalie struck
in with great relief.

So that little episode went by.

And, as dinner went on, Brand became more and more convinced that this
family was the most delightful family in England.

Just so much restraint had left their manner as to render those madcap girls
exceedingly frank and good-natured in the courtesy they showed to
their guest, and to admit her as a confidante into their ways of
bantering each other.

And one would herself come round to shift the fire-screen behind Miss Lind
to precisely the proper place; and another said that Miss Lind drank water
because Evelyn had been so monstrously stupid as not to have any
Hungarian wine for her; and another asked if she might call on Miss
Lind the following afternoon, to take her to some place where some
marvellous Japanese curiosities were on view.

Then, when they left for the drawing-room, the eldest Miss D'Agincourt put
her arm within the arm of their guest, and said,
"Now, dear Miss Lind, please understand that, if there was any
stranger here at all, we should not dream of asking you to sing.

Ermentrude and I take all that on our shoulders; we squawk for the whole
of the family.
But Evelyn has told us so much about your singing--"
"Oh, I will sing for you if you wish it," said Natalie, without hesitation.

Some little time thereafter Brand was walking up and down the room
below, slowly and thoughtfully: he was not much of a wine-drinker.

"Evelyn," he said, suddenly, "I shall soon be able to tell you
whether I owe you a life-long gratitude.

I owe you much already.

Through you I have got some work to do in the world; I am busy, and
content.

But there is a greater prize."
"I think I can guess what you mean," his companion said, calmly.

"You do?" said the other, with a quick look. "And you do not think I am
mad?

--to go and ask her to be my wife before she has given me a single
word of hope?"

"She has spoken to others about you: I know what she thinks of you," said
Lord Evelyn. Then the fine, pale face was slightly flushed.

"To tell you the truth, Brand, I thought of this before you ever
saw her."

"Thought of what?" said the other, with a stare of surprise.

"That you would be the right sort of man to make a husband for her: she
might be left alone in the world at any moment, without a single
relation, and scarcely a friend."

"Women don't marry for these reasons," said the other, somewhat absently.
"And yet, if she were to think of it, it would not be as if I were
withdrawing her from everything she takes an interest in.

We should be together. I am eager to go forward, even by myself; but
with her for a companion--think of that!"

"I have thought of it," said Lord Evelyn, with something of a sad
smile.

"Often. And there is no man in England more heartily wishes you success
than I do. Come, let us go up to the drawing-room."
They went out into the hall.

Some one was playing a noisy piece up-stairs; it was safe to speak. And then
he said,
"Shall I tell you something, Brand?

--something that will keep you awake all this night, and not with the saddest
of thinking? If I am not mistaken, I fancy you have already 'stole bonny
Glenlyon away.'"

CHAPTER XVI.

A LETTER.

Black night lay over the city, and silence; the river flowed unseen through
the darkness; but a thousand golden points of fire mapped out the lines
of the Embankment and the long curves of the distant bridges.

The infrequent sounds that could be heard were strangely distinct, even
when they were faint and remote.

There was a slight rustling of wind in the trees below the window.

But the night and the silence brought him neither repose nor counsel. A
multitude of bewildering, audacious hopes and distracting fears strove
for mastery in his mind, upsetting altogether the calm and cool judgment
on which he prided himself. His was not a nature to harbor illusions; he had
a hard way of looking at things; and yet--and yet--might not this chance
speech of Lord Evelyn have been something more than a bit of good-humored
raillery? Lord Evelyn was Natalie's intimate friend; he knew all her
surroundings; he was a quick observer; he was likely to know if this thing
was possible. But, on the other hand, how was it possible that so beautiful
a creature, in the perfect flower of her youth, should be without a lover?
He forced himself to remember that she and her father seemed to see no
society at all. Perhaps she was too useful to him, and he would not have
her entangle herself with many friends. Perhaps they had led too nomadic a
life. But even in hotels abroad, how could she have avoided the admiration
she was sure to evoke?
And in Florence, mayhap, or Mentone, or Madrid; and here he began to
conjure up a host of possible rivals, all foreigners, of course, and
all equally detestable, and to draw pictures for him of _tables d'hote_,
with always the one beautiful figure there, unconscious, gentle, silent,
but drawing to her all men's eyes.

There was but the one way of putting an end to this maddening uncertainty.
He dared not claim an interview with her; she might be afraid of implying
too much by granting it; various considerations might dictate a refusal.
But he could write; and, in point of fact, writing-materials were on the
table. Again and again he had sat down and taken the pen in his hand, only
to get up as often and go and stare out into the yellow glare of the night.
For an instant his shadow would fall on the foliage of the trees below, and
then pass away again like a ghost.

At two-and-twenty love is reckless, and glib of speech; it takes little heed
of the future; the light straw-flame, for however short a period, leaps up
merrily enough. But at two-and-thirty it is more alive to consequences; it
is not the present moment, but the duration of life, that it
regards; it seeks to proceed with a sure foot.

And at this crisis, in the midst of all this irresolution, that was
unspeakably vexatious to a man of his firm nature, Brand demanded
of himself his utmost power of self-control.

He would not imperil the happiness of his life by a hasty, importunate
appeal.

When at length he sat down, determined not to rise until he had sent her
this message, he forced himself to write--at the beginning, at least--in
a roundabout and indifferent fashion, so that she should not be alarmed.
He began by excusing his writing to her, saying he had scarcely ever had a
chance of talking to her, and that he wished to tell her something of what
had happened to him since the memorable evening on which he had first met
her at her father's house.

And he went on to speak to her of a friend of his, who used to amuse himself
with the notion that he would like to enter himself at a public
school and go through his school life all over again.

There he had spent the happiest of his days; why should he not repeat them?
If only the boys would agree to treat him as one of themselves, why should
he not be hail-fellow-well-met with them, and once more enjoy the fun of
uproarious pillow-battles and have smuggled tarts and lemonade at
night, and tame rabbits where no rabbits should be, and a profound
hero-worship for the captain of the school Eleven, and excursions
out of bounds, when his excess of pocket-money would enable him to
stand treat all round?

"Why not?" this friend of his used to say.

"Was it so very impossible for one to get back the cares and interests,
the ambitions, the amusements, the high spirits of one's boyhood?"

And if he now were to tell her that a far greater miracle had
happened to himself?

That at an age when he had fancied he had done and seen most things
worth doing and seeing, when the past seemed to contain everything
worth having, and there was nothing left but to try how the tedious
hours could be got over; when a listless _ennui_ was eating his
very heart out--that he should be presented, as it were, with a new
lease of life, with stirring hopes and interests, with a new and
beautiful faith, with a work that was a joy in itself, whether any
reward was to be or no?

And surely he could not fail to express to Lord Evelyn and to herself his
gratitude for this strange thing.

These are but the harsh outlines of what, so far, he wrote; but there was
a feeling in it--a touch of gladness and of pathos here and there--that
had never before been in any of his writing, and of which he was himself
unconscious.

But at this point he paused, and his breathing grew quick.

It was so difficult to write in these measured terms. When he resumed, he
wrote more rapidly.

What wonder, he made bold to ask her, if amidst all this bewildering
change some still stranger dream of what might be possible in the future
should have taken possession of him? She and he were leagued in sympathy as
regarded the chief object of their lives; it was her voice that had
inspired him; might he not hope that they should go forward together,
in close friendship at least, if there could be nothing more? And as to
that something more, was there no hope? He could give himself no grounds
for any such hope; and yet--so much had happened to him, and mostly through
her, that he could set no limit to the possibilities of happiness that
lay in her generous hands. When he saw her among others, he despaired;
when he thought of her alone, and of the gentleness of her heart, he dared
to hope. And if this declaration of his was distressing to her, how easy it
was for her to dismiss and forget it. If he had dared too much, he had
himself to blame. In any case, she need not fear that her refusal should
have the effect of dissociating them in those wider interests and sympathies
to which he had pledged himself. He was not one to draw back. And if
he had alarmed or offended her, he appealed to her charity--to that
great kindness which she seemed eager to extend to all living creatures.
How could such a vision of possible happiness have arisen in his
mind without his making one effort, however desperate, to realize it? At
the worst, she would forgive.

This was, in brief, the substance of what he wrote; but when, after many an
anxious re-reading, he put the letter in an envelope, he was miserably
conscious how little it conveyed of all the hope and desire that had hold
of his heart. But then, he argued with himself, if she inclined her ear so
far, surely he would have other and better opportunities of pleading with
her; whereas, if he had been dreaming of impossibilities, then he and she
would meet the more easily in the future that he had not given too vehement
an expression to all the love and admiration he felt for her. He could not
sacrifice her friendship also--her society--the chances of listening from
time to time to the musical low, soft voice.

Carrying this fateful letter in his hand, he went down stairs and out
into the cool night air. And now he was haunted by a hundred fears.
Again and again he was on the point of turning back to add something,
to alter something, to find some phrase that would appeal more closely to
her heart. And then all of a sudden he convinced himself that he should
not have written at all. Why not have gone to see her, at any risk, to
plead with herself? But then he would have had to write to beg for a
_tete-a-tete_ interview; and would not that be more distinctly alarming
than this roundabout epistle, which was meant to convey so much indirectly?
Finally, he arrived at the pillar letter-box: and this indisputable fact
brought an end to his cogitations. If he had gone walking onward he would
have wasted the night in fruitless counsel. He would have repeated again
and again the sentences he had used; striven to picture her as she read;
wondered if he ought not still to go back and strengthen his prayer. But
now it was to be yes or no. Well, he posted the letter; and then he breathed
more freely. The die was cast, for good or ill.

And, indeed, no sooner was the thing done than his spirits rose considerably,
and he walked on with a lighter heart. This solitary London, all lamp-lit
and silent, was a beautiful city. "_Schlaf selig und suss_," the soft stirring
of the night-wind seemed to say: let her not dread the message the
morning would bring!

He thought of the other cities she must have visited; and if--ah,
the dream of it!

--if he and she were to go away together to behold the glories of
the moonlight on the lagoon, and the wonders of the sunrise among
the hills!

He had been in Rome, he remembered, a wonderful coronet of rubies:
would not that do for the beautiful black masses of hair?

Or pearls? She did not appear to have much jewellery. Or rather--seeing
that such things are possible between husband and wife--would she not
accept the value, and far more than the value, of any jewellery she could
desire, to be given away in acts of kindness?

That would be more like Natalie.

He walked on, his heart full of an audacious joy; for now this was the
picture before him; a Buckinghamshire hill; a red and white house among
the beeches; and a spacious lawn looking out on the far and wooded plain,
with its villages, and spires, and tiny curls of smoke. And this foreign
young lady become an English house-mistress; proud of her nectarines and
pineapples; proud of her Hungarian horses; proud of the quiet and comfort
of the home she can offer to her friends, when they come for a
space to rest from their labors....

"_Schlaf selig und suss!_" the night-wind seemed to say: "The white
morning is bringing with it a message!"
To him the morning brought an end to all those golden dreams of the
night.

There action had set in. His old misgivings returned with redoubled force.
For one thing, there was a letter from Reitzei, saying that the man
Kirski had at length consented to begin to work at his trade, and
that Miss Lind need fear no further annoyance; and somehow he did
not like to see her name written in this foreign way of writing.

She belonged to these foreigners; her cares and interests were not those
of one who would feel at home in that Buckhamshire home; she was
remote.

And, of course, in her manifold wanderings--in those hotels in which she
had to pass the day, when her father was absent at his secret interviews--how
could she avoid making acquaintances? Even among those numerous friends
of her father's there must have been some one here or there to accompany
her in her drives in the Prater, in her evenings at La Scala, in her morning
walk along the Chiaja. He remembered how seldom he had seen her; she might
have many more friends in London than he had dreamed of.

Who could see her, and remain blind to her beauty? Who could know her, and
remain insensible to the fascination of her enthusiasm, her faith
in the right, her courage, her hope, her frank friendship with those
who would help?

He was impatient with the veteran Waters this morning; and Waters was
himself fractious, and inclined to resent sarcasm. He had just heard
from Buckinghamshire that his substitute had, for some reason or
other, intrusted the keys of the wine-cellar to one of the house-maids;
and that that industrious person had seized the opportunity to tilt
up all the port-wine she could lay her hands on in order to polish
the bottles with a duster.

"Well," said his master, "I suppose she collected the cobwebs and
sold them to a wine-merchant: they would be invaluable."

Waters said nothing, but resolved to have a word with the young woman
when he went down.

The morning was fine; in any case, Brand could not have borne the distress
of waiting in all day, on the chance of her reply coming.

He had to be moving. He walked up to Lisle Street, and saw Reitzei, on the
pretext of talking about Kirski.

"Lind will be back in a week," said the pallid-faced smart young man.

"He writes with great satisfaction, which always means something in his
case. I should not wonder if he and his daughter went to live in
the States."

"Oh, indeed," said Brand, coldly; but the words made his heart tremble.

"Yes. And if you would only go through the remaining degrees, you might take
his place--who knows?"

"Who knows, indeed?"

said Brand. "But I don't covet the honor."
There was something in his tone which made the other look up.

"I mean the responsibility," he said, quickly.

"You see," observed Reitzei, leaning back in his chair, "one must admit
you are having rather hard lines. Your work is invaluable to us--Lind is
most proud of it--but it is tedious and difficult, eh? Now if they were
to give you something like the Syrian business--"
"What is that?"
"Oh, only one of the many duties the Society has undertaken," said
Reitzei, carelessly. "Not that I approve because the people are Christians;
it is because they are numerically weak; and the Mahommedans treat
them shamefully.

There is no one knows about it; no one to make a row about it; and the
Government won't let the poor wretches import arms to defend themselves.
Very well: very well, messieurs!

But your Government allow the importation of guns for sport. Ha! and then,
if one can find money, and an ingenious English firm to make rifle-barrels
to fit into the sporting-gun stock can you conceive any greater
fun than smuggling these barrels into the country?

My dear fellow, it is glorious: we could have five hundred volunteers! But
at the same time I say your work is more valuable to us.

No one but an Englishman could do it. Every one knows of your success."
Brand thanked Reitzei for his good opinion, and rather absently
took up his hat and left.

Instinctively he made his way westward. He was sure to see her, at a
distance, taking this morning stroll of hers: might he not guess something
from her face as to what her reply would be? She could not have written so
soon; she would take time to consider; even a refusal would, he knew,
be gently worded.

In any case, he would see her; and if her answer gave no hope, it would
be the last time on which he would follow that graceful figure from afar
with his eyes, and wonder to himself what the low and musical voice was
saying to Anneli. And as he walked on, he grew more and more downhearted.
It was a certainty that, out of all those friends of her father's
some one must have dreamed of possessing this beautiful prize for
his own.

When, after not much waiting, he saw Natalie and Anneli cross into the Park,
he had so reasoned himself into despair that he was not surprised--at least
he tried to convince himself that he was not surprised--to perceive that
the former was accompanied by a stranger, the little German
maid-servant walking not quite with them, and yet not altogether
behind them.

He could almost have expected this; and yet his eyes seemed hot, and he
had some difficulty in trying to make out who this might be. And at this
great distance he could only gather that he was foreign in appearance, and
that he wore a peaked cap in place of a hat.

He dared not follow them now; and he was about to turn away when he saw
Natalie's new companion motion to her to sit down on one of the seats.
He sat down, too; and he took her hand, and held it in his. What then?

This man looking on from a distance, with a bitter heart, had no thought
against her. Was it not natural for so beautiful a girl to have a
lover?
But that this fellow--this foreigner--should degrade her by treating
her as if she were a nursery-maid flirting with one of the soldiers
from the barracks down there, this filled him with bitterness and
hatred.

He turned and walked away with a firm step.

He had no ill thoughts of her, whatever message she might send him. At the
worst, she had been generous to him; she had filled his life with love and
hope; she had given him a future. If this dream were shattered, at least
he could turn elsewhere, and say, "Labor, be thou my good."
Meanwhile, of this stranger? He had indeed taken Natalie Lind's hand
in his, and Natalie let it remain there without hesitation.

"My little daughter," said he to her in Italian, "I could have recognized
you by your hands. You have the hands of your mother: no one in the world
had more beautiful hands than she had. And now I will tell you about her,
if you promise not to cry any more."
It was Calabressa who spoke.

CHAPTER XVII.

CALABRESSA.

When Calabressa called at the house in Curzon Street he was at once
admitted; Natalie recognizing the name as that of one of her father's
old friends.

Calabressa had got himself up very smartly, to produce an impression
on the little Natalushka whom he expected to see.

His military-looking coat was tightly buttoned; he had burnished up the
gold braid of his cap; and as he now ascended the stairs he gathered the
ends of his mustache out of his yellow-white beard and curled them round
and round his fingers and pulled them out straight. He had already assumed
a pleasant smile.

But when he entered the shaded drawing-room, and beheld this figure
before him, all the dancing-master's manner instantly fled from him.

He seemed thunderstruck; he shrunk back a little; his cap fell to the
floor; he could not utter a word.

"Excuse me--excuse me, mademoiselle," he gasped out at length, in his odd
French. "Ah, it is like a ghost--like other years come back--"
He stared at her.

"I am very pleased to see you, sir," said she to him, gently, in
Italian.

"Her voice also--her voice also!"

he exclaimed, almost to himself, in the same tongue.

"Signorina, you will forgive me--but--when one sees an old friend--you
are so like--ah, so like--"
"You are speaking of my mother?" the girl said, with her eyes cast
down.
Then they set it down, and I
heard them taking the lid off. But after the lid was off, it did not seem
to make much difference to me. I could not open my eyes. I saw no light,
and felt no wind blowing upon me. But I heard whispering about me. Then I
felt warm, soft hands washing my face, and then I felt wafts of wind coming
on my face, and thought they came from the waving of wings. And when they
had washed my eyes, the air came upon them so sweet and cool! and I opened
them, I thought, and here I was lying on this couch, with butterflies and
bees flitting and buzzing about me, the brook singing somewhere near me,
and a lark up in the sky. But there were no angels--only plenty of light
and wind and living creatures. And I don't think I ever knew before what
happiness meant. Wasn't it a resurrection, papa, to come out of the grave
into such a world as this?"

"Indeed it was, my darling--and a very beautiful and true dream. There is
no need for me to moralise it to you, for you have done so for yourself
already. But not only do I think that the coming out of sin into goodness,
out of unbelief into faith in God, is like your dream; but I do expect that
no dream of such delight can come up to the sense of fresh life and being
that we shall have when we get on the higher body after this one won't
serve our purpose any longer, and is worn out and cast aside. The very
ability of the mind, whether of itself, or by some inspiration of the
Almighty, to dream such things, is a proof of our capacity for such things,
a proof, I think, that for such things we were made. Here comes in the
chance for faith in God--the confidence in his being and perfection that he
would not have made us capable without meaning to fill that capacity. If he
is able to make us capable, that is the harder half done already. The other
he can easily do. And if he is love he will do it. You should thank God for
that dream, Connie."

"I was afraid to do that, papa."

"That is as much as to fear that there is one place to which David
might have fled, where God would not find him--the most terrible of all
thoughts."

"Where do you mean, papa?"

"Dreamland, my dear. If it is right to thank God for a beautiful thought--I
mean a thought of strength and grace giving you fresh life and hope--why
should you be less bold to thank him when such thoughts arise in plainer
shape--take such vivid forms to your mind that they seem to come through
the doors of the eyes into the vestibule of the brain, and thence into the
inner chambers of the soul?"


CHAPTER XII.

THE JOURNEY.


For more than two months Charlie and Harry had been preparing for the
journey. The moment they heard of the prospect of it, they began to
prepare, accumulate, and pack stores both for the transit and the sojourn.
First of all there was an extensive preparation of ginger-beer, consisting,
as I was informed in confidence, of brown sugar, ground ginger, and cold
water. This store was, however, as near as I can judge, exhausted and
renewed about twelve times before the day of departure arrived; and when at
last the auspicious morning dawned, they remembered with dismay that they
had drunk the last drop two days before, and there was none in stock. Then
there was a wonderful and more successful hoarding of marbles, of a variety
so great that my memory refuses to bear the names of the different kinds,
which, I think, must have greatly increased since the time when I too was
a boy, when some marbles--one of real, white marble with red veins
especially--produced in my mind something of the delight that a work of art
produces now. These were carefully deposited in one of the many divisions
of a huge old hair-trunk, which they had got their uncle Weir, who could
use his father's tools with pleasure if not to profit, to fit up for them
with a multiplicity of boxes, and cupboards, and drawers, and trays, and
slides, that was quite bewildering. In this same box was stowed also a
quantity of hair, the gleanings of all the horse-tails upon the premises.
This was for making fishing-tackle, with a vague notion on the part of
Harry that it was to be employed in catching whales and crocodiles. Then
all their favourite books were stowed away in the same chest, in especial
a packet of a dozen penny books, of which I think I could give a complete
list now. For one afternoon as I searched about in the lumber-room after a
set of old library steps, which I wanted to get repaired, I came upon the
chest, and opening it, discovered my boys' hoard, and in it this packet of
books. I sat down on the top of the chest and read them all through, from
Jack the Giant-killer down to Hop o' my Thumb without rising, and this in
the broad daylight, with the yellow sunshine nestling beside me on the
rose-coloured silken seat, richly worked, of a large stately-looking chair
with three golden legs. Yes I could tell you all those stories, not to say
the names of them, over yet. Only I knew every one of them before; finding
now that they had fared like good vintages, for if they had lost something
in potency, they had gained much in flavour. Harry could not read these,
and Charlie not very well, but they put confidence in them notwithstanding,
in virtue of the red, blue, and yellow prints. Then there was a box of
sawdust, the design of which I have not yet discovered; a huge ball of
string; a rabbit's skin; a Noah's ark; an American clock, that refused to
go for all the variety of treatment they gave it; a box of lead-soldiers,
and twenty other things, amongst which was a huge gilt ball having an eagle
of brass with outspread wings on the top of it.

Great was their consternation and dismay when they found that this magazine
could not be taken in the post-chaise in which they were to follow us to
the station. A good part of our luggage had been sent on before us, but the
boys had intended the precious box to go with themselves. Knowing well,
however, how little they would miss it, and with what shouts of south-sea
discovery they would greet the forgotten treasure when they returned, I
insisted on the lumbering article being left in peace. So that, as man
goeth treasureless to his grave, whatever he may have accumulated before
the fatal moment, they had to set off for the far country without chest or
ginger-beer--not therefore altogether so desolate and unprovided for as
they imagined. The abandoned treasure was forgotten the moment the few
tears it had occasioned were wiped away.

It was the loveliest of mornings when we started upon our journey. The
sun shone, the wind was quiet, and everything was glad. The swallows were
twittering from the corbels they had added to the adornment of the dear old
house.

"I'm sorry to leave the swallows behind," said Wynnie, as she stepped into
the carriage after her mother. Connie, of course, was already there, eager
and strong-hearted for the journey.

We set off. Connie was in delight with everything, especially with all
forms of animal life and enjoyment that we saw on the road. She seemed to
enter into the spirit of the cows feeding on the rich green grass of the
meadows, of the donkeys eating by the roadside, of the horses we met
bravely diligent at their day's work, as they trudged along the road with
wagon or cart behind them. I sat by the coachman, but so that I could see
her face by the slightest turning of my head. I knew by its expression
that she gave a silent blessing to the little troop of a brown-faced gipsy
family, which came out of a dingy tent to look at the passing carriage. A
fleet of ducklings in a pool, paddling along under the convoy of the parent
duck, next attracted her.

"Look; look. Isn't that delicious?" she cried.

"I don't think I should like it though," said Wynnie.

"What shouldn't you like, Wynnie?" asked her mother.

"To be in the water and not feel it wet. Those feathers!"

"They feel it with their legs and their webby toes," said Connie.

"Yes, that is some consolation," answered Wynnie.

"And if you were a duck, you would feel the good of your feathers in
winter, when you got into your cold bath of a morning."

I give all this chat for the sake of showing how Connie's illness had not
in the least withdrawn her from nature and her sympathies--had rather, as
it were, made all the fibres of her being more delicate and sympathetic,
so that the things around her could enter her soul even more easily than
before, and what had seemed to shut her out had in reality brought her into
closer contact with the movements of all vitality.

We had to pass through the village to reach the railway station. Everybody
almost was out to bid us good-bye. I did not want, for Connie's sake
chiefly, to have any scene, but recalling something I had forgotten to
say to one of my people, I stopped the carriage to speak to him. The same
instant there was a crowd of women about us. But Connie was the centre of
all their regards. They hardly looked at her mother or sister. Had she been
a martyr who had stood the test and received her aureole, she could hardly
have been more regarded. The common use of the word martyr is a curious
instance of how words get degraded. The sufferings involved in martyrdom,
and not the pure will giving occasion to that suffering, is fixed upon by
the common mind as the martyrdom. The witness-bearing is lost sight of,
except we can suppose that "a martyr to the toothache" means a witness of
the fact of the toothache and its tortures. But while _martyrdom_ really
means a bearing for the sake of the truth, yet there is a way in which any
suffering, even that we have brought upon ourselves, may become martyrdom.
When it is so borne that the sufferer therein bears witness to the presence
and fatherhood of God, in quiet, hopeful submission to his will, in gentle
endurance, and that effort after cheerfulness which is not seldom to be
seen where the effort is hardest to make; more than all, perhaps, and
rarest of all, when it is accepted as the just and merciful consequence
of wrong-doing, and is endured humbly, and with righteous shame, as the
cleansing of the Father's hand, indicating that repentance unto life which
lifts the sinner out of his sins, and makes him such that the holiest men
of old would talk to him with gladness and respect, then indeed it may be
called a martyrdom. This latter could not be Connie's case, but the former
was hers, and so far she might be called a martyr, even as the old women of
the village designated her.

After we had again started, our ears were invaded with shouts from the
post-chaise behind us, in which Charlie and Harry, their grief at the
abandoned chest forgotten as if it had never been, were yelling in the
exuberance of their gladness. Dora, more staid as became her years, was
trying to act the matron with them in vain, and old nursie had enough to
do with Miss Connie's baby to heed what the young gentlemen were about, so
long as explosions of noise was all the mischief. Walter, the man-servant,
who had been with us ten years, and was the main prop of the establishment,
looking after everything and putting his hand to everything, with an
indefinite charge ranging from the nursery to the wine-cellar, and from
the corn-bin to the pig-trough, and who, as we could not possibly get on
without him, sat on the box of the post-chaise beside the driver from
the Griffin, rather connived, I fear, than otherwise at the noise of the
youngsters.

"Good-bye, Marshmallows," they were shouting at the top of their voices,
as if they had just been released from a prison, where they had spent a
wretched childhood; and, as it could hardly offend anybody's ears on the
open country road I allowed them to shout till they were tired, which
condition fortunately arrived before we reached the station, so that there
was no occasion for me to interfere. I always sought to give them as much
liberty as could be afforded them.

At the station we found Weir waiting to see us off, with my sister, now in
wonderful health. Turner was likewise there, and ready to accompany us a
good part of the way. But beyond the valuable assistance he lent us in
moving Connie, no occasion arose for the exercise of his professional
skill. She bore the journey wonderfully, slept not unfrequently, and only
at the end showed herself at length wearied. We stopped three times on the
way: first at Salisbury, where the streams running through the streets
delighted her. There we remained one whole day, but sent the children and
servants, all but my wife's maid, on before us, under the charge of Walter.
This left us more at our ease. At Exeter, we stopped only the night, for
Connie found herself quite able to go on the next morning. Here Turner left
us, and we missed him very much. Connie looked a little out of spirits
after his departure, but soon recovered herself. The next night we spent
at a small town on the borders of Devonshire, which was the limit of our
railway travelling. Here we remained for another whole day, for the remnant
of the journey across part of Devonshire and Cornwall to the shore must be
posted, and was a good five hours' work. We started about eleven o'clock,
full of spirits at the thought that we had all but accomplished the only
part of the undertaking about which we had had any uneasiness. Connie was
quite merry. The air was thoroughly warm. We had an open carriage with
a hood. Wynnie sat opposite her mother, Dora and Eliza the maid in the
rumble, and I by the coachman. The road being very hilly, we had
four horses; and with four horses, sunshine, a gentle wind, hope and
thankfulness, who would not be happy?

There is a strange delight in motion, which I am not sure that I altogether
understand. The hope of the end as bringing fresh enjoyment has something
to do with it, no doubt; the accompaniments of the motion, the change of
scene, the mystery that lies beyond the next hill or the next turn in
the road, the breath of the summer wind, the scent of the pine-trees
especially, and of all the earth, the tinkling jangle of the harness as you
pass the trees on the roadside, the life of the horses, the glitter and the
shadow, the cottages and the roses and the rosy faces, the scent of burning
wood or peat from the chimneys, these and a thousand other things combine
to make such a journey delightful. But I believe it needs something more
than this--something even closer to the human life--to account for the
pleasure that motion gives us. I suspect it is its living symbolism; the
hidden relations which it bears to the eternal soul in its aspirations and
longings--ever following after, ever attaining, never satisfied. Do not
misunderstand me, my reader. A man, you will allow, perhaps, may be content
although he is not and cannot be happy: I feel inclined to turn all this
the other way, saying that a man ought always to be happy, never to be
content. You will see I do not say _contented_; I say _content_. Here comes
in his faith: his life is hid with Christ in God, measureless, unbounded.
All things are his, to become his by blessed lovely gradations of gift, as
his being enlarges to receive; and if ever the shadow of his own necessary
incompleteness falls upon the man, he has only to remember that in God's
idea he is complete, only his life is hid from himself with Christ in God
the Infinite. If anyone accuses me here of mysticism, I plead guilty with
gladness: I only hope it may be of that true mysticism which, inasmuch as
he makes constant use of it, St. Paul would understand at once. I leave it,
however.

I think I must have been the very happiest of the party myself. No doubt I
was younger much than I am now, but then I was quite middle-aged, with full
confession thereof in gray hairs and wrinkles. Why should not a man be
happy when he is growing old, so long as his faith strengthens the feeble
knees which chiefly suffer in the process of going down the hill? True, the
fever heat is over, and the oil burns more slowly in the lamp of life; but
if there is less fervour, there is more pervading warmth; if less of fire,
more of sunshine; there is less smoke and more light. Verily, youth is
good, but old age is better--to the man who forsakes not his youth when his
youth forsakes him. The sweet visitings of nature do not depend upon youth
or romance, but upon that quiet spirit whose meekness inherits the earth.
The smell of that field of beans gives me more delight now than ever it
could have given me when I was a youth. And if I ask myself why I find it
is simply because I have more faith now than I had then. It came to me then
as an accident of nature--a passing pleasure flung to me only as the dogs'
share of the crumbs. Now I believe that God _means_ that odour of the
bean-field; that when Jesus smelled such a scent about Jerusalem or in
Galilee, he thought of his Father. And if God means it, it is mine, even if
I should never smell it again. The music of the spheres is mine if old age
should make me deaf as the adder. Am I mystical again, reader? Then I hope
you are too, or will be before you have done with this same beautiful
mystical life of ours. More and more nature becomes to me one of God's
books of poetry--not his grandest--that is history--but his loveliest,
perhaps.

And ought I not to have been happy when all who were with me were happy?
I will not run the risk of wearying even my contemplative reader by
describing to him the various reflexes of happiness that shone from the
countenances behind me in the carriage, but I will try to hit each off in a
word, or a single simile. My Ethelwyn's face was bright with the brightness
of a pale silvery moon that has done her harvest work, and, a little weary,
lifts herself again into the deeper heavens from stooping towards the
earth. Wynnie's face was bright with the brightness of the morning star,
ever growing pale and faint over the amber ocean that brightens at the
sun's approach; for life looked to Wynnie severe in its light, and somewhat
sad because severe. Connie's face was bright with the brightness of a lake
in the rosy evening, the sound of the river flowing in and the sound of the
river flowing forth just audible, but itself still, and content to be still
and mirror the sunset. Dora's was bright with the brightness of a marigold
that follows the sun without knowing it; and Eliza's was bright with the
brightness of a half-blown cabbage rose, radiating good-humour. This last
is not a good simile, but I cannot find a better. I confess failure, and go
on.

After stopping once to bait, during which operation Connie begged to be
carried into the parlour of the little inn that she might see the china
figures that were certain to be on the chimney-piece, as indeed they were,
where she drank a whole tumbler of new milk before we lifted her to carry
her back, we came upon a wide high moorland country the roads through which
were lined with gorse in full golden bloom, while patches of heather all
about were showing their bells, though not yet in their autumnal outburst
of purple fire. Here I began to be reminded of Scotland, in which I had
travelled a good deal between the ages of twenty and five-and-twenty. The
further I went the stronger I felt the resemblance. The look of the fields,
the stone fences that divided them, the shape and colour and materials of
the houses, the aspect of the people, the feeling of the air, and of the
earth and sky generally, made me imagine myself in a milder and more
favoured Scotland. The west wind was fresh, but had none of that sharp edge
which one can so often detect in otherwise warm winds blowing under a hot
sun. Though she had already travelled so many miles, Connie brightened up
within a few minutes after we got on this moor; and we had not gone much
farther before a shout from the rumble informed us that keen-eyed little
Dora had discovered the Atlantic: a dip in the high coast revealed it blue
and bright. We soon lost sight of it again, but in Connie's eyes it seemed
to linger still. As often as I looked round, the blue of them seemed the
reflection of the sea in their little convex mirrors. Ethelwyn's eyes, too,
were full of it, and a flush on her generally pale cheek showed that she
too expected the ocean. After a few miles along this breezy expanse, we
began to descend towards the sea-level. Down the winding of a gradual
slope, interrupted by steep descents, we approached this new chapter in our
history. We came again upon a few trees here and there, all with their tops
cut off in a plane inclined upwards away from the sea. For the sea-winds,
like a sweeping scythe, bend the trees all away towards the land, and keep
their tops mown with their sharp rushing, keen with salt spray off the
crests of the broken waves. Then we passed through some ancient villages,
with streets narrow, and steep and sharp-angled, that needed careful
driving and the frequent pressure of the break upon the wheel. And now the
sea shone upon us with nearer greeting, and we began to fancy we could hear
its talk with the shore. At length we descended a sharp hill, reached the
last level, drove over a bridge and down the line of the stream, saw
the land vanish in the sea--a wide bay; then drove over another wooden
drawbridge, and along the side of a canal in which lay half-a-dozen sloops
and schooners. Then came a row of pretty cottages; then a gate, and an
ascent, and ere we reached the rectory, we were aware of its proximity by
loud shouts, and the sight of Charlie and Harry scampering along the top
of a stone wall to meet us. This made their mother nervous, but she kept
quiet, knowing that unrestrained anxiety is always in danger of bringing
about the evil it fears. A moment after, we drew up at a long porch,
leading through the segment of a circle to the door of the house. The
journey was over. We got down in the little village of Kilkhaven, in the
county of Cornwall.


CHAPTER XIII.

WHAT WE DID WHEN WE ARRIVED.


We carried Connie in first of all, of course, and into the room which nurse
had fixed upon for her--the best in the house, of course, again. She did
seem tired now, and no wonder. She had a cup of tea at once, and in half an
hour dinner was ready, of which we were all very glad. After dinner I went
up to Connie's room. There I found her fast asleep on the sofa, and Wynnie
as fast asleep on the floor beside her. The drive and the sea air had
had the same effect on both of them. But pleased as I was to see Connie
sleeping so sweetly, I was even more pleased to see Wynnie asleep on the
floor. What a wonderful satisfaction it may give to a father and mother to
see this or that child asleep! It is when her kittens are asleep that the
cat creeps away to look after her own comforts. Our cat chose to have her
kittens in my study once, and as I would not have her further disturbed
than to give them another cushion to lie on in place of that which belonged
to my sofa, I had many opportunities of watching them as I wrote, or
prepared my sermons. But I must not talk about the cat and her kittens
now. When parents see their children asleep, especially if they have been
suffering in any way, they breathe more freely; a load is lifted off their
minds; their responsibility seems over; the children have gone back to
their Father, and he alone is looking after them for a while. Now, I had
not been comfortable about Wynnie for some time, and especially during our
journey, and still more especially during the last part of our journey.
There was something amiss with her. She seemed constantly more or less
dejected, as if she had something to think about that was too much for her,
although, to tell the truth, I really believe now that she had not quite
enough to think about. Some people can thrive tolerably without much
thought: at least, they both live comfortably without it, and do not seem
to be capable of effecting it if it were required of them; while for others
a large amount of mental and spiritual operation is necessary for the
health of both body and mind, and when the matter or occasion for so much
is not afforded them, the consequence is analogous to what follows when a
healthy physical system is not supplied with sufficient food: the oxygen,
the source of life, begins to consume the life itself; it tears up the
timbers of the house to burn against the cold. Or, to use a different
simile, when the Moses-rod of circumstance does not strike the rock and
make the waters flow, such a mind--one that must think to live--will go
digging into itself, and is in danger of injuring the very fountain of
thought, by drawing away its living water into ditches and stagnant pools.
This was, I say, the case in part with my Wynnie, although I did not
understand it at that moment. She did not look quite happy, did not always
meet a smile with a smile, looked almost reprovingly upon the frolics of
the little brother-imps, and though kindness itself when any real hurt or
grief befell them, had reverted to her old, somewhat dictatorial manner,
of which I have already spoken as interrupted by Connie's accident. To her
mother and me she was service itself, only service without the smile which
is as the flame of the sacrifice and makes it holy. So we were both a
little uneasy about her, for we did not understand her. On the journey she
had seemed almost annoyed at Connie's ecstasies, and said to Dora many
times: "Do be quiet, Dora;" although there was not a single creature but
ourselves within hearing, and poor Connie seemed only delighted with the
child's explosions. So I was--but although I say _so_, I hardly know why
I was pleased to see her thus, except it was from a vague belief in the
anodyne of slumber. But this pleasure did not last long; for as I stood
regarding my two treasures, even as if my eyes had made her uncomfortable,
she suddenly opened hers, and started to her feet, with the words, "I beg
your pardon, papa," looking almost guiltily round her, and putting up her
hair hurriedly, as if she had committed an impropriety in being caught
untidy. This was fresh sign of a condition of mind that was not healthy.

"My dear," I said, "what do you beg my pardon for? I was so pleased to see
you asleep! and you look as if you thought I were going to scold you."

"O papa," she said, laying her head on my shoulder, "I am afraid I must be
very naughty. I so often feel now as if I were doing something wrong, or
rather as if you would think I was doing something wrong. I am sure there
must be something wicked in me somewhere, though I do not clearly know what
it is. When I woke up now, I felt as if I had neglected something, and you
had come to find fault with me. _Is_ there anything, papa?"

"Nothing whatever, my child. But you cannot be well when you feel like
that."

"I am perfectly well, so far as I know. I was so cross to Dora to-day! Why
shouldn't I feel happy when everybody else is? I must be wicked, papa."

Here Connie woke up.

"There now! I've waked Connie," Wynnie resumed. "I'm always doing something
I ought not to do. Please go to sleep again, Connie, and take that sin off
my poor conscience."

"What nonsense is Wynnie talking about being wicked?" asked Connie.

"It isn't nonsense, Connie. You know I am."

"I know nothing of the sort, Wynnie. If it were me now! And yet I don't
_feel_ wicked."

"My dear children," I said, "we must all pray to God for his Spirit, and
then we shall feel just as we ought to feel. It is not for anyone to say to
himself how he ought to feel at any given moment; still less for one man to
say to another how he ought to feel; that is in the former case to do as
St. Paul says he had learned to give up doing--to judge our own selves,
which ought to be left to God; in the latter case it is to do what our Lord
has told us expressly we are not to do--to judge other people. You get
your bonnet, Wynnie, and come out with me. I am going to explore a little
of this desert island upon which we have been cast away. And you, Connie,
just to please Wynnie, must try and go to sleep again."

Wynnie ran for her bonnet, a little afraid perhaps that I was going to talk
seriously to her, but showing no reluctance anyhow to accompany me.

Now I wonder whether it will be better to tell what we saw, or only what we
talked about, and give what we saw in the shape in which we reported it to
Connie, when we came back into her room, bearing, like the spies who went
to search the land, our bunch of grapes, that is, of sweet news of nature,
to her who could not go to gather them for herself. It think it will be the
best plan to take part of both plans.

When we left the door of the house, we went up the few steps of a stair
leading on to the downs, against and amidst, and indeed _in_, the rocks,
buttressing the sea-edge of which our new abode was built. A life for a
big-winged angel seemed waiting us upon those downs. The wind still blew
from the west, both warm and strong--I mean strength-giving--and the wind
was the first thing we were aware of. The ground underfoot was green and
soft and springy, and sprinkled all over with the bright flowers, chiefly
yellow, that live amidst the short grasses of the downs, the shadows of
whose unequal surface were now beginning to be thrown east, for the sun was
going seawards. I stood up, stretched out my arms, threw back my shoulders
and my head, and filled my chest with a draught of the delicious wind,
feeling thereafter like a giant refreshed with wine. Wynnie stood
apparently unmoved amidst the life-nectar, thoughtful, and turning her eyes
hither and thither.

"That makes me feel young again," I said.

"I wish it would make me feel old then," said Wynnie.

"What do you mean, my child?"

"Because then I should have a chance of knowing what it is like to feel
young," she answered rather enigmatically. I did not reply. We were walking
up the brow which hid the sea from us. The smell of the down-turf was
indescribable in its homely delicacy; and by the time we had reached the
top, almost every sense was filled with its own delight. The parting of
the ways had come.
An illiterate people must be taught. No longer should it be a crime to
instruct them. The rather was he the criminal who should deny them
an education. It was an hour for the voice of a prophet. With the ken
of a seer, Chaplain Cravath, representing the American Missionary Association,
Jan. 9th, 1866, made the proclamation, that the founding of the school
inaugurated that day was the beginning of a great educational institution,
that should give to the emancipated race the opportunities and advantages
of education which had so long been furnished to the white race in their
colleges and universities.

[Illustration: THE RAW MATERIAL.]
Gen. Fisk, the brilliant soldier and ardent philanthropist, lent invaluable
aid and consented to have the institution, so problematical in its
existence, bear his name.

Governor Brownlow and the pioneer educator of colored youth, Professor
John Ogden, added the weight of their words and helpful deeds, and
Fisk had come into being.

[Illustration: FISK'S FINISHED PRODUCT.]

ROMANCE ATTENDED THE EARLY LIFE OF THE UNIVERSITY.

--Nearly four years had passed, when the Professor of music started
out with a band of colored youth, who had been named the Jubilee
Singers.

That they could sing with incomparable sweetness he knew.

That the songs they were to sing had incomparable pathos no one who
heard them doubted.

But nothing short of sublimest faith could have sent forth this band of
friendless youth on their mission. They often were penniless as they went
from town to town. They arrived at Oberlin and were permitted to sing before
the National Council, then in session at that stronghold of the colored
man. The tide turned. It rose with rapidity. Plymouth, Brooklyn, and other
churches were opened to them. The entire North gave them welcome. They
crossed the Atlantic; that gracious friend of humanity Queen Victoria,
gave them audience. Her incomparable prime minister, Gladstone, made them
his guests at Hawarden. Germany and France heard them. At the end of seven
years they returned to Nashville and laid at the feet of the
University the munificent sum of $150,000, a large part of which
was devoted to the erection of Jubilee Hall and the remainder to
the paying for the campus of thirty-five acres, once a slave
plantation, now the most commanding location in the Athens of the
South, as Nashville, the seat of four universities, is justly
called.

[Illustration: A BAND OF KING'S DAUGHTERS.]
[Illustration: LIVINGSTONE HALL.

A gift mainly from Mrs. Valeria G. Stone.]
THERE HAS BEEN ROMANCE IN ALL ITS LIFE.

Never for a year has the hard work, the distasteful drudgery, the, at the
time, apparently fruitless toil been undertaken on the basis of cold
calculating judgment; from its birth to the present hour, ideals that to
most men would have seemed dreams and wild fancies, have animated the
leaders of this enterprise--such ideals as have underlain the world's greatest
achievements and have given heart to the world's victors.

[Illustration: FISK MEMORIAL CHAPEL.

Erected with the bequest of Gen. Fisk. Seats 1,000.]
WISDOM AND PAINSTAKING ATTENTION to the material interests of the University,
that have challenged the admiration of those who have watched its growth,
have been coupled with all this romance. The ideal has been made actual.
This has not been due to one man, nor one sex, nor one race. For a quarter
of a century and more, have men and women, white and black, worked with
an unanimity rarely equaled, with patience and self-sacrifice. As the
outcome there is
FISK OF TO-DAY.

The building of Jubilee Hall set the pace for the progress of the institution.
Thorough workmanship, good taste and belief in a large future, have prevented
the erection of buildings which could be used only a short time and
must be replaced by structures adapted to the work. Eight substantial
buildings afford the facilities now needed and are so grouped that in the
near future the Central and Music Halls can be erected, to complete the
general plan. Already the large enrolment of pupils, coming, as they do,
from more than a score of the states of our Union, is making the proposed
buildings a necessity and affording other givers the opportunity to bless
humanity that has been so handsomely met by those large-minded donors who
have built the structures already erected.

[Illustration: THEOLOGICAL HALL.

Builded mainly by the A. M. A., a band of Jubilee Singers assisting.]
[Illustration: THE 1899 FOOTBALL TEAM.]
THE EVERY-DAY LIFE OF THE UNIVERSITY is first of all religious. With no
cant, with the avoidance of undue emotion, with a constant appeal to Christian
manhood and womanhood, men and women loyal to Jesus, seeking less their
rights than to faithfully perform their duties, are being reared. For nine
months in a year the faculty of Fisk, like those who in large
cities man college settlements, day and night seek in every way and
by all means to arouse and perpetuate the highest Christian ideals.

Added to these are intellectual training, musical culture and a spirit
of true gentility. The student body honors scholarship, awakens ambitions,
cultivates good manners, frowns upon untidyness of appearance, while by
firmly sustained legislation the faculty forbids any display of extravagance
in attire.

Patches and darns are expected; soiled or neglected garments the school will
not permit.

In a word, what one would expect to find in a Caucasian institution,
composed of pupils of moderate means, with high ideals and gentle
manners, are found at Fisk.

The choicest of the recently emancipated race are here seeking a training.
As always and everywhere, none reach the highest ideal.
Some are found who fail to aspire to it; a few are intractable, but
to one who recalls the life of the race and the treatment it has
received before and since it was freed, life at Fisk is a constant
miracle.

[Illustration: INDUSTRIAL BUILDING AND GYMNASIUM.

Erected through a legacy by Mr.

Howard, of Nashville, and gift of Dr. A. J. Burrell, of Oberlin, O.]
[Illustration: "AS GOOD AS NEW."]

THE FISK IDEA is an expression often on the lips of its alumni.
It may be summed up in this: The rudiments of learning for all, manual
training for those that are adapted to it and will use it in their
after life, the best of culture for those who are capable of receiving
and employing it.

In a word, capacity not color, Christianity not caste, is to decide the
question as to the kind of education a youth is to receive, whether he
dwell in the North or South, whether he be an Ethiopian or an
Anglo-Saxon.

Exceeding few in comparison with the vast multitude of their race will
be those who receive their diploma at Fisk; but they are to be the
leaders of a people sorely needing leadership.

And Fisk's determination to rear such leaders is an abiding protest
against the spirit which denies to any human being a chance, and
a declaration that the Church, like its divine Master, is to minister
especially to those who most need help.

FISK PRODUCTS are the test of its work. Each year it publishes to the world
its list of graduates, and over against each name what he is doing for the
world. It does not hesitate to compare this list with a like catalogue of
any institution with equipment equal to its own. It has faith to believe
that the demon of prejudice will not always hold its flaming sword to bar
true manhood deserving success at the threshold of life. It would
do its part to overcome this demon by producing self-respecting manhood,
which in the eyes of all true men commands respect.

FISK'S NEEDS are great. It needs such an endowment as shall enable it to
decline help from that truest foster mother--the A. M. A. Its chairs
professorial and for instructors should be placed upon a permanent
footing.

In no other way can its fine plant be utilized.
If Northern institutions of learning must rely upon endowments to pay from
two-thirds to three-quarters of the cost of educating their students,
certainly an institution educating the youth of a race scarcely
forty years out of the house of bondage, and hence poor beyond all
expression, needs vastly more the income of an endowment to supplement
the meagre tuitions which its pupils pay.

Here is an opportunity for the man of large means to bestow a princely gift,
while the man of slender means none the less can invest in the same
undertaking.

The man or men who shall thus endow Fisk, will have ever the favor of Him
who has declared Himself the friend of the poor and needy.

[Illustration: DANIEL HAND MODEL SCHOOL.

Erected by the A. M. A. with money from the income of the Daniel Hand bequest.]

Fisk's greatest need is an answer to the prayer of God's people for that
constant indwelling of the divine Spirit which shall keep in stout
heart those who, with personal self-sacrifice, are doing its work.

* * * * * 
CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHOE INDIANS.

REV. W. M. WELLMAN, OKLAHOMA.

Christian work among the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians of Oklahoma was first
entered upon some ten years ago. It was begun by two Christian Indians who
labored with their own people until they were discouraged and the work
well-nigh died.

Afterwards several young men, one after another, came into the field, but
though they were individually earnest, their work did not make much impression.
They procured tables, chairs and reading matter and fitted up a room,
but nine out of ten of those to whom they were sent could neither read nor
write, and of course did not seem to be greatly drawn to current literature.
In 1893, however, Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Woodward took charge, and did most
excellent service, remaining almost a year until they left to become
missionaries in India.

[Illustration: (1) MISSION, DARLINGTON, OKLAHOMA.]
[Illustration: (2) MR. AND MRS. WELLMAN AND INDIAN WOMAN AND CHILD.]
Up to this time, for lack of funds and steady workers, the work had
been but poorly organized, and though the men who had been leading
were wise, earnest and true, yet as a force for permanent good, it
was somewhat in question.

In 1895 Rev. R. H. Harper, coming to take charge, found, he says, one
cheap two-room cottage, one pony, an old wagon and harness and besides
these a table and a few chairs.

He knew that unless more buildings could be procured, the work would amount
to nothing.

Upon request, the Interior Department set aside two acres of land near the
government school for the use of the mission.

The Church-Building Society has at different times extended generous help,
as a result of which the mission finally secured a beautiful chapel, with
rooms and apartments above and below. Mr.

Harper did much excellent service throughout his stay, until 1897, when,
his wife's health giving way, he was compelled to leave the
field.

[Illustration: ON THE ROAD.]
I succeeded him at once, and the work went forward, apparently
without abatement.

I organized the work at the two government schools carefully, and instituted
evangelistic work in both. This phase of the work was so successful
that on the following Easter, 37 Indian young people gave their hearts to
God and were baptized, and on Children's Day, in June following,
29 others came in the same way.

A fervent religious interest prevailed in both of the government
schools, so that, at Christmas time, 35 others came into the Church
on an intelligent confession of faith.

This most blessed work could not be kept within the narrow bounds
of the schoolroom.

It spread to the camp and field.

The parents came to me to learn, and I had many requests to go to them and
tell them about Jesus, till in at least two places, 18 and 20 miles distant
from the Agency, the camp Indians have asked to have a church organized
and a house built. On Easter Sunday, 1898, the climax was reached, so
far as numbers were concerned, when 67 young people, from ten to
twenty-six years of age, from both tribes, gave themselves to Christ, and
presented themselves for baptism. The interest is still general though
somewhat abated in intensity. Several times in the last few months have
smaller numbers united with the Church.

[Illustration: IN CAMP.]
A few weeks ago I returned to my work from the East, where dear friends
showed me every courtesy and sympathy possible, and while at the Mohonk
Conference of Indian Workers I met many whose hearts and purses were open
to pray for and help the helpless and abused red man. During my visit East
I found a general interest and sympathy from churches and individuals,
and money was put into my hands sufficient to add two or three warm rooms
to our parsonage, which we have vacated and turned over to the sick and
distressed Indians for a hospital. With the rooms we have just added--work
is now going on--this parsonage hospital has one kitchen, one
general work-room, two rooms sufficient for four beds, a room for
reading and study, a laundry or general purpose room, and a bathroom;
this latter, however, we cannot finish at present for lack of money
to provide water facilities.

Chairs and tables will be put in, and bead and embroidery work, done in both
silk and worsted, will be persistently encouraged, so far as funds will
allow.

There is attached to the mission a free medical dispensary, to which
a great many come. It is, however, only intended to be supplemental to the
general medical work under the direction of the stationed Government
physician, who is not only a thoroughly trained and competent physician,
but a careful and painstaking one as well.
A great many questions mingled with doubt are frequently asked us, by those
who look upon the Indian more as a curiosity than a human being, or as a
painted entity watching for an opportunity to wreak vengeance on the
white man. "Do you really think these young people and camp Indians
understand what they are doing," etc., etc.

[Illustration: IN WINTER QUARTERS.]
I say, "We certainly do, when a boy or girl, or a young man or woman, no
matter what color the skin may be, comes to us of his own will, and says,
'I want to have a good heart and love Jesus and want to be a
Christian,' and then in the presence of both white and red scoffers,
is baptized and unites with the Church, and lives a consistent and
prayerful life, I have no reason or no right to doubt."

A few months ago there walked into the church, just as service had begun
one Sunday morning, eleven fine-looking Arapahoe Indians. They were
not richly attired, but they were clean. Only one could even partially
understand my words, but they were quiet and attentive. After service
they lingered.

I said, addressing the leader, "Coyote, what do you want?" "We Indians
come 20 miles, want to talk about Jesus. We hear you talk some days back,
down on Big River. You say, God love Indian just the same He love white
man.
You say, Jesus came to help Indian be good just the same as white man.
Indian want good heart, to know how to love squaw and children.

Indian love Jesus and Indian give Jesus heart and brain and hand and feet."
"Well," I said, "let us pray and ask God." We knelt. I prayed, Coyote
prayed, and, with some hesitation, they all, in turn, prayed fervently. I
have no doubt they understood, although I have not taken them into the
Church yet.

A few weeks ago an old Indian woman with gray hair came into the church. She
could not talk much, but in their sign language I asked, "Are you a
Christian?" "Yes, yes," she replied; "I could not live if Jesus leave me,"
and then making the sign as if washing on a wash-board, and the sign for
spirit (soul), pointing to my white cuff--Jesus has washed my soul white--do
they not understand? Can we, dare we, turn one of these, His little ones,
away?

* * * * *
SOUTHERN FIELD NOTES.

BY REV. GEORGE W. MOORE.

Quite a number of students and graduates of our A. M. A. schools are in
business and professional life in northern and western cities, as well
as in the South. A growing number of colored youth from the North attend
our Southern institutions. Thus Dr. Dubois, the noted negro scholar and
writer, came from Massachusetts to Tennessee to take his college training
at Fisk University. But it is of the Southern field, as I have seen it
during the last six weeks, that I wish to speak.

Our Chandler Institute at Lexington, Ky., is filled with earnest students,
under the direction of Miss Fanny J. Webster and her associates. Every
year well-trained young people go out from this school to their life-work.
During a gospel meeting recently held with the Lexington Church, more than
fifty of the pupils of Chandler School avowed their faith in Christ.

The church is built upon the site of an old slave-pen, the key of which is
preserved as a relic of those dark days. The neat chapel now stands as a
symbol of light and truth to the people. The pastor, Rev. W. L. Johnson,
is a graduate of Fisk, and his wife is from Le Moyne Institute. She has
taught in our service at Memphis and Mobile.

Some of the most representative and influential citizens are members of
our Lexington Church, among whom are the two leading physicians, the
supervising principal and several teachers of the public schools.

  A directory of the negro in business reports:
  four physicians, two dentists, two lawyers, an editor, two undertaking
establishments, several groceries, a drug store and other business
enterprises, besides mechanics, farmers, etc.

They support a home for orphans, and maintain a number of benevolent
organizations.

The colored people of Lexington hold an Annual Fair at the State Fair
Grounds, which is a most attractive feature of Kentucky life.
During the week of the Fair the city is crowded, and the daily attendance
numbers thousands of the best people of both races. The Negro Fair
Association is entirely under the management of colored men, and has a
paid-up capital of several thousand dollars.

The thrift and intelligence of the colored people can be seen by the large
number of neat and well-appointed homes owned by them.

Plymouth Church, at Louisville, is making hopeful progress under the
ministry of Rev. E. G. Harris. Among the members of this church are three
teachers of the Colored High School, who are Fisk graduates.
The president of the Christian Endeavor is Dr.

Whipple, a physician of note, and the superintendent of the Sunday-school is
Professor Perry, the principal of a large public school of over a
thousand pupils. Some of the most active workers are mechanics and people
in humble life.

Rev. Gilbert Walton was present at one of our meetings and gave an interesting
address on the work among the people of the mountains of Kentucky and
Tennessee.

The colored people of Louisville are also making encouraging, material
progress. Dr. Whedbee and other colored physicians have opened a medical
school under the auspices of the Colored State College. They have also
opened a free sanitarium in the central part of the city, which is supported
by the colored people.

My husband, he be gone out to see one o' Squire Tregarva's
hounds as was took ill last night. So if you want to see the old church,
sir, you'll have to be content with an old woman to show you, sir."

"I shall be quite content, I assure you," I answered. "Will you go and get
the key?"

"I have the key in my pocket, sir; for I thought that would be what you'd
be after, sir. And by the time you come to my age, sir, you'll learn to
think of your old bones, sir. I beg your pardon for making so free. For
mayhap, says I to myself, he be the gentleman as be come to take Mr.
Shepherd's duty for him. Be ye now, sir?"

All this was said in a slow sweet subdued tone, nearly of one pitch. You
would have felt that she claimed the privilege of age with a kind of
mournful gaiety, but was careful, and anxious even, not to presume upon it,
and, therefore, gentle as a young girl.

"Yes," I answered. "My name is Walton I have come to take the place of my
friend Mr. Shepherd; and, of course, I want to see the church."

"Well, she be a bee-utiful old church. Some things, I think, sir, grows
more beautiful the older they grows. But it ain't us, sir."

"I'm not so sure of that," I said. "What do you mean?"

"Well, sir, there's my little grandson in the cottage there: he'll never be
so beautiful again. Them children du be the loves. But we all grows uglier
as we grows older. Churches don't seem to, sir."

"I'm not so sure about all that," I said again.

"They did say, sir, that I was a pretty girl once. I'm not much to look at
now."

And she smiled with such a gracious amusement, that I felt at once that if
there was any vanity left in this memory of her past loveliness, it was
sweet as the memory of their old fragrance left in the withered leaves of
the roses.

"But it du not matter, du it, sir? Beauty is only skin-deep."

"I don't believe that," I answered. "Beauty is as deep as the heart at
least."

"Well to be sure, my old husband du say I be as handsome in his eyes as
ever I be. But I beg your pardon, sir, for talkin' about myself. I believe
it was the old church--she set us on to it."

"The old church didn't lead you into any harm then," I answered. "The
beauty that is in the heart will shine out of the face again some day--be
sure of that. And after all, there is just the same kind of beauty in a
good old face that there is in an old church. You can't say the church is
so trim and neat as it was the day that the first blast of the organ filled
it as with, a living soul. The carving is not quite so sharp, the timbers
are not quite so clean. There is a good deal of mould and worm-eating and
cobwebs about the old place. Yet both you and I think it more beautiful now
than it was then. Well, I believe it is, as nearly as possible, the same
with an old face. It has got stained, and weather-beaten, and worn; but if
the organ of truth has been playing on inside the temple of the Lord, which
St. Paul says our bodies are, there is in the old face, though both form
and complexion are gone, just the beauty of the music inside. The wrinkles
and the brownness can't spoil it. A light shines through it all--that of
the indwelling spirit. I wish we all grew old like the old churches."

She did not reply, but I thought I saw in her face that she understood my
mysticism. We had been walking very slowly, had passed through the quaint
lych-gate, and now the old woman had got the key in the lock of the door,
whose archway was figured and fashioned as I have described above, with a
dozen mouldings or more, most of them "carved so curiously."


CHAPTER XV.

THE OLD CHURCH.


The awe that dwells in churches fell upon me as I crossed the threshold--an
awe I never fail to feel--heightened in many cases, no doubt, by the sense
of antiquity and of art, but an awe which I have felt all the same in
crossing the threshold of an old Puritan conventicle, as the place where
men worship and have worshipped the God of their fathers, although for art
there was only the science of common bricklaying, and for beauty staring
ugliness. To the involuntary fancy, the air of petition and of holy need
seems to linger in the place, and the uncovered head acknowledges the
sacred symbols of human inspiration and divine revealing. But this was no
ordinary church into which I followed the gentlewoman who was my guide. As
entering I turned my eyes eastward, a flush of subdued glory invaded them
from the chancel, all the windows of which were of richly stained glass,
and the roof of carved oak lavishly gilded. I had my thoughts about this
chancel, and thence about chancels generally which may appear in another
part of my story. Now I have to do only with the church, not with the
cogitations to which it gave rise. But I will not trouble my reader with
even what I could tell him of the blending and contradicting of styles
and modes of architectural thought in the edifice. Age is to the work of
contesting human hands a wonderful harmoniser of differences. As nature
brings into harmony all fractures of her frame, and even positive
intrusions upon her realm, clothes and discolours them, in the old sense of
the word, so that at length there is no immediate shock at sight of that
which in itself was crude, and is yet coarse, so the various architecture
of this building had been gone over after the builders by the musical hand
of Eld, with wonder of delicate transition and change of key, that one
could almost fancy the music of its exquisite organ had been at work
_informing_ the building, half melting the sutures, wearing the sharpness,
and blending the angles, until in some parts there was but the gentle
flickering of the original conception left, all its self-assertion vanished
under the file of the air and the gnawing of the worm. True, the hand of
the restorer had been busy, but it had wrought lovingly and gently, and
wherein it had erred, the same influences of nature, though as yet their
effects were invisible, were already at work--of the many making one. I
will not trouble my reader, I say, with any architectural description,
which, possibly even more than a detailed description of natural beauty
dissociated from human feeling, would only weary him, even if it were not
unintelligible. When we are reading a poem, we do not first of all examine
the construction and dwell on the rhymes and rhythms; all that comes after,
if we find that the poem itself is so good that its parts are therefore
worth examining, as being probably good in themselves, and elucidatory of
the main work. There were carvings on the ends of the benches all along
the aisle on both sides, well worth examination, and some of them even
of description; but I shall not linger on these. A word only about the
columns: they supported arches of different fashion on the opposite
sides, but they were themselves similar in matter and construction, both
remarkable. They were of coarse granite of the country, chiselled, but very
far from smooth, not to say polished. Each pillar was a single stone with
chamfered sides.

Walking softly through the ancient house, forgetting in the many thoughts
that arose within me that I had a companion, I came at length into the
tower, the basement of which was open, forming part of the body of the
church. There hung many ropes through holes in a ceiling above, for
bell-ringing was encouraged and indeed practised by my friend Shepherd. And
as I regarded them, I thought within myself how delightful it would be if
in these days as in those of Samuel, the word of God was precious; so that
when it came to the minister of his people--a fresh vision of his glory, a
discovery of his meaning--he might make haste to the church, and into the
tower, lay hold of the rope that hung from the deepest-toned bell of all,
and constrain it by the force of strong arms to utter its voice of call,
"Come hither, come hear, my people, for God hath spoken;" and from the
streets or the lanes would troop the eager folk; the plough be left in the
furrow, the cream in the churn; and the crowding people bring faces into
the church, all with one question upon them--"What hath the Lord spoken?"
But now it would be answer sufficient to such a call to say, "But what will
become of the butter?" or, "An hour's ploughing will be lost." And the
clergy--how would they bring about such a time? They do not even believe
that God has a word to his people through them. They think that his word is
petrified for use in the Bible and Prayer-book; that the wise men of old
heard so much of the word of God, and have so set it down, that there is
no need for any more words of the Lord coming to the prophets of a land;
therefore they look down upon the prophesying--that is, the preaching
of the word--make light of it, the best of them, say these prayers are
everything, or all but everything: _their_ hearts are not set upon hearing
what God the Lord will speak that they may speak it abroad to his people
again. Therefore it is no wonder if the church bells are obedient only to
the clock, are no longer subject to the spirit of the minister, and have
nothing to do in telegraphing between heaven and earth. They make little of
this part of their duty; and no wonder, if what is to be spoken must remain
such as they speak. They put the Church for God, and the prayers which are
the word of man to God, for the word of God to man. But when the prophets
see no vision, how should they have any word to speak?

These thoughts were passing through my mind when my eye fell upon my guide.
She was seated against the south wall of the tower, on a stool, I thought,
or small table. While I was wandering about the church she had taken her
stocking and wires out of her pocket, and was now knitting busily. How her
needles did go! Her eyes never regarded them, however, but, fixed on the
slabs that paved the tower at a yard or two from her feet, seemed to be
gazing far out to sea, for they had an infinite objectless outlook. To try
her, I took for the moment the position of an accuser.

"So you don't mind working in church?" I said.

When I spoke she instantly rose, her eyes turned as from the far sea-waves
to my face, and light came out of them. With a smile she answered--

"The church knows me, sir."

"But what has that to do with it?"

"I don't think she minds it. We are told to be diligent in business, you
know, sir."

"Yes, but it does not say in church and out of church. You could be
diligent somewhere else, couldn't you?"

As soon as I said this, I began to fear she would think I meant it. But she
only smiled and said, "It won't hurt she, sir; and my good man, who does
all he can to keep her tidy, is out at toes and heels, and if I don't keep
he warm he'll be laid up, and then the church won't be kep' nice, sir, till
he's up again."

I was tempted to go on.

"But you could have sat down outside--there are some nice gravestones
near--and waited till I came out."

"But what's the church for, sir? The sun's werry hot to-day, sir; and Mr.
Shepherd, he say, sir, that the church is like the shadow of a great rock
in a weary land. So, you see, if I was to sit out in the sun, instead of
comin' in here to the cool o' the shadow, I wouldn't be takin' the church
at her word. It does my heart good to sit in the old church, sir. There's
a something do seem to come out o' the old walls and settle down like the
cool o' the day upon my old heart that's nearly tired o' crying, and would
fain keep its eyes dry for the rest o' the journey. My old man's stockin'
won't hurt the church, sir, and, bein' a good deed as I suppose it is, it's
none the worse for the place. I think, if He was to come by wi' the whip o'
small cords, I wouldn't be afeared of his layin' it upo' my old back. Do
you think he would, sir?"

Thus driven to speak as I thought, I made haste to reply, more delighted
with the result of my experiment than I cared to let her know.

"Indeed I do not. I was only talking. It is but selfish, cheating, or
ill-done work that the church's Master drives away. All our work ought to
be done in the shadow of the church."

"I thought you be only having a talk about it, sir," she said, smiling her
sweet old smile. "Nobody knows what this old church is to me."

Now the old woman had a good husband, apparently: the sorrows which had
left their mark even upon her smile, must have come from her family, I
thought.

"You have had a family?" I said, interrogatively.

"I've had thirteen," she answered. "Six bys and seven maidens."

"Why, you are rich!" I returned. "And where are they all?"

"Four maidens be lying in the churchyard, sir; two be married, and one be
down in the mill, there."

"And your boys?"

"One of them be lyin' beside his sisters--drownded afore my eyes, sir.
Three o' them be at sea, and two o' them in it, sir."

At sea! I thought. What a wide _where_! As vague to the imagination,
almost, as _in the other world_. How a mother's thoughts must go roaming
about the waste, like birds that have lost their nest, to find them!

As this thought kept me silent for a few moments, she resumed.

"It be no wonder, be it, sir? that I like to creep into the church with my
knitting. Many's the stormy night, when my husband couldn't keep still, but
would be out on the cliffs or on the breakwater, for no good in life, but
just to hear the roar of the waves that he could only see by the white of
them, with the balls o' foam flying in his face in the dark--many's the
such a night that I have left the house after he was gone, with this
blessed key in my hand, and crept into the old church here, and sat down
where I'm sittin' now--leastways where I was sittin' when your reverence
spoke to me--and hearkened to the wind howling about the place. The church
windows never rattle, sir--like the cottage windows, as I suppose you know,
sir. Somehow, I feel safe in the church."

"But if you had sons at sea," said I, again wishing to draw her out, "it
would not he of much good to you to feel safe yourself, so long as they
were in danger."

"O! yes, it be, sir. What's the good of feeling safe yourself but it let
you know other people be safe too? It's when you don't feel safe yourself
that you feel other people ben't safe."

"But," I said--and such confidence I had from what she had already uttered,
that I was sure the experiment was not a cruel one--"some of your sons
_were_ drowned for all that you say about their safety."

"Well, sir," she answered, with a sigh, "I trust they're none the less safe
for that. It would be a strange thing for an old woman like me, well-nigh
threescore and ten, to suppose that safety lay in not being drownded. Why,
they might ha' been cast on a desert island, and wasted to skin an' bone,
and got home again wi' the loss of half the wits they set out with.
Wouldn't that ha' been worse than being drownded right off? And that
wouldn't ha' been the worst, either. The church she seem to tell me all the
time, that for all the roaring outside, there be really no danger after
all. What matter if they go to the bottom? What is the bottom of the sea,
sir? You bein' a clergyman can tell that, sir. I shouldn't ha' known it if
I hadn't had bys o' my own at sea, sir. But you can tell, sir, though you
ain't got none there."

And though she was putting her parson to his catechism, the smile that
returned on her face was as modest as if she had only been listening to his
instruction. I had not long to look for my answer.

"The hollow of his hand," I said, and said no more.

"I thought you would know it, sir," she returned, with a little glow of
triumph in her tone. "Well, then, that's just what the church tells me when
I come in here in the stormy nights. I bring my knitting then too, sir, for
I can knit in the dark as well as in the light almost; and when they come
home, if they do come home, they're none the worse that I went to the old
church to pray for them. There it goes roaring about them poor dears, all
out there; and their old mother sitting still as a stone almost in the
quiet old church, a caring for them. And then it do come across me, sir,
that God be a sitting in his own house at home, hearing all the noise
and all the roaring in which his children are tossed about in the world,
watching it all, letting it drown some o' them and take them back to him,
and keeping it from going too far with others of them that are not quite
ready for that same. I have my thoughts, you see, sir, though I be an old
woman; and not nice to look at."

I had come upon a genius. How nature laughs at our schools sometimes!
Education, so-called, is a fine thing, and might be a better thing; but
there is an education, that of life, which, when seconded by a pure will
to learn, leaves the schools behind, even as the horse of the desert would
leave behind the slow pomposity of the common-fed goose. For life is God's
school, and they that will listen to the Master there will learn at God's
speed. For one moment, I am ashamed to say, I was envious of Shepherd,
and repined that, now old Rogers was gone, I had no such glorious
old stained-glass window in my church to let in the eternal upon my
light-thirsty soul. I must say for myself that the feeling lasted but for a
moment, and that no sooner had the shadow of it passed and the true light
shined after it, than I was heartily ashamed of it. Why should not Shepherd
have the old woman as well as I? True, Shepherd was more of what would
now be called a ritualist than I; true, I thought my doctrine simpler and
therefore better than his; but was this any reason why I should have all
the grand people to minister to in my parish! Recovering myself, I found
her last words still in my ears.

"You are very nice to look at," I said. "You must not find fault with the
work of God, because you would like better to be young and pretty than to
be as you now are. Time and time's rents and furrows are all his making and
his doing. God makes nothing ugly."

"Are you quite sure of that, sir?"

I paused. Such a question from such a woman "must give us pause." And, as I
paused, the thought of certain animals flashed into my mind and I could not
insist that God had never made anything ugly.

"No. I am not sure of it," I answered. For of all things my soul recoiled
from, any professional pretence of knowing more than I did know seemed to
me the most repugnant to the spirit and mind of the Master, whose servants
we are, or but the servants of mere priestly delusion and self-seeking.
"But if he does," I went on to say, "it must be that we may see what it is
like, and therefore not like it."

Then, unwilling all at once to plunge with her into such an abyss as the
question opened, I turned the conversation to an object on which my eyes
had been for some time resting half-unconsciously. It was the sort of stool
or bench on which my guide had been sitting. I now thought it was some kind
of box or chest. It was curiously carved in old oak, very much like the
ends of the benches and book-boards.

"What is that you were sitting on?" I asked. "A chest or what?"

"It be there when we come to this place, and that be nigh fifty years
agone, sir. But what it be, you'll be better able to tell than I be, sir."

"Perhaps a chest for holding the communion-plate in old time," I said. "But
how should it then come to be banished to the tower?"

"No, sir; it can't be that. It be some sort of ancient musical piano, I be
thinking."

I stooped and saw that its lid was shaped like the cover of an organ. With
some difficulty I opened it; and there, to be sure, was a row of huge keys,
fit for the fingers of a Cyclops. I pressed upon them, one after another,
but no sound followed. They were stiff to the touch; and once down, so they
mostly remained until lifted again. I looked if there was any sign of a
bellows, thinking it must have been some primitive kind of reed-instrument,
like what we call a seraphine or harmonium now-a-days. Brand. Very well.

You go with her to the South Kensington Museum; you meet Mr. Brand there.
Naturally you think if that comes to my ears I shall suspect you of
having planned the meeting; and you would rather come and assure me that
you had nothing to do with it. Is it so?"
"My dear friend," said Madame Potecki, quickly, "I did not come to you
about myself at all! What am I? What matters what happens to an old woman
like me? It is not about myself, it is about Natalie that I have come
to you. Ah, the dear, beautiful child!--how can one see her unhappy,
and not try to do something? Why should she be unhappy? She is young,
beautiful, loving; my dear friend, do you wonder that she has a
sweetheart?--and one who is so worthy of her, too: one who is not
selfish, who has courage, who will be kind to her. Then I said to
myself, 'Ah, what a pity to have father and daughter opposed to each
other!' Why might not one step in and say, 'Come, and be friends. You
love each other: do not have this coldness that makes a young heart so
miserable!'"
She had talked quickly and eagerly at last; she was trembling with excitement,
she had her eyes fixed on his face to catch the first symptom of
acquiescence.

But, on the contrary, Mr.

Lind remained quite impassive, and he said, coldly,
"This is a different matter altogether, Madame Potecki.

I do not blame you for interfering; but I must tell you at once that
your interference is not likely to be of much use. You see, there are reasons
which I cannot explain to you, but which are very serious, why any proposal
of marriage between Mr. Brand and Natalie is not to be entertained for
a moment. The thing is quite impossible. Very well. She knows this; she
knows that I wish all communication between them to cease; nevertheless,
she says she will see him every day until he goes. How can you wonder
that she is unhappy? Is it not her own doing?"
"If she was in reality my child, that is not the way I would speak," said
the little woman, boldly.

"Unfortunately, my dear Madame Potecki," said Mr. Lind, blandly, "I cannot,
as I say, explain to you the reasons which make such a marriage
impossible, or you yourself would say it was impossible.

Very well, then.

If you wish to do a service to your friend Natalie--if you wish to see
her less unhappy, you know what advice to give her. A girl who perseveres
in wilful disobedience is not likely to be very contented in her mind."

Madame Potecki sat silent and perplexed. This man seemed so firm, so reasonable,
so assured, it was apparently hopeless to expect any concession from him.
And yet what was the use of her going away merely to repeat the advice she
had already given?

"And in any case," he continued, lightly, "it is not an affair for you to be
deeply troubled about, my dear Madame Potecki; on the contrary, it is a
circumstance of little moment. If Natalie chooses to indulge this
sentiment--well, the fate of empires does not hang on it, and in a little
while it will be all right. Youth soon recovers from small disappointments;
the girl is not morbid or melancholy. Moreover, she has plenty to occupy
her mind with: do not fear that she will be permanently unhappy."
All this gave Natalie's friend but scant consolation. She knew something
of the girl, she knew it was not a light matter that had made her
resolve to share banishment with her lover rather than that he
should depart alone.

  "Yes, she is acting contrary to my
  wishes," continued Mr. Lind, who saw that
  his visitor was anxious and chagrined.

"But why should you vex yourself with that, my dear madame?--why,
indeed? It is only for a few days. When Mr. Brand leaves for America, then
she will settle down to her old ways.

This episode of sentiment will soon be forgotten. Do not fear for your
friend Natalie; she has a healthy constitution; she is not likely to sigh
away her life."
"But you do not understand, Mr. Lind!" Madame Potecki exclaimed suddenly.
"You do not understand. When he leaves for America, there is to be an
end? No! You are not aware, then, that if he goes to America, Natalie
will go also?"
She had spoken quickly, breathlessly, not taking much notice of her words,
but she was appalled by the effect they produced. Lind started, as if he
had been struck; and for a second, as he regarded her, the eyes set under
the heavy brows burnt like coals, and she noticed a curious paleness in his
face, especially in the lips. But this lasted only for an instant. When he
spoke, he was quite calm, and was apparently considering each word.

"Are you authorized to bring me this message?" he said, slowly.

"Oh no; oh no!" the little woman exclaimed. "I assure you, my dear friend,
I came to you because I thought something was about to happen--something
that might be prevented. Ah, you don't know how I love that darling child;
and to see her unhappy, and resolved, perhaps, to make some great mistake
in her life, how could I help interfering?"
"So," continued Lind, apparently weighing every word, "this is what she is
bent on! If Brand goes to America, she will go with him?"
"I--I--am afraid so," stammered Madame Potecki. "That is what I gathered
from her--though it was only an imaginary case she spoke of. But she was
pale, and trembling, and how could I stand by and not do something?"
He did not answer; his lips were firm set. Unconsciously he was pressing
the point of the paper-knife into the leather; it snapped in two. He
threw the pieces aside, and said, with a sudden lightness of manner,
"Ah, well, my dear madame, you know young people are sometimes very headstrong,
and difficult to manage. We must see what can be done in this case.
You have not told Natalie you were coming to me?"
"No. She asked me at first; then she said she would tell you herself."

He regarded her for a second.

"There is no reason why you should say you have been here?"
"Perhaps not, perhaps not," Madame Potecki said, doubtfully. "No; there
is no necessity. But if one were sure that the dear child were to be
made any happier--"
She did not complete the sentence.

"I think you may leave the whole affair in my hands, my dear Madame Potecki,"
said Lind, in his usual courteous fashion. He spoke, indeed, as if it were
a matter of the most trifling importance. "I think I can promise you that
Natalie shall not be allowed to imperil the happiness of her life by taking
any rash steps. In the mean time, I am your debtor that you have come
and told me. It was considerate of you, Madame Potecki; I am obliged to
you."
The little woman was practically dismissed. She rose, still doubtful, and
hesitated. But what more could she say?

"I am not to tell her, then?" she said.

"If you please, not."
When he had graciously bowed her out, he returned to his seat at the desk;
and then the forced courtesy of his manner was abandoned. His brows gathered
down; his lips were again firm set; he bent one of the pieces of the
paper-knife until that snapped too; and when some one knocked at the door,
he answered sharply in German.

It was Gathorne Edwards who entered.

"Well, you have got back?" he said, with but scant civility. "Where
is Calabressa?"

The tall, pale, stooping man looked round with some caution.

"There is no one--no one but Reitzei," said Lind, impatiently.

"Calabressa is detained in Naples--the General's orders," said the other,
in rather a low voice. "I did not write--I thought it was not safe to
put anything on paper; more especially as we discovered that Kirski
was being watched."
"No wonder," said Lind, scornfully.

"A fool of a madman being taken about by a fool of a mountebank!"
Edwards stared at him. Surely this man, who was usually the most composed,
and impenetrable, and suave of men, must have been considerably annoyed
thus to give way to a petulant temper.

"But the result, Edwards: well?"

"Refused!"
Lind laughed sardonically.

"Who could have doubted? Of course the council do not think that I approved
of that mad scheme?"

"At all events, sir," said Edwards, submissively, "you permitted it."

"Permitted it! Yes; to please old Calabressa, who imagines himself
a diplomatist.

But who could have doubted what the end would be? Well, what further?"

"I understand that a message is on its way to you from the council," said
the other, speaking in still lower tones, "giving further instructions. They
consider it of great importance that--it--should be done by one of the
English section; so that no one may imagine it arises from a private revenge."

Lind was toying with one of the pieces of the broken paper-knife.

"Zaccatelli has had the warning," Edwards continued. "Granaglia took it.
The Cardinal is mad with fright--will do anything."
Lind seemed to rouse himself with an effort.

"I beg your pardon, friend Edwards. I did not hear. What were you saying?"

"I was saying that the Cardinal had had the decree announced to him, and is
mad with fear, and he will do anything. He offers thirty thousand lire
a year; not only that, but he will try to get his Holiness to give his
countenance to the Society. Fancy, as Calabressa says, what the world
would say to an alliance between the Vatican and the SOCIETY OF THE
SEVEN STARS!"
Lind seemed incapable of paying attention to this new visitor, so absorbed
was he in his own thoughts. He had again to rouse himself forcibly.

"Yes," he said, "you were saying, friend Edwards, that the Starving Cardinal
had become aware of the decree. Yes; well, then?"
"Did you not hear, sir? He thinks there should be an alliance between
the Vatican and the Society."
"His Eminence is jocular, considering how near he is to the end of his
life," said Lind, absently.

"Further," Edwards continued, "he has sent back the daughter of old De Bedros,
who, it seems, first claimed the decree against him; and he is to
give her a dowry of ten thousand lire when she marries.

But all these promises and proposals do not seem to have weighed much
with the council."
Here Edwards stopped. He perceived plainly that Lind--who sat with his
brows drawn down, and a sombre look on his face--was not listening to
him at all.

Presently Lind rose, and said,

"My good Edwards, I have some business of serious importance to attend to
at once. Now you will give me the report of your journey some other time.
To-night--at nine o'clock?"
"Yes, sir; if that will suit you."
"Can you come to my house in Curzon Street at nine?"
"Yes, certainly."
"Very well. I am your debtor. But stay a moment. Of course, I understand from
you that nothing that has happened interferes with the decree against our
excellent friend the Cardinal?"
"So it appears."
"The Council are not to be bought over by idle promises?"
"Apparently not."
"Very well. Then you will come to-night at nine; in my little study there
will be no interruption; you can give me all the details of your
holiday.

  Ha, my friend Edwards," he added more
  pleasantly, as he opened the door for
  his visitor, "would it not be better for
  you to give up that Museum altogether, and come over to us?

Then you would have many a pleasant little trip."

"I suspect the Museum is most likely to give me up," said Edwards,
with a laugh, as he descended the narrow twilight stairs.

Then Lind returned to his desk, and sat down. A quarter of an hour afterward,
when Reitzei came into the room, he found him still sitting there, without
any papers whatsoever before him. The angry glance that Lind directed
to him as he entered told him that the master did not wish to be disturbed;
so he picked up a book of reference by way of excuse, and retreated into
the farther room, leaving Lind once more alone.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

AN ENCOUNTER.

This was an October morning, in the waning of the year; and yet so bright
and clear and fresh was it, even in the middle of London, that one
could have imagined the spring had returned. The world was full of a soft
diffused light, from the pale clouds sailing across the blue to the
sheets of silver widening out on the broad bosom of the Thames; but
here and there the sun caught some shining surface--the lip of a marble
fountain, the glass of a lamp on the Embankment, or the harness of some
merchant-prince's horses prancing into town--and these were sharp
jewel-like gleams amidst the vague general radiance. The air was sweet
and clear; the white steam blown from the engines on Hungerford Bridge
showed that the wind was westerly. Two lovers walked below, in the
Embankment gardens, probably listening but little to the murmur of
the great city around them. Surely the spring had come again, and youth
and love and hope! The solitary occupant of this chamber that
overlooked the gardens and the shining river did not stay to ask why his
heart should be so full of gladness, why this beautiful morning should
yield him so much delight. He was thinking chiefly that on such a morning
Natalie would be abroad soon; she loved the sunlight and the sweet air.

It was far too fine a morning, indeed, to spend in a museum, even with all
Madame Potecki's treasures spread out before one. So, instead of going
to South Kensington, he went straight up to Curzon Street. Early as he
was, he was not too early, for he was leisurely walking along the
pavement when, ahead of him, he saw Natalie and her little maid
come forth and set out westward.

He allowed them to reach the park gates; then he overtook them. Anneli
fell a little way behind.

Now, whether it was the brightness of the morning had raised her spirits,
or that she had been reasoning herself into a more courageous frame of mind,
it was soon very clear that Natalie was not at all so anxious and embarrassed
as she had shown herself the day before when they parted.

"There was no letter from you this morning," she said, with a smile,
though she did not look up into his face. "Then I have offered myself
to you, and am refused?"
"How could I write?" he said. "I tried once or twice, and then I saw I must
wait until I could tell you face to face all that I think of your bravery
and your goodness.

And now that I see you Natalie, it is not a bit better: I can't
tell you; I am so happy to be near you, to be beside you, and hear
your voice, that I don't think I can say anything at all."

"I am refused, then?"

said she, shyly.

"Refused!" he exclaimed. "There are some things one cannot refuse--like
the sunshine. But do you know what a terrible sacrifice you are making?"
"It is you, then, who are making no sacrifice at all," she said,
reproachfully.

"What do I sacrifice more than every girl must sacrifice when she
marries?

England is not my home as it is your home; we have lived everywhere; I have
no childhood's friends to leave, as many a girl has."
"Your father--"
"After a little while my father will scarcely miss me; he is too
busy."

But presently she added,
"If you had remained in England I should never have been your wife."
"Why?" he said with some surprise.

"I should never have married against my father's wishes," she said, thoughtfully.
"No. My promise to you was that I would be your wife, or the wife
of no one.

I would have kept that promise.

But as long as we could have seen each other, and been with each other
from time to time, I don't think I could have married against my father's
wish. Now it is quite different. Your going to America has changed it all.
Ah, my dear friend, you don't know what I suffered one or two nights before
I could decide what was right for me to do!"
"I can guess," he said, in a low voice, in answer to that brief sigh of
hers.

Then she grew more cheerful in manner.
"But that is all over; and now, am I accepted? I think you are like
Naomi: it was only when she saw that Ruth was very determined to
go with her that she left off protesting. And I am to consider
America as my future home? Well, at all events, one will be able
to breathe freely there. It is not a country weighed down with
standing armies and conscriptions and fortifications. How could one
live in a town like Coblentz, or Metz, or Brest? The poor wretches
marching this way and marching that--you watch them from your hotel
window--the young men and the middle-aged men--and you know that
they would rather be away at their farms, or in their factories,
or saw-pits, or engine-houses, working for their wives and children--"

"Natalie," said he, "you are only half a woman: you don't care about
military glory."
"It is the most mean, the most cruel and contemptible thing under
the sun!" she said, passionately. "What is the quality that makes
a great hero--a great general--nowadays? Courage? Not a bit. It is
callousness!--an absolute indifference to the slaughtering of human
lives! You sit in your tent--you sit on horseback--miles away from
the fighting; and if the poor wretches are being destroyed here or
there in too great quantities, if they are ridden down by the horses
and torn to pieces by the mitrailleuses, 'Oh, clap on another
thousand or two: the place must be taken at all risks.' Yes, indeed;
but not much risk to you! For if you fail--if all the thousands of
men have been hurled against the stone and lead only to be thrown
back crushed and murdered--why, you have fought with great
courage--_you_, the great general, sitting in your saddle miles
away; it is _you_ who have shown extraordinary courage!--but numbers
were against you: and if you win, you have shown still greater
courage; and the audacity of the movement was so and so; and your
dogged persistence was so and so; and you get another star for your
breast; and all the world sings your praises. And who is to
court-martial a great hero for reckless waste of human life?
Who is to tell him that he is a cruel-hearted coward? Who is to
take him to the fields he has saturated with blood, and compel him
to count the corpses; or to take him to the homesteads he has ruined
throughout the land, and ask the women and sons and the daughters
what they think of this marvellous courage? Oh no; he is away back
in the capital--there is a triumphal procession; all we want now
is another war-tax--for the peasant must pay with his money as well
as with his blood--and another levy of the young men to be taken
and killed!"
This was always a sore point with Natalie; and he did not seek to
check her enthusiasm with any commonplace and obvious criticisms.
When she got into one of these moods of proud indignation, which
was not seldom, he loved her all the more. There was something in
the ring of her voice that touched him to the heart. Such noble,
quick, generous sympathy seemed to him far too beautiful and rare
a thing to be met by argument and analysis. When he heard that
pathetic tremulousness in her voice, he was ready to believe anything.
When he looked at the proud lips and the moistened eyes, what cause
that had won such eloquent advocacy would he not have espoused?
"Ah, well, Natalie," said he, "some day the mass of the people of
the earth will be brought to see that all that can be put a stop
to, if they so choose.I laughed at her fastidious fancy.

"You want to fly, I suppose?" I said.

"O, yes; I should like that."

"And you don't want to have wings?"

"Well, I shouldn't mind the wings exactly; but however would one be able to
keep them nice?"

"There you go; starting from one thing to another, like a real bird
already. When you can't answer one thing, off to another, and, from your
new perch on the hawthorn, talk as if you were still on the topmost branch
of the lilac!"

"O, yes, papa! That's what I've heard you say to mamma twenty times."

"And did I ever say to your mamma anything but the truth? or to you either,
you puss?"

I had not yet discovered that when I used this epithet to my Connie, she
always thought she had gone too far. She looked troubled. I hastened to
relieve her.

"When women have wings," I said, "their logic will be good."

"How do you make that out, papa?" she asked, a little re-assured.

"Because then every shadow of feeling that turns your speech aside from the
straight course will be recognised in that speech; the whole utterance will
be instinct not only with the meaning of what you are thinking, but with
the reflex of the forces in you that make the utterance take this or that
shape; just as to a perfect palate, the source and course of a stream would
be revealed in every draught of its water.

"I have just a glimmering of your meaning, papa. Would you like to have
wings?"

"I should like to fly like a bird, to swim like a fish, to gallop like a
horse, to creep like a serpent, but I suspect the good of all these is to
be got without doing any of them."

"I know what you mean now, but I can't put it in words."

"I mean by a perfect sympathy with the creatures that do these things: what
it may please God to give to ourselves, we can quite comfortably leave to
him. A higher stratum of the same kind is the need we feel of knowing our
fellow-creatures through and through, of walking into and out of their
worlds as if we were, because we are, perfectly at home in them.--But I am
talking what the people who do not understand such things lump all together
as mysticism, which is their name for a kind of spiritual ash-pit, whither
they consign dust and stones, never asking whether they may not be
gold-dust and rubies, all in a heap.--You had better begin to think about
getting out, Connie."

"Think about it, papa! I have been thinking about it ever since daylight."

"I will go and see what your mother is doing then, and if she is ready to
go out with us."

In a few moments all was arranged. Without killing more than a snail or
two, which we could not take time to beware of, Walter and I--finding that
the window did not open down to the ground in French fashion, for which
there were two good reasons, one the fierceness of the winds in winter, the
other, the fact that the means of egress were elsewise provided--lifted the
sofa, Connie and all, out over the window-sill, and then there was only a
little door in the garden-wall to get her through before we found ourselves
upon the down. I think the ascent of this hill was the first experience
I had--a little to my humiliation, nothing to my sorrow--that I was
descending another hill. I had to set down the precious burden rather
oftener before we reached the brow of the cliffs than would have
been necessary ten years before. But this was all right, and the
newly-discovered weakness then was strength to the power which carries me
about on my two legs now. It is all right still. I shall be stronger by and
by.

We carried her high enough for her to see the brilliant waters lying many
feet below her, with the sea-birds of which we had talked winging their
undulating way between heaven and ocean. It is when first you have a chance
of looking a bird in the face on the wing that you know what the marvel of
flight is. There it hangs or rests, which you please, borne up, as far as
eye or any of the senses can witness, by its own will alone. This Connie,
quicker than I in her observation of nature, had already observed. Seated
on the warm grass by her side, while neither talked, but both regarded the
blue spaces, I saw one of those same barb-winged birds rest over my head,
regarding me from above, as if doubtful whether I did not afford some claim
to his theory of treasure-trove. I knew at once that what Connie had been
saying to me just before was true.

She lay silent a long time. I too was silent. At length I spoke.

"Are you longing to be running about amongst the rocks, my Connie?"

"No, papa; not a bit. I don't know how it is, but I don't think I ever
wished much for anything I knew I could not have. I am enjoying everything
more than I can tell you. I wish Wynnie were as happy as I am."

"Why? Do you think she's not happy, my dear?"

"That doesn't want any thinking, papa. You can see that."

"I am afraid you're right, Connie. What do you think is the cause of it?"

"I think it is because she can't wait. She's always going out to meet
things; and then when they're not there waiting for her, she thinks they're
nowhere. But I always think her way is finer than mine. If everybody were
like me, there wouldn't be much done in the world, would there, papa?"

"At all events, my dear, your way is wise for you, and I am glad you do not
judge your sister."

"Judge Wynnie, papa! That would be cool impudence. She's worth ten of me.
Don't you think, papa," she added, after a pause, "that if Mary had said
the smallest word against Martha, as Martha did against Mary, Jesus would
have had a word to say on Martha's side next?"

"Indeed I do, my dear. And I think that did not sit very long without
asking Jesus if she mightn't go and help her sister. There is but one
thing needful--that is, the will of God; and when people love that above
everything, they soon come to see that to everything else there are two
sides, and that only the will of God gives fair play, as we call it, to
both of them."

Another silence followed. Then Connie spoke.

"Is it not strange, papa, that the only thine here that makes me want to
get up to look, is nothing of all the grand things round about me? I am
just lying like the convex mirror in the school-room at home, letting them
all paint themselves in me."

"What is it then that makes you wish to get up and go and see?" I asked
with real curiosity.

"Do you see down there--away across the bay--amongst the rocks at the
other side, a man sitting sketching?"

I looked for some time before I could discover him.

"Your sight is good, Connie: I see the man, but I could not tell what he
was doing."

"Don't you see him lifting his head every now and then for a moment, and
then keeping it down for a longer while?"

"I cannot distinguish that. But then I am shortsighted rather, you know."

"I wonder how you see so many little things that nobody else seems to
notice, then, papa."

"That is because I have trained myself to observe. The degree of power in
the sight is of less consequence than the habit of seeing. But you have not
yet told me what it is that makes you desirous of getting up."

"I want to look over his shoulder, and see what he is doing. Is it not
strange that in the midst of all this plenty of beautifulness, I should
want to rise to look at a few lines and scratches, or smears of colour,
upon a bit of paper?"

"No, my dear; I don't think it is strange. There a new element of interest
is introduced--the human. No doubt there is deep humanity in all this
around us. No doubt all the world, in all its moods, is human, as those for
whose abode and instruction it was made. No doubt, it would be void of both
beauty and significance to our eyes, were it not that it is one crowd of
pictures of the human mind, blended in one living fluctuating whole. But
these meanings are there in solution as it were. The individual is a centre
of crystallisation to this solution. Around him meanings gather, are
separated from other meanings; and if he be an artist, by which I mean true
painter, true poet, or true musician, as the case may be he so isolates and
represents them, that we see them--not what nature shows to us, but what
nature has shown, to him, determined by his nature and choice. With it is
mingled therefore so much of his own individuality, manifested both in this
choice and certain modifications determined by his way of working, that you
have not only a representation of an aspect of nature, as far as that may
be with limited powers and materials, but a revelation of the man's own
mind and nature. Consequently there is a human interest in every true
attempt to reproduce nature, an interest of individuality which does not
belong to nature herself, who is for all and every man. You have just been
saying that you were lying there like a convex mirror reflecting all nature
around you. Every man is such a convex mirror; and his drawing, if he can
make one, is an attempt to show what is in this little mirror of his,
kindled there by the grand world outside. And the human mirrors being all
differently formed, vary infinitely in what they would thus represent of
the same scene. I have been greatly interested in looking alternately over
the shoulders of two artists, both sketching in colour the same, absolutely
the same scene, both trying to represent it with all the truth in their
power. How different, notwithstanding, the two representations came out!"

"I think I understand you, papa. But look a little farther off. Don't you
see over the top of another rock a lady's bonnet. I do believe that's
Wynnie. I know she took her box of water-colours out with her this morning,
just before you came home. Dora went with her."

"Can't you tell by her ribbons, Connie? You seem sharp-sighted enough to
see her face if she would show it. I don't even see the bonnet. If I were
like some people I know, I should feel justified in denying its presence,
attributing the whole to your fancy, and refusing anything to superiority
of vision."

"That wouldn't be like you, papa."

"I hope not; for I have no fancy for being shut up in my own blindness,
when other people offer me their eyes to eke out the defects of my own
with. But here comes mamma at last."

Connie's face brightened as if she had not seen her mother for a fortnight.
My Ethelwyn always brought the home gladness that her name signified with
her. She was a centre of radiating peace.

"Mamma, don't you think that's Wynnie's bonnet over that black rock there,
just beyond where you see that man drawing?"

"You absurd child! How should I know Wynnie's bonnet at this distance?"

"Can't you see the little white feather you gave her out of your wardrobe
just before we left? She put it in this morning before she went out."

"I think I do see something white. But I want you to look out there,
towards what they call the Chapel Rock, at the other end of that long mound
they call the breakwater. You will soon see a boat appear full of the
coast-guard. I saw them going on board just as I left the house to come up
to you. Their officer came down with his sword, and each of the men had a
cutlass. I wonder what it can mean."

We looked. But before the boat made its appearance, Connie cried out--

"Look there! What a big boat that is rowing for the land, away northwards
there!"

I turned my eyes in the direction she indicated, and saw a long boat with
some half-dozen oars, full of men, rowing hard, apparently for some spot on
the shore at a considerable distance to the north of our bay.

"Ah!" I said, "that boat has something to do with the coast-guard and their
cutlasses. You'll see that, as soon as they get out of the bay, they will
row in the same direction."

So it was. Our boat appeared presently from under the concealment of the
heights on which we were, and made at full speed after the other boat.

"Surely they can't be smugglers," I said. "I thought all that was over and
done with."

In the course of another twenty minutes, during which we watched their
progress, both boats had disappeared behind the headland to the northward.
Then, thinking Connie had had nearly enough of the sea air for her first
experience of its influences, I went and fetched Walter, and we carried her
back as we had brought her. She had not been in the shadow of her own room
for five minutes before she was fast asleep.

It was now nearly time for our early dinner. We always dined early when we
could, that we might eat along with our children. We were both convinced
that the only way to make them behave like ladies and gentlemen was to have
them always with us at meals. We had seen very unpleasant results in the
children of those who allowed them to dine with no other supervision than
the nursery afforded: they were a constant anxiety and occasional horror
to those whom they visited--snatching like monkeys, and devouring like
jackals, as selfishly as if they were mere animals.

"O! we've seen such a nice gentleman!" said Dora, becoming lively under the
influence of her soup.

"Have you, Dora? Where?"

"Sitting on the rocks, taking a portrait of the sea."

"What makes you say he was a nice gentleman?"

"He had such beautiful boots!" answered Dora, at which there was a great
laugh about the table.

"O! we must run and tell Connie that," said Harry. "It will make her
laugh."

"What will you tell Connie, then, Harry?"

"O! what was it, Charlie? I've forgotten."

Another laugh followed at Harry's expense now, and we were all very merry,
when Dora, who sat opposite to the window, called out, clapping her hands--

"There's Niceboots again! There's Niceboots again!"

The same moment the head of a young man appeared over the wall that
separated the garden from the little beach that lay by the entrance of the
canal. I saw at once that he must be more than ordinarily tall to show his
face, for he was not close to the wall. It was a dark countenance, with
a long beard, which few at that time wore, though now it is getting not
uncommon, even in my own profession--a noble, handsome face, a little sad,
with downbent eyes, which, released from their more immediate duty towards
nature, had now bent themselves upon the earth.

"Counting the dewy pebbles, fixed in thought."

"I suppose he's contemplating his boots," said Wynnie, with apparent
maliciousness.

"That's too bad of you, Wynnie," I said, and the child blushed.

"I didn't mean anything, papa. It was only following up Dora's wise
discrimination," said Wynnie.

"He is a fine-looking fellow," said I, "and ought, with that face and head,
to be able to paint good pictures."

"I should like to see what he has done," said Wynnie; "for, by the way we
were sitting, I should think we were attempting the same thing."

"And what was that then, Wynnie?" I asked.

"A rock," she answered, "that you could not see from where you were
sitting. I saw you on the top of the cliff."

"Connie said it was you, by your bonnet. She, too, was wishing she could
look over the shoulder of the artist at work beside you."

"Not beside me. There were yards and yards of solid rock between us."

"Space, you see, in removing things from the beholder, seems always to
bring them nearer to each other, and the most differing things are classed
under one name by the man who knows nothing about them. But what sort of a
rock was it you were trying to draw?"

"A strange-looking, conical rock, that stands alone in front of one of the
ridges that project from the shore into the water. Three sea-birds, with
long white wings, were flying about it, and the little waves of the rising
tide were beating themselves against it and breaking in white plashes. So
the rock stood between the blue and white below and the blue and white
above; for, though there were no clouds, the birds gave the touches of
white to the upper sea."

"Now, Dora," I said, "I don't know if you are old enough to understand me;
but sometimes little people are long in understanding, just because the
older people think they can't, and don't try them.--Do you see, Dora, why I
want you to learn to draw? Look how Wynnie sees things. That is, in a great
measure, because she draws things, and has, by that, learned to watch in
order to find out. It is a great thing to have your eyes open."

Dora's eyes were large, and she opened them to their full width, as if she
would take in the universe at their little doors. Whether that indicated
that she did not in the least understand what I had been saying, or that
she was in sympathy with it, I cannot tell.

"Now let us go up to Connie, and tell her about the rock and everything
else you have seen since you went out. We are all her messengers sent out
to discover things, and bring back news of them."

After a little talk with Connie, I retired to the study, which was on the
same floor as her room completing, indeed, the whole of that part of the
house, which, seen from without, looked like a separate building; for it
had a roof of its own, and stood higher up the rock than the rest of the
dwelling. Here I began to glance over the books. To have the run of another
man's library, especially if it has all been gathered by himself, is like
having a pass-key into the chambers of his thought. Only, one must be wary,
when he opens them, what marks on the books he takes for those of the
present owner. A mistake here would breed considerable confusion and
falsehood in any judgment formed from the library. I found, however, one
thing plain enough, that Shepherd had kept up that love for an older
English literature, which had been one of the cords to draw us towards each
other when we were students together. There had been one point on which we
especially agreed--that a true knowledge of the present, in literature, as
in everything else, could only be founded upon a knowledge of what had gone
before; therefore, that any judgment, in regard to the literature of the
present day, was of no value which was not guided and influenced by a real
acquaintance with the best of what had gone before, being liable to be
dazzled and misled by novelty of form and other qualities which, whatever
might be the real worth of the substance, were, in themselves, purely
ephemeral. I had taken down a last-century edition of the poems of the
brothers Fletcher, and, having begun to read a lovely passage in "Christ's
Victory and Triumph," had gone into what I can only call an intellectual
rage, at the impudence of the editor, who had altered innumerable words and
phrases to suit the degenerate taste of his own time,--when a knock came to
the door, and Charlie entered, breathless with eagerness.

"There's the boat with the men with the swords in it, and another boat
behind them, twice as big."

I hurried out upon the road, and there, close under our windows, were the
two boats we had seen in the morning, landing their crews on the little
beach. The second boat was full of weather-beaten men, in all kinds of
attire, some in blue jerseys, some in red shirts, some in ragged coats. One
man, who looked their superior, was dressed in blue from head to foot.

"What's the matter?" I asked the officer of the coast-guard, a sedate,
thoughtful-looking man.

"Vessel foundered, sir," he answered. "Sprung a leak on Sunday morning. She
was laden with iron, and in a heavy ground swell it shifted and knocked a
hole in her. The poor fellows are worn out with the pump and rowing, upon
little or nothing to eat."

They were trooping past us by this time, looking rather dismal, though not
by any means abject.

"What are you going to do with them now?"

"They'll be taken in by the people. We'll get up a little subscription for
them, but they all belong to the society the sailors have for sending the
shipwrecked to their homes, or where they want to go."

"Well, here's something to help," I said.

"Thank you, sir. They'll be very glad of it."

"And if there's anything wanted that I can do for them, you must let me
know."

"I will, sir. But I don't think there will be any occasion to trouble you.
You are our new clergyman, I believe."

"Not exactly that. Only for a little while, till my friend Mr. Shepherd is
able to come back to you."

"We don't want to lose Mr. Shepherd, sir. He's what they call high in these
parts, but he's a great favourite with all the poor people, because you
see he understands them as if he was of the same flesh and blood with
themselves--as, for that matter, I suppose we all are."

"If we weren't there would be nothing to say at all. Will any of these men
be at church to-morrow, do you suppose? I am afraid sailors are not much in
the way of going to church?"

"I am afraid not. You see they are all anxious to get home. Most likely
they'll be all travelling to-morrow. It's a pity. It would be a good chance
for saying something to them that they might think of again. But I often
think that, perhaps--it's only my own fancy, and I don't set it up for
anything--that sailors won't be judged exactly like other people. They're
so knocked about, you see, sir."

"Of course not. Nobody will be judged like any other body. To his own
Master, who knows all about him, every man stands or falls. Depend upon it,
God likes fair play, to use a homely phrase, far better than any sailor of
them all. But that's not exactly the question. It seems to me the question
is this: shall we, who know what a blessed thing life is because we know
what God is like, who can trust in him with all our hearts because he is
the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the friend of sinners, shall we not
try all we can to let them, too, know the blessedness of trusting in their
Father in heaven? If we could only get them to say the Lord's prayer,
_meaning_ it, think what that would be! Look here! This can't be called
bribery, for they are in want of it, and it will show them I am friendly.
Here's another sovereign. Give them my compliments, and say that if any
of them happen to be in Kilkhaven tomorrow, I shall be quite pleased to
welcome them to church. Tell them I will give them of my best there if they
will come. Make the invitation merrily, you know. No long faces and solemn
speech. I will give them the solemn speech when they come to church. But
even there I hope God will keep the long face far from me. That is fittest
for fear and suffering. And the house of God is the casket that holds the
antidote against all fear and most suffering. But I am preaching my sermon
on Saturday instead of Sunday, and keeping you from your ministration to
the poor fellows. Good-bye."

"I will give them your message as near as I can," he said, and we shook
hands and parted.

This was the first experience we had of the might and battle of the ocean.
To our eyes it lay quiet as a baby asleep. On that Sunday morning there had
been no commotion here. Yet now at last, on the Saturday morning, home come
the conquered and spoiled of the sea. As if with a mock she takes all they
have, and flings them on shore again, with her weeds, and her shells, and
her sand. Before the winter was over we had learned--how much more of that
awful power that surrounds the habitable earth! By slow degrees the sense
of its might grew upon us, first by the vision of its many aspects and
moods, and then by more awful things that followed; for there are few
coasts upon which the sea rages so wildly as upon this, the whole force of
the Atlantic breaking upon it. Even when there is no storm within perhaps
hundreds of miles, when all is still as a church on the land, the storm
that raves somewhere out upon the vast waste, will drive the waves in
upon the shore with such fury that not even a lifeboat could make its way
through their yawning hollows, and their fierce, shattered, and tumbling
crests.


CHAPTER XVII.

MY FIRST SERMON IN THE SEABOARD PARISH.


In the hope that some of the shipwrecked mariners might be present in the
church the next day, I proceeded to consider my morning's sermon for the
occasion. There was no difficulty in taking care at the same time that it
should be suitable to the congregation, whether those sailors were there or
not. I turned over in my mind several subjects. I thought, for instance,
of showing them how this ocean that lay watchful and ready all about our
island, all about the earth, was but a visible type or symbol of two other
oceans, one very still, the other very awful and fierce; in fact, that
three oceans surrounded us: one of the known world; one of the unseen
world, that is, of death; one of the spirit--the devouring ocean of
evil--and might I not have added yet another, encompassing and silencing
all the rest--that of truth! The visible ocean seemed to make war upon the
land, and the dwellers thereon. Restrained by the will of God and by him
made subject more and more to the advancing knowledge of those who were
created to rule over it, it was yet like a half-tamed beast ever ready to
break loose and devour its masters. Of course this would have been but one
aspect or appearance of it--for it was in truth all service; but this was
the aspect I knew it must bear to those, seafaring themselves or not, to
whom I had to speak. Then I thought I might show, that its power, like that
of all things that man is ready to fear, had one barrier over which no
commotion, no might of driving wind, could carry it, beyond which its
loudest waves were dumb--the barrier of death. Hitherto and no further
could its power reach. It could kill the body. It could dash in pieces the
last little cock-boat to which the man clung, but thus it swept the man
beyond its own region into the second sea of stillness, which we call
death, out upon which the thoughts of those that are left behind can follow
him only in great longings, vague conjectures, and mighty faith. Then I
thought I could show them how, raving in fear, or lying still in calm
deceit, there lay about the life of man a far more fearful ocean than that
which threatened his body; for this would cast, could it but get a hold of
him, both body and soul into hell--the sea of evil, of vice, of sin, of
wrong-doing--they might call it by what name they pleased. This made war
against the very essence of life, against God who is the truth, against
love, against fairness, against fatherhood, motherhood, sisterhood,
brotherhood, manhood, womanhood, against tenderness and grace and beauty,
gathering into one pulp of festering death all that is noble, lovely,
worshipful in the human nature made so divine that the one fearless man,
the Lord Jesus Christ, shared it with us. This, I thought I might make them
understand, was the only terrible sea, the only hopeless ocean from whose
awful shore we must shrink and flee, the end of every voyage upon whose
bosom was the bottom of its filthy waters, beyond the reach of all that is
thought or spoken in the light, beyond life itself, but for the hand that
reaches down from the upper ocean of truth, the hand of the Redeemer of
men. I thought, I say, for a while, that I could make this, not definite,
but very real to them. But I did not feel quite confident about it. Might
they not in the symbolism forget the thing symbolised? And would not the
symbol itself be ready to fade quite from their memory, or to return
only in the vaguest shadow? And with the thought I perceived a far more
excellent way. For the power of the truth lies of course in its revelation
to the mind, and while for this there are a thousand means, none are so
mighty as its embodiment in human beings and human life. There it is itself
alive and active. And amongst these, what embodiment comes near to that in
him who was perfect man in virtue of being at the root of the secret of
humanity, in virtue of being the eternal Son of God? We are his sons in
time: he is his Son in eternity, of whose sea time is but the broken
sparkle. Therefore, I would talk to them about--but I will treat my reader
now as if he were not my reader, but one of my congregation on that bright
Sunday, my first in the Seaboard Parish, with the sea outside the church,
flashing in the sunlight.

While I stood at the lectern, which was in front of the altar-screen, I
could see little of my congregation, partly from my being on a level with
them, partly from the necessity for keeping my eyes and thoughts upon that
which I read. When, however, I rose from prayer in the pulpit; then I felt,
as usual with me, that I was personally present for personal influence with
my people, and then I saw, to my great pleasure, that one long bench nearly
in the middle of the church was full of such sunburnt men as could not be
mistaken for any but mariners, even if their torn and worn garments had
not revealed that they must be the very men about whom we had been so much
interested. Not only were they behaving with perfect decorum, but their
rough faces wore an aspect of solemnity which I do not suppose was by any
means their usual aspect.

I gave them no text. I had one myself, which was the necessary thing. They
should have it by and by.

"Once upon a time," I said, "a man went up a mountain, and stayed there
till it was dark, and stayed on. Now, a man who finds himself on a mountain
as the sun is going down, especially if he is alone, makes haste to get
down before it is dark. But this man went up when the sun was going down,
and, as I say, continued there for a good long while after it was dark. You
will want to know why. I will tell you. He wished to be alone. He hadn't a
house of his own. He never had all the time he lived. He hadn't even a room
of his own into which he could go, and bolt the door of it. True, he had
kind friends, who gave him a bed: but they were all poor people, and their
houses were small, and very likely they had large families, and he could
not always find a quiet place to go into. And I dare say, if he had had a
room, he would have been a little troubled with the children constantly
coming to find him; for however much he loved them--and no man was ever so
fond of children as he was--he needed to be left quiet sometimes. So, upon
this occasion, he went up the mountain just to be quiet. He had been all
day with a crowd of people, and he felt that it was time to be alone. For
he had been talking with men all day, which tires and sometimes confuses a
man's thoughts, and now he wanted to talk with God--for that makes a man
strong, and puts all the confusion in order again, and lets a man know
what he is about. So he went to the top of the hill. That was his secret
chamber. It had no door; but that did not matter--no one could see him
but God. There he stayed for hours--sometimes, I suppose, kneeling in his
prayer to God; sometimes sitting, tired with his own thinking, on a stone;
sometimes walking about, looking forward to what would come next--not
anxious about it, but contemplating it. For just before he came up here,
some of the people who had been with him wanted to make him a king; and
this would not do--this was not what God wanted of him, and therefore he
got rid of them, and came up here to talk to God. It was so quiet up here!
The earth had almost vanished. He could see just the bare hilltop beneath
him, a glimmer below, and the sky and the stars over his head. The people
had all gone away to their own homes, and perhaps next day would hardly
think about him at all, busy catching fish, or digging their gardens, or
making things for their houses. But he knew that God would not forget him
the next day any more than this day, and that God had sent him not to be
the king that these people wanted him to be, but their servant. So, to make
his heart strong, I say, he went up into the mountain alone to have a talk
with his Father. How quiet it all was up here, I say, and how noisy it had
been down there a little while ago! But God had been in the noise then as
much as he was in the quiet now--the only difference being that he could
not then be alone with him. I need not tell you who this man was--it was
the king of men, the servant of men, the Lord Jesus Christ, the everlasting
son of our Father in heaven.

"Now this mountain on which he was praying had a small lake at the foot of
it--that is, about thirteen miles long, and five miles broad. Not wanting
even his usual companions to be with him this evening--partly, I presume,
because they were of the same mind as those who desired to take him by
force and make him a king--he had sent them away in their boat, to go
across this water to the other side, where were their homes and their
families. Now, it was not pitch dark either on the mountain-top or on the
water down below; yet I doubt if any other man than he would have been
keen-eyed enough to discover that little boat down in the middle of the
lake, much distressed by the west wind that blew right in their teeth. But
he loved every man in it so much, that I think even as he was talking
to his Father, his eyes would now and then go looking for and finding
it--watching it on its way across to the other side. You must remember that
it was a little boat; and there are often tremendous storms upon these
small lakes with great mountains about them. For the wind will come all
at once, rushing down through the clefts in as sudden a squall as ever
overtook a sailor at sea. And then, you know, there is no sea-room. If
the wind get the better of them, they are on the shore in a few minutes,
whichever way the wind may blow. He saw them worn out at the oar, toiling
in rowing, for the wind was contrary unto them. So the time for loneliness
and prayer was over, and the time to go down out of his secret chamber and
help his brethren was come. He did not need to turn and say good-bye to
his Father, as if he dwelt on that mountain-top alone: his Father was down
there on the lake as well. He went straight down. Could not his Father, if
he too was down on the lake, help them without him? Yes. But he wanted him
to do it, that they might see that he did it. Otherwise they would only
have thought that the wind fell and the waves lay down, without supposing
for a moment that their Master or his Father had had anything to do with
it. They would have done just as people do now-a-days: they think that the
help comes of itself, instead of by the will of him who determined from the
first that men should be helped. So the Master went down the hill. When he
reached the border of the lake, the wind being from the other side, he must
have found the waves breaking furiously upon the rocks. But that made no
difference to him. He looked out as he stood alone on the edge amidst the
rushing wind and the noise of the water, out over the waves under the
clear, starry sky, saw where the tiny boat was tossed about like a
nutshell, and set out."

The mariners had been staring at me up to this point, leaning forward on
their benches, for sailors are nearly as fond of a good yarn as they are of
tobacco; and I heard afterwards that they had voted parson's yarn a good
one. Now, however, I saw one of them, probably more ignorant than the
others, cast a questioning glance at his neighbour. It was not returned,
and he fell again into a listening attitude. He had no idea of what was
coming. He probably thought parson had forgotten to say how Jesus had come
by a boat.

"The companions of our Lord had not been willing to go away and leave him
behind. Now, I dare say, they wished more than ever that he had been with
them--not that they thought he could do anything with a storm, only that
somehow they would have been less afraid with his face to look at. They had
seen him cure men of dreadful diseases; they had seen him turn water into
wine--some of them; they had seen him feed five thousand people the day
before with five loaves and two small fishes; but had one of their number
suggested that if he had been with them, they would have been safe from the
storm, they would not have talked any nonsense about the laws of nature,
not having learned that kind of nonsense, but they would have said that was
quite a different thing--altogether too much to expect or believe: _nobody_
could make the wind mind what it was about, or keep the water from
drowning you if you fell into it and couldn't swim; or such-like.

"At length, when they were nearly worn out, taking feebler and feebler
strokes, sometimes missing the water altogether, at other times burying
their oars in it up to the handles--as they rose on the crest of a huge
wave, one of them gave a cry, and they all stopped rowing and stared,
leaning forward to peer through the darkness. And through the spray which
the wind tore from the tops of the waves and scattered before it like dust,
they saw, perhaps a hundred yards or so from the boat, something standing
up from the surface of the water. It seemed to move towards them. It was a
shape like a man. They all cried out with fear, as was natural, for they
thought it must be a ghost."

How the faces of the sailors strained towards me at this part of the story!
I was afraid one of them especially was on the point of getting up to
speak, as we have heard of sailors doing in church. I went on.

"But then, over the noise of the wind and the waters came the voice they
knew so well. It said, 'Be of good cheer: it is I. Be not afraid.' I should
think, between wonder and gladness, they hardly knew for some moments where
they were or what they were about. Peter was the first to recover himself
apparently. In the first flush of his delight he felt strong and full of
courage. 'Lord, if it be thou,' he said, 'bid me come unto thee on the
water.' Jesus just said, 'Come;' and Peter unshipped his oar, and scrambled
over the gunwale on to the sea. But when he let go his hold of the boat,
and began to look about him, and saw how the wind was tearing the water,
and how it tossed and raved between him and Jesus, he began to be afraid.
And as soon as he began to be afraid he began to sink; but he had,
notwithstanding his fear, just sense enough to do the one sensible thing;
he cried out, 'Lord, save me.' And Jesus put out his hand, and took hold of
him, and lifted him up out of the water, and said to him, 'O thou of little
faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? And then they got into the boat, and the
wind fell all at once, and altogether.

"Now, you will not think that Peter was a coward, will you? It wasn't that
he hadn't courage, but that he hadn't enough of it. And why was it that he
hadn't enough of it? Because he hadn't faith enough. Peter was always very
easily impressed with the look of things. It wasn't at all likely that
a man should be able to walk on the water; and yet Peter found himself
standing on the water: you would have thought that when once he found
himself standing on the water, he need not be afraid of the wind and the
waves that lay between him and Jesus. But they looked so ugly that the
fearfulness of them took hold of his heart, and his courage went. You would
have thought that the greatest trial of his courage was over when he got
out of the boat, and that there was comparatively little more ahead of him.
Yet the sight of the waves and the blast of the boisterous wind were too
much for him. I will tell you how I fancy it was; and I think there are
several instances of the same kind of thing in Peter's life. When he got
out of the boat, and found himself standing on the water, he began to think
much of himself for being able to do so, and fancy himself better and
greater than his companions, and an especial favourite of God above them.
Now, there is nothing that kills faith sooner than pride. The two are
directly against each other. The moment that Peter grew proud, and began
to think about himself instead of about his Master, he began to lose his
faith, and then he grew afraid, and then he began to sink--and that brought
him to his senses. Then he forgot himself and remembered his Master, and
then the hand of the Lord caught him, and the voice of the Lord gently
rebuked him for the smallness of his faith, asking, 'Wherefore didst thou
doubt?' I wonder if Peter was able to read his own heart sufficiently well
to answer that _wherefore_. I do not think it likely at this period of his
history. But God has immeasurable patience, and before he had done teaching
Peter, even in this life, he had made him know quite well that pride and
conceit were at the root of all his failures. Jesus did not point it out to
him now. Faith was the only thing that would reveal that to him, as well as
cure him of it; and was, therefore, the only thing he required of him in
his rebuke. I suspect Peter was helped back into the boat by the eager
hands of his companions already in a humbler state of mind than when he
left it; but before his pride would be quite overcome, it would need that
same voice of loving-kindness to call him Satan, and the voice of the cock
to bring to his mind his loud boast, and his sneaking denial; nay, even the
voice of one who had never seen the Lord till after his death, but was yet
a readier disciple than he--the voice of St. Paul, to rebuke him because he
dissembled, and was not downright honest. But at the last even he gained
the crown of martyrdom, enduring all extremes, nailed to the cross like
his Master, rather than deny his name. This should teach us to distrust
ourselves, and yet have great hope for ourselves, and endless patience with
other people. But to return to the story and what the story itself teaches
us.

"If the disciples had known that Jesus saw them from the top of the
mountain, and was watching them all the time, would they have been
frightened at the storm, as I have little doubt they were, for they were
only fresh-water fishermen, you know? Well, to answer my own question"--I
went on in haste, for I saw one or two of the sailors with an audible
answer hovering on their lips--"I don't know that, as they then were, it
would have made so much difference to them; for none of them had risen much
above the look of the things nearest them yet. But supposing you, who know
something about him, were alone on the sea, and expecting your boat to be
swamped every moment--if you found out all at once, that he was looking
down at you from some lofty hilltop, and seeing all round about you in time
and space too, would you be afraid? He might mean you to go to the bottom,
you know. Would you mind going to the bottom with him looking at you? I do
not think I should mind it myself. But I must take care lest I be boastful
like Peter.

"Why should we be afraid of anything with him looking at us who is the
Saviour of men? But we are afraid of him instead, because we do not believe
that he is what he says he is--the Saviour of men. We do not believe what
he offers us is salvation. We think it is slavery, and therefore continue
slaves. Friends, I will speak to you who think you do believe in him. I am
not going to say that you do not believe in him; but I hope I am going to
make you say to yourselves that you too deserve to have those words of the
Saviour spoken to you that were spoken to Peter, 'O ye of little faith!'
Floating on the sea of your troubles, all kinds of fears and anxieties
assailing you, is He not on the mountain-top? Sees he not the little boat
of your fortunes tossed with the waves and the contrary wind? Assuredly he
will come to you walking on the waters. It may not be in the way you wish,
but if not, you will say at last, 'This is better.' It may be that he will
come in a form that will make you cry out for fear in the weakness of your
faith, as the disciples cried out--not believing any more than they did,
that it can be he. But will not each of you arouse his courage that to you
also he may say, as to the woman with the sick daughter whose confidence he
so sorely tried, 'Great is thy faith'? Will you not rouse yourself, I say,
that you may do him justice, and cast off the slavery of your own dread?
O ye of little faith, wherefore will ye doubt? Do not think that the Lord
sees and will not come. Down the mountain assuredly he will come, and you
are now as safe in your troubles as the disciples were in theirs with Jesus
looking on. They did not know it, but it was so: the Lord was watching
them. Because he is otherwise lost for certain, and here is a chance:
it is perhaps better than nothing. But he does not go forward with any
conviction of duty:
what is he thinking but of his chance of running away?"

"And perhaps running away beforehand, for example?"
"Oh no, your Excellency; at least, that has been provided for. Caprone
and the brother of Caprone will wait upon him until the thing is
over; and what is more, he will receive a hint that these two humble
attendants of his are keeping an eye on him."
"Caprone dare not go to Rome."

"He is ready to go anywhere. They might as well try to lay hands on a
ghost."
Von Zoesch rose, and stretched his huge frame, and yawned.

"So this is the end of the episode Lind," he said, idly. "It is a pity.

But if a man plays a risky game and loses, he must pay. Perhaps the
warning will be wholesome, Granaglia. Our friends must understand that
our laws are not laid down for nothing, and that we are not afraid to punish
offenders, even if these be among ourselves. I suppose there is nothing
further to be done to-night?"
"I would ask your Excellency to remain here for a little time yet," said
the Secretary.

"Are they coming so near? We must get Calabressa to procure some of them
a dozen or two on board the schooner. However--"

He sat down again, and lit another cigar.

"We must pay Calabressa a compliment, Granaglia; it was well
done--very clever; it has all turned out just as he imagined; it
is not the first time he has done us good service, with all his
volubility.

Oh yes; the rascal knows when to hold his tongue.

At this moment, for example, he refuses to open his lips.

"Pardon, your Excellency; but I do not understand you."

   The general laughed a little,
  and continued
 talking--it was one
  way of passing the
   time.
  
 "It is a good joke
enough. The wily
  old Calabressa saw
   pretty clearly
  what the decision of the
 Council would be, and
so he comes to me and entreats me to be the bearer of the news to
Madame Lind and her daughter.

Oh yes; it is good news, this deliverance of the Englishman; Madame
Lind is an old friend of mine; she and her daughter will be grateful.

But you perceive, Granaglia, that what the cunning old dog was
determined to avoid was the reporting to Madame Lind that her husband
had been sentenced.

That was no part of the original programme. And now Calabressa holds his
mouth shut; he keeps out of the way; it is left for me to go and
inform the mother and daughter."

His voice became more serious.

"The devil take it, it is no pleasant task at all! One is never sure how the
brain of a woman will work; you start the engine, but it may plunge back
the wrong way and strike you. Calabressa is afraid. The fox is hiding in
some hole until it is all over."
"Cannot I be of some service, your Excellency?" the Secretary said.

"No, no; but I thank you, friend Granaglia. It is a delicate matter; it
must be approached with circumspection; and I as an old acquaintance
of Madame Lind, ought not to shirk the duty."

Apparently, it was not Calabressa only who had some dread of the
difficulties of news-bearer.

"It is impossible for your Excellency to go near the hotel at present,"
said the Secretary, promptly.

But his chief refused to accept this offered means of escape.

"That is true, but it is not a difficulty. To-night, friend Granaglia,
you will send a message to the hotel, bidding them be at the Villa Odelschalchi
to-morrow morning at eleven--you understand?"

"Certainly, your Excellency."

"Then I will meet them, and take the risk.

Everything must be settled off at once: we have wasted too much
time over this affair, Granaglia.

When does the Genoa Council meet?"
"On the Seventh."
"To-morrow you must issue the summonses. Come, Granaglia, let us be stirring;
it is cold. Where does Brother Conventz sleep to-night?"
"On board the schooner, your Excellency."
"I also. To-morrow, at eleven, you will be at Portici; to-night
you will send the message to the ladies at the hotel; and also, if you
can, find out where that rogue Calabressa is hiding."
That was the last of their talking.

There was some locking up inside; then they passed down through the dark
garden and out into the road.
There was no one visible.

They walked on in silence.

Punctually at eleven the next morning Natalie and her mother appeared at
the iron gates of the Villa Odelschalchi and rang the bell. The porter
appeared, admitted them, and then turned to the great white
staircase, which Granaglia was at that moment seen to be descending.

"Will the ladies have the goodness to step into the garden?" said the Secretary,
with grave courtesy. "General von Zoesch will be with them directly."
He accompanied them as far as the top of the terrace, and then bowed
and withdrew.

If Natalie Lind was agitated now, it was not with fear.

There was a fresh animation of color in her cheek; her eyes were brilliant
and excited; she spoke in low, eager whispers.

"Oh, I know what he is coming to tell us, mother--you need not be afraid:
I shall see it in his face before he comes near--I think I shall be able
to hear it in the sound of his steps. Have courage, mother! why do you
tremble so? Remember what Calabressa said.

They are so powerful they can do everything; and you and the General von
Zoesch old friends, too. Look at this, mother: do you see what I have brought
with me?"

She opened her purse--her fingers were certainly a little nervous--and
showed her mother a folded-up telegraph form.

"I am going to telegraph to him, mother: surely it is from me he should hear
the news first. And then he might come here, mother, to go back with us:
you will rest a few days after so much anxiety."
"I hope, my darling, it will all turn out well," said the mother, turning
quickly as she heard footsteps.

The next second Von Zoesch appeared, his face red with embarrassment; but
still Natalie with her first swift glance saw that his eyes were smiling and
friendly, and her heart leaped up with a bound.

"My dear young lady," said he, taking her hand, "forgive me for making
such a peremptory appointment--"
"But you bring good news'?" she said, breathlessly. "Oh, sir, I can see
that you have succeeded--yes, yes--the danger is removed--you have saved
him!"
"My dear young lady," said he smiling, but still greatly embarrassed,
"it is my good fortune to be able to congratulate you. Ah, I thought
that would bring some brightness to your eyes--"
She raised his hand, and kissed it twice passionately.

"Mother," she said, in a wild, joyful way, "will you not thank him for me? I
do not know what I am saying--and then--"
The general had turned to her mother. Natalie quickly took out the
telegraph-form, unfolded it, knelt down and put it on the garden-seat,
and with trembling fingers wrote her message: "_You are saved! Come to
us at once; my mother and I wait here for you;_" that was the substance
of it.

Then she rose, and for a second or two stood irresolute, silent,
and shamefaced.

Happily no one had noticed her. These two had gone forward, and were talking
together in a low voice. She did not join them; she could not have spoken
then, her heart was throbbing so violently with its newly-found joy.

"Stefan," said the mother--and there was a pleasant light in her sad eyes
too--"I shall never forget the gratitude we owe you.

I have nothing else to regard now but my child's happiness. You have
saved her life to her."
"Yes, yes," he said, in stammering haste, "I am glad the child is happy.
It would be a pity, at her time of life, and such a beautiful, brave
young lady--yes, it would be a pity if she were to suffer: I am
very glad.

But there is another side to the question, Natalie; it refers to you. I have
not such good news for you--that is, it depends on how you take it; but
it is not good news--it will trouble you--only, it was inevitable--"
"What do you mean?" she said, calmly.

"Your husband," he said, regarding her somewhat anxiously.

"Yes," she said, without betraying any emotion.

"Well, you understand, we had not the power to release your English friend
unless there had been injustice--or worse--in his being appointed. There
was. More than that, it was very nearly a repetition of the old story. Your
husband was again implicated."
She merely looked at him, waiting for him to continue.

"And the Council," he said, more embarrassed than ever, "had to try him
for his complicity. He was tried and--condemned."
"To what?" she said, quite calmly.

"You must know, Natalie. He loses his life!"
She turned very pale.

"It was not so before," she managed to say, though her breath came and went
quickly.

"It was; but then he was pardoned. This time there is no hope."

She stood silent for a second or two; then she said, regarding him with a
sad look,

"You think me heartless, Stefan. You think I ought to be overwhelmed with
grief.

But--but I have been kept from my child for seventeen years.
I have lived with the threat of the betrayal of my father hanging
over me.

The affection of a wife cannot endure everything. Still, I am--sorry--"

Her eyes were cast down, and they slowly filled with tears.

Von Zoesch breathed more freely. He was eagerly explaining to her how this
result had become inevitable--how he himself had had no participation
in it, and so forth--when Natalie Lind stepped quickly up to them,
looking from the one to the other.

She saw something was wrong.

"Mother, what is it?" she said, in vague fear. She turned to Von Zoesch.
"Oh, sir, if there is something you have not told me--if there is
trouble--why was it not to me that you spoke?"
She took hold of her mother's hand.

"Mother, what is it?"
"My dear young lady," said Von Zoesch, interposing, "you know that life is
made up of both bitter and sweet--"
"I wish to know, signore," she said, proudly, "what it is you have told my
mother. If there is trouble, it is for her daughter to share it."
"Well, then, dear young lady, I will tell you," he said, "though it will
grieve you also. I must explain to you. You cannot suppose that the happy
news I deliver to you was the result of the will of any one man, or number
of men. No. It was the result of the application of law and justice.
Your--sweetheart, shall I call him?--was intrusted with a grave duty, which
would most probably have cost him his life. In the ordinary way, no one
could have released him from it, however much certain friends of yours here
might have been interested in you, and grieved to see you unhappy.
But there was this possibility--it was even a probability--that
he had been selected for this service unfairly. Then, no doubt, if that
could be proved, he ought to be released."
"Yes, yes," she said, impatiently.

"That was proved. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that among those
convicted of this conspiracy was your father. Well, the laws of our
association are strict--they are even terrible where a delinquent is in
a position of high responsibility. My dear young lady, I must tell you the
truth: your father has been adjudged guilty--and--and the punishment
is--death!"
She uttered a quick, short cry of alarm, and turned with frightened
eyes to her mother.

"Mother, is it true? is it true?"
The mother did not answer; she had clasped her trembling hands. Then the
girl turned; there was a proud passion in her voice.

"Oh, sir, what tiger is there among you that is so athirst for blood?

You save one man's life--after intercession and prayer you save one man's
life--only to seize on that of another.

And it is to me--it is to me, his daughter--that you come with congratulations!
I am only a child; I am to be pleased: you speak of a sweetheart; but you
do not tell me that you are about to murder my father! You give me my
lover; in exchange you take my father's life. Is there a woman in all
the world so despicable as to accept her happiness at such a cost?"
Involuntarily she crushed up the telegram she held in her hand and threw it
away from her.

"It is not I, at all events," she exclaimed. "Oh, signore, you
should not have mocked me with your congratulations. That is not the
happiness you should offer to a daughter. But you have not killed him
yet--there is time; let things be as they were; that is what my sweetheart,
as you call him, will say; he and I are not afraid to suffer. Surely,
rather that, than that he should marry a girl so heartless and cowardly
as to purchase her happiness at the cost of her father's life?"
"My dear young lady," he said, with a great pity and concern in his face,
"I can assure you what you think of is impossible. What is done cannot be
undone."
Her proud indignation now gave way to terror.

"Oh no, signore, you cannot mean that! I cannot believe it! You have saved
one man--oh, signore, for the love of Heaven, this other also!
Have pity! How can I live, if I know that I have killed my father?"
He took both her hands in his, and strove to soothe down her wild
terror and dismay.

He declared to her she had nothing to do with it, no more than
himself; that her father had been tried by his colleagues; that if
he had not been, a fearful act of treachery would have been
committed.

She listened, or appeared to listen; but her lips were pale; her eyes had a
strange look in them; she was breathless.

"Calabressa said they were all-powerful," she interrupted suddenly.

"But are they all-powerful to slay only? Oh no, I cannot believe it! I
will go to them; it cannot be too late; I will say to them that I would
rather have died than appealed to them if I had known that this was to be
the terrible result. And Calabressa--why did he not warn me? Or is he
one of the blood-thirsty ones also--one of the tigers that crouch in
the dark? Oh, signore, if they are all-powerful, they are all-powerful
to pardon. May I not go to themselves?"
"It would be useless, my dear signorina," said Von Zoesch, with
deep compassion in his voice.

"I am sorry to grieve you, but justice has been done, and the decision is
past recall. And do not blame poor old Calabressa--"
At this moment the bell of the outer gate rang, echoing through the empty
house, and he started somewhat.

"Come, child," said her mother. "We have taken up too much of your time,
Stefan. I wish there had been no drawback to your good news."
"At the present moment," he said, glancing somewhat anxiously toward the
building, "I cannot ask you to stay, Natalie; but on some other
occasion, and as soon as you please, I will give you any information
you may wish. Remember, you have good friends here."
Natalie suffered herself to be led away. She seemed too horror-stricken
to be able to speak. Von Zoesch accompanied them only to the terrace,
and there bade them good-bye. Granaglia was waiting to show them to the
gate. A few moments afterward they were in their carriage, returning
to Naples.

They sat silent for some time, the mother regarding her daughter
anxiously.

"Natalushka, what are you thinking of?"
The girl started: her eyes were filled with a haunting fear, as if she had
just seen some terrible thing. And yet she spoke slowly and sadly and
wistfully.

"I was thinking, mother, that perhaps it was not so hard to be condemned to
die; for then there would come an end to one's suffering. And I was wondering
whether there had been many women in the world who had to accuse themselves
of taking a part in bringing about their own father's death. Oh, I hope
not--I hope not!"
A second afterward she added, with more than the bitterness of tears in her
trembling voice, "And--and I was thinking of General von Zoesch's
congratulations, mother."

CHAPTER LVI.

A COMMISSION.

Lord Evelyn obeyed his friend's summons in considerable anxiety, if not even
alarm; for he made no doubt that it had some connection with that mysterious
undertaking to which Brand was pledged; but when he reached Lisle Street,
and was shown into the larger room, no very serious business seemed going
forward. Two or three of the best-known to him among the English members
of the Society were present, grouped round a certain Irish M.P., who,
with twinkling eyes but otherwise grave face, was describing the makeshifts
of some provincial manager or other who could not pay his company
their weekly salary.

To the further surprise of the new-comer, also, Mr. Lind was absent; his
chair was occupied by Gathorne Edwards.

He was asked to go into an inner room; and there he found Brand, looking
much more like himself than he had done for some time back.

"It is awfully kind of you, Evelyn, to come at once. I heard you had
returned to town yesterday. Well, what of the old people down in
Wiltshire?"

Lord Evelyn was quite thrown off his guard by this frank cheerfulness.

He forgot the uneasy forebodings with which he had left his house.

"Oh, capital old people!" he said, putting his hat and umbrella on the
table--"excellent. But you see, Brand, it becomes a serious question
if I have to bury myself in the country, and drink port-wine after dinner,
and listen to full-blown, full-fed glorious old Tories, every time a sister
of mine gets engaged to be married. And now that Rosalys has begun it,
they'll all take to it, one after the other, like sheep jumping a ditch."

"They say Milbanke is a very nice young fellow," said Brand.

"Petted, a little. But then, an only son, and heaps of money: perhaps
its natural.

I know he is a ghastly hypocrite," added Lord Evelyn, who seemed to have
some little grudge against his brother-in-law in prospect.

"It was too bad of him to go egging on those old megatheria to talk politics
until they were red in the face, denouncing Free-trade, and abusing the
Ballot, and foretelling the ruin of the former as soon as the
Education Act began to work.

Then he pretended to be on their side--"

"What did you do?"
"I sat quiet. I was afraid I might be eaten. I relapsed into contemplation;
and began to compose a volume on 'Tory Types: Some Survivals in English
Politics. For the Information of Town Readers.'"

"Well, now you have done your duty, and cemented the alliance between the
two families--by drinking port-wine, I suppose--what do you say to a little
pleasure-trip?"
"Oh, is that all?"

he said, looking up quickly. "Is that what your note meant?"
"The fact is, Evelyn," he said, with a trifle of embarrassment, "Natalie
and her mother are in Naples, and I don't know precisely in what
circumstances.

I am a little anxious about them--I should like to know more of
their surroundings: why, for one thing, I don't know whether they
have any money, even.

I would go over myself, Evelyn, but the truth is I cannot--not very well.
At least I ought not to go; and I thought, if you had time--being an old
friend of Natalie's--you would like to see that she was all right.

"Where is Lind?" said Lord Evelyn, suddenly.

"Lind is in Italy also," said Brand, evasively.

"Not with them?"
"Oh no."

There was an awkward silence. At length Brand said,
"Something very serious has happened, Evelyn: and the question is
whether, in the interests of the Society, it should not be kept a secret,
if it is possible."
"I do not wish to know any secret," Lord Evelyn said, simply. "I am willing
to go over to Naples at once, if I can be of any service."
"It is very kind of you; I thought you would say as much," Brand
said, still hesitating. "But then I doubt whether you could be of
much service unless you understood the whole situation of affairs.
At present only two over here know what has occurred--Edwards and
myself. Yes, I think you must know also. Read this letter; it came
only last night."
He unlocked a drawer, took out a letter, and gave it to Lord Evelyn,
who read it slowly. When he had finished, he put it on the table
without a word.
"You understand?" Brand said, calmly. "That means that Lind is to
be punished with death for treachery. Don't think about me; I've
had a narrow escape, but I have escaped--thanks to Natalie's courage
and decision. What I am concerned about is the effect that such a
disclosure might have on the fortunes of the Society. Would it not
provoke a widespread feeling of disgust? Wouldn't there always be
a suspicion?"
"But you yourself, Brand!" Evelyn exclaimed, in amazement. "Why,
you--I thought you would be the first to resign, after such an
escape."
"I have fought all through that, Evelyn," he said, absently. "It
was my first impulse--I confess it. The thought of being associated
with such men sickened me; I despaired; I wished they had never
been found out, and that I had been let blindly go on to the end.
Well, I got over the fit--with a struggle. It was not reasonable,
after all. Surely one's belief in the future of the Society ought
to be all the firmer that these black sheep have been thrust out?
As for myself, at all events, I ought to have more hope, not less.
I never did trust Lind, as you know; I believed in his work, in the
usefulness of it, and the prospects of its success; but I never was
at ease in his presence; I was glad to get away to my own work in
the north. And now, with the way clearer, why should one think of
giving up? To tell you the truth, Evelyn, I would give anything to
be in America at the present moment, if only Natalie and her mother
were in safety. There is a chance for us there bigger than anything
Lind ever dreamed about. You know the Granges, the associations of
the 'Patrons of Husbandry,' that were founded by the Scotchman
Saunders? It is an immense social organization; the success of it
has been quite unprecedented; they have an immense power in their
hands. And it isn't only agriculture they deal with; they touch on
politics here and there; they control elections; and the men they
choose are invariably men of integrity. Well, now, don't you see
this splendid instrument ready-made? From what I hear from
Philadelphia--"
Lord Evelyn's thoughts were elsewhere than in Philadelphia.
"You must tell me about yourself, Brand!" he exclaimed. "Your life
is no longer in danger, then? How has it happened?"
"Oh," said Brand, somewhat carelessly, "I don't know all the
particulars as yet. What I do know is that Natalie and her mother
disappeared from London; I had no idea whither they had gone. Then
Calabressa turned up; and I heard that Natalie had appealed to the
Council. Fancy, she, a young girl, had had the courage to go and
appeal to the Council! Then Calabressa suspected something, I saw
by his questions; then Lind, Beratinsky, and Reitzei appear to have
been summoned to Naples. The result is in that letter; that is about
all I know."
"And these others in there?" said Lord Evelyn, glancing to the
door.
"They know nothing at all. That is what I am uncertain about: whether
to leave the disappearance of Lind unaccounted for--merely saying
he had been summoned away by the Council--or to let everybody who
may hear of it understand that, powerful as he was, he had to succumb
to the laws of the Society, and accept the penalty for his error.
I am quite uncertain; I have no instructions. You might find out
for me in Naples, Evelyn, if you went over there--you might find
out what they consider advisable."
"You are in Lind's place, then?"
"Not at all," said he, quickly, and with a slight flush. "Edwards
and I are merely keeping the thing going until matters are settled.He ought to be willing, and ready, which is more than willing, to do
that whether or not; but there are those who need this reminder. Of many a
soul Jesus laid hold by healing the suffering the body brought upon it. No
one but himself can tell how much the nucleus of the church was composed of
and by those who had received health from his hands, loving-kindness from
the word of his mouth. My own opinion is that herein lay the very germ of
the kernel of what is now the ancient, was then the infant church; that
from them, next to the disciples themselves, went forth the chief power of
life in love, for they too had seen the Lord, and in their own humble way
could preach and teach concerning him. What memories of him theirs must
have been!

Things went on very quietly, that is, as I mean now, from the view-point of
a historian, without much to record bearing notably upon after events,
for the greater part of the next week. I wandered about my parish, making
acquaintance with different people in an outside sort of way, only now
and then finding an opportunity of seeing into their souls except by
conclusion. But I enjoyed endlessly the aspects of the country. It was not
picturesque except in parts. There was little wood and there were no
hills, only undulations, though many of them were steep enough even from a
pedestrian's point of view. Neither, however, were there any plains except
high moorland tracts. But the impression of the whole country was large,
airy, sunshiny, and it was clasped in the arms of the infinite, awful, yet
how bountiful sea--if one will look at the ocean in its world-wide, not to
say its eternal aspects, and not out of the fears of a hidebound love of
life! The sea and the sky, I must confess, dwarfed the earth, made it of
small account beside them; but who could complain of such an influence? At
least, not I.

My children bathed in this sea every day, and gathered strength and
knowledge from it. It was, as I have indicated, a dangerous coast to bathe
upon. The sweep of the tides varied with the varying sands that were cast
up. There was now in one place, now in another, a strong _undertow_, as
they called it--a reflux, that is, of the inflowing waters, which was quite
sufficient to carry those who could not swim out into the great deep, and
rendered much exertion necessary, even in those who could, to regain the
shore. But there was a fine strong Cornish woman to take charge of the
ladies and the little boys, and she, watching the ways of the wild monster,
knew the when and the where, and all about it.

Connie got out upon the downs every day. She improved in health certainly,
and we thought a little even in her powers of motion. The weather continued
superb. What rain there was fell at night, just enough for Nature to wash
her face with and so look quite fresh in the morning. We contrived a dinner
on the sands on the other side of the bay, for the Friday of this same
week.

The morning rose gloriously. Harry and Charlie were turning the house
upside down, to judge by their noise, long before I was in the humour to
get up, for I had been reading late the night before. I never made much
objection to mere noise, knowing that I could stop it the moment I pleased,
and knowing, which was of more consequence, that so far from there being
anything wrong in making a noise, the sea would make noise enough in our
ears before we left Kilkhaven. The moment, however, that I heard a
thread of whining or a burst of anger in the noise, I would interfere at
once--treating these just as things that must be dismissed at once. Harry
and Charlie were, I say, to use their own form of speech, making such a row
that morning, however, that I was afraid of some injury to the house or
furniture, which were not our own. So I opened my door and called out--

"Harry! Charlie! What on earth are you about?"

"Nothing, papa," answered Charlie. "Only it's so jolly!"

"What is jolly, my boy?" I asked.

"O, I don't know, papa! It's _so_ jolly!"

"Is it the sunshine?" thought I; "and the wind? God's world all over? The
God of gladness in the hearts of the lads? Is it that? No wonder, then,
that they cannot tell yet what it is!"

I withdrew into my room; and so far from seeking to put an end to the
noise--I knew Connie did not mind it--listened to it with a kind of
reverence, as the outcome of a gladness which the God of joy had kindled
in their hearts. Soon after, however, I heard certain dim growls of
expostulation from Harry, and having, from experience, ground for believing
that the elder was tyrannising over the younger, I stopped that and the
noise together, sending Charlie to find out where the tide would be between
one and two o'clock, and Harry to run to the top of the hill, and find out
the direction of the wind. Before I was dressed, Charlie was knocking at my
door with the news that it would he half-tide about one; and Harry speedily
followed with the discovery that the wind was north-east by south-west,
which of course determined that the sun would shine all day.

As the dinner-hour drew near, the servants went over, with Walter at their
head, to choose a rock convenient for a table, under the shelter of the
rocks on the sands across the bay. Thither, when Walter returned, we bore
our Connie, carrying her litter close by the edge of the retreating tide,
which sometimes broke in a ripple of music under her, wetting our feet with
innocuous rush. The child's delight was extreme, as she thus skimmed the
edge of the ocean, with the little ones gambolling about her, and her mamma
and Wynnie walking quietly on the landward side, for she wished to have no
one between her and the sea.

After scrambling with difficulty over some rocky ledges, and stopping at
Connie's request, to let her look into a deep pool in the sand, which
somehow or other retained the water after the rest had retreated, we set
her down near the mouth of a cave, in the shadow of a rock. And there was
our dinner nicely laid for us on a flat rock in front of the cave. The
cliffs rose behind us, with curiously curved and variously angled strata.
The sun in his full splendour threw dark shadows on the brilliant yellow
sand, more and more of which appeared as the bright blue water withdrew
itself, now rippling over it as if it meant to hide it all up again, now
uncovering more as it withdrew for another rush. Before we had finished our
dinner, the foremost wavelets appeared so far away over the plain of the
sand, that it seemed a long walk to the edge that had been almost at
our feet a little while ago. Between us and it lay a lovely desert of
glittering sand.

When even Charlie and Harry had arrived at the conclusion that it was time
to stop eating, we left the shadow and went out into the sun, carrying
Connie and laying her down in the midst of "the ribbed sea-sand," which
was very ribby to-day. On a shawl a little way off from her lay her baby,
crowing and kicking with the same jollity that had possessed the boys ever
since the morning. I wandered about with Wynnie on the sands, picking
up amongst other things strange creatures in thin shells ending in
vegetable-like tufts, if I remember rightly. My wife sat on the end of
Connie's litter, and Dora and the boys, a little way off, were trying how
far the full force of three wooden spades could, in digging a hole, keep
ahead of the water which was ever tumbling in the sand from the sides of
the same. Behind, the servants were busy washing the plates in a pool, and
burying the fragments of the feast; for I made it a rule wherever we went
that the fair face of nature was not to be defiled. I have always taken the
part of excursionists in these latter days of running to and fro, against
those who complain that the loveliest places are being destroyed by their
inroads. But there is one most offensive, even disgusting habit amongst
them--that of leaving bones, fragments of meat pies, and worse than all,
pieces of greasy paper about the place, which I cannot excuse, or at least
defend. Even the surface of Cumberland and Westmoreland lakes will be
defiled with these floating abominations--not abominations at all if they
are decently burned or buried when done with, but certainly abominations
when left to be cast hither and thither in the wind, over the grass, or on
the eddy and ripple of the pure water, for days after those who have thus
left their shame behind them have returned to their shops or factories. I
forgive them for trampling down the grass and the ferns. That cannot be
helped, and in comparison of the good they get, is not to be considered at
all. But why should they leave such a savage trail behind them as this,
forgetting too that though they have done with the spot, there are others
coming after them to whom these remnants must be an offence?

At length in our roaming, Wynnie and I approached a long low ridge of rock,
rising towards the sea into which it ran. Crossing this, we came suddenly
upon the painter whom Dora had called Niceboots, sitting with a small easel
before him. We were right above him ere we knew. He had his back towards
us, so that we saw at once what he was painting.

"O, papa!" cried Wynnie involuntarily, and the painter looked round.

"I beg your pardon," I said. "We came over from the other side, and did not
see you before. I hope we have not disturbed you much."

"Not in the least," he answered courteously, and rose as he spoke.

I saw that the subject on his easel suggested that of which Wynnie had been
making a sketch at the same time, on the day when Connie first lay on
the top of the opposite cliff. But he was not even looking in the same
direction now.

"Do you mind having your work seen before it is finished?"

"Not in the least, if the spectators will do me the favour to remember that
most processes have to go through a seemingly chaotic stage," he answered.

I was struck with the mode and tone of the remark.

"Here is no common man," I said to myself, and responded to him in
something of a similar style.

"I wish we could always keep that in mind with regard to human beings
themselves, as well as their works," I said aloud.

The painter looked at me, and I looked at him.

"We speak each from the experience of his own profession, I presume," he
said.

"But," I returned, glancing at the little picture in oils upon his easel,
"your work here, though my knowledge of painting is next to nothing--
perhaps I ought to say nothing at all--this picture must have long ago
passed the chaotic stage."

"It is nearly as much finished as I care to make it," he returned. "I
hardly count this work at all. I am chiefly amusing, or rather pleasing, my
own fancy at present."

"Apparently," I remarked, "you had the conical rock outside the hay for
your model, and now you are finishing it with your back turned towards it.
How is that?"

"I will soon explain," he answered. "The moment I saw this rock, it
reminded me of Dante's Purgatory."

"Ah, you are a reader of Dante?" I said. "In the original, I hope."

"Yes. A friend of mine, a brother painter, an Italian, set me going with
that, and once going with Dante, nobody could well stop. I never knew what
intensity _per se_ was till I began to read Dante."

"That is quite my own feeling. Now, to return to your picture."

"Without departing at all from natural forms, I thought to make it suggest
the Purgatorio to anyone who remembered the description given of the place
_ab extra_ by Ulysses, in the end of the twenty-sixth canto of the Inferno.
Of course, that thing there is a mere rock, yet it has certain mountain
forms about it. I have put it at a much greater distance, you see, and have
sought to make it look a solitary mountain in the midst of a great water.
You will discover even now that the circles of the Purgatory are suggested
without any approach, I think, to artificial structure; and there are
occasional hints at figures, which you cannot definitely detach from the
rocks--which, by the way, you must remember, were in one part full of
sculptures. I have kept the mountain near enough, however, to indicate
the great expanse of wild flowers on the top, which Matilda was so busy
gathering. I want to indicate too the wind up there in the terrestrial
paradise, ever and always blowing one way. You remember, Mr. Walton?"--
for the young man, getting animated, began to talk as if we had known each
other for some time--and here he repeated the purport of Dante's words in
English:

  "An air of sweetness, changeless in its flow,
  With no more strength than in a soft wind lies,
  Smote peacefully against me on the brow.
  By which the leaves all trembling, level-wise,
  Did every one bend thitherward to where
  The high mount throws its shadow at sunrise."

"I thought you said you did not use translations?"

"I thought it possible that--Miss Walton (?)" interrogatively this--"might
not follow the Italian so easily, and I feared to seem pedantic."

"She won't lag far behind, I flatter myself," I returned. "Whose
translation do you quote?"

He hesitated a moment; then said carelessly:

"I have cobbled a few passages after that fashion myself."

"It has the merit of being near the original at least," I returned; "and
that seems to me one of the chief merits a translation can possess."

"Then," the painter resumed, rather hastily, as if to avoid any further
remark upon his verses, "you see those white things in the air above?" Here
he turned to Wynnie. "Miss Walton will remember--I think she was making a
drawing of the rock at the same time I was--how the seagulls, or some such
birds--only two or three of them--kept flitting about the top of it?"

"I remember quite well," answered Wynnie, with a look of appeal to me.

"Yes," I interposed; "my daughter, in describing what she had been
attempting to draw, spoke especially of the birds over the rock. For she
said the white lapping of the waves looked like spirits trying to get
loose, and the white birds like foam that had broken its chains, and risen
in triumph into the air."

Here Mr. Niceboots, for as yet I did not know what else to call him, looked
at Wynnie almost with a start.

"How wonderfully that falls in with my fancy about the rock!" he said.
"Purgatory indeed! with imprisoned souls lapping at its foot, and the free
souls winging their way aloft in ether. Well, this world is a kind of
purgatory anyhow--is it not, Mr. Walton?"

"Certainly it is. We are here tried as by fire, to see what our work
is--whether wood, hay, and stubble, or gold and silver and precious
stones."

"You see," resumed the painter, "if anybody only glanced at my little
picture, he would take those for sea-birds; but if he looked into it, and
began to suspect me, he would find out that they were Dante and Beatrice on
their way to the sphere of the moon."

"In one respect at least, then, your picture has the merit of corresponding
to fact; for what thing is there in the world, or what group of things, in
which the natural man will not see merely the things of nature, but the
spiritual man the things of the spirit?"

"I am no theologian," said the painter, turning away, I thought somewhat
coldly.

But I could see that Wynnie was greatly interested in him. Perhaps she
thought that here was some enlightenment of the riddle of the world for
her, if she could but get at what he was thinking. She was used to my way
of it: here might be something new.

"If I can be of any service to Miss Walton with her drawing, I shall be
happy," he said, turning again towards me.

But his last gesture had made me a little distrustful of him, and I
received his advances on this point with a coldness which I did not wish to
make more marked than his own towards my last observation.

"You are very kind," I said; "but Miss Walton does not presume to be an
artist."

I saw a slight shade pass over Wynnie's countenance. When I turned to
Mr. Niceboots, a shade of a different sort was on his. Surely I had said
something wrong to cast a gloom on two young faces. I made haste to make
amends.

"We are just going to have some coffee," I said, "for my servants, I see,
have managed to kindle a fire. Will you come and allow me to introduce you
to Mrs. Walton?"

"With much pleasure," he answered, rising from the rock whereon, as he
spoke about his picture, he had again seated himself. He was a fine-built,
black-bearded, sunburnt fellow, with clear gray eyes notwithstanding, a
rather Roman nose, and good features generally. But there was an air of
suppression, if not of sadness, about him, however, did not in the least
interfere with the manliness of his countenance, or of its expression.

"But," I said, "how am I to effect an introduction, seeing I do not yet
know your name."

I had had to keep a sharp look-out on myself lest I should call him Mr.
Niceboots. He smiled very graciously and replied,

"My name is Percivale--Charles Percivale."

"A descendant of Sir Percivale of King Arthur's Round Table?"

"I cannot count quite so far back," he answered, "as that--not quite to the
Conquest," he added, with a slight deepening of his sunburnt hue. "I do
come of a fighting race, but I cannot claim Sir Percivale."

We were now walking along the edge of the still retreating waves towards
the group upon the sands, Mr. Percivale and I foremost, and Wynnie
lingering behind.

"O, do look here papa!" she cried, from some little distance.

We turned and saw her gazing at something on the sand at her feet.
Hastening back, we found it to be a little narrow line of foam-bubbles,
which the water had left behind it on the sand, slowly breaking and passing
out of sight. Why there should be foam-bubbles there then, and not always,
I do not know. But there they were--and such colours! deep rose and grassy
green and ultramarine blue; and, above all, one dark, yet brilliant and
intensely-burnished, metallic gold. All of them were of a solid-looking
burnished colour, like opaque body-colour laid on behind translucent
crystal. Those little ocean bubbles were well worth turning to see; and so
I said to Wynnie. But, as we gazed, they went on vanishing, one by one.
Every moment a heavenly glory of hue burst, and was nowhere.

We walked away again towards the rest of our party.

"Don't you think those bubbles more beautiful than any precious stones you
ever saw, papa?"

"Yes, my love, I think they are, except it be the opal. In the opal, God
seems to have fixed the evanescent and made the vanishing eternal."

"And flowers are more beautiful things than jewels?' she said
interrogatively.

"Many--perhaps most flowers are," I granted. "And did you ever see such
curves and delicate textures anywhere else as in the clouds, papa?"

"I think not--in the cirrhous clouds at least--the frozen ones. But what
are you putting me to my catechism for in this way, my child?"

"O, papa, I could go on a long time with that catechism; but I will end
with one question more, which you will perhaps find a little harder to
answer. Only I daresay you have had an answer ready for years lest one of
us should ask you some day."

"No, my love. I never got an answer ready for anything lest one of my
children should ask me. But it is not surprising either that children
should be puzzled about the things that have puzzled their father, or that
by the time they are able to put the questions, he should have found out
some sort of an answer to most of them. Go on with your catechism, Wynnie.
Now for your puzzle!"

"It's not a funny question, papa; it's a very serious one. I can't think
why the unchanging God should have made all the most beautiful things
wither and grow ugly, or burst and vanish, or die somehow and be no more.
Mamma is not so beautiful as she once was, is she?"

"In one way, no; but in another and better way, much more so. But we will
not talk about her kind of beauty just now; we will keep to the more
material loveliness of which you have been speaking--though, in truth, no
loveliness can be only material. Well, then, for my answer; it is, I think,
because God loves the beauty so much that he makes all beautiful things
vanish quickly."

"I do not understand you, papa."

"I daresay not, my dear. But I will explain to you a little, if Mr.
Percivale will excuse me."

"On the contrary, I am greatly interested, both in the question and the
answer."

"Well, then, Wynnie; everything has a soul and a body, or something like
them. By the body we know the soul. But we are always ready to love the
body instead of the soul. Therefore, God makes the body die continually,
that we may learn to love the soul indeed. The world is full of beautiful
things, but God has saved many men from loving the mere bodies of them, by
making them poor; and more still by reminding them that if they be as rich
as Croesus all their lives, they will be as poor as Diogenes--poorer,
without even a tub--when this world, with all its pictures, scenery, books,
and--alas for some Christians!--bibles even, shall have vanished away."

"Why do you say _alas_, papa--if they are Christians especially?"

"I say _alas_ only from their point of view, not from mine. I mean such as
are always talking and arguing from the Bible, and never giving themselves
any trouble to do what it tells them. They insist on the anise and cummin,
and forget the judgment, mercy, and faith. These worship the body of the
truth, and forget the soul of it. If the flowers were not perishable, we
should cease to contemplate their beauty, either blinded by the passion for
hoarding the bodies of them, or dulled by the hebetude of commonplaceness
that the constant presence of them would occasion. To compare great things
with small, the flowers wither, the bubbles break, the clouds and sunsets
pass, for the very same holy reason, in the degree of its application to
them, for which the Lord withdrew from his disciples and ascended again to
his Father--that the Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, the Soul of things,
might come to them and abide with them, and so the Son return, and the
Father be revealed. The flower is not its loveliness, and its loveliness
we must love, else we shall only treat them as flower-greedy children,
who gather and gather, and fill hands and baskets, from a mere desire
of acquisition, excusable enough in them, but the same in kind, however
harmless in mode, and degree, and object, as the avarice of the miser.
Therefore God, that we may always have them, and ever learn to love their
beauty, and yet more their truth, sends the beneficent winter that we may
think about what we have lost, and welcome them when they come again with
greater tenderness and love, with clearer eyes to see, and purer hearts
to understand, the spirit that dwells in them. We cannot do without the
'winter of our discontent.' Shakspere surely saw that when he makes Titania
say, in _A Midsummer Night's Dream_:

  'The human mortals want their winter here'--

namely, to set things right; and none of those editors who would alter the
line seem to have been capable of understanding its import."

"I think I understand you a little," answered Wynnie. Then, changing her
tone, "I told you, papa, you would have an answer ready; didn't I?"

"Yes, my child; but with this difference--I found the answer to meet my own
necessities, not yours."

"And so you had it ready for me when I wanted it."

"Just so. That is the only certainty you have in regard to what you give
away. No one who has not tasted it and found it good has a right to offer
any spiritual dish to his neighbour."

Mr. Percivale took no part in our conversation. The moment I had presented
him to Mrs. Walton and Connie, and he had paid his respects by a somewhat
stately old-world obeisance, he merged the salutation into a farewell, and,
either forgetting my offer of coffee, or having changed his mind, withdrew,
a little to my disappointment, for, notwithstanding his lack of response
where some things he said would have led me to expect it, I had begun to
feel much interested in him.

He was scarcely beyond hearing, when Dora came up to me from her digging,
with an eager look on her sunny face.

"Hasn't he got nice boots, papa?"

"Indeed, my dear, I am unable to support you in that assertion, for I never
saw his boots."

"I did, then," returned the child; "and I never saw such nice boots."

"I accept the statement willingly," I replied; and we heard no more of the
boots, for his name was now substituted for his nickname. Nor did I see
himself again for some days--not in fact till next Sunday--though why he
should come to church at all was something of a puzzle to me, especially
when I knew him better.


CHAPTER III.

THE BLACKSMITH.


The next day I set out after breakfast to inquire about a blacksmith. It
was not every or any blacksmith that would do. I must not fix on the first
to do my work because he was the first. There was one in the village, I
soon learned; but I found him an ordinary man, who, I have no doubt, could
shoe a horse and avoid the quick, but from whom any greater delicacy of
touch was not to be expected. Inquiring further, I heard of a young smith
who had lately settled in a hamlet a couple of miles distant, but still
within the parish. In the afternoon I set out to find him. To my surprise,
he was a pale-faced, thoughtful-looking man, with a huge frame, which
appeared worn rather than naturally thin, and large eyes that looked at the
anvil as if it was the horizon of the world. He had got a horse-shoe in his
tongs when I entered. Notwithstanding the fire that glowed on the hearth,
and the sparks that flew like a nimbus in eruption from about his person,
the place looked very dark to me entering from the glorious blaze of the
almost noontide sun, and felt cool after the deep lane through which I had
come, and which had seemed a very reservoir of sunbeams. I could see the
smith by the glow of his horse-shoe; but all between me and the shoe was
dark.

"Good-morning," I said. "It is a good thing to find a man by his work. I
heard you half a mile off or so, and now I see you, but only by the glow of
your work. It is a grand thing to work in fire."

He lifted his hammered hand to his forehead courteously, and as lightly as
if the hammer had been the butt-end of a whip.

"I don't know if you would say the same if you had to work at it in weather
like this," he answered.

"If I did not," I returned, "that would be the fault of my weakness, and
would not affect the assertion I have just made, that it is a fine thing to
work in fire."

"Well, you may be right," he rejoined with a sigh, as, throwing the
horse-shoe he had been fashioning from the tongs on the ground, he next let
the hammer drop beside the anvil, and leaning against it held his head
for a moment between his hands, and regarded the floor. "It does not much
matter to me," he went on, "if I only get through my work and have done
with it. No man shall say I shirked what I'd got to do. And then when it's
over there won't be a word to say agen me, or--"

He did not finish the sentence. And now I could see the sunlight lying in a
somewhat dreary patch, if the word _dreary_ can be truly used with respect
to any manifestation of sunlight, on the dark clay floor.

"I hope you are not ill," I said.

He made no answer, but taking up his tongs caught with it from a beam one
of a number of roughly-finished horse-shoes which hung there, and put it on
the fire to be fashioned to a certain fit. While he turned it in the fire,
and blew the bellows, I stood regarding him. "This man will do for my
work," I said to myself; "though I should not wonder from the look of him
if it was the last piece of work he ever did under the New Jerusalem." The
smith's words broke in on my meditations.

"When I was a little boy," he said, "I once wanted to stay at home from
school. I had, I believe, a little headache, but nothing worth minding. I
told my mother that I had a headache, and she kept me, and I helped her at
her spinning, which was what I liked best of anything. But in the afternoon
the Methodist preacher came in to see my mother, and he asked me what was
the matter with me, and my mother answered for me that I had a bad head,
and he looked at me; and as my head was quite well by this time, I could
not help feeling guilty. And he saw my look, I suppose, sir, for I can't
account for what he said any other way; and he turned to me, and he said to
me, solemn-like, 'Is your head bad enough to send you to the Lord Jesus
to make you whole?' I could not speak a word, partly from bashfulness, I
suppose, for I was but ten years old. So he followed it up, as they say:
'Then you ought to be at school,' says he. I said nothing, because I
couldn't. But never since then have I given in as long as I could stand.
And I can stand now, and lift my hammer, too," he said, as he took the
horse-shoe from the forge, laid it on the anvil, and again made a nimbus of
coruscating iron.

"You are just the man I want," I said. "I've got a job for you, down to
Kilkhaven, as you say in these parts."

"What is it, sir? Something about the church? I should ha' thought the
church was all spick and span by this time."

"I see you know who I am," I said.

"Of course I do," he answered. "I don't go to church myself, being brought
up a Methodist; but anything that happens in the parish is known the next
day all over it."

"You won't mind doing my job though you are a Methodist, will you?" I
asked.

"Not I, sir. If I've read right, it's the fault of the Church that we don't
pull all alongside. You turned us out, sir; we didn't go out of ourselves.
At least, if all they say is true, which I can't be sure of, you know, in
this world."

"You are quite right there though," I answered. "And in doing so, the
Church had the worst of it--as all that judge and punish their neighbours
have. But you have been the worse for it, too: all of which is to be laid
to the charge of the Church. For there is not one clergyman I know--mind, I
say, that I know--who would have made such a cruel speech to a boy as that
the Methodist parson made to you."

"But it did me good, sir?"

"Are you sure of that? I am not. Are you sure, first of all, it did
not make you proud? Are you sure it has not made you work beyond your
strength--I don't mean your strength of arm, for clearly that is all that
could be wished, but of your chest, your lungs? Is there not some danger of
your leaving someone who is dependent on you too soon unprovided for? Is
there not some danger of your having worked as if God were a hard master?
--of your having worked fiercely, indignantly, as if he wronged you by not
caring for you, not understanding you?"

He returned me no answer, but hammered momently on his anvil. Whether he
felt what I meant, or was offended at my remark, I could not then tell. I
thought it best to conclude the interview with business.

"I have a delicate little job that wants nice handling, and I fancy you are
just the man to do it to my mind," I said.

"What is it, sir?" he asked, in a friendly manner enough.

"If you will excuse me, I would rather show it to you than talk about it,"
I returned.

"As you please, sir. When do you want me?"

"The first hour you can come."

"To-morrow morning?"

"If you feel inclined."

"For that matter, I'd rather go to bed."

"Come to me instead: it's light work."

"I will, sir--at ten o'clock."

"If you please."

And so it was arranged.


CHAPTER IV.

THE LIFE-BOAT.


The next day rose glorious. Indeed, early as the sun rose, I saw him
rise--saw him, from the down above the house, over the land to the east and
north, ascend triumphant into his own light, which had prepared the way for
him; while the clouds that hung over the sea glowed out with a faint flush,
as anticipating the hour when the west should clasp the declining glory in
a richer though less dazzling splendour, and shine out the bride of the
bridegroom east, which behold each other from afar across the intervening
world, and never mingle but in the sight of the eyes. The clear pure light
of the morning made me long for the truth in my heart, which alone could
make me pure and clear as the morning, tune me up to the concert-pitch of
the nature around me. And the wind that blew from the sunrise made me hope
in the God who had first breathed into my nostrils the breath of life, that
he would at length so fill me with his breath, his wind, his spirit, that
I should think only his thoughts and live his life, finding therein my own
life, only glorified infinitely.

After breakfast and prayers, I would go to the church to await the arrival
of my new acquaintance the smith. In order to obtain entrance, I had,
however, to go to the cottage of the sexton. This was not my first visit
there, so that I may now venture to take my reader with me. To reach the
door, I had to cross a hollow by a bridge, built, for the sake of the
road, over what had once been the course of a rivulet from the heights
above. Now it was a kind of little glen, or what would in Scotland be
called a den, I think, grown with grass and wild flowers and ferns, some
of them, rare and fine. The roof of the cottage came down to the road,
and, until you came quite near, you could not but wonder where the body
that supported this head could be. But you soon saw that the ground fell
suddenly away, leaving a bank against which the cottage was built.
Crossing a garden of the smallest, the principal flowers of which were the
stonecrop on its walls, by a flag-paved path, you entered the building,
and, to your surprise, found yourself, not in a little cottage kitchen, as
you expected, but in a waste-looking space, that seemed to have forgotten
the use for which it had been built. There was a sort of loft along one
side of it, and it was heaped with indescribable lumber-looking stuff with
here and there a hint at possible machinery. The place had been a mill for
grinding corn, and its wheel had been driven by the stream which had run
for ages in the hollow of which I have already spoken. But when the canal
came to be constructed, the stream had to be turned aside from its former
course, and indeed was now employed upon occasion to feed the canal; so
that the mill of necessity had fallen into disuse and decay. Crossing this
floor, you entered another door, and turning sharp to the left, went down
a few steps of a ladder-sort of stair, and after knocking your hat against
a beam, emerged in the comfortable quaint little cottage kitchen you had
expected earlier. A cheerful though small fire burns in the grate--for
even here the hearth-fire has vanished from the records of cottage-life--
and is pleasant here even in the height of summer, though it is counted
needful only for cooking purposes. The ceiling, which consists only of the
joists and the boards that floor the bedroom above, is so low, that
necessity, if not politeness, would compel you to take off your already-
bruised hat. Some of these joists, you will find, are made further useful
by supporting each a shelf, before which hangs a little curtain of printed
cotton, concealing the few stores and postponed eatables of the house--
forming, in fact, both store-room and larder of the family. On the walls
hang several coloured prints, and within a deep glazed frame the figure of
a ship in full dress, carved in rather high relief in sycamore.

As I now entered, Mrs. Coombes rose from a high-backed settle near the
fire, and bade me good-morning with a courtesy.

"What a lovely day it is, Mrs. Coombes! It is so bright over the sea,"
I said, going to the one little window which looked out on the great
Atlantic, "that one almost expects a great merchant navy to come sailing
into Kilkhaven--sunk to the water's edge with silks, and ivory, and spices,
and apes, and peacocks, like the ships of Solomon that we read about--just
as the sun gets up to the noonstead."

Before I record her answer, I turn to my reader, who in the spirit
accompanies me, and have a little talk with him. I always make it a rule to
speak freely with the less as with the more educated of my friends. I never
_talk down_ to them, except I be expressly explaining something to them.
The law of the world is as the law of the family. Those children grow much
the faster who hear all that is going on in the house. Reaching ever above
themselves, they arrive at an understanding at fifteen, which, in the usual
way of things, they would not reach before five-and-twenty or thirty; and
this in a natural way, and without any necessary priggishness, except such
as may belong to their parents. Therefore I always spoke to the poor and
uneducated as to my own people,--freely, not much caring whether I should
be quite understood or not; for I believed in influences not to be measured
by the measure of the understanding.

But what was the old woman's answer? It was this:

"I know, sir. And when I was as young as you"--I was not so very young,
my reader may well think--"I thought like that about the sea myself.
Everything come from the sea. For my boy Willie he du bring me home the
beautifullest parrot and the talkingest you ever see, and the red shawl all
worked over with flowers: I'll show it to you some day, sir, when you have
time. He made that ship you see in the frame there, sir, all with his own
knife, out on a bit o' wood that he got at the Marishes, as they calls it,
sir--a bit of an island somewheres in the great sea. But the parrot's
gone dead like the rest of them, sir.--Where am I? and what am I talking
about?" she added, looking down at her knitting as if she had dropped
a stitch, or rather as if she had forgotten what she was making, and
therefore what was to come next.

"You were telling me how you used to think of the sea--"

"When I was as young as you. I remember, sir. Well, that lasted a long
time--lasted till my third boy fell asleep in the wide water; for it du
call it falling asleep, don't it, sir?"

"The Bible certainly does," I answered.

"It's the Bible I be meaning, of course," she returned. "Well, after that,
but I don't know what began it, only I did begin to think about the sea as
something that took away things and didn't bring them no more. And somehow
or other she never look so blue after that, and she give me the shivers.
But now, sir, she always looks to me like one o' the shining ones that come
to fetch the pilgrims. You've heard tell of the _Pilgrim's Progress_, I
daresay, sir, among the poor people; for they du say it was written by
a tinker, though there be a power o' good things in it that I think the
gentlefolk would like if they knowed it."

"I do know the book--nearly as well as I know the Bible," I answered; "and
the shining ones are very beautiful in it. I am glad you can think of the
sea that way."

"It's looking in at the window all day as I go about the house," she
answered, "and all night too when I'm asleep; and if I hadn't learned to
think of it that way, it would have driven me mad, I du believe. I was
forced to think that way about it, or not think at all. And that wouldn't
be easy, with the sound of it in your ears the last thing at night and the
first thing in the morning."

"The truth of things is indeed the only refuge from the look of things," I
replied. "But now I want the key of the church, if you will trust me with
it, for I have something to do there this morning; and the key of the tower
as well, if you please."

With her old smile, ripened only by age, she reached the ponderous keys
from the nail where they hung, and gave them into my hand. I left her in
the shadow of her dwelling, and stepped forth into the sunlight. The first
thing I observed was the blacksmith waiting for me at the church door.

Now that I saw him in the full light of day, and now that he wore his
morning face upon which the blackness of labour had not yet gathered, I
could see more plainly how far he was from well. There was a flush on his
thin cheek by which the less used exercise of walking revealed his inward
weakness, and the light in his eyes had something of the far-country in
them--"the light that never was on sea or shore." But his speech was
cheerful, for he had been walking in the light of this world, and that had
done something to make the light within him shine a little more freely.

"How do you find yourself to-day?" I asked.

"Quite well, sir, I thank you," he answered. "A day like this does a man
good. But," he added, and his countenance fell, "the heart knoweth its own
bitterness."

"It may know it too much," I returned, "just because it refuses to let a
stranger intermeddle therewith."

He made no reply. I turned the key in the great lock, and the iron-studded
oak opened and let us into the solemn gloom.

It did not require many minutes to make the man understand what I wanted of
him.

"We must begin at the bells and work down," he said.

So we went up into the tower, where, with the help of a candle I fetched
for him from the cottage, he made a good many minute measurements; found
that carpenter's work was necessary for the adjustment of the hammers and
cranks and the leading of the rods, undertook the management of the whole,
and in the course of an hour and a half went home to do what had to be done
before any fixing could be commenced, assuring me that he had no doubt of
bringing the job to a satisfactory conclusion, although the force of
the blow on the bell would doubtless have to be regulated afterwards by
repeated trials.

"In a fortnight, I hope you will be able to play a tune to the parish,
sir," he added, as he took his leave.

I resolved, if possible, to know more of the man, and find out his trouble,
if haply I might be able to give him any comfort, for I was all but certain
that there was a deeper cause for his gloom than the state of his health.

When he was gone I stood with the key of the church in my hand, and looked
about me. Nature at least was in glorious health--sunshine in her eyes,
light fantastic cloud-images passing through her brain, her breath coming
and going in soft breezes perfumed with the scents of meadows and wild
flowers, and her green robe shining in the motions of her gladness. I
turned to lock the church door, though in my heart I greatly disapproved of
locking the doors of churches, and only did so now because it was not my
church, and I had no business to force my opinions upon other customs. But
when I turned I received a kind of questioning shock. There was the fallen
world, as men call it, shining in glory and gladness, because God was
there; here was the way into the lost Paradise, yea, the door into an
infinitely higher Eden than that ever had or ever could have been,
iron-clamped and riveted, gloomy and low-browed like the entrance to a
sepulchre, and surrounded with the grim heads of grotesque monsters of the
deep. What did it mean? Here was contrast enough to require harmonising,
or if that might not be, then accounting for. Perhaps it was enough to say
that although God made both the kingdom of nature and the kingdom of grace,
yet the symbol of the latter was the work of man, and might not altogether
correspond to God's idea of the matter. I turned away thoughtful, and went
through the churchyard with my eye on the graves.

His only notion of escape was to give himself up to the police--twenty-five
years in the mines. I think Provana's plan was better."
Reitzei became a little uneasy, or perhaps only impatient.

"Well, Calabressa," he said, "one must be getting along to one's affairs--"

"Oh yes, yes, truly," Calabressa said. "I only wished to know a little more
about the Cardinal. You see he cannot give himself up like Mesentskoff,
though he might confess to a hundred worse things than the Russian ever
did. Provana--well, you know the Society has always been inexorable with
regard to its own officers: and rightly, too, Reitzei, is it not so? If one
finds malversation of justice among those in a high grade, should not
the punishment be exemplary? The higher the power, the higher the
responsibility. You, for example, are much too shrewd a man to risk your
life by taking any advantage of your position as one of the officers--"
"I don't understand you, Calabressa," the other said, somewhat hotly.

"I only meant to say," Calabressa observed, carelessly, "that the
punishment for malversation of justice on the part of an officer is so
terrible, so swift, and so sure, that no one but a madman would think
of running the risk--"
"Yes, but what has that to do with me?" Reitzei said, angrily.

"Nothing, my dear friend, nothing," said Calabressa, soothingly. "But
now, about this selection of Mr. Brand--"
Reitzei turned rather pale for a second; but said instantly, and with
apparent anger,
"I tell you that is none of my business. That is Mr. Lind's business.
What have I to do with it?"

"Do not be so impatient, my friend," said Calabressa, looking at his coffee.
"We will say that, as usual, there was a ballot. All quite fair.
No man wishes to avoid his duty. It is the simplest thing in the world to
mark one of your pieces of paper with a red mark: whoever receives the
marked paper undertakes the commission. All is quite fair, I say.
Only you know, I dare say, the common, the pitiful trick of the conjurer who
throws a pack of cards on the table, backs up. You take one, look at it
privately, return it, and the cards are shuffled. Without lifting the
cards at all he tells you that the one you selected was the eight of
diamonds: why? It is no miracle: all the cards are eight of diamonds; though
you, you poor innocent, do not know that. It is a wretched trick," added
Calabressa, coolly.

Reitzei drank off the remainder of his soda-water at a gulp. He stared at
Calabressa in silence, afraid to speak.

"My dear friend Reitzei," said Calabressa, at length raising his eyes and
fixing them on his companion, "you could not be so insane as to
play any trick like that?

--having four pieces of paper, for example, all marked red, the marks under
the paper?

You would not enter into any such conspiracy, for you know, friend
Reitzei, that the punishment is--death!"

The man had turned a ghastly gray-green color.

He was apparently choking with thirst, though he had just finished the
soda-water. He could not speak.

Calabressa calmly waited for him; but in his heart he was saying exultingly,
"_Ha!

the dagger quivers in the board: his eyes are starting from his
head; is it Calabressa or Cagliostro that has paralyzed him?

_"

At length the wretched creature opposite him gasped out,
"Beratinsky--"
But he could say no more. He motioned to a waiter to bring him some
soda-water.

"Yes, Beratinsky?" said Calabressa, calmly regarding the livid face.

"--has betrayed us!" he said, with trembling lips. In fact, there was no
fight in him at all, no angry repudiation; he was helpless with this
sudden bewilderment of fear.

"Not quite," said Calabressa; and he now spoke in a low, eager voice.
"It is for you to save yourself by forestalling him.

It is your one chance; otherwise the decree; and good-bye to this world
for you!
See--look at this card--I say it is your only chance, friend Reitzei--for
I am empowered by the Council to promise you, or Beratinsky, or any one,
a free pardon on confession. Oh, I assure you the truth is clear: has not
one eyes? You, poor devil, you cannot speak:
shall I go to Beratinsky and see whether he can speak?"

"What must I do--what must I do?" the other gasped, in abject terror.
Calabressa, regarding this exhibition of cowardice, could not help wondering
how Lind had allowed such a creature to associate with him.

Then Calabressa, sure of victory, began to breathe more freely. He assumed
a lofty air.

"Trust in me, friend Reitzei. I will instruct you. If you can persuade the
Council of the truth of your story, I promise you they will absolve you
from the operations of a certain Clause which you know of. Meanwhile
you will come to my lodgings and write a line to Lind, excusing yourself
for the day; then this evening I dare say it will be convenient
for you to start for Naples.

Oh, I assure you, you owe me thanks: you did not know the danger you were
in; hereafter you will say, 'Well, it was no other than Calabressa who
pulled me out of that quagmire.'"
A few minutes thereafter Calabressa was in a telegraph-office, and this was
the message he despatched:

* * * * *
"Colonna, London: to Bartolotti, Vicolo Isotta, No. 15, Naples.

Ridotto will arrive immediately, colors down.

Send orders for Luigi and Bassano to follow."
* * * * *
"It is a bold stroke," he was saying to himself, as he left the office,
"but I have run some risks in my time.

What is one more or less?"

CHAPTER LII.

FIAT JUSTITIA.

This scheme of Calabressa's had been so rapidly conceived and put
in execution, that he had had no time to think of its possible or
certain consequences, in the event of his being successful.

His immediate and sole anxiety was to make sure of his captive.

There was always the chance that a frightened and feeble creature
like Reitzei might double back; he might fly to Lind and Beratinsky,
and seek security in a new compact; for who could prove any thing
if the three were to maintain their innocence?

However, as Calabressa shrewdly perceived, Reitzei was in the dark as to
how much the Council knew already. Moreover, he had his suspicions of
Beratinsky.

If there was to be a betrayal, he was clearly resolved to have the
benefit of it.

Nevertheless, Calabressa did not lose sight of him for a moment.

He took him to his, Calabressa's lodgings; kept assuring him that he ought
to be very grateful for being thus allowed to escape; got him to
write and despatch a note to Lind, excusing himself for that day
and the next, and then proceeded to give him instructions as to
what he should do in Naples.

These instructions, by-the-way, were entirely unnecessary; it is no part of
Calabressa's plan to allow Reitzei to arrive in Naples alone.

After a mid-day meal, Calabressa and Reitzei walked up to the lodgings of
the latter, where he got a few travelling things put together.

By-and-by they went to the railway station, Calabressa suggesting
that it was better for Reitzei to get away from London as soon as
possible.

The old albino saw his companion take his seat in the train for
Dover, and then turned away and re-entered the busy world of the
London streets.

The day was fine after the rain; the pavements were white and dry;
he kept in the sunlight for the sake of the warmth; but he had not
much attention for the sights and sounds around him.

Now that this sudden scheme promised to be entirely successful, he could
consider the probable consequences of that success; and, as usual, his first
thought was about Natalie.

"Poor child--poor child!"

he said to himself, rather sadly. "How could she tell how this would end?
If she saves the life of her lover, it is at the cost of the life of
her father. The poor child!--must misfortune meet her whichever way she
turns?"
And then, too, some touch of compunction or even remorse entered into his
own bosom. He had been so eager in the pursuit? he had been so anxious
to acquit himself to the satisfaction of the Council, that he had scarcely
remembered that his success would almost certainly involve the sacrifice
of one who was at least an old colleague.

Ferdinand Lind and Calabressa had never been the very best of
friends; during one period, indeed, they had been rivals; but that
had been forgotten in the course of years, and what Calabressa now
remembered was that Lind and he had at least been companions in the
old days.

"Seventeen years ago," he was thinking, "he forfeited his life to the
Society, and they gave it back to him.

They will not pardon him this time. And who is to take the news to Natalie
and the beautiful brave child?

Ah, what will she say? My God, is there no happiness for any one
in this world?"

He was greatly distressed; but in his distress he became desperate. He
would not look that way at all.

He boldly justified himself for what he had done, and strove to regard
it with satisfaction. What if both Lind and Beratinsky were to suffer;
had they not merited any punishment that might befall them? Had they
not compassed the destruction of an innocent man? Would it have been better,
then, that George Brand should have become the victim of an infamous
conspiracy? _Fiat justitia!_--no matter at what cost.

Natalie must face the truth. Better that the guilty should suffer than
the innocent.

And he, Calabressa, for one, was not going to shirk any responsibility for
what might happen. He had obeyed the orders of the Council. He had done his
duty: that was enough.

He forced himself not to think of Natalie, and of the dismay and horror
with which she would learn of one of the consequences of her appeal.
This was a matter between men--to be settled by men: if the consciences
of women were tender, it could not be helped. Calabressa walked faster
and faster, as it he were trying to get away from something that followed
and annoyed him. He pretended to himself that he was deeply interested in a
shop-window here or there; occasionally he whistled; he sung "Vado a Napoli
in barchetta" with forced gayety; he twisted his long white moustache, and
then he made his way down to Brand's rooms.

Here he was also very gay.

"Now, my dear Monsieur Brand, to-day I have idleness; to-day I will
talk to you; yesterday I could not."

"Unfortunately," said Brand, "our positions are reversed now, for here is a
letter from Lind wanting me to go up to Lisle Street. It seems Reitzei
has had to go off into the country, leaving a lot of correspondence--"
"You are, then, on good terms with Lind?" Calabressa interposed,
quickly.

"Yes; why not?" said Brand, with a stare.

"I, also--I say, why not? It is excellent. Then you have no time for my
chatter?"

said Calabressa, carelessly regarding the open letter.

"At least you can tell me something about Natalie and her mother. Are they
well? What hotel are they at?"
Calabressa laughed.

"Yes, yes, my friend Monsieur Brand, you say, 'Are they well?' What you
mean is, 'What has taken them to Naples?' _Bien_, you are right to wonder;
you will not have to wonder long. A little patience; you will hear
something; do not be surprised. And you have no message, for example,
by way of reply to the letter I brought you?"
"You are returning to Naples, then?"
"To-night. I will take a message for you: if you have no time now, send
it to me at Charing Cross. Meanwhile, I take my leave."
Calabressa rose, but was persuaded to resume his seat.

"I see," said he, again laughing, "that you have a little time to hear
about the two wanderers.

Oh, they are in a good hotel, I assure you; pretty rooms; you look
over to Capri; quite near you the Castello dell' Ovo; and underneath
your windows the waves--a charming view!

And the little Natalushka, she has not lost her spirits: she says
to me, 'Dear Mr.

Calabressa, will you have the goodness to become my champion?' I say to
her, 'Against all the world!' 'Oh no,' she answers, 'not quite so much
as that.

It is a man who sells agates and pebbles, and such things; and no matter
when I go out, he will follow me, and thrust himself before me.

Dear Mr. Calabressa, I do not want agates and pebbles, and he is more
importunate than all the others put together; and the servants of the hotel
can do nothing with him.' Oh, I assure you, it would have made you
laugh--her pretence of gravity! I said nothing--not I; what is the use
of making serious promises over trifles? But when I went out I encountered
the gentleman with the agates and pebbles. 'Friend,' said I, 'a word
with you. Skip, dance, be off with you to the steps of some other hotel;
your presence is not agreeable here.' 'Who are you?' said he, naturally.
'No matter,' said I; 'but do you wish to be presented with two dozen
of the school-master's sweetmeats?' 'Who are you?' said he again. Then I
took him by the ear and whispered something to him. By the blood of Saint
Peter, Monsieur Brand, you should have heard the quick snap of his box,
and seen the heels of him as he darted off like an antelope! I tell you
the grave-faced minx, that mocking Natalushka, who makes fun of old people
like me--well, she shall not any more be troubled with agates and pebbles!"

"Then she is quite cheerful and happy?" said Brand, somewhat wondering.

"Sometimes," Calabressa said, more gravely. "One cannot always be anxious;
one has glimpses of hope; then the spirit rises; the eyes laugh. You, for
example, you do not seem much cast down?"
Brand avoided his inquisitive look, and merely said,
"One must take things as one finds them. There is no use repining over
what happens."
Calabressa now rose and took his cap; then he laid it down on the table
again.

"One moment before I go, my dear Monsieur Brand. I told you to expect
news; perhaps you will not understand. Shall I show you something to help?
Regard this: it is only a little trick; but it may help you to understand
when the news comes to you."
He took from his pocket a piece of white paper, square, and with apparently
nothing on it. He laid it on the table, and produced a red pencil.

"May I trouble you for a small pair of scissors, my dear friend?"
Brand stepped aside to a writing-desk, and brought him the scissors; he was
scarcely thinking of Calabressa, at all; he was thinking of the message
he would send to Naples.

Calabressa slowly and carefully cut the piece of paper into four
squares, and proceeded to fold these up.

Brand looked on, it is true, but with little interest; and he certainly did
not perceive that his companion had folded three of these pieces with the
under side inward, the fourth with the upper side inward, while
this had the rough edges turned in a different direction from the
other three.

"Now, Mr. Brand," said Calabressa, calmly, "if one were drawing lots, for
example, what more simple than this? I take one of these pieces--you see
there is nothing on it--I print a red cross with my pencil; there, it is
folded again, and they all go into my cap."
"Enough, Calabressa," Brand said, impatiently; "you show me that you have
questioned me closely enough. There is enough said about it."
"I ask your pardon, my dear friend, there is not," said Calabressa, politely;
"for this is what I have to say now: draw one of the pieces of paper."
Brand turned away.

"It is not a thing to be gone over again, I tell you; I have had enough of
it; let it rest."
"It must not rest. I beg of you--my friend, I insist--"
He pressed the cap on him. Brand, to get rid of him, drew one of the
papers and tossed it on to the table. Calabressa took it up, opened it,
and showed him the red cross.

"Yes, you are again unfortunate, my dear Monsieur Brand. Fate pursues you,
does it not? But wait one moment. Will you open the other three papers?"

As Brand seemed impatient, Calabressa himself took them out and opened them
singly before him. On each and all was the same red mark.

But now Brand was indifferent no longer
"What do you mean, Calabressa?" he said, quickly.

"I mean," said Calabressa, regarding him, "that one might prepare a trick
by which you would not have much chance of escape."
Brand caught him by the arm.

"Do you mean that these others--" He could not complete the sentence; his
brain was in a whirl; was this why Natalie had sent him that strange message
of hope?

Calabressa released himself, and took his cap, and said,
"I can tell you nothing, my dear friend--nothing. My lips are sealed for
the present. But surely one is permitted to show you a common little trick
with bits of paper!"
"But you _must_ tell me what you mean," said Brand, breathlessly, and with
his face still somewhat pale. "You suggest there has been a trick.
That is why you have come from Naples? What do you know? What is about to
happen? For God's sake, Calabressa, don't have any mystification about it:
what is it that you know--that you suspect--that you have heard?"
"My dear friend," said Calabressa, with some anxiety, "perhaps I have been
indiscreet. I know nothing: what can I know? But I show you a trick--if only
to prepare you for any news--and you think it is very serious. Oh no; do
not be too hopeful--do not think it is serious--think it was a foolish
trick--"
And so, notwithstanding all that Brand could do to force some
definite explanation from him, Calabressa succeeded in getting away,
promising to carry to Natalie any message Brand might send in the
evening; and as for Brand himself, it was now time for him to go
up to Lisle Street, so that he had something else to think of than
idle mystifications.

For this was how he took it in the end: Calabressa was whimsical, fantastic,
mysterious; he had been playing with the notion that Brand had been entrapped
into this service; he had succeeded in showing himself how it might have
been done. The worst of it was--had he been putting vain hopes into the
mind of Natalie? Was this the cause of her message? In the midst of
all this bewildering uncertainty, Brand set himself to the work left
unfinished by Reitzei, and found Ferdinand Lind as pleasant and friendly
a colleague as ever.

But a few days after he was startled by being summoned back to Lisle
Street, after he had gone home in the afternoon. He found Ferdinand Lind
as calm and collected as usual, though he spoke in a hard, dry voice.
He was then informed that Lind himself and Beratinsky were about
to leave London for a time; that the Council wished Brand to conduct
the business at Lisle Street as best he could in their absence; and
that he was to summon to his aid such of the officers of the Society
as he chose.

He asked no explanations, and Lind vouchsafed none. There was something unusual
in the expression of the man's face.

Well, Brand installed himself in Lisle Street, and got along as
best he could with the assistance of Gathorne Edwards and one or
two others.

But not one of them, any more than himself, knew what had happened or was
happening.

No word or message of any kind came from Calabressa, or Lind, or the Society,
or any one. Day after day Brand get through his work with patience, but
without interest; only for the time being, these necessities of
the hour beguiled him from thinking of the hideous, inevitable thing
that lay ahead in his life.

When news did come, it was sudden and terrible. One night he and Edwards
were alone in the rooms in Lisle Street, when a letter, sent through a
roundabout channel, was put into his hands. He opened it carelessly, glanced
at the beginning of it, then he uttered an exclamation; then, as he read
on, Edwards noticed that his companion's face was ghastly pale, even to his
lips.

"Gracious heavens!--Edwards, read it!" he said, quite breathlessly. He dropped
the letter on the table. There was no wild joy at his own deliverance in
this man's face, there was terror rather; it was not of himself at all he
was thinking, but of the death-agony of Natalie Lind when she
should hear of her father's doom.

"Why, this is very good news, Brand," Edwards cried, wondering. "You are
released from that affair--"

But then he read farther, and he, too, became agitated.

"What--what does it mean? Lind, Beratinsky, Reitzei accused of
conspiracy--misusing the powers intrusted to them as officers of the
Society--Reitzei acquitted on giving evidence--Lind and Beratinsky condemned!"

Edwards looked at his companion, aghast, and said,
"You know what the penalty is, Brand?"

The other nodded. Edwards returned to the letter, reading aloud, in
detached scraps, his voice giving evidence of his astonishment and
dismay.

"Beratinsky, allowed the option of undertaking the duty from which you
are released, accepts--it is his only chance, I suppose--poor devil!
what chance is it, after all?" He put the letter back on the table.
"What is all this that has happened, Brand?"
Brand did not answer. He had risen to his feet; he stood like one bound
with chains; there was suffering and an infinite pity in the haggard
face.

"Why is not Natalie here?"

he said; and it was strange that two men so different from each other as
Brand and Calabressa should in such a crisis have had the same instinctive
thought. The lives and fates of men were nothing; it was the heart of a
girl that concerned them. "They will tell her--some of them over there--they
will tell her suddenly that her father is condemned to die! Why is
she--among--among strangers?"
He pulled out his watch hastily, but long ago the night-mail had
left for Dover. At this moment the bell rung below, and he started;
it was unusual for them to have a visitor at such an hour.
"It is only that drunken fool Kirski," Edwards said. "I asked him
to come here to-night." 

CHAPTER LIII.

THE TRIAL.
It was a dark, wet, and cold night when Calabressa felt his way
down the gangway leading from the Admiralty Pier into the small
Channel steamer that lay slightly rolling at her moorings. Most of
the passengers who were already on board had got to leeward of the
deck-cabins, and sat huddled up there, undistinguishable bundles
of rugs. For a time he almost despaired of finding out Reitzei, but
at last he was successful; and he had to explain to this particular
bundle of rugs that he had changed his mind, and would himself
travel with him to Naples.
It was a dirty night in crossing, and both suffered considerably;
the difference being that, as soon as they got into the smooth
waters of Calais harbor, Calabressa recovered himself directly,
whereas Reitzei remained an almost inanimate heap of wrappings, and
had to be assisted or shoved up the steep gangway into the glare
of the officials' lamps.
Then, as soon as he had got into a compartment of the railway-carriage,
he rolled himself up in a corner, and sought to forget his sufferings
in sleep.
Calabressa was walking up and down on the platform. At length the
bell rung, and he was about to step into the compartment, when he
found himself preceded by a lady.
"I beg your pardon, madame," said he, politely, "but it is a carriage
for smokers."
"And if one wishes to smoke, one is permitted--is it not so?" said
the stranger, cheerfully.
Calabressa at once held open the door for her, and then followed.
These three had the compartment to themselves.
She was a young lady, good-looking, tall, bright-complexioned, with
brown eyes that had plenty of fire in them, and a pleasant smile
that showed brilliant teeth. Calabressa, sitting opposite her,
judged that she was an Austrian, from the number of bags and
knickknacks she had, all in red Russia leather, and from the number
of trinkets she wore, mostly of polished steel or silver. She opened
a little tortoise-shell cigarette-case, took out a cigarette, and
gracefully accepted the light that Calabressa offered her. By this
time the train had started, and was thundering through the night.
The young lady was very frank and affable; she talked to her companion
opposite--Reitzei being fast asleep--about a great many things; she
lit cigarette after cigarette. She spoke of her husband moreover;
and complained that he should have to go and fight in some one
else's quarrel. Why could not ladies who went to the tables at Monte
Carlo keep their temper, that a perfectly neutral third person
should be summoned to fight a duel on behalf of one of them?
"You are going to rejoin him, then, madame?"I should have thought you would
have learned that, if anything, from Mr. Ruskin."

Mr. Percivale spoke earnestly. Wynnie, either from disappointment or
despair, probably from a mixture of both, apparently fancied that, or
rather felt as if, he was scolding her, and got cross. This was anything
but dignified, especially with a stranger, and one who was doing his
best to help her. And yet, somehow, I must with shame confess I was not
altogether sorry to see it. In fact, my reader, I must just uncover my sin,
and say that I felt a little jealous of Mr. Percivale. The negative reason
was that I had not yet learned to love him. The only cure for jealousy is
love. But I was ashamed too of Wynnie's behaving so childishly. Her face
flushed, the tears came in her eyes, and she rose, saying, with a little
choke in her voice--

"I see it's no use trying. I won't intrude any more into things I am
incapable of. I am much obliged to you, Mr. Percivale, for showing me how
presumptuous I have been."

The painter rose as she rose, looking greatly concerned. But he did not
attempt to answer her. Indeed she gave him no time. He could only spring
after her to open the door for her. A more than respectful bow as she left
the room was his only adieu. But when he turned his face again towards me,
it expressed even a degree of consternation.

"I fear," he said, approaching me with an almost military step, much at
variance with the shadow upon his countenance, "I fear I have been rude to
Miss Walton, but nothing was farther--"

"You mistake entirely, Mr. Percivale. I heard all you were saying, and you
were not in the least rude. On the contrary, I consider you were very kind
to take the trouble with her you did. Allow me to make the apology for my
daughter which I am sure she will wish made when she recovers from the
disappointment of finding more obstacles in the way of her favourite
pursuit than she had previously supposed. She is only too ready to lose
heart, and she paid too little attention to your approbation and too
much--in proportion, I mean--to your--criticism. She felt discouraged and
lost her temper, but more with herself and her poor attempts, I venture
to assure you, than with your remarks upon them. She is too much given to
despising her own efforts."

"But I must have been to blame if I caused any such feeling with regard to
those drawings, for I assure you they contain great promise."

"I am glad you think so. That I should myself be of the same opinion can be
of no consequence."

"Miss Walton at least sees what ought to be represented. All she needs is
greater severity in the quality of representation. And that would have
grown without any remark from onlookers. Only a friendly criticism is
sometimes a great help. It opens the eyes a little sooner than they would
have opened of themselves. And time," he added, with a half sigh and with
an appeal in his tone, as if he would justify himself to my conscience, "is
half the battle in this world. It is over so soon."

"No sooner than it ought to be," I rejoined.

"So it may appear to you," he returned; "for you, I presume to
conjecture, have worked hard and done much. I may or may not have worked
hard--sometimes I think I have, sometimes I think I have not--but I
certainly have done little. Here I am nearly thirty, and have made no mark
on the world yet."

"I don't know that that is of so much consequence," I said. "I have never
hoped for more than to rub out a few of the marks already made."

"Perhaps you are right," he returned. "Every man has something he can do,
and more, I suppose, that he can't do. But I have no right to turn a visit
into a visitation. Will you please tell Miss Walton that I am very sorry I
presumed on the privileges of a drawing-master, and gave her pain. It was
so far from my intention that it will be a lesson to me for the future."

With these words he took his leave, and I could not help being greatly
pleased both with them and with his bearing. He was clearly anything but a
common man.


CHAPTER VI.

THE SHADOW OP DEATH.


When Wynnie appeared at dinner she looked ashamed of herself, and her face
betrayed that she had been crying. But I said nothing, for I had confidence
that all she needed was time to come to herself, that the voice that speaks
louder than any thunder might make its stillness heard. And when I came
home from my walk the next morning I found Mr. Percivale once more in the
group about Connie, and evidently on the best possible terms with all. The
same afternoon Wynnie went out sketching with Dora. I had no doubt that
she had made some sort of apology to Mr. Percivale; but I did not make the
slightest attempt to discover what had passed between them, for though it
is of all things desirable that children should be quite open with their
parents, I was most anxious to lay upon them no burden of obligation. For
such burden lies against the door of utterance, and makes it the more
difficult to open. It paralyses the speech of the soul. What I desired was
that they should trust me so that faith should overcome all difficulty that
might lie in the way of their being open with me. That end is not to he
gained by any urging of admonition. Against such, growing years at least,
if nothing else, will bring a strong reaction. Nor even, if so gained would
the gain be at all of the right sort. The openness would not be faith.
Besides, a parent must respect the spiritual person of his child, and
approach it with reverence, for that too looks the Father in the face, and
has an audience with him into which no earthly parent can enter even if he
dared to desire it. Therefore I trusted my child. And when I saw that she
looked at me a little shyly when we next met, I only sought to show her the
more tenderness and confidence, telling her all about my plans with the
bells, and my talks with the smith and Mrs. Coombes. She listened with just
such interest as I had always been accustomed to see in her, asking such
questions, and making such remarks as I might have expected, but I still
felt that there was the thread of a little uneasiness through the web of
our intercourse,--such a thread of a false colour as one may sometimes find
wandering through the labour of the loom, and seek with pains to draw from
the woven stuff. But it was for Wynnie to take it out, not for me. And she
did not leave it long. For as she bade me good-night in my study, she said
suddenly, yet with hesitating openness,

"Papa, I told Mr. Percivale that I was sorry I had behaved so badly about
the drawings."

"You did right, my child," I replied. At the same moment a pang of anxiety
passed through me lest under the influence of her repentance she should
have said anything more than becoming. But I banished the doubt instantly
as faithlessness in the womanly instincts of my child. For we men are
always so ready and anxious to keep women right, like the wretched
creature, Laertes, in _Hamlet_, who reads his sister such a lesson on her
maidenly duties, but declines almost with contempt to listen to a word from
her as to any co-relative obligation on his side!

And here I may remark in regard to one of the vexed questions of the
day--the rights of women--that what women demand it is not for men to
withhold. It is not their business to lay the law for women. That women
must lay down for themselves. I confess that, although I must herein seem
to many of my readers old-fashioned and conservative, I should not like to
see any woman I cared much for either in parliament or in an anatomical
class-room; but on the other hand I feel that women must be left free to
settle that matter. If it is not good, good women will find it out and
recoil from it. If it is good then God give them good speed. One thing they
_have_ a right to--a far wider and more valuable education than they
have been in the way of receiving. When the mothers are well taught the
generations will grow in knowledge at a fourfold rate. But still the
teaching of life is better than all the schools, and common sense than all
learning. This common sense is a rare gift, scantier in none than in those
who lay claim to it on the ground of following commonplace, worldly, and
prudential maxims. But I must return to my Wynnie.

"And what did Mr. Percivale say?" I resumed, for she was silent.

"He took the blame all on himself, papa."

"Like a gentleman," I said.

"But I could not leave it so, you know, papa, because that was not the
truth."

"Well?"

"I told him that I had lost my temper from disappointment; that I had
thought I did not care for my drawings because I was so far from satisfied
with them, but when he made me feel that they were worth nothing, then I
found from the vexation I felt that I had cared for them. But I do think,
papa, I was more ashamed of having shown them, and vexed with myself, than
cross with him. But I was very silly."

"Well, and what did he say?"

"He began to praise them then. But you know I could not take much of that,
for what could he do?"

"You might give him credit for a little honesty, at least."

"Yes; but things may be true in a way, you know, and not mean much."

"He seems to have succeeded in reconciling you to the prosecution of your
efforts, however; for I saw you go out with your sketching apparatus this
afternoon."

"Yes," she answered shyly. "He was so kind that somehow I got heart to try
again. He's very nice, isn't he?"

My answer was not quite ready.

"Don't you like him, papa?"

"Well--I like him--yes. But we must not be in haste with our judgments, you
know. I have had very little opportunity of seeing into him. There is much
in him that I like, but--"

"But what? "P.S.

--I have seen your beautiful caged little bird. I can say no more at present,
but that she shall not suffer through any neglect of mine."
* * * * *
"What is that about the caged bird?" said Edwards.

"Ah, the caged bird?"

said Calabressa. "The caged bird?

--do you see, that is a metaphor. It is nothing; one makes one's little
joke.

But I was saying, my dear friend, that you English do not promise, and
then forget. No; he says, 'I will befriend this poor devil of a Kirski;'
and here he comes inquiring after him.

Now I must answer the letter; you will accompany me, Monsieur
Edouarts?

Ten minutes in my little room, and it is done."
So the two walked away together. This Edwards who now accompanied Calabressa
was a man of about thirty, who looked younger; tall, fair, with a slight
stoop, a large forehead, and blue eyes that stared near-sightedly through
spectacles. The ordinary expression of his face was grave even to
melancholy, but his occasional smile was humorous, and when he laughed
the laugh was soft and light like that of a child. His knowledge of modern
languages was considered to be almost unrivalled, though he had travelled
but little.

When, in this little room, Calabressa had at length finished his
letter and dusted it over with sand, he was not at all loath to
show it to this master of modern speech.

Calabressa was proud of his French; and if he would himself have acknowledged
that it was perhaps here and there of doubtful idiom and of phonetic
spelling, would he not have claimed for it that it was fluent,
incisive, and ornate?

"My valued friend, it is not permitted me to answer your questions in
precise terms; but he to whom you have had the goodness to extend
your bountiful protection is well and safe, and under my own care.

No; he goes not back to Russia.

His thoughts are different; his madness travels in other directions; it is
no longer revenge, it is adoration and gratitude that his heart holds. And
you, can you not guess who has worked the miracle? Think of this: you have
a poor wretch who is distracted by injuries and suffering; he goes away
alone into Europe; he is buffeted about with the winds of hunger
and thirst and cold: he cannot speak; he is like a dog--a wild beast
that people drive away from their door.

And all at once some one addresses him in gentle tones: it is the
voice of an angel to him!

You plough and harrow the poor wretch's heart with suffering and contempt and
hopelessness, until it is a desert, a wilderness; but some one, by accident,
one day drops a seed of kindness into it, and behold! the beautiful flower
of love springing up, and all the man's life going into it! Can you
understand--you who ought to understand? Were you not present when the
bewildered, starved, hunted creature heard that gentle voice of pity, like
an angel speaking from heaven? And if the beautiful girl, who will be the
idol of my thoughts through my remaining years, if she does not know that
she has rescued a human soul from despair, you will tell her--tell her from
me, from Calabressa. What would not Kirski do for her? you might well ask.
The patient regards the physician who has cured him with gratitude:
this is more that gratitude, it is worship.

What she has preserved she owns; he would give his life to her, to you, to
any one whom she regards with affection. For myself, I do not say such
things; but she may count on me also, while one has yet life.

"I am yours, and hers, Calabressa."
* * * * *
The letter was handed to Gathorne Edwards with a proud air; and he read it,
and handed it back.

"This man Kirski is not so much of a savage as you imagine," he said.

"He learns quickly, and forgets nothing. He can repeat all the
articles of membership; but it is No. 5 that he is particularly fond of.
You have not heard him go over it, Calabressa?"
"I? No. He does not waste my time that way."
"His pronunciation," continued the younger man, with a smile, "is
rather like the cracking of dry twigs.

'Article 5.

Whatever punishment may be decreed against any Officer, Companion, or
Friend of the Society may be vicariously borne by any other Officer,
Companion, or Friend who of his own full and free consent acts as
substitute; the original offender becoming thereby redeemed,
acquitted, and released.'

And then he invariably adds: 'Why not make me of some use?

To myself my life is nothing.'"

At this moment there was a tapping at the door.

"It is himself," said Edwards.

"Enter!"

Calabressa called out.

The man who now came into the room was a very different looking
person from the wild, unkempt creature who had confronted Natalie
Lind in Curzon Street.

The voluminous red beard and mustache had been cropped; he wore the clothes
of a decent workman, with a foreign touch here and there; he was submissive
and docile in look.

"Well, where have you been, my friend?"

Calabressa said to him in Italian.

Kirski glanced at Gathorne Edwards, and began to speak to him in Russian.

"Will you explain for me, little father? I have been to many churches."

"The police will not suspect him if he goes there," said Calabressa,
laughing.

"And to the shops in the Piazza San Marco, where the pictures are of the
saints."
"Well?"
"Little father, I can find no one of the saints so beautiful as that one
in England that the Master Calabressa knows."

Calabressa laughed again.

"Allons, mon grand enfant! Tell him that if it is only a likeness he is
hunting for, I can show him one."

With that he took out from his breast-pocket a small pocket book, opened
it, found a certain photograph, and put it on the table, shoving it over
toward Kirski. The dim-eyed Russian did not dare to touch it; but he
stooped over it, and he put one trembling hand on each side of it, as if
he would concentrate the light, and gazed at this portrait of Natalie Lind
until he could see nothing at all for the tears that came into his eyes.
Then he rose abruptly, and said something rapidly to Edwards.

"He says, 'Take it away, or you will make me a thief. It is worth
more than all the diamonds in the world.'"

Calabressa did not laugh this time.

He regarded the man with a look in which there was as much pity as
curiosity.

"The poor devil!" he said. "Tell him I will ask the beautiful saint whom he
worships so to send him a portrait of herself with her own hands. I will.
She will do as much as that for her friend Calabressa."
This had scarcely been translated to Kirski when, in his sudden gratitude,
he caught Calabressa's hand and kissed it.

"Tell him, also," Calabressa said, good-naturedly, "that if he is hungry
before dinner-time there is sausage and bread and beer in the cupboard.
But he must not stir out till we come back. Allons, mon bon camarade!"
Calabressa lit another cigarette, and the two companions sallied forth.
They stepped into a gondola, and presently they were being borne swiftly
over the plain of light-green water. By-and-by they plunged into a varied
and picturesque mass of shipping, and touched land again in front of a
series of stores. The gondola was ordered to await their return.

Calabressa passed without question through the lower floor of this
particular building, where the people were busy with barrels of
flour, and led the way up-stairs until he stopped at a certain door.

He knocked thrice and entered. There was a small, dark man seated at a
table, apparently engaged with some bills of lading.

"You are punctual, Brother Calabressa."
"Your time is valuable, Brother Granaglia. Let me present to you my
comrade Signor Edouarts, of whom I wrote to you."
The sallow-faced little man with the tired look bowed courteously, begged
his guests to be seated, and pushed toward them a box of cigarettes.

"Now, my Calabressa," said he, "to the point. As you guess, I am pressed for
time. Seven days hence will find me in Moscow."
"In Moscow!" exclaimed Calabressa. "You dare not!"
Granaglia waved his hand a couple of inches.

"Do not protest. It may be your turn to-morrow. And my good friend
Calabressa would find Moscow just about as dangerous for him as for
me."
"Monsieur le Secretaire, I have no wish to try. But to the point, as you
say. May one ask how it stands with Zaccatelli?"
Granaglia glanced at the Englishman.

"Of course he knows everything," Calabressa explained instantly. "How
otherwise should I have brought him with me?"
"Well, Zaccatelli has received his warning."
"Who carried it?"
"I."
"You! You are the devil! You thrust your head into the lion's den!"
The black-eyed, worn-faced little man seemed pleased. An odd, dry smile
appeared about the thin lips.

"It needed no courage at all, friend Calabressa. His Eminence knows who
we are, no one better. The courage was his. It is not a pleasant thing when
you are told that within a certain given time you will be a dead
man; but Zaccatelli did not blanch; no, he was very polite to me.

He paid us compliments. We were not like the others, Calabressa. We were
good citizens and Christians; even his Holiness might be induced
to lend an ear; why should not the Church and we be friends?"

Calabressa burst out laughing.

"Surely evil days have fallen on the Pope, Brother Granaglia, when
one of his own Cardinals proposes that he should at last countenance
a secret society.

But his Eminence was mad with fear--was it not so? He wanted to win you
over with promises, eh? Idle words, and no more. He feeds you on wind,
and sends you away, and returns to his mistresses and his wines and his
fountains of perfume?"
"Not quite so," said the other, with the same dry smile, "His Eminence,
as I say to you, knows as well as any one in Europe who and what we are,
and what is our power. The day after I called on him with my little message,
what does he do--of his own free-will, mind you--but send back the daughter
of old De Bedros to her home, with a pledge to her father that she shall
have a dowry of ten thousand lire when she marries. The father is pleased,
the daughter is not. She sits and cries. She talks of herself getting at him
with a stiletto."
He took a cigarette, and accepted a light from Calabressa.

"Further," he continued, "his Eminence is so kind as to propose to give
the Council an annual subsidy from his own purse of thirty thousand lire."

"Thirty thousand lire!" Calabressa exclaimed.

But at this point even Granaglia began to laugh.

"Yes, yes, my friend," he said, apparently apostrophizing the absent
Cardinal. "You know, then, who we are, and you do not wish to give
up all pleasures. No; we are to become the good boy among secret societies;
we are to have the blessing of the Pope; we are to fight Prince
Bismarck for you.

Prince Bismarck has all his knights and his castles on the board; but what
are they against an angelic host of bishops and some millions of common
pawns? Prince Bismarck wishes to plunge Europe again into war. The church
with this tremendous engine within reach, says, No.
Do you wish to find eight men--eight men, at the least--out of every
company of every regiment in all your _corps d'armee_ throw down their
rifles at the first onset of battle? You will shoot them for mutiny? My
dear fellow, you cannot, the enemy is upon you. With eight men out of
each company throwing down their weapons, and determined either to desert
or die, how on earth can you fight at all? Well, then, good Bismarck, you
had better make your peace with the Church, and rescind those Falk laws.
What do you think of that scheme, Calabressa? It was ingenious, was it not,
to have come into the head of a man under sentence of death?"
"But the thirty thousand lire, Brother Granaglia. It is a tremendous
bribe."
"The Council does not accept bribes, Brother Calabressa," said the other,
coldly,
"It is decided, then, that the decree remains to be executed?"
"I know nothing to the contrary. But if you wish to know for certain, you
must seek the Council. They are at Naples."
He pulled an ink-bottle before him, and made a motion with his forefinger.

"You understand?"
"Yes, yes," Calabressa answered. "And I will go on to Naples, Brother
Granaglia; for I have with me one who I think will carry out the wishes of
the Council effectively, so far as his Eminence the Cardinal is concerned."

"Who is he?" said the other, but with no great interest.

"Yakov Kirski. He is a Russian."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A CLIMAX.

It was a momentous decision that George Brand had to arrive at; and yet
he scarcely seemed to be aware of it. The man had changed so much during
these past six months.

"Do you know, Evelyn," he was saying to his friend, on the very evening
on which his answer was to be given to Ferdinand Lind, "I am beginning
to look on that notion of my going to America with anything but dislike.
Rather the opposite, indeed. I should like to get rid of a lot of old
associations, and start in a new and wider field.

With another life to lead, don't you want another sort of world to live
it in?"
Lord Evelyn regarded him. No one had observed with a closer interest the
gradual change that had come over this old friend of his. And he was proud
of it, too; for had it not been partly of his doing?

"One does not breathe free air here," Brand continued, rather absently--as
if his mental vision was fixed on the greater spaces beyond the
seas.

"With a new sort of life beginning, wouldn't it be better to start it under
new conditions--feeling yourself unhampered--with nothing around to
disturb even the foolishness of your dreams and hopes? Then you could
work away at your best, leaving the result to time."
"I know perfectly what all that means," Lord Evelyn said. "You are
anxious to get away from Lind. You believe in your work, but you don't like
to be associated with him."
"Perhaps I know a little more than you, Evelyn," said Brand, gently, "of
Lind's relation to the society. He does not represent it to me at all.

He is only one of its servants, like ourselves. But don't let us talk about
him."
"You _must_ talk about him," Lord Evelyn said, as he pulled out his watch.
"It is now seven. At eight you go to the initiation of Molyneux, and you
have promised to give Lind his answer to-night. Well?"
Brand was playing idly with a pocket-pencil. After a minute or two, he
said,
"I promised Natalie to consider this thing without any reference to her
whatever--that I would decide just as if there was no possibility of her
becoming my wife. I promised that; but it is hard to do, Evelyn. I have
tried to imagine my never having seen her, and that I had been led
into this affair solely through you.

Then I do think that if you had come to me and said that my giving
up every penny I possess would forward a good work--would do indirect
benefit to a large number of people, and so forth--I do think I could
have said, 'All right, Evelyn; take it.' I never cared much for money; I
fancy I could get on pretty well on a sovereign a week.

I say that if you had come to me with this request--"
"Precisely," Lord Evelyn said, quickly.

"You would have said yes, if I had come to you. But because it is Lind,
whom you distrust, you fall away from the height of self-sacrifice,
and regard the proposal from the point of view of the Waldegrave
Club.

Mind you, I am not counselling you one way or the other. I am only pointing
out to you that it is your dislike of Lind that prevents your doing what
you otherwise would have done."
"Very well," said the other, boldly. "Have I not reason to distrust
him?

How can I explain his conduct and his implied threats except on the
supposition that he has been merely playing with me, as far as his daughter
is concerned; and that as soon as I had handed over this property I
should find it out? Oh, it is a very pretty scheme altogether! This heap
of English money transferred to the treasury; Lind at length achieving
his ambition of being put on the Council; Natalie carried off to Italy; and
myself granted the honor of stepping into Lind's shoes in Lisle Street. On
the other hand: 'Refuse, and we pack you off to America.' Now, you know,
Evelyn, one does not like to be threatened into anything!"

"Then you have decided to say, No?"
He did not answer for a second or two; when he did, his manner was
quite changed.

"I rather think I know what both you and Natalie would have me do, although
you won't say so explicitly.

And if you and she had come to me with this proposal, do you think
there would have been any difficulty?

I should have been satisfied if she had put her hand in mine, and
said, 'Thank you.'

Then I should have reminded her that she was sacrificing something too."

He relapsed into silence again; Lord Evelyn was vaguely conscious that the
minutes were passing by, and that his friend seemed as far off as
ever from any decision.

"You remember the old-fashioned rose-garden, Evelyn?"

"At the beeches? Yes."

"Don't you think Natalie would like the view from that side of the
house?

And if she chose that side, I was thinking of having a conservatory built
all the length of the rooms, with steps opening out into the rose-garden.
She could go out there for a stroll of a morning."
So these had been his dreams.

"If I go to America," he said presently, "I should expect you to look
after the old place a little bit.

You might take your sisters there occasionally, and turn them loose; it
wants a woman's hand here and there. Mrs. Alleyne would put you all right;
and of course I should send Waters down, and give up those rooms in
Buckingham Street."
"But I cannot imagine your going to America, somehow," Lord Evelyn said.
"Surely there is plenty for you to do here."
"I will say this of Lind, that he is not an idle talker. What he says he
means. Besides, Molyneux can take up my work in the North; he is the very
man."

Again silence.

It was now half-past seven.

"I wish, though, it had been something more exciting," Brand said. "I should
not have minded having a turn at the Syrian business; I am not much
afraid of risking my neck. There is not much danger in Philadelphia."
"But look here, Brand," said Lord Evelyn, regarding him attentively.

"You are speaking with great equanimity about your going to America;
possibly you might like the change well enough; but do I understand
you that you are prepared to go alone?"
Brand looked up; he understood what was meant.
"If I am ordered--yes."
He held out his right hand; on the third finger there was a massive
gold ring--a plain hoop, without motto or design whatever.
"There," said he, "is the first ring I ever wore. It was given to
me this afternoon, to remind me of a promise; and that promise is
to me more binding than a hundred oaths." 
He rose with a sigh.
"Ah, well, Evelyn, whatever happens we will not complain. There
have been compensations."
"But you have not told me what answer you mean to give to Lind."
"Suppose I wait until I see him before deciding?"
"Then you will say, No. You have allowed your distrust of him to
become a sort of mania, and the moment you see him the mere sight
of him will drive you into antagonism."
"I tell you what I wish I could do, Evelyn," said the other,
laughing:
"I wish I could turn over everything I have got to you, and escape
scot-free to America and start my own life free and unencumbered."
"And alone?" 
His face grew grave again.
"There is nothing possible else!" said he.
It was nearly eight o'clock when he left. As he walked along
Piccadilly, a clear and golden twilight was shining over the trees
in the Green Park. All around him was the roar of the London streets;
but it was not that that he heard. Was it not rather the sound of
a soft, low voice, and the silvery notes of the zither? His memory
acted as a sea-shell, and brought him an echo from other days and
other climes.
"Behold the beautiful night--the wind sleeps drowsily--the silent
shores slumber in the dark:
"Sul placido elemento Vien meco a navigar!
"The soft wind moves--as it stirs among the leaves--it moves and
dies--among the murmur of the water:
"Lascia l'amico tetto, Vien meco a navigar!
"Now on the spacious mantle--of the already darkening heavens--see,
oh the shining wonder--how the white stars tremble:
"Sul l'onde addormentate Vien meco a navigar!"
This was the voice that he heard amidst the roar of the London
streets.
Would he hear it far away on the wide Atlantic, with the shores of
England hidden behind the mists of rain? To-night was to decide
what the future of his life was to be.
If Natalie had appeared at this moment, and said to him, "Dearest,
let it be as my father wishes;" or if Lord Evelyn had frankly
declared to him that it was his duty to surrender his possessions
to this Society to which he had devoted his life, there would have
been not a moment's hesitation. But now he was going to see a man
whom he suspected and was inclined to hate, and his nature began
to harden. It would be a question between one man of the world and
another. Sentiment would be put aside.
He would no longer be played with. A man should be master of his
own affairs.
This was what he said to himself. But he had quite forgotten his
determination to consider this matter as if no Natalie existed; and
his resolve to exclude sentiment altogether did not interfere with
the fact that always, if unconsciously, there remained in his mind
a certain picture he had been dreaming a good deal about of late."And the consequence is that they continue like children--the good ones, I
mean--and have hardly a chance of making a calm, deliberate choice of that
which is good; while those who have been only excited and nothing more, are
hardened and seared by the recurrence of such feeling as is neither aroused
by truth nor followed by action."

"You daren't talk like that if you knew the kind of people in this country
that the Methodists, as you call them, have got a hold of. They tell me it
was like hell itself down in those mines before Wesley come among them."

"I should be a fool or a bigot to doubt that the Wesleyans have done
incalculable good in the country. And that not alone to the people who
never went to church. The whole Church of England is under obligations to
Methodism such as no words can overstate."

"I wonder you can say such things against them, then."

"Now there you show the evil of thinking too much about the party you
belong to. It makes a man touchy; and then he fancies when another is
merely, it may be, analysing a difference, or insisting strongly on some
great truth, that he is talking against his party."

"But you said, sir, that our clergy don't care about moving our judgments,
only our feelings. Now I know preachers amongst us of whom that would be
anything but true."

"Of course there must be. But there is what I say--your party-feeling makes
you touchy. A man can't always be saying in the press of utterance, '_Of
course there are exceptions_.' That is understood. I confess I do not know
much about your clergy, for I have not had the opportunity. But I do know
this, that some of the best and most liberal people I have ever known have
belonged to your community."

"They do gather a deal of money for good purposes."

"Yes. But that was not what I meant by _liberal_. It is far easier to give
money than to be generous in judgment. I meant by _liberal_, able to see
the good and true in people that differ from you--glad to be roused to the
reception of truth in God's name from whatever quarter it may come, and not
readily finding offence where a remark may have chanced to be too sweeping
or unguarded. But I see that I ought to be more careful, for I have made
you, who certainly are not one of the quarrelsome people I have been
speaking of, misunderstand me."

"I beg your pardon, sir. I was hasty. But I do think I am more ready to
lose my temper since--"

Here he stopped. A fit of coughing came on, and, to my concern, was
followed by what I saw plainly could be the result only of a rupture in the
lungs. I insisted on his dropping his work and coming home with me, where I
made him rest the remainder of the day and all Sunday, sending word to
his mother that I could not let him go home. When we left on the Monday
morning, we took him with us in the carriage hired for the journey, and set
him down at his mother's, apparently no worse than usual.


CHAPTER VII.

AT THE FARM.


Leaving the younger members of the family at home with the servants, we set
out for a farmhouse, some twenty miles off, which Turner had discovered
for us. Connie had stood the journey down so well, and was now so much
stronger, that we had no anxiety about her so far as regarded the
travelling. Through deep lanes with many cottages, and here and there a
very ugly little chapel, over steep hills, up which Turner and Wynnie and
I walked, and along sterile moors we drove, stopping at roadside inns, and
often besides to raise Connie and let her look about upon the extended
prospect, so that it was drawing towards evening before we arrived at our
destination. On the way Turner had warned us that we were not to expect a
beautiful country, although the place was within reach of much that was
remarkable. Therefore we were not surprised when we drew up at the door of
a bare-looking, shelterless house, with scarcely a tree in sight, and a
stretch of undulating fields on every side.

"A dreary place in winter, Turner," I said, after we had seen Connie
comfortably deposited in the nice white-curtained parlour, smelling of
dried roses even in the height of the fresh ones, and had strolled out
while our tea--dinner was being got ready for us.

"Not a doubt of it; but just the place I wanted for Miss Connie," he
replied. "We are high above the sea, and the air is very bracing, and not,
at this season, too cold. A month later I should not on any account have
brought her here."

"I think even now there is a certain freshness in the wind that calls up a
kind of will in the nerves to meet it."

"That is precisely what I wanted for you all. You observe there is no rasp
in its touch, however. There are regions in this island of ours where
even in the hottest day in summer you would frequently discover a certain
unfriendly edge in the air, that would set you wondering whether the
seasons had not changed since you were a boy, and used to lie on the grass
half the idle day."

"I often do wonder whether it may not be so, but I always come to the
conclusion that even this is but an example of the involuntary tendency of
the mind of man towards the ideal. He forgets all that comes between and
divides the hints of perfection scattered here and there along the scope of
his experience. I especially remember one summer day in my childhood, which
has coloured all my ideas of summer and bliss and fulfilment of content.
It is made up of only mossy grass, and the scent of the earth and wild
flowers, and hot sun, and perfect sky--deep and blue, and traversed by
blinding white clouds. I could not have been more than five or six, I
think, from the kind of dress I wore, the very pearl buttons of which,
encircled on their face with a ring of half-spherical hollows, have their
undeniable relation in my memory to the heavens and the earth, to the march
of the glorious clouds, and the tender scent of the rooted flowers; and,
indeed, when I think of it, must, by the delight they gave me, have opened
my mind the more to the enjoyment of the eternal paradise around me. What a
thing it is to please a child!"

"I know what you mean perfectly," answered Turner. "It is as I get older
that I understand what Wordsworth says about childhood. It is indeed a
mercy that we were not born grown men, with what we consider our wits about
us. They are blinding things those wits we gather. I fancy that the single
thread by which God sometimes keeps hold of a man is such an impression of
his childhood as that of which you have been speaking."

"I do not doubt it; for conscience is so near in all those memories to
which you refer. The whole surrounding of them is so at variance with sin!
A sense of purity, not in himself, for the child is not feeling that he
is pure, is all about him; and when afterwards the condition returns upon
him,--returns when he is conscious of so much that is evil and so much that
is unsatisfied in him,--it brings with it a longing after the high clear
air of moral well-being."

"Do you think, then, that it is only by association that nature thus
impresses us? that she has no power of meaning these things?"

"Not at all. No doubt there is something in the recollection of the
associations of childhood to strengthen the power of nature upon us; but
the power is in nature herself, else it would be but a poor weak thing to
what it is. There _is_ purity and state in that sky. There _is_ a peace
now in this wide still earth--not so very beautiful, you own--and in that
overhanging blue, which my heart cries out that it needs and cannot be well
till it gains--gains in the truth, gains in God, who is the power of truth,
the living and causing truth. There is indeed a rest that remaineth, a rest
pictured out even here this night, to rouse my dull heart to desire it and
follow after it, a rest that consists in thinking the thoughts of Him who
is the Peace because the Unity, in being filled with that spirit which now
pictures itself forth in this repose of the heavens and the earth."

"True," said Turner, after a pause. "I must think more about such things.
The science the present day is going wild about will not give us that
rest."

"No; but that rest will do much to give you that science. A man with this
repose in his heart will do more by far, other capabilities being equal, to
find out the laws that govern things. For all law is living rest."

"What you have been saying," resumed Turner, after another pause, "reminds
me much of one of Wordsworth's poems. I do not mean the famous ode."

"You mean the 'Ninth Evening Voluntary,' I know--one of his finest and
truest and deepest poems. It begins, 'Had this effulgence disappeared.'"

"Yes, that is the one I mean. I shall read it again when I go home. But
you don't agree with Wordsworth, do you, about our having had an existence
previous to this?"

He gave a little laugh as he asked the question.

"Not in the least. But an opinion held by such men as Plato, Origen, and
Wordsworth, is not to be laughed at, Mr. Turner. It cannot be in its nature
absurd. I might have mentioned Shelley as holding it, too, had his opinion
been worth anything."

"Then you don't think much of Shelley?"

"I think his _feeling_ most valuable; his _opinion_ nearly worthless."

"Well, perhaps I had no business to laugh, at it; but--"

"Do not suppose for a moment that I even lean to it. I dislike it. It would
make me unhappy to think there was the least of sound argument for it. But
I respect the men who have held it, and know there must be _something_ good
in it, else they could not have held it."

"Are you able then to sympathise with that ode of Wordsworth's? Does it not
depend for all its worth on the admission of this theory?"

"Not in the least. Is it necessary to admit that we must have had a
conscious life before this life to find meaning in the words,--

  'But trailing clouds of glory do we come
  From God who is our home'?

Is not all the good in us his image? Imperfect and sinful as we are, is not
all the foundation of our being his image? Is not the sin all ours, and the
life in us all God's? We cannot be the creatures of God without partaking
of his nature. Every motion of our conscience, every admiration of what
is pure and noble, is a sign and a result of this. Is not every
self-accusation a proof of the presence of his spirit? That comes not of
ourselves--that is not without him. These are the clouds of glory we come
trailing from him. All feelings of beauty and peace and loveliness and
right and goodness, we trail with us from our home. God is the only home
of the human soul. To interpret in this manner what Wordsworth says, will
enable us to enter into perfect sympathy with all that grandest of his
poems. I do not say this is what he meant; but I think it includes what he
meant by being greater and wider than what he meant. Nor am I guilty of
presumption in saying so, for surely the idea that we are born of God is a
greater idea than that we have lived with him a life before this life. But
Wordsworth is not the first among our religious poets to give us at least
what is valuable in the notion. I came upon a volume amongst my friend
Shepherd's books, with which I had made no acquaintance before--Henry
Vaughan's poems. I brought it with me, for it has finer lines, I almost
think, than any in George Herbert, though not so fine poems by any means as
his best. When we go into the house I will read one of them to you."

"Thank you," said Turner. "I wish I could have such talk once a week. The
shades of the prison-house, you know, Mr. Walton, are always trying to
close about us, and shut out the vision of the glories we have come from,
as Wordsworth says."

"A man," I answered, "who ministers to the miserable necessities of his
fellows has even more need than another to believe in the light and the
gladness--else a poor Job's comforter will he be. _I_ don't want to be
treated like a musical snuff-box."

The doctor laughed.

"No man can _prove_," he said, "that there is not a being inside the
snuff-box, existing in virtue of the harmony of its parts, comfortable when
they go well, sick when they go badly, and dying when it is dismembered, or
even when it stops."

"No," I answered. "No man can prove it. But no man can convince a human
being of it. And just as little can anyone convince me that my conscience,
making me do sometimes what I _don't_ like, comes from a harmonious action
of the particles of my brain. But it is time we went in, for by the law of
things in general, I being ready for my dinner, my dinner ought to be ready
for me."

"A law with more exceptions than instances, I fear," said Turner.

"I doubt that," I answered. "The readiness is everything, and that we
constantly blunder in. But we had better see whether we are really ready
for it, by trying whether it is ready for us."

Connie went to bed early, as indeed we all did, and she was rather better
than worse the next morning. My wife, for the first time for many nights,
said nothing about the crying of the sea. The following day Turner and I
set out to explore the neighbourhood. The rest remained quietly at home.

It was, as I have said, a high bare country. The fields lay side by side,
parted from each other chiefly, as so often in Scotland, by stone
walls; and these stones being of a laminated nature, the walls were not
unfrequently built by laying thin plates on their edges, which gave a
neatness to them not found in other parts of the country as far as I am
aware. In the middle of the fields came here and there patches of yet
unreclaimed moorland.

Now in a region like this, beauty must be looked for below the surface.
There is a probability of finding hollows of repose, sunken spots of
loveliness, hidden away altogether from the general aspect of sternness,
or perhaps sterility, that meets the eye in glancing over the outspread
landscape; just as in the natures of stern men you may expect to find, if
opportunity should be afforded you, sunny spots of tender verdure, kept
ever green by that very sternness which is turned towards the common
gaze--thus existent because they are below the surface, and not laid bare
to the sweep of the cold winds that roam the world. How often have not men
started with amaze at the discovery of some feminine sweetness, some grace
of protection in the man whom they had judged cold and hard and rugged,
inaccessible to the more genial influences of humanity! It may be that such
men are only fighting against the wind, and keep their hearts open to the
sun.

I knew this; and when Turner and I set out that morning to explore, I
expected to light upon some instance of it--some mine or other in which
nature had hidden away rare jewels; but I was not prepared to find such as
I did find. With our hearts full of a glad secret we returned home, but we
said nothing about it, in order that Ethelwyn and Wynnie might enjoy the
discovery even as we had enjoyed it.

There was another grand fact with regard to the neighbourhood about which
we judged it better to be silent for a few days, that the inland influences
might be free to work. We were considerably nearer the ocean than my wife
and daughters supposed, for we had made a great round in order to arrive
from the land-side. We were, however, out of the sound of its waves, which
broke all along the shore, in this part, at the foot of tremendous cliffs.
What cliffs they were we shall soon find.


CHAPTER VIII.

THE KEEVE.


"Now, my dear! now, Wynnie!" I said, after prayers the next morning, "you
must come out for a walk as soon as ever you can get your bonnets on."

"But we can't leave Connie, papa," objected Wynnie.

"O, yes, you can, quite well. There's nursie to look after her. What do you
say, Connie?"

For, for some time now, Connie had been able to get up so early, that it
was no unusual thing to have prayers in her room.

"I am entirely independent of help from my family," returned Connie
grandiloquently. "I am a woman of independent means," she added. "If you
say another word, I will rise and leave the room."

And she made a movement as if she would actually do as she had said. Seized
with an involuntary terror, I rushed towards her, and the impertinent girl
burst out laughing in my face--threw herself back on her pillows, and
laughed delightedly.

"Take care, papa," she said. "I carry a terrible club for rebellious
people." Then, her mood changing, she added, as if to suppress the tears
gathering in her eyes, "I am the queen--of luxury and self-will--and I
won't have anybody come near me till dinner-time. I mean to enjoy myself."

So the matter was settled, and we went out for our walk. Ethelwyn was
not such a good walker as she had been; but even if she had retained the
strength of her youth, we should not have got on much the better for it--so
often did she and Wynnie stop to grub ferns out of the chinks and roots of
the stone-walls. Now, I admire ferns as much as anybody--that is, not,
I fear, so much as my wife and daughter, but quite enough
notwithstanding--but I do not quite enjoy being pulled up like a fern at
every turn.

"Now, my dear, what is the use of stopping to torture that harmless
vegetable?" I say, but say in vain. "It is much more beautiful where it is
than it will be anywhere where you can put it. Besides, you know they never
come to anything with you. They _always_ die."

Thereupon my wife reminds me of this fern and that fern, gathered in such
and such places, and now in such and such corners of the garden or the
greenhouse, or under glass-shades in this or that room, of the very
existence of which I am ignorant, whether from original inattention, or
merely from forgetfulness, I do not know. Certainly, out of their own place
I do not care much for them.

At length, partly by the inducement I held out to them of a much greater
variety of ferns where we were bound, I succeeded in getting them over the
two miles in little more than two hours. After passing from the lanes into
the fields, our way led downwards till we reached a very steep large
slope, with a delightful southern exposure, and covered with the sweetest
down-grasses. It was just the place to lie in, as on the edge of the earth,
and look abroad upon the universe of air and floating worlds.

"Let us have a rest here, Ethel," I said. "I am sure this is much more
delightful than uprooting ferns. What an awful thing to think that here we
are on this great round tumbling ball of a world, held by the feet, and
lifting up the head into infinite space--without choice or wish of our
own--compelled to think and to be, whether we will or not! Just God must
know it to be very good, or he would not have taken it in his hands to make
individual lives without a possible will of theirs. He must be our Father,
or we are wretched creatures--the slaves of a fatal necessity! Did it ever
strike you, Turner, that each one of us stands on the apex of the world?
With a sphere, you know, it must be so. And thus is typified, as it seems
to me, that each one of us must look up for himself to find God, and then
look abroad to find his fellows."

"I think I know what you mean," was all Turner's reply.

"No doubt," I resumed, "the apprehension of this truth has, in otherwise
ill-ordered minds, given rise to all sorts of fierce and grotesque
fanaticism. But the minds which have thus conceived the truth, would have
been immeasurably worse without it; nay, this truth affords at last
the only possible door out of the miseries of their own chaos, whether
inherited or the result of their own misconduct."

"What's that in the grass?" cried Wynnie, in a tone of alarm.

I looked where she indicated, and saw a slow-worm, or blind-worm, lying
basking in the sun. I rose and went towards it.

"Here's your stick," said Turner.

"What for?" I asked. "Why should I kill it? It is perfectly harmless, and,
to my mind, beautiful."

I took it in my hands, and brought it to my wife. She gave an involuntary
shudder as it came near her.

"I assure you it is harmless," I said, "though it has a forked tongue."
And I opened its mouth as I spoke. "I do not think the serpent form is
essentially ugly."

"It makes me feel ugly," said Wynnie.

"I allow I do not quite understand the mystery of it," I said. "But you
never saw lovelier ornamentation than these silvery scales, with all the
neatness of what you ladies call a set pattern, and none of the stiffness,
for there are not two of them the same in form. And you never saw lovelier
curves than this little patient creature, which does not even try to get
away from me, makes with the queer long thin body of him."

"I wonder how it can look after its tail, it is so far off," said Wynnie.

"It does though--better than you ladies look after your long dresses. I
wonder whether it is descended from creatures that once had feet, and did
not make a good use of them. Perhaps they had wings even, and would not use
them at all, and so lost them. Its ancestors may have had poison-fangs; it
is innocent enough. But it is a terrible thing to be all feet, is it not?
There is an awful significance in the condemnation of the serpent--'On thy
belly shalt thou go, and eat dust.' But it is better to talk of beautiful
things. _My_ soul at least has dropped from its world apex. Let us go on.
Come, wife. Come, Turner."

They did not seem willing to rise. But the glen drew me. I rose, and my
wife followed my example with the help of my hand. She returned to the
subject, however, as we descended the slope.

"Is it possible that in the course of ever so many ages wings and feet
should be both lost?" she said.

"The most presumptuous thing in the world is to pronounce on the possible
and the impossible. I do not know what is possible and what is impossible.
I can only tell a little of what is true and what is untrue. But I do say
this, that between the condition of many decent members of society and that
for the sake of which God made them, there is a gulf quite as vast as that
between a serpent and a bird. I get peeps now and then into the condition
of my own heart, which, for the moment, make it seem impossible that I
should ever rise into a true state of nature--that is, into the simplicity
of God's will concerning me. The only hope for ourselves and for others
lies in him--in the power the creating spirit has over the spirits he has
made."

By this time the descent on the grass was getting too steep and slippery to
admit of our continuing to advance in that direction. We turned, therefore,
down the valley in the direction of the sea. It was but a narrow cleft,
and narrowed much towards a deeper cleft, in which we now saw the tops of
trees, and from which we heard the rush of water. Nor had we gone far in
this direction before we came upon a gate in a stone wall, which led into
what seemed a neglected garden. We entered, and found a path turning and
winding, among small trees, and luxuriant ferns, and great stones, and
fragments of ruins down towards the bottom of the chasm. The noise of
falling water increased as we went on, and at length, after some scrambling
and several sharp turns, we found ourselves with a nearly precipitous wall
on each side, clothed with shrubs and ivy, and creeping things of the
vegetable world. Up this cleft there was no advance. The head of it was a
precipice down which shot the stream from the vale above, pouring out of a
deep slit it had itself cut in the rock as with a knife. Halfway down, it
tumbled into a great basin of hollowed stone, and flowing from a chasm in
its side, which left part of the lip of the basin standing like the arch of
a vanished bridge, it fell into a black pool below, whence it crept as
if half-stunned or weary down the gentle decline of the ravine. It was a
perfect little picture. I, for my part, had never seen such a picturesque
fall. It was a little gem of nature, complete in effect. The ladies were
full of pleasure. Wynnie, forgetting her usual reserve, broke out in
frantic exclamations of delight.

We stood for a while regarding the ceaseless pour of the water down the
precipice, here shot slanting in a little trough of the rock, full of
force and purpose, here falling in great curls of green and gray, with an
expression of absolute helplessness and conscious perdition, as if sheer to
the centre, but rejoicing the next moment to find itself brought up boiling
and bubbling in the basin, to issue in the gathered hope of experience.
Then we turned down the stream a little way, crossed it by a plank, and
stood again to regard it from the opposite side. Small as the whole affair
was--not more than about a hundred and fifty feet in height--it was so full
of variety that I saw it was all my memory could do, if it carried away
anything like a correct picture of its aspect. I was contemplating it
fixedly, when a little stifled cry from Wynnie made me start and look
round. Her face was flushed, yet she was trying to look unconcerned.

"I thought we were quite alone, papa," she said; "but I see a gentleman
sketching."

I looked whither she indicated. A little way down, the bed of the ravine
widened considerably, and was no doubt filled with water in rainy weather.
Now it was swampy--full of reeds and willow bushes. But on the opposite
side of the stream, with a little canal from it going all around it, lay a
great flat rectangular stone, not more than a foot above the level of the
water, and upon a camp-stool in the centre of this stone sat a gentleman
sketching. I had no doubt that Wynnie had recognised him at once. And I
was annoyed, and indeed angry, to think that Mr. Percivale had followed us
here. But while I regarded him, he looked up, rose very quietly, and,
with his pencil in his hand, came towards us. With no nearer approach to
familiarity than a bow, and no expression of either much pleasure or any
surprise, he said--

"I have seen your party for some time, Mr. Walton--since you crossed the
stream; but I would not break in upon your enjoyment with the surprise
which my presence here must cause you."

I suppose I answered with a bow of some sort; for I could not say with
truth that I was glad to see him. He resumed, doubtless penetrating my
suspicion--

"I have been here almost a week. I certainly had no expectation of the
pleasure of seeing you."

This he said lightly, though no doubt with the object of clearing himself.
And I was, if not reassured, yet disarmed, by his statement; for I could
not believe, from what I knew of him, that he would be guilty of such
a white lie as many a gentleman would have thought justifiable on the
occasion. Still, I suppose he found me a little stiff, for presently he
said--

"If you will excuse me, I will return to my work."

Then I felt as if I must say something, for I had shown him no courtesy
during the interview.

"It must be a great pleasure to carry away such talismans with you--capable
of bringing the place back to your mental vision at any moment."

"To tell the truth," he answered, "I am a little ashamed of being found
sketching here. Such bits of scenery are not of my favourite studies. But
it is a change."

"It is very beautiful here," I said, in a tone of contravention.

"It is very pretty," he answered--"very lovely, if you will--not very
beautiful, I think. I would keep that word for things of larger regard.
Beauty requires width, and here is none. I had almost said this place was
fanciful--the work of imagination in her play-hours, not in her large
serious moods. It affects me like the face of a woman only pretty, about
which boys and guardsmen will rave--to me not very interesting, save for
its single lines."

"Why, then, do you sketch the place?"

"A very fair question," he returned, with a smile. "Just because it is
soothing from the very absence of beauty. I would far rather, however, if I
were only following my taste, take the barest bit of the moor above, with a
streak of the cold sky over it. That gives room."

"You would like to put a skylark in it, wouldn't you?"

"That I would if I knew how. I see you know what I mean. But the mere
romantic I never had much taste for; though if you saw the kind of pictures
I try to paint, you would not wonder that I take sketches of places like
this, while in my heart of hearts I do not care much for them. They are so
different, and just _therefore_ they are good for me. I am not working now;
I am only playing."

"With a view to working better afterwards, I have no doubt," I answered.

"You are right there, I hope," was his quiet reply, as he turned and walked
back to the island.

He had not made a step towards joining us. He had only taken his hat off to
the ladies. He was gaining ground upon me rapidly.

"Have you quarrelled with our new friend, Harry?" said my wife, as I came
up to her.

She was sitting on a stone. Turner and Wynnie were farther off towards the
foot of the fall.

"Not in the least," I answered, slightly outraged--I did not at first
know why--by the question. "He is only gone to his work, which is a duty
belonging both to the first and second tables of the law."

"I hope you have asked him to come home to our early dinner, then," she
rejoined.

"I have not. That remains for you to do. Come, I will take you to him."

Ethelwyn rose at once, put her hand in mine, and with a little help soon
reached the table-rock. When Percivale saw that she was really on a visit
to him on his island-perch, he rose, and when she came near enough, held
out his hand. It was but a step, and she was beside him in a moment. After
the usual greetings, which on her part, although very quiet, like every
motion and word of hers, were yet indubitably cordial and kind, she said,
"When you get back to London, Mr. Percivale, might I ask you to allow some
friends of mine to call at your studio, and see your paintings?"

"With all my heart," answered Percivale. "I must warn you, however, that I
have not much they will care to see. They will perhaps go away less happy
than they entered. Not many people care to see my pictures twice."

"I would not send you anyone I thought unworthy of the honour," answered my
wife.

Percivale bowed--one of his stately, old-world bows, which I greatly liked.

"Any friend of yours--that is guarantee sufficient," he answered.

There was this peculiarity about any compliment that Percivale paid, that
you had not a doubt of its being genuine.

"Will you come and take an early dinner with us?" said my wife. "My invalid
daughter will be very pleased to see you."

"I will with pleasure," he answered, but in a tone of some hesitation, as
he glanced from Ethelwyn to me.

"My wife speaks for us all," I said. "It will give us all pleasure."

"I am only afraid it will break in upon your morning's work," remarked
Ethelwyn.

"O, that is not of the least consequence," he rejoined. "In fact, as I have
just been saying to Mr. Walton, I am not working at all at present. This is
pure recreation."

As he spoke he turned towards his easel, and began hastily to bundle up his
things.

"We're not quite ready to go yet," said my wife, loath to leave the lovely
spot. "What a curious flat stone this is!" she added.

"It is," said Percivale. "The man to whom the place belongs, a worthy
yeoman of the old school, says that this wider part of the channel must
have been the fish-pond, and that the portly monks stood on this stone and
fished in the pond."

"Then was there a monastery here?" I asked.

"Certainly. The ruins of the chapel, one of the smallest, are on the top,
just above the fall--rather a fearful place to look down from. I wonder
you did not observe them as you came. They say it had a silver bell in the
days of its glory, which now lies in a deep hole under the basin, half-way
between the top and bottom of the fall. But the old man says that nothing
will make him look, or let anyone else lift the huge stone; for he is much
better pleased to believe that it may be there, than he would be to know it
was not there; for certainly, if it were found, it would not be left there
long."

As he spoke Percivale had continued packing his gear. He now led our party
up to the chapel, and thence down a few yards to the edge of the chasm,
where the water fell headlong. I turned away with that fear of high places
which is one of my many weaknesses; and when I turned again towards the
spot, there was Wynnie on the very edge, looking over into the flash
and tumult of the water below, but with a nervous grasp of the hand of
Percivale, who stood a little farther back.

In going home, the painter led us by an easier way out of the valley, left
his little easel and other things at a cottage, and then walked on in front
between my wife and daughter, while Turner and I followed. He seemed quite
at his ease with them, and plenty of talk and laughter rose on the way.
I, however, was chiefly occupied with finding out Turner's impression of
Connie's condition.

"She is certainly better," he said. "I wonder you do not see it as plainly
as I do. The pain is nearly gone from her spine, and she can move herself
a good deal more, I am certain, than she could when she left. She asked me
yesterday if she might not turn upon one side. 'Do you think you could?'
I asked.--'I think so,' she answered. 'At any rate, I have often a great
inclination to try; only papa said I had better wait till you came.' I do
think she might be allowed a little more change of posture now."

"Then you have really some hope of her final recovery?"

"I have _hope_ most certainly. But what is hope in me, you must not allow
to become certainty in you. I am nearly sure, though, that she can never
be other than an invalid; that is, if I am to judge by what I know of such
cases."

"I am thankful for the hope," I answered. "You need not be afraid of my
turning upon you, should the hope never pass into sight. I should do so
only if I found that you had been treating me irrationally--inspiring
me with hope which you knew to be false. The element of uncertainty is
essential to hope, and for all true hope, even as hope, man has to be
unspeakably thankful."


CHAPTER IX.

THE WALK TO CHURCH.


I was glad to be able to arrange with a young clergyman who was on a visit
to Kilkhaven, that he should take my duty for me the next Sunday, for that
was the only one Turner could spend with us. He and I and Wynnie walked
together two miles to church. It was a lovely morning, with just a tint of
autumn in the air. But even that tint, though all else was of the summer,
brought a shadow, I could see, on Wynnie's face.

"You said you would show me a poem of--Vaughan, I think you said, was
the name of the writer. I am too ignorant of our older literature," said
Turner.

"I have only just made acquaintance with him," I answered. "But I think I
can repeat the poem. You shall judge whether it is not like Wordsworth's
Ode.

  'Happy those early days, when I
  Shined in my angel infancy;
  Before I understood the place
  Appointed for my second race,
  Or taught my soul to fancy ought
  But a white, celestial thought;
  When yet I had not walked above
  A mile or two from my first love,
  And looking back, at that short space,
  Could see a glimpse of his bright face;
  When on some gilded cloud or flower
  My gazing soul would dwell an hour,
  And in those weaker glories spy
  Some shadows of eternity;
  Before I taught my tongue to wound
  My conscience with a sinful sound,
  But felt through all this fleshly dress
  Bright shoots of everlastingness.
  "There is but one way of getting at you.

Have you thought of Natalie?"
"Ah!"

said the other, quickly raising himself into an expectant attitude.

"You will listen now, I suppose, to reason, to common-sense. Do you
think it likely that, with the possibility of her becoming my wife, I am
going to throw away this certainty and leave her to all chances of the
world? Lind says that the Society amply provides for its officers. Very
well; that is quite probable. I tell him that I am not afraid for myself;
if I had to think of myself alone, there is no saying what I might not
do, even if I were to laugh at myself for doing it.

But how about Natalie? Lind might die. I might be sent away to the ends of
the earth.

Do you think I am going to leave her at the mercy of a lot of people whom
she never saw?"
Lord Evelyn was silent.

"Besides, there is more than that," his friend continued, warmly.

"You may call it selfishness, if you like, but if you love a woman and she
gives her life into your hands--well, she has the first claim on you. I will
put it to you: do you think I am going to sell the Beeches--when--when
she might live there?"

  Lord Evelyn did not answer.

"Of course I am willing to subscribe largely," his friend continued; "and
Natalie herself would say yes to that. But I am not ambitious. I don't
want to enter that grade. I don't want to sit in Lind's chair when he gets
elected to the Council, as has been suggested to me. I am not qualified
for it; I don't care about it; I can best do my own work in my own
way."

At last Lord Evelyn spoke; but it was in a meditative fashion, and
not very much to the point.

He lay back in his easy-chair, his hands clasped behind his head, and
talked; and his talk was not at all about the selling of Hill
Beeches in Buckinghamshire, but of much more abstract matters.

He spoke of the divine wrath of the reformer--what a curious thing it was,
that fiery impatience with what was wrong in the world; how it cropped up
here and there from time to time; and how one abuse after another
had been burnt up by it and swept away forever.

Give the man possessed of this holy rage all the beauty and wealth
and ease in the world, and he is not satisfied; there is something
within him that vibrates to the call of humanity without; others
can pass by what does not affect themselves with a laugh or a shrug
of indifference; he only must stay and labor till the wrong thing
is put right.

And how often had he been jeered at by the vulgar of his time; how
Common-Sense had pointed the finger of scorn at him; how Respectability
had called him crazed!

John Brown at Harper's Ferry is only a ridiculous old fool; his effort is
absurd; even gentlemen in the North feel an "intellectual satisfaction"
that he is hanged, because of his "preposterous miscalculation of possibilities."
Yes, no doubt; you hang him, and there is an end; but "his soul
goes marching on," and the slaves are freed!

You want to abolish the Corn-laws?

--all good society shrieks at you at first: you are a Radical, a
regicide, a Judas Iscariot; but in time the nation listens, and the
poor have cheap bread.

"Mazzini is mad!" the world cries: "why this useless bloodshed?

It is only political murder." Mazzini is mad, no doubt: but in time the
beautiful dream of Italy--of "Italia, the world's wonder, the
world's care"--comes true.

And what matter to the reformer, the agitator, the dreamer, though you stone
him to death, or throw him to the lions, or clap him into a
nineteenth-century prison and shut his mouth that way?

He has handed on the sacred fire. Others will bear the torch; and he who
is unencumbered will outstrip his fellows. The wrong must be put right.

And so forth, and so forth. Brand sat and listened, recognizing here and
there a proud, pathetic phrase of Natalie's, and knowing well whence the
inspiration came; and as he listened he almost felt as though that
beautiful old place in Buckinghamshire was slipping through his fingers.

The sacrifice seemed to be becoming less and less of a sacrifice; it took
more and more the form of a duty; would Natalie's eyes smile approval?

Brand jumped up, and took a rapid turn or two up and down the room.

"I won't listen to you, Evelyn. You don't know anything about money-matters.
You care for nothing but ideas. Now, I come of a commercial stock, and I
want to know what guarantee I have that this money, if I were to give it
up, would be properly applied. Lind's assurances are all very well--"
"Oh yes, of course; you have got back to Lind," said Lord Evelyn, waking
up from his reveries. "Do you know, my dear fellow, that your distrust
of Lind is rapidly developing into a sharp and profound hatred?"
"I take men as I find them. Perhaps you can explain to me how Lind should
care so little for the future of his daughter as to propose--with
the possibility of our marrying--that she should be left penniless?"

"I can explain it to myself, but not to you; you are too thorough an
Englishman."
"Are you a foreigner?"
"I try to understand those who are not English. Now, an Englishman's theory
is that he himself, and his wife and children--his domestic circle, in
fact--are the centre of creation; and that the fate of empires, as he finds
that going one way or the other in the telegrams of the morning paper,
is a very small matter compared with the necessity of Tom's going to Eton,
or Dick's marrying and settling down as the bailiff of the Worcestershire
farm. That is all very well; but other people may be of a different habit
of mind. Lind's heart and soul are in his present work; he would sacrifice
himself, his daughter, you, or anybody else to it, and consider himself
amply justified. He does not care about money, or horses, or the
luxury of a big establishment; I suppose he has had to live on simple
fare many a time, whether he liked it or not, and can put up with whatever
happens. If you imagine that you may be cheated by a portion of your
money--supposing you were to adopt his proposal--going into his pocket
as commission, you do him a wrong."
"No, I don't think that," Brand said, rather unwillingly. "I don't take him
to be a common and vulgar swindler. And I can very well believe that he
does not care very much for money or luxury or that kind of thing, so far
as he himself is concerned. Still, you would think that the ordinary
instinct of a father would prevent his doing an injury to the future of
his daughter--"
"Would he consider it an injury.

Would she?"'
"Well," Brand said, "she is very enthusiastic, and noble, and generous, and
does not know what dependence or poverty means. But he is a man of the
world, and you would think he would look after his own kith and kin."

"Yes, that is a wholesome conservative English sentiment, but it does not
rule the actions of everybody."
"But common sense--"
"Oh, bother common sense! Common-sense is only a grocer that
hasn't got an idea beyond ham-and-eggs."
"Well, if I am only a grocer," Brand said, quite submissively, "don't you
think the grocer, if he were asked to pay off the National Debt, ought to
say, 'Gentlemen, that is a praiseworthy object; but in the meantime
wouldn't it be advisable for me to make sure that my wife mayn't
have to go on the parish?"

Thereafter there was silence for a time, and when Brand next spoke it was
in a certain, precise, hard fashion, as if he wished to make his
meaning very clear.

"Suppose, Evelyn," he said, "I were to tell you what has occurred
to me as the probable explanation of Lind's indifference about the
future of his daughter, would you be surprised?"

"I expect it will be wrong, for you cannot do justice to that man;
but I should like to hear it."

"I must tell you he wrote me a letter, a shilly-shallying sort of
letter, filled with arguments to prove that a marriage between
Natalie and myself would not be expedient, and all the rest of it:
not absolutely refusing his consent, you understand, but postponing
the matter, and hoping that on further reflection, et cætera, et
cætera.

Well, do you know what my conclusion is?--that he is definitely resolved
I shall not marry his daughter; and that he is playing with me, humbugging
me with the possibility of marrying her, until he induces me to
hand him over my fortune for the use of the Society.

Stare away as you like; that is what I believe to be true."
He rose and walked to the window, and looked out.

"Well, Evelyn, whatever happens, I have to thank you for many things. It has
been all like my boyhood come back again, but much more wonderful and
beautiful. If I have to go to America, I shall take with me at least the
memory of one night at Covent Garden. She was there--and Madame
Potecki--and old Calabressa. It was _Fidelio_ they were playing. She
gave me some forget-me-nots."

"What do you mean by going to America?" Lord Evelyn said.

Brand remained at the window for a minute or two, silent, and then he
returned to his chair.

"You will say I am unjust again. But unless I am incapable of understanding
English--such English as he speaks--this is his ultimatum:
that unless I give my property, every cent of it, over to the
Society, I am to go to America.

It is a distinct and positive threat."
"How can you say so!" the other remonstrated. "He has just been to America
himself, without any compulsion whatever."
"He has been to America for a certain number of weeks.

I am to go for life--and, as he imagines, alone."
His face had been growing darker and darker, the brows lowering ominously
over the eyes.

"Now, Brand," his friend said, "you are letting your distrust of this man
Lind become a madness. What if he were to say to-morrow that you might marry
Natalie the day after?"
The other looked up almost bewildered.

"I would say he was serving some purpose of his own. But he will not say
that.

  He means to keep his daughter to himself, and he means to have my
money."

  "Why, you admitted, a minute ago, that
  even you could not suspect him
  of that!"
  "Not for himself--no. Probably he does not
  care for money. But he cares for
  ambition--for power; and there is a
  vacancy in the Council. Don't you
  see?

  This would be a tremendous large sum in the eyes of a lot of
foreigners: they would be grateful, would they not?

  And Natalie once transferred to Italy,
  I could console myself with the
  honor and dignity of Lind's chair in
  Lisle Street. Don't you perceive?"

  "I perceive this--that you misjudge Lind altogether.

  I am sure of it. I have seen
  it from the beginning--from the moment you
  set your foot in his house. And you
  tried to blind yourself to the fact
  because of Natalie. Now that
  you imagine that he means to take
  Natalie from you, all your pent-up
  antagonism breaks loose. Meanwhile,
  what does Natalie herself
  say?"

"What does she say?" he repeated, mechanically. He also was lying back in
his chair, his eyes gazing aimlessly at the window.

But whenever anyone spoke of Natalie, or whenever he himself had to speak
of her, a quite new expression came into his face; the brows lifted,
the eyes were gentle.

"What does she say? Why, nothing. Lind requested me neither to see her nor
write to her; and I thought that reasonable until I should have heard
what he had to say to me. There is a message I got half an hour ago--not
from her."
He handed to Lord Evelyn the anonymous scroll that he had received from
the old German.

"Poor old Calabressa!" he said. "Those Italians are always very fond of little
mysteries. But how he must have loved that woman?"
"Natalie's mother?"
"Yes," said the other, absently. "I wonder he has never gone to see his
sweetheart of former years."

"What do you mean?"

Brand started.

It was not necessary that Lord Evelyn should in the mean time be intrusted
with that secret.

"He told me that when he saw Natalie it was to him like a vision from the
dead; she was so like her mother. But I must be off, Evelyn; I have to
meet Molyneux at two. So that is your advice," he said, as he went to the
door--"that I should comply with Lind's demand; or--to put it another
way--succumb to his threat?"
"It is not my advice at all--quite the contrary. I say, if you have any
doubt or distrust--if you cannot make the sacrifice without perfect faith
and satisfaction to yourself--do not think of it."
"And go to America?"

"I cannot believe that any such compulsory alternative exists.

But about Natalie, surely you will send her a message; Lind cannot object
to that?"

"I will send her no message; I will go to her," the other said, firmly.

"I believe Lind wishes me not to see her.

Within the duties demanded of me by the Society, his wishes are to me
commands; elsewhere and otherwise neither his wishes nor his commands
do I value more than a lucifer-match. Is that plain enough, Evelyn?"
And so he went away, forgetting all the sage counsel Calabressa had
given him; thinking rather of the kindly, thoughtful, mysterious
little message the old man had left behind him, and of the beautiful
caged bird that sighed and wept because she thought she was forgotten.

She should not think that long!

CHAPTER XXVI.

A PROMISE.

This was a dark time indeed for Natalie Lind--left entirely by
herself, ignorant of what was happening around her, and haunted by
vague alarms.

But the girl was too proud to show to any one how much she suffered. On the
contrary, she reasoned and remonstrated with herself; and forced herself
to assume an attitude of something more than resignation, of resolution.
If it was necessary that her father should be obeyed, that her lover
should maintain this cruel silence, even that he and she should have
the wide Atlantic separate them forever, she would not repine. It was
not for her who had so often appealed to others to shrink from sacrifice
herself. And if this strange new hope that had filled her heart for a
time had to be finally abandoned, what of that? What mattered a single
life? She had the larger hope; there was another and greater future for
her to think about; and she could cherish the thought that she at least
had done nothing to imperil or diminish the work to which so many of her
friends had given their lives.

But silence is hard to bear. Ever since the scene with her father, a certain
undeclared estrangement had prevailed between these two; and no reference
whatsoever had been made to George Brand. Her lover had sent her no
message--no word of encouragement, of assurance, or sympathy.
Even Calabressa had gone. There remained to her only the portrait that
Calabressa had given her; and in the solitude of her own room many a
time she sat and gazed at the beautiful face with some dim, wondering
belief that she was looking at her other self, and that she could read
in the features some portion of her own experiences, her own joys and
sorrows.

For surely those soft, dark, liquid eyes must have loved and been beloved?
And had they too filled with gladness when a certain step had been heard
coming near? and they looked up with trust and pride and tenderness, and
filled with tears again in absence, when only the memory of loving words
remained? She recalled many a time what Calabressa had said to her--"My
child, may Heaven keep you as true and brave as your mother was, and send
you more happiness." Her mother, then, had not been happy? But she was
brave, Calabressa had said: when she loved a man, would she not show
herself worthy of her love?

This was all very well; but in spite of her reasoning and her forced
courage, and her self-possession in the presence of others, Natalie had
got into the habit of crying in the quietude of her own room, to
the great distress of the little Anneli, who had surprised her once
or twice.

And the rosy-cheeked German maid guessed pretty accurately what had
happened; and wondered very much at the conduct of English lovers, who
allowed their sweethearts to pine and fret in solitude without sending
them letters or coming to see them. But on this particular afternoon
Anneli opened the door, in answer to a summons, and found outside a club
commissionaire whom she had seen once or twice before; and when he gave
her a letter, addressed in a handwriting which she recognized, and ask for
an answer, she was as much agitated as if it had come from her own sweetheart
in Gorlitz. She snatched it from the man, as if she feared he would
take it back. She flew with it up-stairs, breathless. She forgot to
knock at the door.

"Oh, Fraulein, it is a letter!" said she, in great excitement, "and there
is to be an answer--"
Then she hesitated. But the good-sense of the child told her she ought
to go.

"I will wait outside, Fraulein. Will you ring when you have written
the answer?"

When Natalie opened the letter she was outwardly quite calm--a little
pale, perhaps; but as she read it her heart beat fast.

And it was her heart that instantly dictated the answer to this
brief and simple appeal:
"My Natalie,--It is your father's wish that I should not see you.

Is it your wish also? There is something I would like to say to you."
It was her heart that answered.

She rose directly. She never thought twice, or even once, about any
wish, or menace, or possible consequence.

She went straight to her desk, and with a shaking hand wrote these lines:

"My Own,--Come to me now, at any time--when you please.

Am I not yours?

Natalie."
Despite herself, she had to pause, to steady her hand--and because
her heart was beating so fast that she felt choked--before she could
properly address the envelope.

Then she carried the letter to Anneli, who she knew was waiting outside.
That done, she shut herself in again, to give herself time to think,
though in truth she could scarcely think at all.

For all sorts of emotions were struggling for the mastery of her--joy
and a proud resolve distinctly predominant. It was done, and she would abide
by it. She was not given to fear.

But she tried hard to think. At last her lover was coming to her; he would
ask her what she was prepared to do: what would she answer?

Then, again, the joy of the thought that she was about to see him
drove every other consideration out of her mind.

How soon might he be here?
Hurriedly she went to a jar of flowers on the table, chose some
scarlet geraniums, and turned to a mirror.

Her haste did not avail much, for her fingers were still trembling: but that
was the color he had said, on one occasion, suited her best.

She had not been wearing flowers in her hair of late.

From time to time, for a second or so, some thought of her father
intervened.

But then her father had only enjoined her to dismiss forever the hope of her
marrying the man to whom she had given her heart and her life: that could
not prevent her loving him, and seeing him, and telling him that her love
was his. She wished the geraniums were less rose-red and more scarlet
in hue. It was the scarlet he had approved of--that evening that he and
she the little Polish lady had dined together.

She had not long to wait. With a quick, intense consciousness she heard the
hansom drive up, and the rapid knock that followed; her heart throbbed
through the seconds of silence; then she knew that he was ascending the
stair; then it seemed to her as if the life would go out of her altogether.
But when he flung the door open and came toward her; when he caught her two
hands in his--one hand in each hand--and held them tight; when, in a
silence that neither cared to break, he gazed into her rapidly moistening
eyes--then the full tide of joy and courage returned to her heart, and
she was proud that she had sent him that answer. For some seconds--to be
remembered during a life time--they regarded each other in silence; then he
released her hands, and began to put back the hair from her forehead as if
he would see more clearly into the troubled deeps of her eyes; and then,
somehow--perhaps to hide her crying--she buried her face in his
breast, and his arms were around her, and she was sobbing out all the
story of her waiting and her despair.

"What!" said he, cheerfully, to calm and reassure her, "the brave Natalie
to be frightened like that!"
"I was alone," she murmured.

"I had no one to speak to; and I could not understand. Oh, my love, my
love, you do not know what you are to me!"
He kissed her; her cheeks were wet.

"Natalie," said he in a low voice, "don't forget this: we may be separated--that
is possible--I don't know; but if we live fifty years apart from
each other--if you never hear one word more from me or of me--be
sure of this, that I am thinking of you always, and loving you, as
I do at this moment when my arms are around you.

Will you remember that? Will you believe that--always?"

"I could not think otherwise," she answered.

"But now that you are with me--that I can hear you speak to me--"
And at this point her voice failed her altogether; and he could
only draw her closer to him, and soothe and caress her, and stroke
the raven-black hair that had never before thrilled his fingers
with its soft, strange touch.

"Perhaps," she said at last, in a broken and hesitating voice, "you
will blame me for having said what I have said. I have had no girl-companions;
scarcely any woman to tell me what I should do and say.
But--but I thought you were going to America--I thought I should
never see you again--I was lonely and miserable; and when I saw you
again, how could I help saying I was glad?

How could I help saying that, and more?--for I never knew it till now.
Oh, my love, do you know that you have become the whole world to me?

When you are away from me, I would rather die than live!"
"Natalie--my life!"
"I must say that to you--once--that you may understand--if we should
never see each other again. And now--"
She gently released herself from his embrace, and went and sat down by the
table. He took a chair near her and held her hand. She would not
look up, for her eyes were still wet with tears.

"And now," she said, making a great effort to regain her self-control,
"you must tell me about yourself.

A woman may have her feelings and fancies, and cry over them when
she is afraid or alone; that is nothing; it is the way of the world.

It is a man's fate that is of importance."
"You must not talk like that, Natalie," said he gravely.

"Our fate is one. Without you, I don't value my life more than this bit of
geranium-leaf; with you, life would be worth having."

"And you must not talk like that either," she said.

"Your life is valuable to others.

Ah, my dear friend, that is what I have been trying to console
myself with of late.

I said, 'Well, if he goes away and does not see me again, will he
not be freer?

He has a great work to do; he may have to go away from England for
many years; why should he be encumbered with a wife?"

"It was your father, I presume, who made those suggestions to you?" said
Brand, regarding her.

"Yes; papa said something like that," she answered, quite innocently.

"That is what would naturally occur to him; his work has always the first
place in his thoughts. And with you, too; is it not so?"
"No." 
She looked up quickly.
"I will be quite frank with you, Natalie. You have the first place
in my thoughts; I hope you ever will have, while I am a living man."But how am I to have that pleasure, then?"

"You go to London sometimes, do you not?"

"Very rarely. More rarely still when the Royal Academy is open."

"That does not matter much. My pictures are seldom to be found there."

"Do you not care to send them there?"

"I send one, at least, every year. But they are rarely accepted."

"Why?"

This was a very improper question, I thought; but if Wynnie had thought so
she would not have put it. He hesitated a little before he replied--

"It is hardly for me to say why," he answered; "but I cannot wonder much
at it, considering the subjects I choose.--But I daresay," he added, in
a lighter tone, "after all, that has little to do with it, and there is
something about the things themselves that precludes a favourable judgment.
I avoid thinking about it. A man ought to try to look at his own work as if
it were none of his, but not as with the eyes of other people. That is an
impossibility, and the attempt a bewilderment. It is with his own eyes he
must look, with his own judgment he must judge. The only effort is to get
it set far away enough from him to be able to use his own eyes and his own
judgment upon it."

"I think I see what you mean. A man has but his own eyes and his own
judgment. To look with those of other people is but a fancy."

"Quite so. You understand me quite."

He said no more in explanation of his rejection by the Academy. Till we
reached the church, nothing more of significance passed between them.

What a waste, bare churchyard that was! It had two or three lych-gates,
but they had no roofs. They were just small enclosures, with the low
stone tables, to rest the living from the weight of the dead, while the
clergyman, as the keeper of heaven's wardrobe, came forth to receive the
garment they restored--to be laid aside as having ended its work, as having
been worn done in the winds, and rains, and labours of the world. Not a
tree stood in that churchyard. Hank grass was the sole covering of the soil
heaved up with the dead beneath. What blasts from the awful space of the
sea must rush athwart the undefended garden! The ancient church stood in
the midst, with its low, strong, square tower, and its long, narrow nave,
the ridge bowed with age, like the back of a horse worn out in the service
of man, and its little homely chancel, like a small cottage that had leaned
up against its end for shelter from the western blasts. It was locked,
and we could not enter. But of all world-worn, sad-looking churches, that
one--sad, even in the sunset--was the dreariest I had ever beheld. Surely,
it needed the gospel of the resurrection fervently preached therein, to
keep it from sinking to the dust with dismay and weariness. Such a soul
alone could keep it from vanishing utterly of dismal old age. Near it was
one huge mound of grass-grown rubbish, looking like the grave where some
former church of the dead had been buried, when it could stand erect no
longer before the onsets of Atlantic winds. I walked round and round it,
gathering its architecture, and peeping in at every window I could reach.
Suddenly I was aware that I was alone. Returning to the other side, I found
that Percivale was seated on the churchyard wall, next the sea--it would
have been less dismal had it stood immediately on the cliffs, but they were
at some little distance beyond bare downs and rough stone walls; he
was sketching the place, and Wynnie stood beside him, looking over his
shoulder. I did not interrupt him, but walked among the graves, reading
the poor memorials of the dead, and wondering how many of the words of
laudation that were inscribed on their tombs were spoken of them while they
were yet alive. Yet, surely, in the lives of those to whom they applied
the least, there had been moments when the true nature, the nature God had
given them, broke forth in faith and tenderness, and would have justified
the words inscribed on their gravestones! I was yet wandering and reading,
and stumbling over the mounds, when my companions joined me, and, without a
word, we walked out of the churchyard. We were nearly home before one of us
spoke.

"That church is oppressive," said Percivale. "It looks like a great
sepulchre, a place built only for the dead--the church of the dead."

"It is only that it partakes with the living," I returned; "suffers with
them the buffetings of life, outlasts them, but shows, like the shield of
the Red-Cross Knight, the 'old dints of deep wounds.'"

"Still, is it not a dreary place to choose for a church to stand in?"

"The church must stand everywhere. There is no region into which it must
not, ought not to enter. If it refuses any earthly spot, it is shrinking
from its calling. Here this one stands for the sea as for the land,
high-uplifted, looking out over the waters as a sign of the haven from all
storms, the rest in God. And down beneath in its storehouse lie the bodies
of men--you saw the grave of some of them on the other side--flung ashore
from the gulfing sea. It may be a weakness, but one would rather have the
bones of his friend laid in the still Sabbath of the churchyard earth,
than sweeping and swaying about as Milton imagines the bones of his
friend Edward King, in that wonderful 'Lycidas.'" Then I told them the
conversation I had had with the sexton at Kilkhaven. "But," I went on,
"these fancies are only the ghostly mists that hang about the eastern hills
before the sun rises. We shall look down on all that with a smile by and
by; for the Lord tells us that if we believe in him we shall never die."

By this time we were back once more at the inn. We gave Connie a
description of what we had seen.

"What a brave old church!" said Connie.

The next day I awoke very early, full of the anticipated attempt. I got up
at once, found the weather most promising, and proceeded first of all to
have a look at Connie's litter, and see that it was quite sound. Satisfied
of this, I rejoiced in the contemplation of its lightness and strength.

After breakfast I went to Connie's room, and told her that Mr. Percivale
and I had devised a treat for her. Her face shone at once.

"But we want to do it our own way."

"Of course, papa," she answered.

"Will you let us tie your eyes up?"

"Yes; and my ears and my hands too. It would be no good tying my feet, when
I don't know one big toe from the other."

And she laughed merrily.

"We'll try to keep up the talk all the way, so that you sha'n't weary of
the journey."

"You're going to carry me somewhere with my eyes tied up. O! how jolly! And
then I shall see something all at once! Jolly! jolly!--Getting tired!" she
repeated. "Even the wind on my face would be pleasure enough for half a
day. I sha'n't get tired so soon as you will--you dear, kind papa! I am
afraid I shall be dreadfully heavy. But I sha'n't jerk your arms much. I
will lie so still!"

"And you won't mind letting Mr. Percivale help me to carry you?"

"No. Why should I, if he doesn't mind it? He looks strong enough; and I am
sure he is nice, and won't think me heavier than I am."

"Very well, then. I will send mamma and Wynnie to dress you at once; and we
shall set out as soon as you are ready."

She clapped her hands with delight, then caught me round the neck and gave
me one of my own kisses as she called the best she had, and began to call
as loud as she could on her mamma and Wynnie to come and dress her.

It was indeed a glorious morning. The wind came in little wafts, like veins
of cool white silver amid the great, warm, yellow gold of the sunshine. The
sea lay before us a mound of blue closing up the end of the valley, as if
overpowered into quietness by the lordliness of the sun overhead; and the
hills between which we went lay like great sheep, with green wool, basking
in the blissful heat. The gleam from the waters came up the pass; the grand
castle crowned the left-hand steep, seeming to warm its old bones, like the
ruins of some awful megatherium in the lighted air; one white sail sped
like a glad thought across the spandrel of the sea; the shadows of the
rocks lay over our path, like transient, cool, benignant deaths, through
which we had to pass again and again to yet higher glory beyond; and one
lark was somewhere in whose little breast the whole world was reflected as
in the convex mirror of a dewdrop, where it swelled so that he could not
hold it, but let it out again through his throat, metamorphosed into music,
which he poured forth over all as the libation on the outspread altar of
worship.

And of all this we talked to Connie as we went; and every now and then she
would clap her hands gently in the fulness of her delight, although she
beheld the splendour only as with her ears, or from the kisses of the wind
on her cheeks. But she seemed, since her accident, to have approached that
condition which Milton represents Samson as longing for in his blindness,
wherein the sight should be

  "through all parts diffused,
  That she might look at will through every pore."

I had, however, arranged with the rest of the company, that the moment
we reached the cliff over the shore, and turned to the left to cross the
isthmus, the conversation should no longer be about the things around us;
and especially I warned my wife and Wynnie that no exclamation of surprise
or delight should break from them before Connie's eyes were uncovered. I
had said nothing to either of them about the difficulties of the way, that,
seeing us take them as ordinary things, they might take them so too, and
not be uneasy.

We never stopped till we reached the foot of the peninsula, _née_ island,
upon which the keep of Tintagel stands. There we set Connie down, to take
breath and ease our arms before we began the arduous way.

"Now, now!" said Connie eagerly, lifting her hands in the belief that we
were on the point of undoing the bandage from her eyes.

"No, no, my love, not yet," I said, and she lay still again, only she
looked more eager than before.

"I am afraid I have tired out you and Mr. Percivale, papa," she said.

Percivale laughed so amusedly, that she rejoined roguishly--

"O yes! I know every gentleman is a Hercules--at least, he chooses to be
considered one! But, notwithstanding my firm faith in the fact, I have a
little womanly conscience left that is hard to hoodwink."

There was a speech for my wee Connie to make! The best answer and the best
revenge was to lift her and go on. This we did, trying as well as we might
to prevent the difference of level between us from tilting the litter too
much for her comfort.

"Where _are_ you going, papa?" she said once, but without a sign of fear in
her voice, as a little slip I made lowered my end of the litter suddenly.
"You must be going up a steep place. Don't hurt yourself, dear papa."

We had changed our positions, and were now carrying her, head foremost, up
the hill. Percivale led, and I followed. Now I could see every change on
her lovely face, and it made me strong to endure; for I did find it hard
work, I confess, to get to the top. It lay like a little sunny pool,
on which all the cloudy thoughts that moved in some unseen heaven cast
exquisitely delicate changes of light and shade as they floated over it.
Percivale strode on as if he bore a feather behind him. I did wish we
were at the top, for my arms began to feel like iron-cables, stiff and
stark--only I was afraid of my fingers giving way. My heart was beating
uncomfortably too. But Percivale, I felt almost inclined to quarrel with
him before it was over, he strode on so unconcernedly, turning every corner
of the zigzag where I expected him to propose a halt, and striding on
again, as if there could be no pretence for any change of procedure. But I
held out, strengthened by the play on my daughter's face, delicate as the
play on an opal--one that inclines more to the milk than the fire.

When at length we turned in through the gothic door in the battlemented
wall, and set our lovely burden down upon the grass--

"Percivale," I said, forgetting the proprieties in the affected humour of
being angry with him, so glad was I that we had her at length on the mount
of glory, "why did you go on walking like a castle, and pay no heed to me?"

"You didn't speak, did you, Mr. Walton," he returned, with just a shadow of
solicitude in the question.

"No. Of course not," I rejoined.

"O, then," he returned, in a tone of relief, "how could I? You were my
captain: how could I give in so long as you were holding on?"

I am afraid the _Percivale_, without the _Mister_, came again and again
after this, though I pulled myself up for it as often as I caught myself.

"Now, papa!" said Connie from the grass.

"Not yet, my dear. Wait till your mamma and Wynnie come. Let us go and meet
them, Mr. Percivale."

"O yes, do, papa. Leave me alone here without knowing where I am or what
kind of a place I am in. I should like to know how it feels. I have never
been alone in all my life."

"Very well, my dear," I said; and Percivale and I left her alone in the
ruins.

We found Ethelwyn toiling up with Wynnie helping her all she could.

"Dear Harry," she said, "how could you think of bringing Connie up such an
awful place? I wonder you dared to do it."

"It's done you see, wife," I answered, "thanks to Mr. Percivale, who has
nearly torn the breath out of me. But now we must get you up, and you will
say that to see Connie's delight, not to mention your own, is quite wages
for the labour."

"Isn't she afraid to find herself so high up?"

"She knows nothing about it yet."

"You do not mean you have left the child there with her eyes tied up."

"To be sure. We could not uncover them before you came. It would spoil half
the pleasure."

"Do let us make haste then. It is surely dangerous to leave her so."

"Not in the least; but she must be getting tired of the darkness. Take my
arm now."

"Don't you think Mrs. Walton had better take my arm," said Percivale, "and
then you can put your hand on her back, and help her a little that way."

We tried the plan, found it a good one, and soon reached the top. The
moment our eyes fell upon Connie, we could see that she had found the place
neither fearful nor lonely. The sweetest ghost of a smile hovered on her
pale face, which shone in the shadow of the old gateway of the keep, with
light from within her own sunny soul. She lay in such still expectation,
that you would have thought she had just fallen asleep after receiving an
answer to a prayer, reminding me of a little-known sonnet of Wordsworth's,
in which he describes as the type of Death--

  "the face of one
  Sleeping alone within a mossy cave
  With her face up to heaven; that seemed to have
  Pleasing remembrance of a thought foregone;
  A lovely beauty in a summer grave."

[Footnote: _Miscellaneous Sonnets_, part i.28.]

But she heard our steps, and her face awoke.

"Is mamma come?"

"Yes, my darling. I am here," said her mother. "How do you feel?"

"Perfectly well, mamma, thank you. Now, papa!"

"One moment more, my love. Now, Percivale."

We carried her to the spot we had agreed upon, and while we held her a
little inclined that she might see the better, her mother undid the bandage
from her head.

"Hold your hands over her eyes, a little way from them," I said to her as
she untied the handkerchief, "that the light may reach them by degrees, and
not blind her."

Ethelwyn did so for a few moments, then removed them. Still for a moment or
two more, it was plain from her look of utter bewilderment, that all was a
confused mass of light and colour. Then she gave a little cry, and to my
astonishment, almost fear, half rose to a sitting posture. One moment more
and she laid herself gently back, and wept and sobbed.

And now I may admit my reader to a share, though at best but a dim reflex
in my poor words, of the glory that made her weep.

Through the gothic-arched door in the battlemented wall, which stood on the
very edge of the precipitous descent, so that nothing of the descent was
seen, and the door was as a framework to the picture, Connie saw a great
gulf at her feet, full to the brim of a splendour of light and colour.
Before her rose the great ruins of rock and castle, the ruin of rock with
castle; rough stone below, clear green happy grass above, even to the verge
of the abrupt and awful precipice; over it the summer sky so clear that it
must have been clarified by sorrow and thought; at the foot of the rocks,
hundreds of feet below, the blue waters breaking in white upon the dark
gray sands; all full of the gladness of the sun overflowing in speechless
delight, and reflected in fresh gladness from stone and water and flower,
like new springs of light rippling forth from the earth itself to swell the
universal tide of glory--all this seen through the narrow gothic archway of
a door in a wall--up--down--on either hand. But the main marvel was the
look sheer below into the abyss full of light and air and colour, its sides
lined with rock and grass, and its bottom lined with blue ripples and sand.
Was it any wonder that my Connie should cry aloud when the vision dawned
upon her, and then weep to ease a heart ready to burst with delight? "O
Lord God," I said, almost involuntarily, "thou art very rich. Thou art the
one poet, the one maker. We worship thee. Make but our souls as full of
glory in thy sight as this chasm is to our eyes glorious with the forms
which thou hast cloven and carved out of nothingness, and we shall be
worthy to worship thee, O Lord, our God." For I was carried beyond myself
with delight, and with sympathy with Connie's delight and with the calm
worship of gladness in my wife's countenance. But when my eye fell on
Wynnie, I saw a trouble mingled with her admiration, a self-accusation, I
think, that she did not and could not enjoy it more; and when I turned from
her, there were the eyes of Percivale fixed on me in wonderment; and for
the moment I felt as David must have felt when, in his dance of undignified
delight that he had got the ark home again, he saw the contemptuous eyes of
Michal fixed on him from the window. But I could not leave it so. I said to
him--coldly I daresay:

"Excuse me, Mr. Percivale; I forgot for the moment that I was not amongst
my own family."

Percivale took his hat off.

"Forgive my seeming rudeness, Mr. Walton. I was half-envying and
half-wondering. You would not be surprised at my unconscious behaviour
if you had seen as much of the wrong side of the stuff as I have seen in
London."

I had some idea of what he meant; but this was no time to enter upon a
discussion. I could only say--

"My heart was full, Mr. Percivale, and I let it overflow."

"Let me at least share in its overflow," he rejoined, and nothing more
passed on the subject.

For the next ten minutes we stood in absolute silence. We had set Connie
down on the grass again, but propped up so that she could see through the
doorway. And she lay in still ecstasy. But there was more to be seen ere
we descended. There was the rest of the little islet with its crop of
down-grass, on which the horses of all the knights of King Arthur's round
table might have fed for a week--yes, for a fortnight, without, by any
means, encountering the short commons of war. There were the ruins of the
castle so built of plates of the laminated stone of the rocks on which they
stood, and so woven in or more properly incorporated with the outstanding
rocks themselves, that in some parts I found it impossible to tell which
was building and which was rock--the walls themselves seeming like a growth
out of the island itself, so perfectly were they in harmony with, and in
kind the same as, the natural ground upon which and of which they had
been constructed. And this would seem to me to be the perfection of
architecture. The work of man's hands should be so in harmony with the
place where it stands that it must look as if it had grown out of the soil.
But the walls were in some parts so thin that one wondered how they could
have stood so long. They must have been built before the time of any
formidable artillery--enough only for defence from arrows. But then the
island was nowhere commanded, and its own steep cliffs would be more easily
defended than any erections upon it. Clearly the intention was that no
enemy should thereon find rest for the sole of his foot; for if he was able
to land, farewell to the notion of any further defence. Then there was
outside the walls the little chapel--such a tiny chapel! of which little
more than the foundation remained, with the ruins of the altar still
standing, and outside the chancel, nestling by its wall, a coffin hollowed
in the rock; then the churchyard a little way off full of graves, which, I
presume, would have vanished long ago were it not that the very graves were
founded on the rock. There still stood old worn-out headstones of thin
slate, but no memorials were left. Then there was the fragment of arched
passage underground laid open to the air in the centre of the islet; and
last, and grandest of all, the awful edges of the rock, broken by time, and
carved by the winds and the waters into grotesque shapes and threatening
forms. Over all the surface of the islet we carried Connie, and from three
sides of this sea-fortress she looked abroad over "the Atlantic's level
powers." It blew a gentle ethereal breeze on the top; but had there been
such a wind as I have since stood against on that fearful citadel of
nature, I should have been in terror lest we should all be blown, into the
deep. Over the edge she peeped at the strange fantastic needle-rock, and
round the corner she peeped to see Wynnie and her mother seated in what
they call Arthur's chair--a canopied hollow wrought in the plated rock by
the mightiest of all solvents--air and water; till at length it was time
that we should take our leave of the few sheep that fed over the place, and
issuing by the gothic door, wind away down the dangerous path to the safe
ground below.

"I think we had better tie up your eyes again, Connie?" I said.

"Why?" she asked, in wonderment. "There's nothing higher yet, is there?"

"No, my love. If there were, you would hardly be able for it to-day, I
should think. It is only to keep you from being frightened at the precipice
as you go down."

"But I sha'n't be frightened, papa."

"How do you know that?"

"Because you are going to carry me."

"But what if I should slip? I might, you know."

"I don't mind. I sha'n't mind being tumbled over the precipice, if you do
it. I sha'n't be to blame, and I'm sure you won't, papa." Then she drew my
head down and whispered in my ear, "If I get as much more by being killed,
as I have got by having my poor back hurt, I'm sure it will be well worth
it."

I tried to smile a reply, for I could not speak one. We took her just as
she was, and with some tremor on my part, but not a single slip, we bore
her down the winding path, her face showing all the time that, instead of
being afraid, she was in a state of ecstatic delight. My wife, I could see,
was nervous, however; and she breathed a sigh of relief when we were once
more at the foot.

"Well, I'm glad that's over," she said.

"So am I," I returned, as we set down the litter.

"Poor papa! I've pulled his arms to pieces! and Mr. Percivale's too!"

Percivale answered first by taking up a huge piece of stone. Then turning
towards her, he said, "Look here, Miss Connie;" and flung it far out from
the isthmus on which we were resting. We heard it strike on a rock below,
and then fall in a shower of fragments. "My arms are all right, you see,"
he said.

Meantime, Wynnie had scrambled down to the shore, where we had not yet
been. In a few minutes, we still lingering, she came running back to us out
of breath with the news:

"Papa! Mr. Percivale! there's such a grand cave down there! It goes right
through under the island."

Connie looked so eager, that Percivale and I glanced at each other, and
without a word, lifted her, and followed Wynnie. It was a little way
that we had to carry her down, but it was very broken, and insomuch more
difficult than the other. At length we stood in the cavern. What a contrast
to the vision overhead!--nothing to be seen but the cool, dark vault of the
cave, long and winding, with the fresh seaweed lying on its pebbly floor,
and its walls wet with the last tide, for every tide rolled through in
rising and falling--the waters on the opposite sides of the islet greeting
through this cave; the blue shimmer of the rising sea, and the forms of
huge outlying rocks, looking in at the further end, where the roof rose
like a grand cathedral arch; and the green gleam of veins rich with copper,
dashing and streaking the darkness in gloomy little chapels, where the
floor of heaped-up pebbles rose and rose within till it met the descending
roof. It was like a going-down from Paradise into the grave--but a cool,
friendly, brown-lighted grave, which even in its darkest recesses bore some
witness to the wind of God outside, in the occasional ripple of shadowed
light, from the play of the sun on the waves, that, fleeted and reflected,
wandered across its jagged roof. But we dared not keep Connie long in the
damp coolness; and I have given my reader quite enough of description for
one hour's reading. He can scarcely be equal to more.

My invalids had now beheld the sea in such a different aspect, that I no
longer feared to go back to Kilkhaven. Thither we went three days after,
and at my invitation, Percivale took Turner's place in the carriage.


CHAPTER XI.

JOE AND HIS TROUBLE.


How bright the yellow shores of Kilkhaven looked after the dark sands of
Tintagel! But how low and tame its highest cliffs after the mighty rampart
of rocks which there face the sea like a cordon of fierce guardians! It was
pleasant to settle down again in what had begun to look like home, and was
indeed made such by the boisterous welcome of Dora and the boys. Connie's
baby crowed aloud, and stretched forth her chubby arms at sight of her. The
wind blew gently around us, full both of the freshness of the clean waters
and the scents of the down-grasses, to welcome us back. And the dread
vision of the shore had now receded so far into the past, that it was no
longer able to hurt.

We had called at the blacksmith's house on our way home, and found that he
was so far better as to be working at his forge again. His mother said he
was used to such attacks, and soon got over them. I, however, feared that
they indicated an approaching break-down.

"Indeed, sir," she said, "Joe might be well enough if he liked. It's all
his own fault."

"What do you mean?" I asked. "I cannot believe that your son is in any way
guilty of his own illness."

"He's a well-behaved lad, my Joe," she answered; "but he hasn't learned
what I had to learn long ago."

"What is that?" I asked.

"To make up his mind, and stick to it. To do one thing or the other."

She was a woman with a long upper lip and a judicial face, and as she
spoke, her lip grew longer and longer; and when she closed her mouth in
mark of her own resolution, that lip seemed to occupy two-thirds of all her
face under the nose.

"And what is it he won't do?"

"I don't mind whether he does it or not, if he would only
make--up--his--mind--and--stick--to--it."

"What is it you want him to do, then?"

"I don't want him to do it, I'm sure. It's no good to me--and wouldn't be
much to him, that I'll be bound. Howsomever, he must please himself."

I thought it not very wonderful that he looked gloomy, if there was no more
sunshine for him at home than his mother's face indicated. Few things can
make a man so strong and able for his work as a sun indoors, whose rays are
smiles, ever ready to shine upon him when he opens the door,--the face of
wife or mother or sister. Now his mother's face certainly was not sunny.
No doubt it must have shone upon him when he was a baby. God has made that
provision for babies, who need sunshine so much that a mother's face cannot
help being sunny to them: why should the sunshine depart as the child grows
older?

"Well, I suppose I must not ask. But I fear your son is very far from well.
Such attacks do not often occur without serious mischief somewhere. And if
there is anything troubling him, he is less likely to get over it."

"If he would let somebody make up his mind for him, and then stick to it--"

"O, but that is impossible, you know. "Sure?"

He laughed, and kissed her.

"Good-night, my darling!"
"Good-night; God bless you!"
Then he made his way along the gloomy corridor again and up the broad zinc
steps, and out into the moonlight. Evelyn was there, leaning with
his arms on the hand-rail, and idly watching, far below, the gleams of light
on the gray-black waves.

"It is too fine a night to go below," he said. "What do you say, Brand--shall
we wait up for the daylight and the first glimpse of America?"
"If you like," said Brand, taking out his cigar-case, and hauling along
the chair in which Natalie had been sitting.
They had the whole of this upper deck to themselves, except when
one or other of the officers passed on his rounds.They soon arrived, and a small consultation followed. The cousin was a
bright-eyed, cheruby-cheeked little man, with a ready smile and white
teeth: I thought he might help me to understand what was amiss in Joseph's
affairs. But I would not make the attempt except openly. I therefore said
half in a jocular fashion, as with gloomy, self-withdrawn countenance the
smith was fitting one loop into another in two of his iron rods,--

"I wish we could get this cousin of yours to look a little more cheerful.
You would think he had quarrelled with the sunshine."

The carpenter showed his white teeth between his rosy lips.

"Well, sir, if you'll excuse me, you see my cousin Joe is not like the rest
of us. He's a religious man, is Joe."

"But I don't see how that should make him miserable. It hasn't made me
miserable. I hope I'm a religious man myself. It makes me happy every day
of my life."

"Ah, well," returned the carpenter, in a thoughtful tone, as he worked away
gently to get the inside out of the oak-chest without hurting it, "I don't
say it's the religion, for I don't know; but perhaps it's the way he takes
it up. He don't look after hisself enough; he's always thinking about other
people, you see, sir; and it seems to me, sir, that if you don't look after
yourself, why, who is to look after you? That's common sense, _I_ think."

It was a curious contrast--the merry friendly face, which shone
good-fellowship to all mankind, accusing the sombre, pale, sad, severe,
even somewhat bitter countenance beside him, of thinking too much about
other people, and too little about himself. Of course it might be correct
in a way. There is all the difference between a comfortable, healthy
inclination, and a pained, conscientious principle. It was a smile very
unlike his cousin's with which Joe heard his remarks on himself.

"But," I said, "you will allow, at least, that if everybody would take
Joe's way of it, there would then be no occasion for taking care of
yourself."

"I don't see why, sir."

"Why, because everybody would take care of everybody else."

"Not so well, I doubt, sir."

"Yes, and a great deal better."

"At any rate, that's a long way off; and mean time, _who's_ to take care of
the odd man like Joe there, that don't look after hisself?"

"Why, God, of course."

"Well, there's just where I'm out. I don't know nothing about that branch,
sir."

I saw a grateful light mount up in Joe's gloomy eyes as I spoke thus
upon his side of the question. He said nothing, however; and his cousin
volunteering no further information, I did not push any advantage I might
have gained.

At noon I made them leave their work, and come home with me to have their
dinner; they hoped to finish the job before dusk. Harry Cobb and I dropped
behind, and Joe Harper walked on in front, apparently sunk in meditation.

Scarcely were we out of the churchyard, and on the road leading to the
rectory, when I saw the sexton's daughter meeting us. She had almost come
up to Joe before he saw her, for his gaze was bent on the ground, and he
started. They shook hands in what seemed to me an odd, constrained, yet
familiar fashion, and then stood as if they wanted to talk, but without
speaking. Harry and I passed, both with a nod of recognition to the young
woman, but neither of us had the ill-manners to look behind. I glanced at
Harry, and he answered me with a queer look. When we reached the turning
that would hide them from our view, I looked back almost involuntarily,
and there they were still standing. But before we reached the door of the
rectory, Joe got up with us.

There was something remarkable in the appearance of Agnes Coombes, the
sexton's daughter. She was about six-and-twenty, I should imagine, the
youngest of the family, with a sallow, rather sickly complexion, somewhat
sorrowful eyes, a smile rare and sweet, a fine figure, tall and slender,
and a graceful gait. I now saw, I thought, a good hair's-breadth further
into the smith's affairs. Beyond the hair's-breadth, however, all was dark.
But I saw likewise that the well of truth, whence I might draw the whole
business, must be the girl's mother.

After the men had had their dinner and rested a while, they went back to
the church, and I went to the sexton's cottage. I found the old man seated
at the window, with his pot of beer on the sill, and an empty plate beside
it.

"Come in, sir," he said, rising, as I put my head in at the door. "The
mis'ess ben't in, but she'll be here in a few minutes."

"O, it's of no consequence," I said. "Are they all well?"

"All comfortable, sir. It be fine dry weather for them, this, sir. It be in
winter it be worst for them."

I know at least as much as that, child. But you see, they have to guard
themselves."
Natalie would not leave the hotel for a moment.

She pretended to read; but every person who came into the reading-room
caused her to look up with a start of apprehensive inquiry. At last there
came a note for her.

She broke open the envelope hurriedly, and found a plain white card,
with these words written on it:
"_Be at the Villa Odelschalchi, Portici, at four this afternoon._"
Joy leaped to her face again.

"Mother, look!" she cried, eagerly. "After all, we may hope."
"This time you shall not go alone, Natalushka."

"Why not, mother? I am not afraid."

"I may be of use to you, child. There may be friends of mine
there--who knows?

I am going with you."
In course of time they hired a carriage, and drove away through the crowded
and gayly-colored city in the glow of the afternoon.

But they had sufficient prudence, before reaching Portici, to descend
from the carriage and proceed on foot. They walked quietly along, apparently
not much interested in what was around them. Presently Natalie pressed
her mother's arm, they were opposite the Villa Odelschalchi--there was the
name on the flat pillars by the gate.

This great plain building, which might have been called a palazzo rather
than a villa, seemed, on the side fronting the street, to be entirely
closed--all the casements of the windows being shut. But when they crossed
to the gate, and pulled the big iron handle that set a bell ringing, a porter
appeared--a big, indolent-looking man, who regarded them calmly, to see
which would speak first.

Natalie simply produced the card that had been sent to her.

"This is the Villa Odelschalchi, I perceive," she said.

"Oh, it is you, then, signorina?" the porter said, with great respect.
"Yes, there was one lady to come here at four o'clock--"
"But the signora is my mother," said Natalie, perhaps with a trifle of
impatience.

The man hesitated for a moment, but by this time Natalie, accompanied
by her mother, had passed through the cool gray archway into the
spacious tessellated court, from which rose on each hand a wide
marble staircase.

"Will the signorina and the signora her mother condescend to follow me?" the
porter said, leading the way up one of the staircases, the big iron keys
still in his hand.

They were shown into an antechamber, but scantily furnished, and the porter
disappeared. In a minute or two there came into the room a small,
sallow-complexioned man, who was no other than the Secretary Granaglia.
He bowed, and, as he did so, glanced from the one to the other of
the visitors with scrutiny.

"It is no doubt correct, signorina," said he, addressing himself
to Natalie, "that you have brought the signora your mother with you.

We had thought you were alone, from the message we received. No matter;
only"--and here he turned to Natalie's mother--"only, signora, you will
renew your acquaintance with one who wishes to be known by the name of Von
Zoesch. I have no doubt the signora understands."
"Oh, perfectly, perfectly!" said the elder woman: she had been
familiar with these prudent changes of name all her life.
The Secretary Granaglia bowed and retired.
"It is some one who knows you, mother?""I met Agnes coming this way. Where is she?"

"I believe she be in the churchyard, sir. I've been to the doctor about
her."

"I hope it's nothing serious."

"I hope not, sir; but you see--four on 'em, sir!"

"Well, she's in God's hands, you know."

"That she be, sir."

"I want to ask you about something, Mrs. Coombes."

"What be that, sir? If I can tell, I will, you may be sure, sir."

"I want to know what's the matter with Joe Harper, the blacksmith."

"They du say it be a consumption, sir."

"But what has he got on his mind?"

"He's got nothing on his mind, sir. He be as good a by as ever stepped, I
assure you, sir."

"But I am sure there is something or other on his mind. He's not so happy
as he should be. He's not the man, it seems to me, to be unhappy because
he's ill. A man like him would not be miserable because he was going to
die. It might make him look sad sometimes, but not gloomy as he looks."

"Well, sir, I believe you be right, and perhaps I know summat. But it's
part guessing.--I believe my Agnes and Joe Harper are as fond upon one
another as any two in the county."

"Are they not going to be married then?"

"There be the pint, sir. I don't believe Joe ever said a word o' the sort
to Aggy. She never could ha' kep it from me, sir."

"Why doesn't he then?"

"That's the pint again, sir. All as knows him says it's because he be in
such bad health, and he thinks he oughtn't to go marrying with one foot in
the grave. He never said so to me; but I think very likely that be it."

"For that matter, Mrs. Coombes, we've all got one foot in the grave, I
think."

"That be very true, sir."

"And what does your daughter think?"

"I believe she thinks the same. And so they go on talking to each other,
quiet-like, like old married folks, not like lovers at all, sir. But I
can't help fancying it have something to do with my Aggy's pale face."

"And something to do with Joe's pale face too, Mrs. Coombes," I said.
"Thank you. You've told me more than I expected. It explains everything. I
must have it out with Joe now."

"O deary me! sir, don't go and tell him I said anything, as if I wanted him
to marry my daughter."

"Don't you be afraid. I'll take good care of that. And don't fancy I'm fond
of meddling with other people's affairs. But this is a case in which I
ought to do something. Joe's a fine fellow."

"That he be, sir. I couldn't wish a better for a son-in-law."

I put on my hat.

"You won't get me into no trouble with Joe, will ye, sir!"

"Indeed I will not, Mrs. Coombes. I should be doing a great deal more harm
than good if I said a word to make him doubt you."

I went straight to the church. There were the two men working away in the
shadowy tower, and there was Agnes standing beside, knitting like her
mother, so quiet, so solemn even, that it did indeed look as if she were a
long-married wife, hovering about her husband at his work. Harry was saying
something to her as I went in, but when they saw me they were silent, and
Agnes gently withdrew.

"Do you think you will get through to-night?" I asked.

"Sure of it, sir," answered Harry.

"You shouldn't be sure of anything, Harry. We are told in the New Testament
that we ought to say _If the Lord will_," said Joe.

"Now, Joe, you're too hard upon Harry," I said. "You don't think that the
Bible means to pull a man up every step like that, till he's afraid to
speak a word. It was about a long journey and a year's residence that the
Apostle James was speaking."

"No doubt, sir. But the principle's the same. Harry can no more be sure of
finishing his work before it be dark, than those people could be of going
their long journey."

"That is perfectly true. But you are taking the letter for the spirit, and
that, I suspect, in more ways than one. The religion does not lie in not
being sure about anything, but in a loving desire that the will of God in
the matter, whatever it be, may be done. And if Harry has not learned yet
to care about the will of God, what is the good of coming down upon him
that way, as if that would teach him in the least. When he loves God, then,
and not till then, will he care about his will. Nor does the religion lie
in saying, _if the Lord will_, every time anything is to be done. It is a
most dangerous thing to use sacred words often. It makes them so common to
our ear that at length, when used most solemnly, they have not half the
effect they ought to have, and that is a serious loss. What the Apostle
means is, that we should always be in the mood of looking up to God and
having regard to his will, not always writing D.V. for instance, as so many
do--most irreverently, I think--using a Latin contraction for the beautiful
words, just as if they were a charm, or as if God would take offence
if they did not make the salvo of acknowledgment. It seems to me quite
heathenish. Our hearts ought ever to be in the spirit of those words; our
lips ought to utter them rarely. Besides, there are some things a man might
be pretty sure the Lord wills."

"It sounds fine, sir; but I'm not sure that I understand what you mean to
say. It sounds to me like a darkening of wisdom."

I saw that I had irritated him, and so had in some measure lost ground. But
Harry struck in--

"How _can_ you say that now, Joe? _I_ know what the parson means well
enough, and everybody knows I ain't got half the brains you've got."

"The reason is, Harry, that he's got something in his head that stands in
the way."

"And there's nothing in my head _to_ stand in the way!" returned Harry,
laughing.

This made me laugh too, and even Joe could not help a sympathetic grin. By
this time it was getting dark.

"I'm afraid, Harry, after all, you won't get through to-night."

"I begin to think so too, sir. And there's Joe saying, 'I told you so,'
over and over to himself, though he won't say it out like a man."

Joe answered only with another grin.

"I tell you what it is, Harry," I said--"you must come again on Monday. And
on your way home, just look in and tell Joe's mother that I have kept him
over to-morrow. The change will do him good."

"No, sir, that can't he. I haven't got a clean shirt."

"You can have a shirt of mine," I said. "But I'm afraid you'll want your
Sunday clothes."

"I'll bring them for you, Joe--before you're up," interposed Harry. "And
then you can go to church with Aggy Coombes, you know."

Here was just what I wanted.

"Hold your tongue, Harry," said Joe angrily. "You're talking of what you
don't know anything about."

"Well, Joe, I ben't a fool, if I ben't so religious as you be. You ben't
a bad fellow, though you be a Methodist, and I ben't a fool, though I be
Harry Cobb."

"What do you mean, Harry? Do hold your tongue."

"Well, I'll tell you what I mean first, and then I'll hold my tongue. I
mean this--that nobody with two eyes, or one eye, for that matter, in his
head, could help seeing the eyes you and Aggy make at each other, and why
you don't port your helm and board her--I won't say it's more than I know,
but I du say it to be more than I think be fair to the young woman."

"Hold your tongue, Harry."

"I said I would when I'd answered you as to what I meaned. So no more
at present; but I'll be over with your clothes afore you're up in the
morning."

As Harry spoke he was busy gathering his tools.

"They won't be in the way, will they, sir?" he said, as he heaped them
together in the furthest corner of the tower.

"Not in the least," I returned. "If I had my way, all the tools used in
building the church should be carved on the posts and pillars of it, to
indicate the sacredness of labour, and the worship of God that lies, not in
building the church merely, but in every honest trade honestly pursued for
the good of mankind and the need of the workman. For a necessity of God is
laid upon every workman as well as on St. Paul. Only St. Paul saw it, and
every workman doesn't, Harry."

"Thank you, sir. I like that way of it. I almost think I could be a little
bit religious after your way of it, sir."

"Almost, Harry!" growled Joe--not unkindly.

"Now, you hold your tongue, Joe," I said. "Leave Harry to me. You may take
him, if you like, after I've done with him."

Laughing merrily, but making no other reply than a hearty good-night, Harry
strode away out of the church, and Joe and I went home together.

When he had had his tea, I asked him to go out with me for a walk.

The sun was shining aslant upon the downs from over the sea. We rose out of
the shadowy hollow to the sunlit brow. I was a little in advance of Joe.
Happening to turn, I saw the light full on his head and face, while the
rest of his body had not yet emerged from the shadow.

"Stop, Joe," I said. "I want to see you so for a moment."

He stood--a little surprised.

"You look just like a man rising from the dead, Joe," I said.

"I don't know what you mean, sir," he returned.

"I will describe yourself to you. Your head and face are full of sunlight,
the rest of your body is still buried in the shadow. Look; I will stand
where you are now; and you come here. You will soon see what I mean."

We changed places. Joe stared for a moment. Then his face brightened.

"I see what you mean, sir," he said. "I fancy you don't mean the
resurrection of the body, but the resurrection of righteousness."

"I do, Joe. Did it ever strike you that the whole history of the Christian
life is a series of such resurrections? Every time a man bethinks himself
that he is not walking in the light, that he has been forgetting himself,
and must repent, that he has been asleep and must awake, that he has been
letting his garments trail, and must gird up the loins of his mind--every
time this takes place, there is a resurrection in the world. Yes, Joe; and
every time that a man finds that his heart is troubled, that he is not
rejoicing in God, a resurrection must follow--a resurrection out of the
night of troubled thoughts into the gladness of the truth. For the truth
is, and ever was, and ever must be, gladness, however much the souls on
which it shines may be obscured by the clouds of sorrow, troubled by the
thunders of fear, or shot through with the lightnings of pain. Now, Joe,
will you let me tell you what you are like--I do not know your thoughts; I
am only judging from your words and looks?"

"You may if you like, sir," answered Joe, a little sulkily. But I was not
to be repelled.

I stood up in the sunlight, so that my eyes caught only about half the
sun's disc. Then I bent my face towards the earth.

"What part of me is the light shining on now, Joe?"

"Just the top of your head," answered he.

"There, then," I returned, "that is just what you are like--a man with the
light on his head, but not on his face. And why not on your face? Because
you hold your head down."

"Isn't it possible, sir, that a man might lose the light on his face, as
you put it, by doing his duty?"

"That is a difficult question," I replied. "I must think before I answer
it."

"I mean," added Joe--"mightn't his duty be a painful one?"

"Yes. But I think that would rather etherealise than destroy the light.
Behind the sorrow would spring a yet greater light from the very duty
itself. I have expressed myself badly, but you will see what I mean.--To
be frank with you, Joe, I do not see that light in your face. Therefore
I think something must be wrong with you. Remember a good man is not
necessarily in the right. St. Peter was a good man, yet our Lord called him
Satan--and meant it of course, for he never said what he did not mean."

"How can I be wrong when all my trouble comes from doing my duty--nothing
else, as far as I know?"

"Then," I replied, a sudden light breaking in on my mind, "I doubt whether
what you suppose to be your duty can be your duty. If it were, I do not
think it would make you so miserable. At least--I may be wrong, but I
venture to think so."

"What is a man to go by, then? If he thinks a thing is his duty, is he not
to do it?"

"Most assuredly--until he knows better. But it is of the greatest
consequence whether the supposed duty be the will of God or the invention
of one's own fancy or mistaken judgment. A real duty is always something
right in itself. The duty a man makes his for the time, by supposing it to
be a duty, may be something quite wrong in itself. The duty of a Hindoo
widow is to burn herself on the body of her husband. But that duty lasts no
longer than till she sees that, not being the will of God, it is not her
duty. A real duty, on the other hand, is a necessity of the human nature,
without seeing and doing which a man can never attain to the truth and
blessedness of his own being. It was the duty of the early hermits to
encourage the growth of vermin upon their bodies, for they supposed that
was pleasing to God; but they could not fare so well as if they had seen
the truth that the will of God was cleanliness. And there may be far more
serious things done by Christian people against the will of God, in the
fancy of doing their duty, than such a trifle as swarming with worms. In a
word, thinking a thing is your duty makes it your duty only till you know
better. And the prime duty of every man is to seek and find, that he may
do, the will of God."

"But do you think, sir, that a man is likely to be doing what he ought not,
if he is doing what he don't like?"

"Not so likely, I allow. But there may be ambition in it. A man must not
want to be better than the right. That is the delusion of the anchorite--a
delusion in which the man forgets the rights of others for the sake of his
own sanctity."

"It might be for the sake of another person, and not for the person's own
sake at all."

"It might be; but except it were the will of God for that other person, it
would be doing him or her a real injury."

We were coming gradually towards what I wanted to make the point in
question. I wished him to tell me all about it himself, however, for I
knew that while advice given on request is generally disregarded, to offer
advice unasked is worthy only of a fool."

"But how are you to know the will of God in every case?" asked Joe.

"By looking at the general laws of life, and obeying them--except there be
anything special in a particular case to bring it under a higher law."

"Ah! but that be just what there is here."

"Well, my dear fellow, that may be; but the special conduct may not be
right for the special case for all that. The speciality of the case may not
be even sufficient to take it from under the ordinary rule. But it is of no
use talking generals. Let us come to particulars. If you can trust me, tell
me all about it, and we may be able to let some light in. I am sure there
is darkness somewhere."

"I will turn it over in my mind, sir; and if I can bring myself to talk
about it, I will. I would rather tell you than anyone else."

I said no more. We watched a glorious sunset--there never was a grander
place for sunsets--and went home.


CHAPTER XII.

A SMALL ADVENTURE.


The next morning Harry came with the clothes. But Joe did not go to church.
Neither did Agnes make her appearance that morning. They were both present
at the evening service, however.

When we came out of church, it was cloudy and dark, and the wind was
blowing cold from the sea. The sky was covered with one cloud, but the
waves tossing themselves against the rocks, flashed whiteness out of the
general gloom. As the tide rose the wind increased. It was a night of surly
temper--hard and gloomy. Not a star cracked the blue above--there was no
blue; and the wind was _gurly_; I once heard that word in Scotland, and
never forgot it.

After one of our usual gatherings in Connie's room, which were much shorter
here because of the evening service in summer, I withdrew till supper
should be ready.

Now I have always had, as I think I have incidentally stated before, a
certain peculiar pleasure in the surly aspects of nature. When I was a
young man this took form in opposition and defiance; since I had begun
to grow old the form had changed into a sense of safety. I welcomed such
aspects, partly at least, because they roused my faith to look through and
beyond the small region of human conditions in which alone the storm can be
and blow, and thus induced a feeling like that of the child who lies in his
warm crib and listens to the howling of one of these same storms outside
the strong-built house which yet trembles at its fiercer onsets: the house
is not in danger; or, if it be, that is his father's business, not
his. Hence it came that, after supper, I put on my great-coat and
travelling-cap, and went out into the ill-tempered night--speaking of it in
its human symbolism.

I meant to have a stroll down to the breakwater, of which I have yet said
little, but which was a favourite resort, both of myself and my children.
At the further end of it, always covered at high water, was an outlying
cluster of low rocks, in the heart of which the lord of the manor, a
noble-hearted Christian gentleman of the old school, had constructed a bath
of graduated depth--an open-air swimming-pool--the only really safe place
for men who were swimmers to bathe in. Thither I was in the habit of taking
my two little men every morning, and bathing with them, that I might
develop the fish that was in them; for, as George Herbert says:

  "Man is everything,
  And more: he is a tree, yet bears no fruit;
  A beast, yet is, or should be, more;"

and he might have gone on to say that he is, or should be, a fish as well.

It will seem strange to any reader who can recall the position of my
Connie's room, that the nearest way to the breakwater should be through
that room; but so it was. I mention the fact because I want my readers to
understand a certain peculiarity of the room. By the side of the window
which looked out upon the breakwater was a narrow door, apparently of a
closet or cupboard, which communicated, however, with a narrow, curving,
wood-built passage, leading into a little wooden hut, the walls of
which were by no means impervious to the wind, for they were formed of
outside-planks, with the bark still upon them. From this hut one or two
little windows looked seaward, and a door led out on the bit of sward in
which lay the flower-bed under Connie's window. From this spot again a door
in the low wall and thick hedge led out on the downs, where a path wound
along the cliffs that formed the side of the bay, till, descending under
the storm-tower, it brought you to the root of the breakwater.

This mole stretched its long strong low back to a rock a good way out,
breaking the force of the waves, and rendering the channel of a small
river, that here flowed into the sea across the sands from the mouth of
the canal, a refuge from the Atlantic. But it was a roadway often hard to
reach. In fair weather even, the wind falling as the vessel rounded the
point of the breakwater into the calm of the projecting headlands, the
under-current would sometimes dash her helpless on the rocks. During
all this heavenly summer there had been no thought or fear of any such
disaster. The present night was a hint of what weather would yet come.

When I went into Connie's room, I found her lying in bed a very picture of
peace. But my entrance destroyed the picture.

"Papa," she said, "why have you got your coat on? She is a good help, too:
she is the quickest translator we have got."

"Do you think," Brand said, somewhat timidly, but with a frown on his face,
"that it is fair to put such tedious labor on the shoulders of a
young girl?

Surely there are enough of men to do the work?"

"You shall propose that to her yourself," Lind said laughing.

Well, they arrived at the house in Curzon Street, and, when they
went up-stairs to the drawing-room, they found Lord Evelyn there.

Natalie Lind came forward--with less than usual of her graciously
self-possessed manner--and shook hands with him briefly, and said,
with averted look, 
"I am glad to see you, Mr.

Brand."
Now, as her eyes were cast down, it was impossible that she could have noticed
the quick expression of disappointment that crossed his face.

Was it that she herself was instantly conscious of the coldness of
her greeting, and anxious to atone for that?

Was it that she plucked up heart of grace? At all events, she suddenly
offered him both her hands with a frank courage; she looked him in the
face with the soft, tender, serious eyes; and then, before she turned away,
the low voice said,
"Brother, I welcome you!"

CHAPTER XIII.

SOUTHWARD.

After a late, cold, and gloomy spring, a glimpse of early summer shone over
the land; and after a long period of anxious and oftentimes irritating and
disappointing travail--in wet and dismal towns, in comfortless inns, with
associates not always to his liking--George Brand was hurrying to the South.
Ah, the thought of it, as the train whirled along on this sunlit morning!
After the darkness, the light; after fighting, peace; after the task-work,
a smile of reward! No more than that was his hope; but it was a hope that
kept his heart afire and glad on many a lonely night.

At length his companion, who had slept steadily on ever since they had
entered the train at Carlisle, at about one in the morning, awoke, rubbed
his eyes, and glanced at the window.

"We are going to have a fine day at last, Humphreys," said Brand.

"They have been having better weather in the South, sir."
The man looked like a well-dressed mechanic. He had an intelligent face,
keen and hard. He spoke with the Newcastle burr.

"I wish you would not call me 'sir,'" Brand said, impatiently.

"It comes natural, somehow, sir," said the other, with great simplicity.

"There is not a man in any part of the country, but would say 'sir' to one
of the Brands of Darlington. When Mr. Lind telegraphed to me you were coming
down, I telegraphed back, 'Is he one of the Brands of Darlington?' and
when I got his answer I said to myself, 'Here is the man to go to the
Political Committee of the Trades-union Congress: they won't fight shy
of him.'"
"Well, we have no great cause to grumble at what has been done in that
direction; but that infernal _Internationale_ is doing a deal of mischief.
There is not a trades-unionist in the country who does not know
what is going on in France.

A handful of irresponsible madmen trying to tack themselves on to the
workmen's association--well, surely the men will have more sense than
to listen. The _congres ouvrier_ to change its name, and to become
the _congres revolutionnaire_! When I first went to Jackson, Molyneux,
and the others, I found they had a sort of suspicion that we wanted to
make Communists of them and tear society to pieces."

"You have done more in a couple of months, sir, than we all have
done in the last ten years," his companion said.

"That is impossible. Look at--"
He named some names, certain of them well known enough.

The other shook his head.

"Where we have been they don't believe in London professors, and speech-makers,
and chaps like that.

They know that the North is the backbone and the brain of England, and in
the North they want to be spoken to by a North-countryman."

"I am a Buckinghamshire man."
"That may be where you live, sir: but you are one of the Brands of
Darlington," said the other, doggedly.

By-and-by they entered the huge, resounding station.

"What are you going to do to-night, Humphreys?

Come and have some dinner with me, and we will look in afterward
at the Century."

Humphreys looked embarrassed for a moment.

"I was thinking of going to the Coger's Hall, sir," said he, hitting upon
an excuse.

"I have heard some good speaking there."
"Mostly bunkum, isn't it?"

"No, sir."
"All right. Then I shall see you to-morrow morning in Lisle Street.
Good-bye."

He jumped into a hansom, and was presently rattling away through the busy
streets.

How sweet and fresh was the air, even here in the midst of the misty and
golden city! The early summer was abroad; there was a flush of green on
the trees in the squares. When he got down to the Embankment, he was quite
surprised by the beauty of the gardens; there were not many gardens in the
towns he had chiefly been living in.

He dashed up the narrow wooden stairs.

"Look alive now, Waters: get my bath ready."

"It is ready, sir."
"And breakfast!"
"Whenever you please, sir."

He took off his dust-smothered travelling-coat, and was about to fling it
on the couch, when he saw lying there two pieces of some brilliant
stuff that were strange to him.

"What are these things?"
"They were left, sir, by Mr. ----, of Bond Street, on approval. He will call
this afternoon."

"Tell him to go to the devil!"

said Brand, briefly, as he walked off into his bedroom.

Presently he came back.

"Stay a bit," said he; and he took up the two long strips of silk-embroidered
stuff--Florentine work, probably, of about the end of the sixteenth
century. The ground was a delicate yellowish-gray, with an initial
letter worked in various colors over it.

Mr. ----, of Bond Street, knew that Brand had often amused his idle hours
abroad in picking up things like this, chiefly as presents to lady friends,
and no doubt thought they would be welcome enough, even for bachelors'
rooms.

"Tell him I will take them."

"But the price, sir?"
"Ask him his price; beat him down; and keep the difference."

After bath and breakfast there was an enormous pile of correspondence
awaiting him; for not a single letter referring to his own affairs
had been forwarded to him for over two months.

He had thrown his entire time and care into his work in the North. And
now that these arrears had to be cleared off, he attacked the
business with an obvious impatience.

Formerly he had been used to dawdle over his letters, getting through
a good portion of the forenoon with them and conversations with
Waters about Buckinghamshire news.

Now, even with that omniscient factotum by his side, his progress
was slow, simply because he was hurried.

He made dives here and there, without system, without settlement. At last,
looking at his watch, he jumped up; it was half-past eleven.

"Some other time, Waters--some other time; the man must wait," he said
to the astonished but patient person beside him.

"If Lord Evelyn calls, tell him I shall look in at the Century to-night."
"Yes, sir."
Some half-hour thereafter he was standing in Park Lane, his heart beating
somewhat quickly, his eyes fixed eagerly on two figures that were crossing
the thoroughfare lower down to one of the gates leading into Hyde Park.
These were Natalie Lind and the little Anneli. He had known that he would
see her thus; he had imagined the scene a thousand times; he had pictured
to himself every detail--the trees, the tall railings, the spring
flowers in the plots, and the little rosy-cheeked German girl walking by her
mistress's side; and yet, now that this familiar thing had come true, he
trembled to behold it; he breathed quickly; he could not go forward to her
and hold out his hand. Slowly, for they were walking slowly, he went along
to the gate and entered after them; cautiously, lest she should turn
suddenly and confront him with her eyes; drawn, and yet fearing to follow.
She was talking with some animation to her companion; though even in this
profound silence he could not hear the sound of her voice.

But he could see the beautiful oval of her face!

and sometimes, when she turned with a laugh to the little Anneli, he caught
a glimpse of the black eyes and eyelashes, the smiling lips and brilliant
teeth; and once or twice she put out the palm of her right hand with a
little gesture which, despite her English dress, would have told a stranger
that she was of foreign ways. But the look of welcome, the smile of reward
that he had been looking forward to?

Well, Mr.

Lind was in America; and during his absence his daughter saw but
few visitors.

There was no particular reason why, supposing that George Brand met Natalie
in the street, he should not go up and shake hands with her; and many a
time, in these mental pictures of his of her morning walk with the
rosy-cheeked Anneli, he imagined himself confronting her under the
shadow of the trees, and perhaps walking some way with her, to listen once
more to the clear, low vibrations of her musical voice. But no sooner had
he seen her come into Park Lane--the vision became real--than he felt he
could not go up and speak to her.

If he had met her by accident, perhaps he might; but to watch her,
to entrap her, to break in on her wished-for isolation under false
pretences--all that he suddenly felt to be impossible.

He could follow her with his heart; but the sound of her voice, the
touch of her hand, the smile of her calm, beautiful, dark eyes,
were as remote for him as if she, too, were beyond the broad
Atlantic.

He was not much given to introspection and analysis; daring the past
two months more especially he had been far too busy to be perpetually
asking "Why?

why?"--the vice of indolence. It was enough that, in the cold and the
wet, there was a fire in his heart that kept him glad with thinking
of the fair days to come; and that, in the foggy afternoons or the
lonely nights when he was alone, and perhaps despondent or impatient
over the stupidity or the contumacy he had had to encounter, there
came to him the soft murmur of a voice from far away--proud, sad,
and yet full of consolation and hope:
"--But ye that might be clothed with all things pleasant, Ye are
foolish that put off the fair soft present, That clothe yourself
with the cold future air; When mother and father, and tender sister
and brother, And the old live love that was shall be as ye, Dust
and no fruit of loving life shall be.

--She shall be yet who is more than all these were, Than sister or
wife or father unto us, or mother."

He could hear her voice: he could see the beautiful face grow pale
with its proud fervor; he could feel the soft touch of her hand
when she came forward and said, "Brother, I welcome you!"

And now that she was there before him, the gladness in his heart at the
mere sight of her was troubled with a trembling fear and pain.

She was but a stone's-throw in front of him; but she seemed far away. The
world was young around her; and she belonged to the time of youth
and of hope; life, that he had been ready to give up as a useless
and aimless thing, was only opening out before her, full of a
thousand beauties, and wonders, and possibilities.

If only he could have taken her hand, and looked into her eyes, and claimed
that smile of welcome, he would have been nearer to her.

Surely, in one thing at least they were in sympathy.
There was a bond between them.

If the past had divided them, the future would bring them more
together.

Did not the Pilgrims go by in bands, until death struck down its victims
here and there?

Natalie knew nothing of all this vague longing, and doubt, and pain
in the breast of one who was so near her.

She was in a gay mood. The morning was beautiful; the soft wind after the
rain brought whiffs of scent from the distant rose-red hawthorn.

Though she was here under shadow of the trees, the sun beyond shone on the
fresh and moist grass; and at the end of the glades there were glimpses
of brilliant color in the foliage--the glow of the laburnum, the lilac blaze
of the rhododendron bushes. And how still the place was! Far off there
was a dull roar of carriages in Piccadilly; but here there was
nothing but the bleating of the sheep, the chirp of the young birds,
the stir of the wind among the elms.

Sometimes he could now catch the sound of her voice.

She was in a gay humor. When she got to the Serpentine--the north bank
was her favorite promenade; she could see on the other side, just
below the line of leaves, the people passing and repassing on
horseback; but she was not of them--she found a number of urchins
wading.

They had no boat; but they had the bung of a barrel, which served, and
that they were pushing through the water with twigs and sticks;
their shapeless boots they had left on the bank.

Now, as it seemed to Brand, who was watching from a distance, she planned
a scheme.

Anneli was seen to go ahead of the boys, and speak to them. Their attention
being thus distracted, the young mistress stepped rapidly down to the
tattered boots, and dropped something in each. Then she withdrew, and was
rejoined by her maid; they walked away without waiting to see the
result of their machinations.

But George Brand, following by-and-by, heard one of the urchins call out
with wonder that he had found a penny in his shoe; and this extraordinary
piece of news brought back his comrades, who rather mechanically
began to examine their footgear too.

And then the amazement!--and the looks around!

--and the examination of the pence, lest that treasure should vanish away!
Brand went up to them.

"Look hear you young stupids; don't you see that tall lady away along there
by the boat-house--why don't you go and thank her?"

But they were either too shy or too incredulous; so he left them. He
did not forget the incident.

Perhaps it was that the heavens had grown dark in the southwest,
threatening a shower; but, at all events, Natalie soon returned and
set out on her homeward way, giving this unknown spy some trouble
to escape observation.

But when she had passed, he again followed, now with even greater
unrest and pain at his heart.

For would not she soon disappear, and the outer world grow empty, and the
dull hours have to be faced? He had come to London with such hope and
gladness; now the very sunlight was to be taken out of his life
by the shutting of a door in Curzon Street.

Fate, however, was kinder to him than he had dared to hope. As Natalie was
returning home, he ventured to draw a little nearer to her, but
still with the greatest caution, for he would have been overcome
with shame if she had detected him dogging her footsteps in this
aimless, if innocent manner.

And now that she had got close to her own door, he had drawn nearer still--on
the other side of the street; he so longed to catch one more glimpse of
the dark eyes smiling, and the mobile, proud mouth. But just as the door was
being opened from within, a man who had evidently been watching his chance
thrust himself before the two women, barring their way, and proceeded
to address Natalie in a vehement, gesticulating fashion, with much
clinching of his fists and throwing out of his arms.

Anneli had shrunk back a step, for the man was uncouth and unkempt;
but the young mistress stood erect and firm, confronting the beggar,
or madman, or whoever he was, without the slightest sign of fear.

This was enough for George Brand. He was not thrusting himself unfairly on
her seclusion if he interposed to protect her from menace. Instantly he
crossed the road.

"Who are you? What do you want?" This was what he said; but what he did
was to drive the man back a couple of yards.

A hand was laid on his arm quickly.

"He is in trouble," Natalie said, calmly. "He wants to see papa; he has
come a long way; he does not understand that papa is in America. If
you could only convince him--But you do not talk Russian."
"I can talk English," said Brand, regarding the maniac-looking person before
him with angry brows.

It is very absurd to trust God for the future,
and not trust him for the present. The man who is not anxious is the man
most likely to do the right thing. He is cool and collected and ready. Our
Lord therefore told his disciples that when they should be brought before
kings and rulers, they were to take no thought what answer they should
make, for it would be given them when the time came."

We were climbing the steep path up to the downs. Neither of my companions
spoke.

"You have escaped one death together," I said at length: "dare another."

Still neither of them returned an answer. When we came near the parsonage,
I said, "Now, Joe, you must go in and get to bed at once. I will take Agnes
home. You can trust me not to say anything against you?"

Joe laughed rather hoarsely, and replied: "As you please, sir. Good night,
Aggie. Mind you get to bed as fast as you can."

When I returned from giving Agnes over to her parents, I made haste to
change my clothes, and put on my warm dressing-gown. I may as well mention
at once, that not one of us was the worse for our ducking. I then went up
to Connie's room.

"Here I am, you see, Connie, quite safe."

"I've been lying listening to every blast of wind since you went out, papa.
But all I could do was to trust in God."

"Do you call that _all_, Connie? Believe me, there is more power in that
than any human being knows the tenth part of yet. It is indeed _all_."

I said no more then. I told my wife about it that night, but we were well
into another month before I told Connie.

When I left her, I went to Joe's room to see how he was, and found him
having some gruel. I sat down on the edge of his bed, and said,

"Well, Joe, this is better than under water. I hope you won't be the worse
for it."

"I don't much care what comes of me, sir. It will be all over soon."

"But you ought to care what comes of you, Joe. I will tell you why. You are
an instrument out of which ought to come praise to God, and, therefore, you
ought to care for the instrument."

"That way, yes, sir, I ought."

"And you have no business to be like some children who say, 'Mamma won't
give me so and so,' instead of asking her to give it them."

"I see what you mean, sir. But really you put me out before the young
woman. I couldn't say before her what I meant. Suppose, you know, sir,
there was to come a family. It might be, you know."

"Of course. What else would you have?"

"But if I was to die, where would she be then?"

"In God's hands; just as she is now."

"But I ought to take care that she is not left with a burden like that to
provide for."

"O, Joe! how little you know a woman's heart! It would just be the greatest
comfort she could have for losing you--that's all. Many a woman has married
a man she did not care enough for, just that she might have a child of her
own to let out her heart upon. I don't say that is right, you know. Such
love cannot be perfect. A woman ought to love her child because it is her
husband's more than because it is her own, and because it is God's more
than either's. I saw in the papers the other day, that a woman was brought
before the Recorder of London for stealing a baby, when the judge himself
said that there was no imaginable motive for her action but a motherly
passion to possess the child. It is the need of a child that makes so
many women take to poor miserable, broken-nosed lap-dogs; for they are
self-indulgent, and cannot face the troubles and dangers of adopting
a child. They would if they might get one of a good family, or from a
respectable home; but they dare not take an orphan out of the dirt, lest
it should spoil their silken chairs. But that has nothing to do with our
argument. What I mean is this, that if Agnes really loves you, as no one
can look in her face and doubt, she will be far happier if you leave her
a child--yes, she will be happier if you only leave her your name for
hers--than if you died without calling her your wife."

I took Joe's basin from him, and he lay down. He turned his face to the
wall. I waited a moment, but finding him silent, bade him good-night, and
left the room.

A month after, I married them.


CHAPTER XIII.

THE HARVEST.


It was some time before we got the bells to work to our mind, but at
last we succeeded. The worst of it was to get the cranks, which at first
required strong pressure on the keys, to work easily enough. But neither
Joe nor his cousin spared any pains to perfect the attempt, and, as I say,
at length we succeeded. I took Wynnie down to the instrument and made her
try whether she could not do something, and she succeeded in making the old
tower discourse loudly and eloquently.

By this time the thanksgiving for the harvest was at hand: on the morning
of that first of all would I summon the folk to their prayers with the
sound of the full peal. And I wrote a little hymn of praise to the God of
the harvest, modelling it to one of the oldest tunes in that part of the
country, and I had it printed on slips of paper and laid plentifully on the
benches. What with the calling of the bells, like voices in the highway,
and the solemn meditation of the organ within to bear aloft the thoughts of
those who heard, and came to the prayer and thanksgiving in common, and the
message which God had given me to utter to them, I hoped that we should
indeed keep holiday.

Wynnie summoned the parish with the hundredth psalm pealed from aloft,
dropping from the airy regions of the tower on village and hamlet and
cottage, calling aloud--for who could dissociate the words from the music,
though the words are in the Scotch psalms?--written none the less by an
Englishman, however English wits may amuse themselves with laughing at
their quaintness--calling aloud,

  "All people that on earth do dwell
  Sing to the Lord with cheerful voice;
  Him serve with mirth, his praise forth tell--
  Come ye before him and rejoice."

Then we sang the psalm before the communion service, making bold in the
name of the Lord to serve him with _mirth_ as in the old version, and not
with the _fear_ with which some editor, weak in faith, has presumed to
alter the line. Then before the sermon we sang the hymn I had prepared--a
proceeding justifiable by many an example in the history of the church
while she was not only able to number singers amongst her clergy, but those
singers were capable of influencing the whole heart and judgment of the
nation with their songs. Ethelwyn played the organ. The song I had prepared
was this:

  "We praise the Life of All;
  From buried seeds so small
  Who makes the ordered ranks of autumn stand;
  Who stores the corn
  In rick and barn
  To feed the winter of the land.

  We praise the Life of Light!
  Who from the brooding night
  Draws out the morning holy, calm, and grand;
  Veils up the moon,
  Sends out the sun,
  To glad the face of all the land.

  We praise the Life of Work,
  Who from sleep's lonely dark
  Leads forth his children to arise and stand,
  Then go their way,
  The live-long day,
  To trust and labour in the land.

  We praise the Life of Good,
  Who breaks sin's lazy mood,
  Toilsomely ploughing up the fruitless sand.
  The furrowed waste
  They leave, and haste
  Home, home, to till their Father's land.

  We praise the Life of Life,
  Who in this soil of strife
  Casts us at birth, like seed from sower's hand;
  To die and so
  Like corn to grow
  A golden harvest in his land."

After we had sung this hymn, the meaning of which is far better than the
versification, I preached from the words of St. Paul, "If by any means I
might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. Not as though I had already
attained, either were already perfect." And this is something like what I
said to them:

"The world, my friends, is full of resurrections, and it is not always of
the same resurrection that St. Paul speaks. Every night that folds us up
in darkness is a death; and those of you that have been out early and have
seen the first of the dawn, will know it--the day rises out of the night
like a being that has burst its tomb and escaped into life. That you may
feel that the sunrise is a resurrection--the word resurrection just means a
rising again--I will read you a little description of it from a sermon by a
great writer and great preacher called Jeremy Taylor. Listen. Presently he
added,
"There is something you could do, Evelyn. Don't let us talk further of
myself: I said before, if a single man drops out of the ranks, what
matter?--the army marches on. And what has been concerning me of late
is the effect that this act of the Council may have on our thousands of
friends throughout this country. Now, Evelyn, when--when the affair comes
off, I think you would do a great deal of good by pointing out in the
papers what a scoundrel this man Zaccatelli was; how he had merited his
punishment, and how it might seem justifiable to the people over there
that one should take the law into one's own hands in such an exceptional
case. You might do that, Evelyn, for the sake of the Society. The people
over here don't know what a ruffian he is, and how he is beyond
the ordinary reach of the law, or how the poor people have groaned
under his iniquities.

  Don't seek to justify me; I shall be
  beyond the reach of excuse or execration by
  that time; but you might break the shock, don't
  you see?--you might explain a little--you
  might intimate to our friends who have joined
  us here that they had not joined any kind of
  Camorra association. That troubles me more than anything.

I confess to you that I have got quite reconciled to the affair, as far
as any sacrifice on my own part is concerned. That bitterness is over; I can
even think of Natalie."
The last words were spoken slowly, and in a low voice; his eyes were fixed
on the night-world outside. What could his friend say? They talked late
into the night; but all his remonstrances and prayers were of no avail as
against this clear resolve.

"What is the use of discussion?" was the placid answer. "What would you have
me do?--break my oaths--put aside my sacred promise made to Natalie, and
give up the Society altogether? My good fellow, let us talk of something
less impossible."
And indeed, though he deprecated discussion on this point, he was anxious
to talk. The fact was that of late he had come to fear sleep, as the
look of his eyes testified. In the daytime, or as long as he could sit
up with a companion, he could force himself to think only of the immediate
and practical demands of the hour; vain regrets over what might have
been--and even occasional uneasy searchings of conscience--he could
by an effort of will ignore. He had accepted his fate; he had schooled
himself to look forward to it without fear; henceforth there was to be no
indecision, no murmur of complaint. But in the night-time--in dreams--the
natural craving for life asserted itself; it seemed so sad to bid
good-bye forever to those whom he had known and loved; and mostly
always it was Natalie herself who stood there, regarding him with
streaming eyes, and wringing her hands, and sobbing to him farewell.No man who understands what he is
speaking about can well mean only one thing at a time.

"But to return to the resurrections we see around us in nature. Look at the
death that falls upon the world in winter. And look how it revives when the
sun draws near enough in the spring to wile the life in it once more out of
its grave. See how the pale, meek snowdrops come up with their bowed heads,
as if full of the memory of the fierce winds they encountered last spring,
and yet ready in the strength of their weakness to encounter them again. Up
comes the crocus, bringing its gold safe from the dark of its colourless
grave into the light of its parent gold. Primroses, and anemones, and
blue-bells, and a thousand other children of the spring, hear the
resurrection-trumpet of the wind from the west and south, obey, and leave
their graves behind to breathe the air of the sweet heavens. Up and up they
come till the year is glorious with the rose and the lily, till the trees
are not only clothed upon with new garments of loveliest green, but the
fruit-tree bringeth forth its fruit, and the little children of men are
made glad with apples, and cherries, and hazel-nuts. The earth laughs out
in green and gold. The sky shares in the grand resurrection. The garments
of its mourning, wherewith it made men sad, its clouds of snow and hail and
stormy vapours, are swept away, have sunk indeed to the earth, and are now
humbly feeding the roots of the flowers whose dead stalks they beat upon
all the winter long. Instead, the sky has put on the garments of praise.
Her blue, coloured after the sapphire-floor on which stands the throne of
him who is the Resurrection and the Life, is dashed and glorified with the
pure white of sailing clouds, and at morning and evening prayer, puts on
colours in which the human heart drowns itself with delight--green and gold
and purple and rose. Even the icebergs floating about in the lonely summer
seas of the north are flashing all the glories of the rainbow. But, indeed,
is not this whole world itself a monument of the Resurrection? The earth
was without form and void. The wind of God moved on the face of the waters,
and up arose this fair world. Darkness was on the face of the deep: God
said, 'Let there be light,' and there was light.

"In the animal world as well, you behold the goings of the Resurrection.
Plainest of all, look at the story of the butterfly--so plain that the
pagan Greeks called it and the soul by one name--Psyche. Psyche meant with
them a butterfly or the soul, either. Look how the creeping thing, ugly to
our eyes, so that we can hardly handle it without a shudder, finding itself
growing sick with age, straightway falls a spinning and weaving at its
own shroud, coffin, and grave, all in one--to prepare, in fact, for its
resurrection; for it is for the sake of the resurrection that death exists.
Patiently it spins its strength, but not its life, away, folds itself up
decently, that its body may rest in quiet till the new body is formed
within it; and at length when the appointed hour has arrived, out of the
body of this crawling thing breaks forth the winged splendour of the
butterfly--not the same body--a new one built out of the ruins of the
old--even as St. Paul tells us that it is not the same body _we_ have in
the resurrection, but a nobler body like ourselves, with all the imperfect
and evil thing taken away. No more creeping for the butterfly; wings of
splendour now. Neither yet has it lost the feet wherewith to alight on all
that is lovely and sweet. Think of it--up from the toilsome journey over
the low ground, exposed to the foot of every passer-by, destroying the
lovely leaves upon which it fed, and the fruit which they should shelter,
up to the path at will through the air, and a gathering of food which hurts
not the source of it, a food which is but as a tribute from the loveliness
of the flowers to the yet higher loveliness of the flower-angel: is not
this a resurrection? Its children too shall pass through the same process,
to wing the air of a summer noon, and rejoice in the ethereal and the pure.

"To return yet again from the human thoughts suggested by the symbol of the
butterfly"--

Here let me pause for a moment--and there was a corresponding pause, though
but momentary, in the sermon as I spoke it--to mention a curious, and to me
at the moment an interesting fact. At this point of my address, I caught
sight of a white butterfly, a belated one, flitting about the church.
Absorbed for a moment, my eye wandered after it. It was near the bench
where my own people sat, and, for one flash of thought, I longed that the
butterfly would alight on my Wynnie, for I was more anxious about her
resurrection at the time than about anything else. But the butterfly would
not. And then I told myself that God would, and that the butterfly was only
the symbol of a grand truth, and of no private interpretation, to make
which of it was both selfishness and superstition. But all this passed in a
flash, and I resumed my discourse.

--"I come now naturally to speak of what we commonly call the Resurrection.
Some say: 'How can the same dust be raised again, when it may be scattered
to the winds of heaven?' It is a question I hardly care to answer. The
mere difficulty can in reason stand for nothing with God; but the apparent
worthlessness of the supposition renders the question uninteresting to me.
What is of import is, that I should stand clothed upon, with a body which
is _my_ body because it serves my ends, justifies my consciousness of
identity by being, in all that was good in it, like that which I had
before, while now it is tenfold capable of expressing the thoughts and
feelings that move within me. How can I care whether the atoms that form
a certain inch of bone should be the same as those which formed that bone
when I died? All my life-time I never felt or thought of the existence of
such a bone! On the other hand, I object to having the same worn muscles,
the same shrivelled skin with which I may happen to die. Why give me the
same body as that? Why not rather my youthful body, which was strong, and
facile, and capable? The matter in the muscle of my arm at death would not
serve to make half the muscle I had when young. But I thank God that St.
Paul says it will _not_ be the same body. That body dies--up springs
another body. I suspect myself that those are right who say that this body
being the seed, the moment it dies in the soil of this world, that moment
is the resurrection of the new body. The life in it rises out of it in a
new body. This is not after it is put in the mere earth; for it is dead
then, and the germ of life gone out of it. If a seed rots, no new body
comes of it. The seed dies into a new life, and so does man. Dying and
rotting are two very different things.--But I am not sure by any means. As
I say, the whole question is rather uninteresting to me. What do I care
about my old clothes after I have done with them? What is it to me to know
what becomes of an old coat or an old pulpit gown? I have no such clinging
to the flesh. It seems to me that people believe their bodies to be
themselves, and are therefore very anxious about them--and no wonder then.
Enough for me that I shall have eyes to see my friends, a face that they
shall know me by, and a mouth to praise God withal. I leave the matter with
one remark, that I am well content to rise as Jesus rose, however that was.
For me the will of God is so good that I would rather have his will done
than my own choice given me.

"But I now come to the last, because infinitely the most important part
of my subject--the resurrection for the sake of which all the other
resurrections exist--the resurrection unto Life. This is the one of which
St. Paul speaks in my text. This is the one I am most anxious--indeed, the
only one I am anxious to set forth, and impress upon you.

"Think, then, of all the deaths you know; the death of the night, when the
sun is gone, when friend says not a word to friend, but both lie drowned
and parted in the sea of sleep; the death of the year, when winter lies
heavy on the graves of the children of summer, when the leafless trees moan
in the blasts from the ocean, when the beasts even look dull and oppressed,
when the children go about shivering with cold, when the poor and
improvident are miserable with suffering or think of such a death of
disease as befalls us at times, when the man who says, 'Would God it were
morning!' changes but his word, and not his tune, when the morning comes,
crying, 'Would God it were evening!' when what life is left is known to us
only by suffering, and hope is amongst the things that were once and are no
more--think of all these, think of them all together, and you will have but
the dimmest, faintest picture of the death from which the resurrection
of which I have now to speak, is the rising. I shrink from the attempt,
knowing how weak words are to set forth _the_ death, set forth _the_
resurrection. Were I to sit down to yonder organ, and crash out the most
horrible dissonances that ever took shape in sound, I should give you but
a weak figure of this death; were I capable of drawing from many a row of
pipes an exhalation of dulcet symphonies and voices sweet, such as Milton
himself could have invaded our ears withal, I could give you but a faint
figure of this resurrection. Nevertheless, I must try what I can do in my
own way.

"If into the face of the dead body, lying on the bed, waiting for its
burial, the soul of the man should begin to dawn again, drawing near from
afar to look out once more at those eyes, to smile once again through those
lips, the change on that face would be indeed great and wondrous, but
nothing for marvel or greatness to that which passes on the countenance,
the very outward bodily face of the man who wakes from his sleep, arises
from the dead and receives light from Christ. Too often indeed, the
reposeful look on the face of the dead body would be troubled, would vanish
away at the revisiting of the restless ghost; but when a man's own right
true mind, which God made in him, is restored to him again, and he wakes
from the death of sin, then comes the repose without the death. It may take
long for the new spirit to complete the visible change, but it begins at
once, and will be perfected. The bloated look of self-indulgence passes
away like the leprosy of Naaman, the cheek grows pure, the lips return to
the smile of hope instead of the grin of greed, and the eyes that made
innocence shrink and shudder with their yellow leer grow childlike and
sweet and faithful. The mammon-eyes, hitherto fixed on the earth, are
lifted to meet their kind; the lips that mumbled over figures and sums of
gold learn to say words of grace and tenderness. The truculent, repellent,
self-satisfied face begins to look thoughtful and doubtful, as if searching
for some treasure of whose whereabouts it had no certain sign. The face
anxious, wrinkled, peering, troubled, on whose lines you read the dread of
hunger, poverty, and nakedness, thaws into a smile; the eyes reflect in
courage the light of the Father's care, the back grows erect under its
burden with the assurance that the hairs of its head are all numbered. But
the face can with all its changes set but dimly forth the rising from the
dead which passes within. The heart, which cared but for itself, becomes
aware of surrounding thousands like itself, in the love and care of which
it feels a dawning blessedness undreamt of before. From selfishness to
love--is not this a rising from the dead? The man whose ambition declares
that his way in the world would be to subject everything to his desires, to
bring every human care, affection, power, and aspiration to his feet--such
a world it would be, and such a king it would have, if individual ambition
might work its will! if a man's opinion of himself could be made out in
the world, degrading, compelling, oppressing, doing everything for his own
glory!--and such a glory!--but a pang of light strikes this man to the
heart; an arrow of truth, feathered with suffering and loss and dismay,
finds out--the open joint in his armour, I was going to say--no, finds out
the joint in the coffin where his heart lies festering in a death so dead
that itself calls it life. He trembles, he awakes, he rises from the dead.
No more he seeks the slavery of all: where can he find whom to serve? how
can he become if but a threshold in the temple of Christ, where all serve
all, and no man thinks first of himself? He to whom the mass of his
fellows, as he massed them, was common and unclean, bows before every human
sign of the presence of the making God. The sun, which was to him but a
candle with which to search after his own ends, wealth, power, place,
praise--the world, which was but the cavern where he thus searched--are now
full of the mystery of loveliness, full of the truth of which sun and
wind and land and sea are symbols and signs. From a withered old age of
unbelief, the dim eyes of which refuse the glory of things a passage to the
heart, he is raised up a child full of admiration, wonder, and gladness.
Everything is glorious to him; he can believe, and therefore he sees. It
is from the grave into the sunshine, from the night into the morning, from
death into life. To come out of the ugly into the beautiful; out of the
mean and selfish into the noble and loving; out of the paltry into the
great; out of the false into the true; out of the filthy into the clean;
out of the commonplace into the glorious; out of the corruption of disease
into the fine vigour and gracious movements of health; in a word, out of
evil into good--is not this a resurrection indeed--_the_ resurrection of
all, the resurrection of Life? God grant that with St. Paul we may attain
to this resurrection of the dead.

"This rising from the dead is often a long and a painful process. Even
after he had preached the gospel to the Gentiles, and suffered much for the
sake of his Master, Paul sees the resurrection of the dead towering grandly
before him, not yet climbed, not yet attained unto--a mountainous splendour
and marvel, still shining aloft in the air of existence, still, thank God,
to be attained, but ever growing in height and beauty as, forgetting those
things that are behind, he presses towards the mark, if by any means he may
attain to the resurrection of the dead. Every blessed moment in which a man
bethinks himself that he has been forgetting his high calling, and sends up
to the Father a prayer for aid; every time a man resolves that what he has
been doing he will do no more; every time that the love of God, or the
feeling of the truth, rouses a man to look first up at the light, then down
at the skirts of his own garments--that moment a divine resurrection is
wrought in the earth. Yea, every time that a man passes from resentment to
forgiveness, from cruelty to compassion, from hardness to tenderness, from
indifference to carefulness, from selfishness to honesty, from honesty to
generosity, from generosity to love,--a resurrection, the bursting of a
fresh bud of life out of the grave of evil, gladdens the eye of the Father
watching his children. Awake, then, thou that sleepest, and arise from the
dead, and Christ will give thee light. As the harvest rises from the wintry
earth, so rise thou up from the trials of this world a full ear in the
harvest of Him who sowed thee in the soil that thou mightest rise above it.
As the summer rises from the winter, so rise thou from the cares of eating
and drinking and clothing into the fearless sunshine of confidence in
the Father. As the morning rises out of the night, so rise thou from the
darkness of ignorance to do the will of God in the daylight; and as a man
feels that he is himself when he wakes from the troubled and grotesque
visions of the night into the glory of the sunrise, even so wilt thou feel
that then first thou knowest what thy life, the gladness of thy being, is.
As from painful tossing in disease, rise into the health of well-being. As
from the awful embrace of thy own dead body, burst forth in thy spiritual
body. Arise thou, responsive to the indwelling will of the Father, even as
thy body will respond to thy indwelling soul.

  'White wings are crossing;
  Glad waves are tossing;
  The earth flames out in crimson and green:

  Spring is appearing,
  Summer is nearing--
  Where hast thou been?

  Down in some cavern,
  Death's sleepy tavern,
  Housing, carousing with spectres of night?
  The trumpet is pealing
  Sunshine and healing--
  Spring to the light.'"

With this quotation from a friend's poem, I closed my sermon, oppressed
with a sense of failure; for ever the marvel of simple awaking, the mere
type of the resurrection eluded all my efforts to fix it in words. I had to
comfort myself with the thought that God is so strong that he can work even
with our failures.

END OF VOL. II.


THE SEABOARD PARISH

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

VOL. III.


CONTENTS OF VOL. III.


   I. A WALK WITH MY WIFE
  II. OUR LAST SHORE-DINNER
 III. A PASTORAL VISIT.
  IV. THE ART OF NATURE
   V. THE SORE SPOT
  VI. THE GATHERING STORM.
 VII. THE GATHERED STORM.
VIII. THE SHIPWRECK
  IX. THE FUNERAL
   X. THE SERMON.
  XI. CHANGED PLANS.
 XII. THE STUDIO.
XIII. HOME AGAIN.


CHAPTER I.

A WALK WITH MY WIFE.


The autumn was creeping up on the earth, with winter holding by its skirts
behind; but before I loose my hold of the garments of summer, I must write
a chapter about a walk and a talk I had one night with my wife. It had
rained a good deal during the day, but as the sun went down the air began
to clear, and when the moon shone out, near the full, she walked the
heavens, not "like one that hath been led astray," but as "queen and
huntress, chaste and fair."

"What a lovely night it is!" said Ethelwyn, who had come into my
study--where I always sat with unblinded windows, that the night and her
creatures might look in upon me--and had stood gazing out for a moment.

"Shall we go for a little turn?" I said.

"I should like it very much," she answered. "I will go and put on my bonnet
at once."

In a minute or two she looked in again, all ready. I rose, laid aside my
Plato, and went with her. We turned our steps along the edge of the down,
and descended upon the breakwater, where we seated ourselves upon the same
spot where in the darkness I had heard the voices of Joe and Agnes. What a
different night it was from that! The sea lay as quiet as if it could not
move for the moonlight that lay upon it. The glory over it was so mighty in
its peacefulness, that the wild element beneath was afraid to toss itself
even with the motions of its natural unrest. The moon was like the face of
a saint before which the stormy people has grown dumb. The rocks stood up
solid and dark in the universal aether, and the pulse of the ocean throbbed
against them with a lapping gush, soft as the voice of a passionate child
soothed into shame of its vanished petulance. But the sky was the glory.
Although no breath moved below, there was a gentle wind abroad in the upper
regions. The air was full of masses of cloud, the vanishing fragments of
the one great vapour which had been pouring down in rain the most of the
day. These masses were all setting with one steady motion eastward into the
abysses of space; now obscuring the fair moon, now solemnly sweeping away
from before her. As they departed, out shone her marvellous radiance, as
calm as ever. It was plain that she knew nothing of what we called her
covering, her obscuration, the dimming of her glory. She had been busy all
the time weaving her lovely opaline damask on the other side of the mass in
which we said she was swallowed up.

"Have you ever noticed, wifie," I said, "how the eyes of our minds--almost
our bodily eyes--are opened sometimes to the cubicalness of nature, as it
were?"

"I don't know, Harry, for I don't understand your question," she answered.

"Well, it was a stupid way of expressing what I meant. No human being could
have understood it from that. I will make you understand in a moment,
though. Sometimes--perhaps generally--we see the sky as a flat dome,
spangled with star-points, and painted blue. _Now_ I see it as an awful
depth of blue air, depth within depth; and the clouds before me are not
passing away to the left, but sinking away from the front of me into the
marvellous unknown regions, which, let philosophers say what they will
about time and space,--and I daresay they are right,--are yet very awful
to me. Thank God, my dear," I said, catching hold of her arm, as the terror
of mere space grew upon me, "for himself. He is deeper than space, deeper
than time; he is the heart of all the cube of history."

"I understand you now, husband," said my wife.

"I knew you would," I answered.

"But," she said again, "is it not something the same with the things inside
us? I can't put it in words as you do. Do you understand me now?"

"I am not sure that I do. You must try again."

"You understand me well enough, only you like to make me blunder where
you can talk," said my wife, putting her hand in mine. "But I will try.
Sometimes, after thinking about something for a long time, you come to a
conclusion about it, and you think you have settled it plain and clear to
yourself, for ever and a day. You hang it upon your wall, like a picture,
and are satisfied for a fortnight. But some day, when you happen to cast a
look at it, you find that instead of hanging flat on the wall, your picture
has gone through it--opens out into some region you don't know where--shows
you far-receding distances of air and sea--in short, where you thought one
question was settled for ever, a hundred are opened up for the present
hour."

"Bravo, wife !" I cried in true delight. "I do indeed understand you now.
You have said it better than I could ever have done. That's the plague of
you women! You have been taught for centuries and centuries that there is
little or nothing to be expected of you, and so you won't try. Therefore we
men know no more than you do whether it is in you or not. And when you do
try, instead of trying to think, you want to be in Parliament all at once."

"Do you apply that remark to me, sir?" demanded Ethelwyn.

"You must submit to bear the sins of your kind upon occasion," I answered.

"I am content to do that, so long as yours will help mine," she replied.

"Then I may go on?" I said, with interrogation.

"Till sunrise if you like. We were talking of the cubicalness--I believe
you called it--of nature."

"And you capped it with the cubicalness of thought. And quite right
too. There are people, as a dear friend of mine used to say, who are so
accustomed to regard everything in the _flat_, as dogma cut and--not
_always_ dried my moral olfactories aver--that if you prove to them the
very thing they believe, but after another mode than that they have been
accustomed to, they are offended, and count you a heretic. There is no help
for it. Even St. Paul's chief opposition came from the Judaizing Christians
of his time, who did not believe that God _could_ love the Gentiles, and
therefore regarded him as a teacher of falsehood. We must not be fierce
with them. Who knows what wickedness of their ancestors goes to account for
their stupidity? For that there are stupid people, and that they are, in
very consequence of their stupidity, conceited, who can deny? The worst of
it is, that no man who is conceited can be convinced of the fact."

"Don't say that, Harry. That is to deny conversion."

"You are right, Ethelwyn. The moment a man is convinced of his folly, he
ceases to be a fool. The moment a man is convinced of his conceit, he
ceases to be conceited. But there _must_ be a final judgment, and the true
man will welcome it, even if he is to appear a convicted fool. A man's
business is to see first that he is not acting the part of a fool, and
next, to help any honest people who care about the matter to take heed
likewise that they be not offering to pull the mote out of their brother's
eye. But there are even societies established and supported by good
people for the express purpose of pulling out motes.--'The Mote-Pulling
Society!'--That ought to take with a certain part of the public."

"Come, come, Harry. You are absurd. Such people don't come near you."

"They can't touch me. No. But they come near good people whom I know,
brandishing the long pins with which they pull the motes out, and
threatening them with judgment before their time. They are but pins, to be
sure--not daggers."

"But you have wandered, Harry, into the narrowest underground, musty ways,
and have forgotten all about 'the cubicalness of nature.'"

"You are right, my love, as you generally are," I answered, laughing. "Look
at that great antlered elk, or moose--fit quarry for Diana of the silver
bow. Look how it glides solemnly away into the unpastured depths of the
aerial deserts. Look again at that reclining giant, half raised upon his
arm, with his face turned towards the wilderness. What eyes they must be
under those huge brows! On what message to the nations is he borne as by
the slow sweep of ages, on towards his mysterious goal?"

"Stop, stop, Harry," said my wife. "It makes me unhappy to hear grand words
clothing only cloudy fancies. Such words ought to be used about the truth,
and the truth only."

"If I could carry it no further, my dear, then it would indeed be a
degrading of words. But there never was a vagary that uplifted the soul,
or made the grand words flow from the gates of speech, that had not its
counterpart in truth itself. Man can imagine nothing, even in the clouds of
the air, that God has not done, or is not doing. Even as that cloudy giant
yields, and is 'shepherded by the slow unwilling wind,' so is each of us
borne onward to an unseen destiny--a glorious one if we will but yield to
the Spirit of God that bloweth where it listeth--with a grand listing--
coming whence we know not, and going whither we know not. The very clouds
of the air are hung up as dim pictures of the thoughts and history of man."

"I do not mind how long you talk like that, husband, even if you take the
clouds for your text. But it did make me miserable to think that what you
were saying had no more basis than the fantastic forms which the clouds
assume. I see I was wrong, though."

"The clouds themselves, in such a solemn stately march as this, used to
make me sad for the very same reason. I used to think, What is it all for?
They are but vapours blown by the wind. They come nowhence, and they go
nowhither. But now I see them and all things as ever moving symbols of the
motions of man's spirit and destiny."

A pause followed, during which we sat and watched the marvellous depth
of the heavens, deep as I do not think I ever saw them before or since,
covered with a stately procession of ever-appearing and ever-vanishing
forms--great sculpturesque blocks of a shattered storm--the icebergs of the
upper sea. These were not far off against a blue background, but floating
near us in the heart of a blue-black space, gloriously lighted by a golden
rather than silvery moon. At length my wife spoke.

"I hope Mr. Percivale is out to-night," she said. "How he must be enjoying
it if he is!"

"I wonder the young man is not returning to his professional labours," I
said. "Few artists can afford such long holidays as he is taking."

"He is laying in stock, though, I suppose," answered my wife.

"I doubt that, my dear. He said not, on one occasion, you may remember."

"Yes, I remember. But still he must paint better the more familiar he gets
with the things God cares to fashion."

"Doubtless. But I am afraid the work of God he is chiefly studying at
present is our Wynnie."

"Well, is she not a worthy object of his study?" returned Ethelwyn, looking
up in my face with an arch expression.

"Doubtless again, Ethel; but I hope she is not studying him quite so much
in her turn. I have seen her eyes following him about."

My wife made no answer for a moment. Then she said,

"Don't you like him, Harry?"

"Yes. I like him very much."

"Then why should you not like Wynnie to like him?"

"I should like to be surer of his principles, for one thing."

"I should like to be surer of Wynnie's."

I was silent. Ethelwyn resumed.

"Don't you think they might do each other good?"

Still I could not reply.

"They both love the truth, I am sure; only they don't perhaps know what it
is yet. I think if they were to fall in love with each other, it would very
likely make them both more desirous of finding it still."

"Perhaps," I said at last. "But you are talking about awfully serious
things, Ethelwyn."

"Yes, as serious as life," she answered.

"You make me very anxious," I said. "The young man has not, I fear, any
means of gaining a livelihood for more than himself."

"Why should he before he wanted it? I like to see a man who can be content
with an art and a living by it."

"I hope I have not been to blame in allowing them to see so much of each
other," I said, hardly heeding my wife's words.

"It came about quite naturally," she rejoined. "If you had opposed
their meeting, you would have been interfering just as if you had been
Providence. And you would have only made them think more about each other."

"He hasn't said anything--has he?" I asked in positive alarm.

"O dear no. It may be all my fancy. I am only looking a little ahead. I
confess I should like him for a son-in-law. I approve of him," she added,
with a sweet laugh.

"Well," I said, "I suppose sons-in-law are possible, however disagreeable,
results of having daughters."

I tried to laugh, but hardly succeeded.

"Harry," said my wife, "I don't like you in such a mood. It is not like you
at all. It is unworthy of you."

"How can I help being anxious when you speak of such dreadful things as the
possibility of having to give away my daughter, my precious wonder that
came to me through you, out of the infinite--the tender little darling!"

"'Out of the heart of God,' you used to say, Henry. Yes, and with a destiny
he had ordained. It is strange to me how you forget your best and noblest
teaching sometimes. You are always telling us to trust in God. Surely it is
a poor creed that will only allow us to trust in God for ourselves--a very
selfish creed. There must be something wrong there. I should say that the
man who can only trust God for himself is not half a Christian. Either he
is so selfish that that satisfies him, or he has such a poor notion of God
that he cannot trust him with what most concerns him. The former is not
your case, Harry: is the latter, then?--You see I must take my turn at the
preaching sometimes. Mayn't I, dearest?"

She took my hand in both of hers. The truth arose in my heart. I never
loved my wife more than at that moment. And now I could not speak for other
reasons. I saw that I had been faithless to my God, and the moment I could
command my speech, I hastened to confess it.

"You are right, my dear," I said, "quite right. I have been wicked, for I
have been denying my God. I have been putting my providence in the place
of his--trying, like an anxious fool, to count the hairs on Wynnie's head,
instead of being content that the grand loving Father should count them. My
love, let us pray for Wynnie; for what is prayer but giving her to God and
his holy, blessed will?"

We sat hand in hand. Neither spoke aloud for some minutes, but we spoke in
our hearts to God, talking to him about Wynnie. Then we rose together, and
walked homeward, still in silence. But my heart and hand clung to my wife
as to the angel whom God had sent to deliver me out of the prison of my
faithlessness. And as we went, lo! the sky was glorious again. It had faded
from my sight, had grown flat as a dogma, uninteresting as "a foul and
pestilent congregation of vapours;" the moon had been but a round thing
with the sun shining upon it, and the stars were only minding their own
business. But now the solemn march towards an unseen, unimagined goal had
again begun. Wynnie's life was hid with Christ in God. She regarded it
long, and earnestly, and sadly, until, indeed, she could not see it for
the tears that rose afresh into her eyes. Then she tore up the piece of paper
hastily, folded her letter and addressed it, without sealing the envelope,
and carried it into the other room.

"Read it mother," she said; and she turned to the window to conceal her
tear-stained face.

The mother opened the letter and glanced at it.

"You forget, child," she said. "I know so little English. Tell me what
it is you have written."

So she was forced to turn; and apparently, as she spoke, she was quite
calm; but there was a darkness underneath her eyes, and there was
in her look something of the worn, sad expression of her mother's
face.

Briefly and simply she repeated the substance of the letter, giving no
reasons or justifications. She seemed to take it for granted that her
decision was unavoidable, and would be seen to be so by every one.

"Natalushka," the mother said, looking anxiously at the troubled
face, "do you know what you are about to do?

It is an act of expiation for something you have not committed."
"Could I do otherwise?" she said. "You, mother: would you have me think
of a marriage procured through my father's death? It is too horrible!"
The mother went to her, and took her two hands.

"My poor child, are you to have no happier life than I have had, after all?
When I used to see you, I used to say to myself, 'Ah, my little
Natalushka will never know what has befallen me--she will have a
happy life!'

I could see you laughing as you walked in the gardens there.

You looked so pleased, so content, so bright and cheerful. And now you also
are to have a life of disappointment and sad memories--"
"Oh, you must not talk like that, mother," the girl said, hastily, in a low
voice. "Have I not you with me?

We shall always be together, shall we not?

And you know we shall not have time for brooding over what is past;
we shall have much to do; we must make a pleasant small home
somewhere.

Oh, there are many, many people far worse off in the world than we are. So
you must think of getting away from Naples, mother; and think of where
you would like to live, and where I should be most likely to be able
to earn a little. The years will teach us to forget--and--and--And now you
know why I do not wish to go back to England."
Her eyes were cast down, but she was forcing herself to speak quite
cheerfully.

"You see, mother, my knowing English is a great advantage. If we were to
go to one of the towns on the Riviera, like Nice or Mentone, where so
many English families are, one might get pupils who would want to learn
English songs as well as Italian and German--"
"Yes, yes, Natalushka; but I am not going to have you slave for me. The
little allowance that my cousins send me will do very well for us two,
though you will not get so fine dresses. Then, you see, Natalushka,
Mentone or Nice would be a dear place to live in."
"Very well, mother," said the girl, with the same apparent cheerfulness,
"I will go down and post my letter, and at the same time get the loan of
a guide book. Then we shall study the maps, and pick out a nice,
quiet, remote little place, where we can live--and forget."
The last two words were uttered to herself as she opened the door and
went out. She sighed a little as she went down the staircase--that was
all; she was thinking of things very far away. She passed into the hall,
and went to the bureau for some postage-stamps. As she stood there, some
one, unperceived, came up to her: it was Calabressa.

"Little daughter," said he, in a trembling voice.

She uttered a slight cry, and shrunk back.

"Little daughter," said he, holding out his hand.

But some strange instinct possessed her.

She could not avoid touching his hand--or the tips of his fingers,
rather--for one brief second; then she turned away from him with an
involuntary shudder, and went back through the hall, her head bent down.
Calabressa stood looking after her for a moment or two, then he turned and
left the hotel.

He walked quickly: there were tears running down his face. He looked
neither to the right nor to the left; he was talking in a broken voice
to himself; he repeated again and again, "No, she shall not turn away from
me. She will be sorry for that soon. She will say she should not have
crushed the heart of her old friend Calabressa."
He walked out to Posilipo. Near the villa where he had formerly
sought the representatives of the Council he passed an old woman who
was selling fruit by the roadside. She glanced up at him, and said,
"The door is closed, signore."
"The door must be opened, good mother," said he, scarcely regarding her as
he hurried on.

Arrived in the garden of the villa, his summons brought out to the entrance
of the grotto the Secretary Granaglia, who somewhat impatiently told him
that it was quite impossible that any member of the Council should see
him.

"And no doubt it is about that Lind affair?"

  "Indirectly only," Calabressa said.

"No, it concerns myself mostly."

    "Quite enough time, the
  Council think, has been given to the Lind affair.

I can tell you, my friend, there are more important matters stirring.

  Now, farewell; I am wanted within."

However, by dint of much persuasion, Calabressa got Granaglia to take
in a message to Von Zoesch. And, sure enough, his anticipations were
correct; the good-natured, bluff old soldier made his appearance, and seemed
glad to get a breath of fresh air for a minute or two.

"Well, well, Calabressa, what is it now? Are you not all satisfied? the
young lady with her sweetheart, and all that? You rogue! you guessed
pretty rightly; to tell them the news was no light matter; but by-and-by she
will become reconciled. Her lover is to be envied; she is a beautiful
child, and she has courage. Well, are they not satisfied?"
"I crave your pardon, Excellency, for intruding upon you," Calabressa said,
in a sort of constrained voice. "It is my own affair that brings me
here. I shall not waste your time. Your Excellency, I claim to be substitute
for Ferdinand Lind."
The tall soldier burst out laughing.

"What the devil is the matter with you, Calabressa; have you gone mad?"
For a second Calabressa stood silent; his eyes downcast; his fingers working
nervously with the cap he held in his hands.

"Your Excellency," he said, as if struggling to repress some emotion, "it
is a simple matter. I have been to see the beautiful child you speak of;
I addressed her, in the hall of the hotel; she turned away from me, shuddering,
as if I were a murderer--from me, who loves her more than I love life. Oh,
your Excellency, do not smile at it; it is not a girlish caprice; she has
a noble heart; it is not a little thing that would make her cruel. I
know what she thinks--that I have been the means of procuring her father's
death. Be it so. I will give her father his life again. Take mine--what
do I care?"
"Nonsense, nonsense, my Calabressa. The girl has bewitched you. One must
talk to her. Take your life in exchange for that of Lind? Pooh! We
cannot send good men after bad; you are too valuable to us; whereas he, if
he were released, could be of no more use at all. It is a generous notion
on your part, friend Calabressa, but it is quixotic; moreover,
impossible."

"You forget, Excellency, that I can claim it," said Calabressa, firmly.
"Under Article V.

I can claim to be the substitute of Ferdinand Lind.

Your Excellency yourself has not the power to refuse me. I call upon you
to release Lind from the death-penalty: to-morrow I will take his
place; then you can send a message to--to Natalie Berezolyi's
daughter, that, if I have wronged her, I have made amends."

Von Zoesch grew more serious; he eyed Calabressa curiously. The elder man
stood there trembling a little with nervous excitement, but with
a firm look on his face: there was no doubt about his resolve.

"Friend Calabressa," said Von Zoesch, in a kindly way, "it seems as if
you had transferred your old love for Natalie Berezolyi to Natalie's
daughter, only with double intensity; but, you see, we must not
allow you to sacrifice yourself merely because a girl turns her
heel on you.

It is not to be thought of. We cannot afford to lose you; besides, it is
monstrous that the innocent should suffer, and the guilty go free--"

"The articles of the Society, your Excellency--"
"That particular article, my Calabressa, was framed with a view to encourage
self-sacrifice and generosity, no doubt, but not with a view, surely,
to any such extreme madness as this. No. The fact is, I had no time to explain
the circumstances of the case to the young lady, or I could easily
have shown her how you were no more involved than herself in procuring the
decree against her father. To-day I cannot; to-morrow I cannot; the day after
to-morrow, I solemnly assure you, I will see her, and reason with her, and
convince her that you have acted throughout as her best friend only could
have done. You are too sensitive, my Calabressa: ah, is it not the old romance
recalled that is making you so? But this I promise you, that she shall
beg your pardon for having turned away from you."
"Then," said Calabressa, with a little touch of indignant pride, "then your
Excellency imagines that it is my vanity that has been wounded?"
"No; it is your heart. And she will be sorry for having pained a true friend:
is not that as it should be? Why, your proposal, if she agreed to it, what
would be the result? You would stab her with remorse. For this momentary
slight you would say, 'See, I have killed myself. Learn now that Calabressa
loved you.' But that would be very like revenge, my Calabressa; and you
ought not to think of taking revenge on the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi."

"Your Excellency--"
Calabressa was about to protest: but he was stopped.

"Leave it to me, my friend. The day after to-morrow we shall have more leisure.
Meanwhile, no more thoughts of quixotism. _Addio!_"

CHAPTER LVIII.

A SACRIFICE.

It would be difficult to say whether Calabressa was altogether sincere in
claiming to become the substitute for Ferdinand Lind, or whether he was not
practising a little self-deception, and pacifying his wounded pride and
affection by this outburst of generosity, while secretly conscious that
his offer would not be accepted. However, what Calabressa had declared
himself ready to do, in a fit of wild sentimentalism, another had already
done, in terrible earnest. A useless life had suddenly become ennobled
by a tragic and self-sacrificing death.

Two days after Lord Evelyn left for Naples, Brand and Gathorne Edwards were
as usual in the chambers in Lisle Street, and, the business of the morning
being mostly over, they were chatting together. There was a brighter look
on George Brand's face than there had been there for many a day.

"What an indefatigable fellow that Molyneux is!" Edwards was saying.

"It is a good thing some one can do something," Brand answered. "As for
me, I can't settle down to anything. I feel as if I had been living on
laughing-gas these last two days. I feel as if I had come alive again into
another world, and was a little bit bewildered just as yet.
However, I suppose we shall get shaken into our new positions by-and-by;
and the sooner they let us know their final arrangements the better."
"As for me," said Edwards, carelessly, "now that I have left the Museum
I don't care where I may have to go."
At this moment a note was brought in by the old German, and handed to
Edwards. He glanced at the straggling, almost illegible, address in pencil
on the dirty envelope.

"Well, this is too bad," he said, impatiently.

"What is it?"
"That fellow Kirski. He is off again. I can see by his writing. He
never was very good at it; but this is the handwriting of delirium
tremens."

He opened the letter, and glanced at the first page.

"Oh yes," he said, in disgust, "he's off again, clearly."
"What does he say?"
"The usual rigmarole--only not quite so legible. The beautiful angel who
was so kind to him--he has taken her portrait from its hiding-place--it
is sacred now--no more public house--well, it looks rather as if
he had been to several."

At this point, however, Edwards's pale, high forehead flushed a
little.

"I wish I had not told him; but he speaks of Miss Lind being in
trouble--and he says God never meant one so beautiful and kind as
she to be in trouble--and if her father--" 
His face grew grave.

"What is this?"
He turned the leaf suddenly, and glanced at the remainder of the
letter.

"Good God! what does the man mean? What has he done?" he exclaimed.

His face was quite pale. The letter dropped from his hands. Then he jumped
to his feet.

"Come, Brand--quick--quick!" he said, hurriedly. "You must come with me--"

"But what is the matter?" Brand said, following him in amazement.

"I don't know," said Edwards, almost incoherently. "He may be raving--it may
only be drunkenness--but he says he is about to kill himself in place of
Lind: the young lady shall not be troubled--she was kind to him, and he
is grateful. I am to send her a message."
By this time the two friends were hurrying to the dingy little thoroughfare
in which Kirski had his lodgings.

"Don't alarm yourself, Edwards," said Brand; "he has broken out again, that
is all."
"I am not so sure. He was at his work yesterday, and sober enough."
"His brain may have given way, then; it was never very strong. But these
continual ravings about murder or suicide are dangerous; they will develop
into homicidal mania, most likely; and if he cannot get at his enemy
Michaieloff he may do a mischief to somebody else."
"I hope he has not done a mischief to himself already," said Edwards,
who had had more opportunities than his companion of studying the workings
of Kirski's disordered brain.

They reached the house and knocked at the door. The landlady made her
appearance.

"Is Kirski in the house?" Edwards asked, eagerly.

"No, he ain't," she said, with but scant courtesy.

"Thank God!" he exclaimed, in great relief. "You are sure? He went out
to his work as usual?"
"How should I know?" said the woman, who was evidently not on good terms
with her lodger.

"He had his breakfast as usual?"
"His breakfast!" she said scornfully. "No, he hadn't. He may pick up his
breakfast about the streets, like a cat; but he don't have any 'ere. And
a cat he is, sneaking up and down the stairs: how do I know whether he is
in the house or whether he ain't?"
At this Edwards turned pale again with a sudden fear. Brand interposed.

"You don't know? Then show us his room; we will see for ourselves."
He passed the woman, leaving her to shut the door, and went into the small
dark passage, waiting for her at the foot of the stairs. Grumbling to
herself, she came along to show them the way. It did not pay her to waste
her time like this, she said, for a lodger who took no food in the house,
and spent his earnings in the gin-shop. She should not be surprised if
they were to find him asleep at that time of the day. He had ways like a
cat.

The landing they reached was as dark as the staircase; so that when
she turned a handle and flung a door open there was a sudden glare
of light.

At the same moment she uttered a shrill scream, and retreated
backward.

She had caught a glimpse of some horrible thing--she hardly knew
what.

It was the body of the man Kirski lying prone upon the uncarpeted
floor, his hands clinched.

There was a dark pool of blood beside him.

Edwards sunk shuddering into a chair, sick and faint.

He could neither move nor speak; he dared hardly look at the object lying
there in the wan light. But Brand went quickly forward, and took hold of
one of these clinched hands. It was quite cold. He tried to turn over
the body, but relinquished that effort. The cause of death was
obvious enough.

Kirski had stabbed himself with one of the tools used in his trade;
either he had deliberately lain down on the floor to make sure of driving
the weapon home, or he had accidentally fallen so after dealing himself
the fatal blow. Apparently he had been dead for some hours.

Brand rose. The landlady at the door was alternately screaming and sobbing;
declaring that she was ruined; that not another lodger would come to her
house.

"Be quiet, woman, and send to the police-station at once," Brand said.
"Wait a moment: when did you last see this man?"

"This morning, sir--early this morning, sir," said she, in a profusion
of tears over her prospective loss. "He came down-stairs with a letter
in his hand, and there was twopence for my little boy to take it
when he came home from school.

How should I know he had gone back, sir, to make away with himself like
that, and ruin a poor widow woman, sir?"
"Have you a servant in the house?"
"No sir; no one but myself--and me dependent--"
"Then go at once to the police-station, and tell the inspector on
duty what has happened.

You can do that, can't you?

You will do no good by standing crying there, or getting the neighbors in.
I will stop here till you come back."
She went away, leaving Brand and his paralyzed companion with this
ghastly object lying prone on the floor.

"Poor devil!" Brand said; "his troubles are at an end now. I
wonder whether I should lift him on to the bed, or wait until they
come."
Then another thought struck him: and he turned quickly to his
companion, who sat there horrified and helpless.

"Edwards," said he, "you must pull yourself together. The police will ask
you what you know about this affair. Then you will have to give evidence
before the coroner's inquest.

There is nothing material for you to conceal; but still, no mention must
be made of Lisle Street, do you understand?"

Edwards nodded. His face was of a ghastly white.

Then he rose and said,
"Let us go somewhere else, Brand."

His companion took him down-stairs into the landlady's parlor, and
got him a glass of water. Apparently there was not a human being
in the house but themselves.
"Do you understand, Edwards? Give your private address--not Lisle
Street. Then you can tell the story simply enough: that unfortunate
fellow came all the way from Russia--virtually a maniac--you can
tell them his story if you like; or shall I?"
"Yes, yes. It has been too much for me, Brand. You see, I had no
business to tell him about Lind--"
"The poor wretch would have ended his days miserably anyhow, no
doubt in a mad-house, and probably after killing some quite innocent
person.
By-the-way, they will ask you how you came to suspect. Where is
that letter?" 
Edwards took it from his pocket.

"Tear it up."
He did so; but Brand took the fragments and put them in his own
pocket.
"You can tell them he wrote to you, and from the madness of the
letter you thought something was wrong. You destroyed the letter.
But where is Natalie's portrait?--that must not fall into their
hands."
He instantly went up-stairs again, leaving his companion alone.
There was something strange in his entering this room where the
corpse lay; it seemed necessary for him to walk on tiptoe: he
uncovered his head. A glance round the almost empty room speedily
showed him what he wanted; there was a small wooden casket in a
dusky corner by the window, and that, he made no doubt, was the box
the unhappy Kirski had made to contain Natalie's portrait, and that
he had quite recently dug out from its place of concealment. Brand
was surprised, however, to find the casket empty. Then he glanced
at the fireplace; there was a little dust there, as of burnt
card-board. Then he made sure that Kirski himself had taken steps
to prevent the portrait falling into alien hands.
Beside the box, however, lay a piece of paper, written over in
pencil.
He took it up and made out it was chiefly ill-spelled Italian:
"_Whatever punishment may be decreed against any Officer, Companion,
or Friend of the Society, may be vicariously borne by any other
Officer, Companion, or Friend, who, of his own full and free consent,
acts as substitute--the original offender becoming thereby redeemed,
acquitted, and released._" Then followed some words which he could
not make out at all.

He carried the paper down-stairs.
"He appears to have burnt the photograph, Edwards; but he has left
this--see."
Edwards glanced at the trembling scrawl with a slight shiver; the
handwriting was the same as that he had received half an hour
before.
"It is only Article V.," he said. "The poor fellow used to keep
repeating that, after Calabressa and I taught him in Venice."
"But what is written below?"
Edwards forced himself to take the paper in his hands, and to scan
more carefully its contents.
"It is Russian," he said, "but so badly written. '_My life is not
endurable longer, but I shall die happy in being of service to the
beautiful angel who was kind to me. Tell her she need not be in
trouble any more. I forgive Pavel Michaieloff, as my masters desire.
I do not wish my wife or my neighbors to know what I have done._'"

"This we have no right to meddle with," Brand said, thoughtfully.
"I will put it back where I got it. But you see, Edwards, you will
have to admit that you were aware this poor wretch was in communication
with some secret society or other. Further than that you need say
nothing.
The cause of his suicide is clear enough; the man was mad when he
came to England with that wild craving for revenge in his brain."

Brand carried the paper up-stairs again, and placed it where he had
found it. At the same moment there was a sound of footsteps below;
and presently the police-officers, accompanied by the landlady and
by Gathorne Edwards, who had somewhat recovered his composure,
entered to hold their preliminary investigation. The notes that the
inspector took down in his pocket-book were brief enough, and were
mostly answers to questions addressed to Brand, regarding what he
knew of the deceased man's circumstances. The police-surgeon had
meanwhile had the body placed on the bed; he also was of opinion
that the man had been dead some hours.But if you think of
his art as expended, not upon the making of a history or a drama, but upon
the making of an individual, a being, a character, then I think a great
part of the difficulty concerning the existence of evil which oppresses you
will vanish. So long as a creature has not sinned, sin is possible to him.
Does it seem inconsistent with the character of God that in order that sin
should become impossible he should allow sin to come? that, in order that
his creatures should choose the good and refuse the evil, in order that
they might become such, with their whole nature infinitely enlarged, as to
turn from sin with a perfect repugnance of the will, he should allow them
to fall? that, in order that, from being sweet childish children, they
should become noble, child-like men and women, he should let them try to
walk alone? Why should he not allow the possible in order that it should
become impossible? for possible it would ever have been, even in the midst
of all the blessedness, until it had been, and had been thus destroyed.
Thus sin is slain, uprooted. And the war must ever exist, it seems to me,
where there is creation still going on. How could I be content to guard my
children so that they should never have temptation, knowing that in all
probability they would fail if at any moment it should cross their path?
Would the deepest communion of father and child ever be possible between
us? Evil would ever seem to be in the child, so long as it was possible it
should be there developed. And if this can be said for the existence of
moral evil, the existence of all other evil becomes a comparative trifle;
nay, a positive good, for by this the other is combated."

"I think I understand you," returned Percivale. "I will think over what you
have said. These are very difficult questions."

"Very. I don't think argument is of much use about them, except as it may
help to quiet a man's uneasiness a little, and so give his mind peace to
think about duty. For about the doing of duty there can be no question,
once it is seen. And the doing of duty is the shortest--in very fact, the
only way into the light."

As we spoke, we had turned from the cliffs, and wandered back across the
salt streams to the sands beyond. From the direction of the house came
a little procession of servants, with Walter at their head, bearing the
preparations for our dinner--over the gates of the lock, down the sides of
the embankment of the canal, and across the sands, in the direction of the
children, who were still playing merrily.

"Will you join our early dinner, which is to be out of doors, as you see,
somewhere hereabout on the sands?" I said.

"I shall be delighted," he answered, "if you will let me be of some use
first. I presume you mean to bring your invalid out."

"Yes; and you shall help me to carry her, if you will."

"That is what I hoped," said Percivale; and we went together towards the
parsonage.

As we approached, I saw Wynnie sitting at the drawing-room window; but when
we entered the room, she was gone. My wife was there, however.

"Where is Wynnie?" I asked.

"She saw you coming," she answered, "and went to get Connie ready; for I
guessed Mr. Percivale had come to help you to carry her out."

But I could not help doubting there might be more than that in Wynnie's
disappearance. "What if she should have fallen in love with him," I
thought, "and he should never say a word on the subject? That would be
dreadful for us all."

They had been repeatedly but not very much together of late, and I was
compelled to allow to myself that if they did fall in love with each other
it would be very natural on both sides, for there was evidently a great
mental resemblance between them, so that they could not help sympathising
with each other's peculiarities. And anyone could see what a fine couple
they would make.

Wynnie was much taller than Connie--almost the height of her mother. She
had a very fair skin, and brown hair, a broad forehead, a wise, thoughtful,
often troubled face, a mouth that seldom smiled, but on which a smile
seemed always asleep, and round soft cheeks that dimpled like water when
she did smile. I have described Percivale before. Why should not two such
walk together along the path to the gates of the light? And yet I could
not help some anxiety. I did not know anything of his history. I had no
testimony concerning him from anyone that knew him. His past life was a
blank to me; his means of livelihood probably insufficient--certainly,
I judged, precarious; and his position in society--but there I checked
myself: I had had enough of that kind of thing already. I would not
willingly offend in that worldliness again. The God of the whole earth
could not choose that I should look at such works of his hands after that
fashion. And I was his servant--not Mammon's or Belial's.

All this passed through my mind in about three turns of the winnowing-fan
of thought. Mr. Percivale had begun talking to my wife, who took no pains
to conceal that his presence was pleasant to her, and I went upstairs,
almost unconsciously, to Connie's room.

When I opened the door, forgetting to announce my approach as I ought to
have done, I saw Wynnie leaning over Connie, and Connie's arm round her
waist. Wynnie started back, and Connie gave a little cry, for the jerk thus
occasioned had hurt her. Wynnie had turned her head away, but turned it
again at Connie's cry, and I saw a tear on her face.

"My darlings, I beg your pardon," I said. "It was very stupid of me not to
knock at the door."

Connie looked up at me with large resting eyes, and said--

"It's nothing, papa, Wynnie is in one of her gloomy moods, and didn't want
you to see her crying. She gave me a little pull, that was all. It didn't
hurt me much, only I'm such a goose! I'm in terror before the pain comes.
Look at me," she added, seeing, doubtless, some perturbation on my
countenance, "I'm all right now." And she smiled in my face perfectly.

I turned to Wynnie, put my arm about her, kissed her cheek, and left the
room. I looked round at the door, and saw that Connie was following me with
her eyes, but Wynnie's were hidden in her handkerchief.

I went back to the drawing-room, and in a few minutes Walter came to
announce that dinner was about to be served. The same moment Wynnie came to
say that Connie was ready. She did not lift her eyes, or approach to
give Percivale any greeting, but went again as soon as she had given her
message. I saw that he looked first concerned and then thoughtful.

"Come, Mr. Percivale," I said; and he followed me up to Connie's room.

Wynnie was not there; but Connie lay, looking lovely, all ready for going.
We lifted her, and carried her by the window out on the down, for the
easiest way, though the longest, was by the path to the breakwater, along
its broad back and down from the end of it upon the sands. Before we
reached the breakwater, I found that Wynnie was following behind us. We
stopped in the middle of it, and set Connie down, as if I wanted to take
breath. But I had thought of something to say to her, which I wanted Wynnie
to hear without its being addressed to her.

"Do you see, Connie," I said, "how far off the water is?"

"Yes, papa; it is a long way off. I wish I could get up and run down to
it."

"You can hardly believe that all between, all those rocks, and all that
sand, will be covered before sunset."

"I know it will be. But it doesn't _look_ likely, does it, papa!"

"Not the least likely, my dear. Do you remember that stormy night when I
came through your room to go out for a walk in the dark?"

"Remember it, papa? I cannot forget it. Every time I hear the wind blowing
when I wake in the night I fancy you are out in it, and have to wake myself
up' quite to get rid of the thought."

"Well, Connie, look down into the great hollow there, with rocks and sand
at the bottom of it, stretching far away."

"Yes, papa."

"Now look over the side of your litter. You see those holes all about
between the stones?"

"Yes, papa."

"Well, one of those little holes saved my life that night, when the great
gulf there was full of huge mounds of roaring water, which rushed across
this breakwater with force enough to sweep a whole cavalry regiment off its
back."

"Papa!" exclaimed Connie, turning pale.

Then first I told her all the story. And Wynnie listened behind.

"Then I _was_ right in being frightened, papa!" cried Connie, bursting into
tears; for since her accident she could not well command her feelings.

"You were right in trusting in God, Connie."

"But you might have been drowned, papa!" she sobbed.

"Nobody has a right to say that anything might have been other than what
has been. Before a thing has happened we can say might or might not; but
that has to do only with our ignorance. Of course I am not speaking
of things wherein we ought to exercise will and choice. That is _our_
department. But this does not look like that now, does it? Think what a
change--from the dark night and the roaring water to this fulness of
sunlight and the bare sands, with the water lisping on their edge away
there in the distance. Now, I want you to think that in life troubles will
come which look as if they would never pass away; the night and the storm
look as if they would last for ever; but the calm and the morning cannot be
stayed; the storm in its very nature is transient. The effort of Nature,
as that of the human heart, ever is to return to its repose, for God is
Peace."

"But if you will excuse me, Mr. Walton," said Percivale, "you can hardly
expect experience to be of use to any but those who have had it. It seems
to me that its influences cannot be imparted."

"That depends on the amount of faith in those to whom its results are
offered. Of course, as experience, it can have no weight with another; for
it is no longer experience. One remove, and it ceases. But faith in the
person who has experienced can draw over or derive--to use an old Italian
word--some of its benefits to him who has the faith. Experience may thus,
in a sense, be accumulated, and we may go on to fresh experience of our
own. At least I can hope that the experience of a father may take the form
of hope in the minds of his daughters. Hope never hurt anyone, never yet
interfered with duty; nay, always strengthens to the performance of duty,
gives courage, and clears the judgment. St. Paul says we are saved by hope.
Hope is the most rational thing in the universe. Even the ancient poets,
who believed it was delusive, yet regarded it as an antidote given by the
mercy of the gods against some, at least, of the ills of life."

"But they counted it delusive. A wise man cannot consent to be deluded."

"Assuredly not. The sorest truth rather than a false hope! But what is a
false hope? Only one that ought not to be fulfilled. The old poets could
give themselves little room for hope, and less for its fulfilment; for what
were the gods in whom they believed--I cannot say in whom they trusted?
Gods who did the best their own poverty of being was capable of doing for
men when they gave them the _illusion_ of hope. But I see they are waiting
for us below. One thing I repeat--the waves that foamed across the spot
where we now stand are gone away, have sunk and vanished."

"But they will come again, papa," faltered Wynnie.

"And God will come with them, my love," I said, as we lifted the litter.

In a few minutes more we were all seated on the sand around a table-cloth
spread upon it. I shall never forgot the peace and the light outside and
in, as far as I was concerned at least, and I hope the others too, that
afternoon. The tide had turned, and the waves were creeping up over the
level, soundless almost as thought; but it would be time to go home long
before they had reached us. The sun was in the western half of the sky, and
now and then a breath of wind came from the sea, with a slight saw-edge in
it, but not enough to hurt. Connie could stand much more in that way now.
And when I saw how she could move herself on her couch, and thought how
much she had improved since first she was laid upon it, hope for her kept
fluttering joyously in my heart. I could not help fancying even that I saw
her move her legs a little; but I could not be in the least sure; and she,
if she did move them, was clearly unconscious of it. Charles and Harry were
every now and then starting up from their dinner and running off with a
shout, to return with apparently increased appetite for the rest of it;
and neither their mother nor I cared to interfere with the indecorum. Dora
alone took it upon her to rebuke them. Wynnie was very silent, but looked
more cheerful. Connie seemed full of quiet bliss. My wife's face was a
picture of heavenly repose. The old nurse was walking about with the baby,
occasionally with one hand helping the other servants to wait upon us.
They, too, seemed to have a share in the gladness of the hour, and, like
Ariel, did their spiriting gently.

"This is the will of God," I said, after the things were removed, and we
had sat for a few moments in silence.

"What is the will of God, husband?" asked Ethelwyn.

"Why, this, my love," I answered; "this living air, and wind, and sea,
and light, and land all about us; this consenting, consorting harmony of
Nature, that mirrors a like peace in our souls. The perfection of such
visions, the gathering of them all in one was, is, I should say, in the
face of Christ Jesus. You will say that face was troubled sometimes. Yes,
but with a trouble that broke not the music, but deepened the harmony.
When he wept at the grave of Lazarus, you do not think it was for Lazarus
himself, or for his own loss of him, that he wept? That could not be,
seeing he had the power to call him back when he would. The grief was for
the poor troubled hearts left behind, to whom it was so dreadful because
they had not faith enough in his Father, the God of life and love, who was
looking after it all, full of tenderness and grace, with whom Lazarus was
present and blessed. It was the aching, loving heart of humanity for which
he wept, that needed God so awfully, and could not yet trust in him. Their
brother was only hidden in the skirts of their Father's garment, but they
could not believe that: they said he was dead--lost--away--all gone, as
the children say. And it was so sad to think of a whole world full of the
grief of death, that he could not bear it without the human tears to help
his heart, as they help ours. It was for our dark sorrows that he wept. But
the peace could be no less plain on the face that saw God. Did you ever
think of that wonderful saying: 'Again a little while, and ye shall see
me, because I go to the Father'? The heart of man would have joined the
'because I go to the Father' with the former result--the not seeing of him.
The heart of man is not able, without more and more light, to understand
that all vision is in the light of the Father. Because Jesus went to the
Father, therefore the disciples saw him tenfold more. His body no longer in
their eyes, his very being, his very self was in their hearts--not in their
affections only--in their spirits, their heavenly consciousness."

As I said this, a certain hymn, for which I had and have an especial
affection, came into my mind, and, without prologue or introduction, I
repeated it:

      "If I Him but have,
    If he be but mine,
      If my heart, hence to the grave,
    Ne'er forgets his love divine--
  Know I nought of sadness,
  Feel I nought but worship, love, and gladness.

      If I Him but have,
    Glad with all I part;
      Follow on my pilgrim staff
    My Lord only, with true heart;
  Leave them, nothing saying,
  On broad, bright, and crowded highways straying.

        If I Him but have,
      Glad I fall asleep;
        Aye the flood that his heart gave
      Strength within my heart shall keep,
  And with soft compelling
  Make it tender, through and through it swelling.

        If I Him but have,
      Mine the world I hail!
        Glad as cherub smiling grave,
      Holding back the virgin's veil.
  Sunk and lost in seeing,
  Earthly fears have died from all my being.

        Where I have but Him
      Is my Fatherland;
        And all gifts and graces come
      Heritage into my hand:
  Brothers long deplored
  I in his disciples find restored."

"What a lovely hymn, papa!" exclaimed Connie. She could always speak more
easily than either her mother or sister. "Who wrote it?"

"Friedrich von Hardenberg, known, where he is known, as Novalis."

"But he must have written it in German. Did you translate it?"

"Yes. You will find, I think, that I have kept form, thought, and feeling,
however I may have failed in making an English poem of it."

"O, you dear papa, it is lovely! Is it long since you did it?"

"Years before you were born, Connie."

"To think of you having lived so long, and being one of us!" she returned.
"Was he a Roman Catholic, papa?"

"No, he was a Moravian. At least, his parents were. I don't think he
belonged to any section of the church in particular."

"But oughtn't he, papa?"

"Certainly not, my dear, except he saw good reason for it. But what is the
use of asking such questions, after a hymn like that?"

"O, I didn't think anything bad, papa, I assure you. It was only that I
wanted to know more about him."

The tears were in her eyes, and I was sorry I had treated as significant
what was really not so. But the constant tendency to consider Christianity
as associated of necessity with this or that form of it, instead of as
simply obedience to Christ, had grown more and more repulsive to me as I
had grown myself, for it always seemed like an insult to my brethren in
Christ; hence the least hint of it in my children I was too ready to be
down upon like a most unchristian ogre. I took her hand in mine, and she
was comforted, for she saw in my face that I was sorry, and yet she could
see that there was reason at the root of my haste.

"But," said Wynnie, who, I thought afterwards, must have strengthened
herself to speak from the instinctive desire to show Percivale how far she
was from being out of sympathy with what he might suppose formed a barrier
between him and me--"But," she said, "the lovely feeling in that poem
seems to me, as in all the rest of such poems, to belong only to the New
Testament, and have nothing to do with this world round about us. These
things look as if they were only for drawing and painting and being glad
in, not as if they had relations with all those awful and solemn things. As
soon as I try to get the two together, I lose both of them."

"That is because the human mind must begin with one thing and grow to the
rest. At first, Christianity seemed to men to have only to do with their
conscience. That was the first relation, of course. But even with art
it was regarded as having no relation except for the presentment of its
history. Afterwards, men forgot the conscience almost in trying to make
Christianity comprehensible to the understanding. Now, I trust, we are
beginning to see that Christianity is everything or nothing. Either the
whole is a lovely fable setting forth the loftiest longing of the human
soul after the vision of the divine, or it is such a fact as is the heart
not only of theology so called, but of history, politics, science, and art.
The treasures of the Godhead must be hidden in him, and therefore by him
only can be revealed. This will interpret all things, or it has not yet
been. Teachers of men have not taught this, because they have not seen it.
If we do not find him in nature, we may conclude either that we do not
understand the expression of nature, or have mistaken ideas or poor
feelings about him. It is one great business in our life to find the
interpretation which will render this harmony visible. Till we find it, we
have not seen him to be all in all. Recognising a discord when they touched
the notes of nature and society, the hermits forsook the instrument
altogether, and contented themselves with a partial symphony--lofty,
narrow, and weak. Their example, more or less, has been followed by almost
all Christians. Exclusion is so much the easier way of getting harmony
in the orchestra than study, insight, and interpretation, that most have
adopted it. It is for us, and all who have hope in the infinite God, to
widen its basis as we may, to search and find the true tone and right idea,
place, and combination of instruments, until to our enraptured ear they
all, with one voice of multiform yet harmonious utterance, declare the
glory of God and of his Christ."

"A grand idea," said Percivale.

"Therefore likely to be a true one," I returned. "People find it hard
to believe grand things; but why? If there be a God, is it not likely
everything is grand, save where the reflection of his great thoughts is
shaken, broken, distorted by the watery mirrors of our unbelieving and
troubled souls? Things ought to be grand, simple, and noble. The ages of
eternity will go on showing that such they are and ever have been. God will
yet be victorious over our wretched unbeliefs."

I was sitting facing the sea, but with my eyes fixed on the sand, boring
holes in it with my stick, for I could talk better when I did not look my
familiar faces in the face. I did not feel thus in the pulpit; there I
sought the faces of my flock, to assist me in speaking to their needs. As
I drew to the close of my last monologue, a colder and stronger blast from
the sea blew in my face. I lifted my head, and saw that the tide had crept
up a long way, and was coming in fast. A luminous fog had sunk down over
the western horizon, and almost hidden the sun, had obscured the half of
the sea, and destroyed all our hopes of a sunset. A certain veil as of the
commonplace, like that which so often settles down over the spirit of man
after a season of vision and glory and gladness, had dropped over the face
of Nature. The wind came in little bitter gusts across the dull waters. It
was time to lift Connie and take her home.

This was the last time we ate together on the open shore.


CHAPTER III.

A PASTORAL VISIT.


The next morning rose neither "cherchef't in a comely cloud" nor "roab'd in
flames and amber light," but covered all in a rainy mist, which the wind
mingled with salt spray torn from the tops of the waves. Every now and then
the wind blew a blastful of larger drops against the window of my study
with an angry clatter and clash, as if daring me to go out and meet its
ire. The earth was very dreary, for there were no shadows anywhere. The
sun was hustled away by the crowding vapours; and earth, sea, and sky were
possessed by a gray spirit that threatened wrath. The breakfast-bell rang,
and I went down, expecting to find my Wynnie, who was always down first to
make the tea, standing at the window with a sad face, giving fit response
to the aspect of nature without, her soul talking with the gray spirit. I
did find her at the window, looking out upon the restless tossing of the
waters, but with no despondent answer to the trouble of nature. On the
contrary, her cheek, though neither rosy nor radiant, looked luminous, and
her eyes were flashing out upon the ebb-tide which was sinking away into
the troubled ocean beyond. Does my girl-reader expect me to tell her next
that something had happened? that Percivale had said something to her? or
that, at least, he had just passed the window, and given her a look which
she might interpret as she pleased? I must disappoint her. It was nothing
of the sort. I knew the heart and feeling of my child. It was only that
kind nature was in sympathy with her mood. The girl was always more
peaceful in storm than in sunshine. I remembered that now. A movement of
life instantly began in her when the obligation of gladness had departed
with the light. Her own being arose to provide for its own needs. She could
smile now when nature required from her no smile in response to hers. And I
could not help saying to myself, "She must marry a poor man some day; she
is a creature of the north, and not of the south; the hot sun of prosperity
would wither her up. Give her a bleak hill-side, and a glint or two of
sunshine between the hailstorms, and she will live and grow; give her
poverty and love, and life will be interesting to her as a romance; give
her money and position, and she will grow dull and haughty. She will
believe in nothing that poet can sing or architect build. She will, like
Cassius, scorn her spirit for being moved to smile at anything."

I had stood regarding her for a moment. She turned and saw me, and came
forward with her usual morning greeting.

"I beg your pardon, papa: I thought it was Walter."

"I am glad to see a smile on your face, my love."

"Don't think me very disagreeable, papa. I know I am a trouble to you. But
I am a trouble to myself first. I fear I have a discontented mind and a
complaining temper. But I do try, and I will try hard to overcome it."

"It will not get the better of you, so long as you do the duty of the
moment. But I think, as I told you before, that you are not very well, and
that your indisposition is going to do you good by making you think about
some things you are ready to think about, but which you might have banished
if you had been in good health and spirits. You are feeling as you never
felt before, that you need a presence in your soul of which at least you
haven't enough yet. But I preached quite enough to you yesterday, and I
won't go on the same way to-day again. Only I wanted to comfort you. Come
and give me my breakfast."

"You do comfort me, papa," she answered, approaching the table. "I know I
don't show what I feel as I ought, but you do comfort me much. Don't you
like a day like this, papa?"

"I do, my dear. I always did. And I think you take after me in that, as you
do in a good many things besides. That is how I understand you so well."

"Do I really take after you, papa? Are you sure that you understand me so
well?" she asked, brightening up.

"I know I do," I returned, replying to her last question.

"Better than I do myself?" she asked with an arch smile.

"Considerably, if I mistake not," I answered.

"How delightful! To think that I am understood even when I don't understand
myself!"

"But even if I am wrong, you are yet understood. The blessedness of life is
that we can hide nothing from God. If we could hide anything from God, that
hidden thing would by and by turn into a terrible disease. It is the sight
of God that keeps and makes things clean. But as we are both, by mutual
confession, fond of this kind of weather, what do you say to going out with
me? I have to visit a sick woman."

"You don't mean Mrs. Coombes, papa?"

"No, my dear. I did not hear she was ill."

"O, I daresay it is nothing much. Only old nursey said yesterday she was in
bed with a bad cold, or something of that sort."

"We'll call and inquire as we pass,--that is, if you are inclined to go
with me."

"How can you put an _if_ to that, papa?"

"I have just had a message from that cottage that stands all alone on the
corner of Mr. Barton's farm--over the cliff, you know--that the woman is
ill, and would like to see me. So the sooner we start the better."

"I shall have done my breakfast in five minutes, papa. O, here's
mamma!--Mamma, I'm going out for a walk in the rain with papa. You won't
mind, will you?"

"I don't think it will do you any harm, my dear. That's all I mind, you
know. It was only once or twice when you were not well that I objected to
it. I quite agree with your papa, that only lazy people are _glad_ to stay
in-doors when it rains."

"And it does blow so delightfully!" said Wynnie, as she left the room to
put on her long cloak and her bonnet.

We called at the sexton's cottage, and found him sitting gloomily by the
low window, looking seaward.

"I hope your wife is not _very_ poorly, Coombes," I said.

"No, sir. She be very comfortable in bed. Bed's not a bad place to be in
in such weather," he answered, turning again a dreary look towards the
Atlantic. "Poor things!"

"What a passion for comfort you have, Coombes! How does that come about, do
you think?"

"I suppose I was made so, sir."

"To be sure you were. God made you so."

"Surely, sir. Who else?"

"Then I suppose he likes making people comfortable if he makes people like
to be comfortable."

"It du look likely enough, sir."

"Then when he takes it out of your hands, you mustn't think he doesn't look
after the people you would make comfortable if you could."

"I must mind my work, you know, sir."

"Yes, surely. And you mustn't want to take his out of his hands, and go
grumbling as if you would do it so much better if he would only let you get
_your_ hand to it."

"I daresay you be right, sir," he said. "I must just go and have a look
about, though. Here's Agnes. She'll tell you about mother."

He took his spade from the corner, and went out. He often brought his tools
into the cottage. He had carved the handle of his spade all over with the
names of the people he had buried.

"Tell your mother, Agnes, that I will call in the evening and see her, if
she would like to see me. We are going now to see Mrs. Stokes. She is very
poorly, I hear."

"Let us go through the churchyard, papa," said Wynnie, "and see what the
old man is doing."

"Very well, my dear. It is only a few steps round."

"Why do you humour the sexton's foolish fancy so much, papa? It is
such nonsense! You taught us it was, surely, in your sermon about the
resurrection?"

"Most certainly, my dear. But it would be of no use to try to get it out of
his head by any argument. He has a kind of craze in that direction. To get
people's hearts right is of much more importance than convincing their
judgments. Right judgment will follow. All such fixed ideas should be
encountered from the deepest grounds of truth, and not from the outsides of
their relations. Coombes has to be taught that God cares for the dead more
than he does, and _therefore_ it is unreasonable for him to be anxious
about them."

When we reached the churchyard we found the old man kneeling on a grave
before its headstone. It was a very old one, with a death's-head and
cross-bones carved upon the top of it in very high relief. With his
pocket-knife he was removing the lumps of green moss out of the hollows of
the eyes of the carven skull. We did not interrupt him, but walked past
with a nod.

"You saw what he was doing, Wynnie? That reminds me of almost the only
thing in Dante's grand poem that troubles me. I cannot think of it without
a renewal of my concern, though I have no doubt he is as sorry now as I am
that ever he could have written it. When, in the _Inferno,_ he reaches the
lowest region of torture, which is a solid lake of ice, he finds the lost
plunged in it to various depths, some, if I remember rightly, entirely
submerged, and visible only through the ice, transparent as crystal, like
the insects found in amber. One man with his head only above the ice,
appeals to him as condemned to the same punishment to take pity on him, and
remove the lumps of frozen tears from his eyes, that he may weep a little
before they freeze again and stop the relief once more. Dante says to him,
'Tell me who you are, and if I do not assist you, I deserve to lie at the
bottom of the ice myself.' The man tells him who he is, and explains to him
one awful mystery of these regions. Then he says, 'Now stretch forth thy
hand, and open my eyes.' 'And,' says Dante, I did not open them for him;
and rudeness to him was courtesy.'"

"But he promised, you said."

"He did; and yet he did not do it. Pity and truth had abandoned him
together. One would think little of it comparatively, were it not that
Dante is so full of tenderness and grand religion. It is very awful, and
may teach us many things."

"But what made you think of that now?"

"Merely what Coombes was about. The visual image was all. He was scooping
the green moss out of the eyes of the death's-head on the gravestone."

By this time we were on the top of the downs, and the wind was buffeting
us, and every other minute assailing us with a blast of rain. Wynnie drew
her cloak closer about her, bent her head towards the blast, and struggled
on bravely by my side. No one who wants to enjoy a walk in the rain must
carry an umbrella; it is pure folly. When we came to one of the stone
fences, we cowered down by its side for a few moments to recover our
breath, and then struggled on again. Anything like conversation was out of
the question. At length we dropped into a hollow, which gave us a little
repose. Down below the sea was dashing into the mouth of the glen, or
coomb, as they call it there. On the opposite side of the hollow, the
little house to which we were going stood up against the gray sky.

"I begin to doubt whether I ought to have brought you, Wynnie. It was
thoughtless of me; I don't mean for your sake, but because your presence
may be embarrassing in a small house; for probably the poor woman may
prefer seeing me alone."

"I will go back, papa. I sha'n't mind it a bit."

"No; you had better come on. I shall not be long with her, I daresay. We
may find some place that you can wait in. Are you wet?"

"Only my cloak. I am as dry as a tortoise inside."

"Come along, then. We shall soon be there."

When we reached the house I found that Wynnie would not be in the way. I
left her seated by the kitchen-fire, and was shown into the room where Mrs.
Stokes lay. I cannot say I perceived. But I guessed somehow, the moment I
saw her that there was something upon her mind. She was a hard-featured
woman, with a cold, troubled black eye that rolled restlessly about. She
lay on her back, moving her head from side to side. When I entered she only
looked at me, and turned her eyes away towards the wall. I approached the
bedside, and seated myself by it. I always do so at once; for the patient
feels more at rest than if you stand tall up before her. I laid my hand on
hers.

"Are you very ill, Mrs. Stokes?" I said.

"Yes, very," she answered with a groan. "It be come to the last with me."

"I hope not, indeed, Mrs. Stokes. It's not come to the last with us, so
long as we have a Father in heaven."

"Ah! but it be with me. He can't take any notice of the like of me."

"But indeed he does, whether you think it or not. He takes notice of every
thought we think, and every deed we do, and every sin we commit."

I said the last words with emphasis, for I suspected something more than
usual upon her conscience. She gave another groan, but made no reply. I
therefore went on.

"Our Father in heaven is not like some fathers on earth, who, so long as
their children don't bother them, let them do anything they like. He will
not have them do what is wrong. He loves them too much for that."

"He won't look at me," she said half murmuring, half sighing it out, so
that I could hardly, hear what she said.

"It is because he _is_ looking at you that you are feeling uncomfortable,"
I answered. "He wants you to confess your sins. I don't mean to me, but to
himself; though if you would like to tell me anything, and I can help you,
I shall be _very_ glad. You know Jesus Christ came to save us from our
sins; and that's why we call him our Saviour. But he can't save us from our
sins if we won't confess that we have any."

"I'm sure I never said but what I be a great sinner, as well as other
people."

"You don't suppose that's confessing your sins?" I said. "I once knew a
woman of very bad character, who allowed to me she was a great sinner; but
when I said, 'Yes, you have done so and so,' she would not allow one of
those deeds to be worthy of being reckoned amongst her sins. When I asked
her what great sins she had been guilty of, then, seeing these counted for
nothing, I could get no more out of her than that she was a great sinner,
like other people, as you have just been saying."

"I hope you don't be thinking I ha' done anything of that sort," she said
with wakening energy. "No man or woman dare say I've done anything to be
ashamed of."

"Then you've committed no sins?" I returned. "But why did you send for me?
You must have something to say to me."

"I never did send for you. It must ha' been my husband."

"Ah, then I'm afraid I've no business here!" I returned, rising. "I thought
you had sent for me."

She returned no answer. I hoped that by retiring I should set her thinking,
and make her more willing to listen the next time I came. I think clergymen
may do much harm by insisting when people are in a bad mood, as if they
had everything to do, and the Spirit of God nothing at all. I bade her
good-day, hoped she would be better soon, and returned to Wynnie.

As we walked home together, I said:

"Wynnie, I was right. It would not have done at all to take you into the
sick-room. Mrs. Stokes had not sent for me herself, and rather resented my
appearance. "No," said the beautiful mother to him, with a smile on the pale
face.

"Sit down; I have something to say to you."

He sat down, his hat still in his hand.

"I have not thanked you," she said. "I see who has done all this: do you
think a stranger would know to have the white-rose scent for me that Natalie
uses? She was right: you are kind--you think of others."
"It is nothing--it is nothing," he said, hastily, and with all an
Englishman's embarrassment.

"My dear friend," said his companion, with a grave kindness in her tone,
and a look of affectionate interest in her eyes, "I am going to prove
my gratitude to you. I am going to prevent--what do you call it?--a
lover's quarrel."
He started.

"Yesterday," she continued, still regarding him in that kindly way, "before
we left your rooms, Natalushka was very reserved toward you; was
it not so?

I perceived it; and you?"

"I--I thought she was tired," he stammered.

"To-morrow you are to fetch her here; and what if you find her still
more reserved--even cold toward you?

You will be pained, perhaps alarmed.

Ah, my dear friend, life is made very bitter sometimes by mistakes;
so it is that I must tell you the reason.

The child loves you; be sure of that.

Yes; but she thinks that she has been too frank in saying so--in
time of trouble and anxiety; and now--now that you are perhaps not
going to America--now that perhaps all the trouble is over--now she
is beginning to think she ought to be a little more discreet, as
other young ladies are.

The child means no harm, but you and she must not quarrel."
He took her hand to bid her good-bye.

"Natalie and I are not likely to quarrel," said he, cheerfully.

"Now I am going away. If I stayed, you would do nothing but talk about her,
whereas it is necessary that you should have some dinner, then
read one of these books for an hour or so, then go to bed and have
a long, sound night's rest.

You must be looking your brightest when she comes to see you to-morrow."

And indeed, as it turned out subsequently, this warning; of the
mother's was not wholly unnecessary.

Next day at eleven o'clock, as had previously been arranged, Brand met
Natalie at the corner of Great Stanhope Street to escort her to
the house to which her mother had removed.

He had not even got into the park with her when he perceived that her
manner was distinctly reserved.

Anneli was with her, and she kept talking from time to time to the little
maid, who was thus obliged, greatly against her will, to walk close to
her mistress. At last Brand said,
"Natalie, have I offended you?"

"Oh no!"

she said, in a hurried, low voice.

"Natalie," said he, very gently, "I once heard of a wicked creature who was
determined to play the hypocrite, and might have done a great deal
of mischief, only she had a most amiable mother, who stepped in and
gave somebody else a warning.

Did you ever hear of such a wicked person?"
The blood mounted to her face. By this time Anneli had taken leave to
fall behind.

"Then," said the girl, with some hesitation, and yet with firmness,
"you will not misunderstand me.

If all the circumstances are to be altered, then--then you must forget
what I have said to you in moments of trouble.

I have a right to ask it. You must forget the past altogether."
"But it is impossible!"

"It is necessary."
For some minutes they walked on in silence.

Then he felt a timid touch on his arm; her hand had been laid there,
deprecatingly, for a moment.

"Are you angry with me?"

"No, I am not," said he, frankly, "for the very reason that what
you ask is impossible, unnecessary, absurd.

You might as well ask me to forget that I am alive. In any case, isn't
it rather too soon?

Are you so sure that all the trouble is past?

Wait till the storm is well over, and we are going into port, then
we will put on our Sunday manners to go ashore."

"I am afraid you are angry with me," she said again, timidly.

"You could not make me, if you tried," he said, simply; "but I am proud of
you, Natalie--proud of the courage and clearness and frankness of your
character, and I don't like to see you fall away from that, and
begin to consider what a school-mistress would think of you."

"It is not what any one may think of me that I consider; it is what
I think of myself," she answered, in the same low voice.

They reached Hans Place. The mother was at the door of the room to
welcome them.

She took her daughter by the hand and led her in.

"Look round, Natalushka," she said.

"Can you guess who has arranged all this for me--for me and for
you?"

The girl almost instantly turned--her eyes cast down--and took her
lover's hand, and kissed it in silence.

That was all.

Then said he, lightly, as he shoved the low easy-chair nearer the
fire,
"Come, madame, and sit down here; and you, Natalushka, here is a
stool for you, that you will be able to lean your head on your
mother's knee.

There; it is a very pretty group: do you know why I make you into a
picture?

Well, you see, these are troubled times; and one has one's work to
do; and who can tell what may happen?

But don't you see that, whatever may happen, I can carry away with me
this picture; and always, wherever I may be, I can say to myself that
Natalie and her mother are together in the quiet little room, and
that they are happy.

Now I must bid you good-bye; I have a great deal of business to-day
with my solicitor.

And the landlady, madame: how does she serve you?"
"She overwhelms me with kindness."

"That is excellent," said he, as he shook hands with them and,
against both their protests, took his leave.

He carried away that picture in his mind. He had left these two together,
and they were happy. What mattered it to him what became of himself?

It was on the evening of that day that he had to obey the summons of the
Council.

CHAPTER XL.

A CONCLAVE.

Punctual to the moment George Brand arrived in Lisle Street.

He was shown into an inner room, where he found Lind seated at a desk, and
Reitzei and Beratinsky standing by the fireplace. On an adjacent table
where four cups of black coffee, four small glasses, a bottle of
brandy, and a box of cigarettes.

Lind rose to receive him, and was very courteous indeed--apologizing for
having had to break in on his preparations for leaving, and offering
him coffee, cigarettes, and what not.

When the new-comer had declined these, Lind resumed his place and
begged the others to be seated.

"We will proceed to business at once, gentlemen," said he, speaking in quite
an ordinary and matter-of-fact way, "although, I will confess to you,
it is not business entirely to my liking. Perhaps I should not say so. This
paper, you see, contains my authorization from the Council to summon you
and to explain the service they demand: perhaps I should merely obey, and
say nothing. But we are friends; we can speak in confidence."
Here Reitzei, who was even more pallid than usual, and whose fingers seemed
somewhat shaky, filled one of the small glasses of brandy, and drank it
off.

"I do not say that I hesitate," continued Lind--"that I am reluctant, because
the service that is required from us--from one of us four--is dangerous--is
exceedingly dangerous. No," he said, with a brief smile, "as far as I
am myself concerned, I have carried my life in my hands too often
to think much about that.

And you, gentlemen, considering the obligations you have accepted, I
take it that the question of possible harm to yourselves is not likely
to interfere with your obedience to the commands of the Council."

"As for me," said Reitzei, eagerly and nervously, "I tell you this, I
should like to have something exciting now--I do not care what. I am tired
of this work in London; it is slow, regular, like the ticking of a
clock.

I am for something to stir the blood a little. I say that I am ready
for anything."

"As for me," said Beratinsky, curtly, "no one has ever yet called me a
coward."
Brand said nothing; but he perceived that this was something unusually
serious, and almost unconsciously he closed his right hand that he
might feel the clasp of Natalie's ring.

There was no need to appeal to his oaths of allegiance.

Lind proceeded, in a graver fashion,
"Yes, I confess that personally I am for avoiding violence, for
proceeding according to law. But then the Council would say, perhaps,
'Are there not injuries for which the law gives no redress? Are there not
those who are beyond the power of the law? And we, who have given our
lives to the redressing of wrongs, to the protection of the poor,
to the establishment of the right, are we to stand by and see the
moral sense of the community outraged by those in high places, and
say no word, and lift no hand?'"

He took up a book that was lying on the table, and opened it at a
marked page.

"Yes," he said, "there are occasions on which a man may justly take the law
into his own hands; may break the law, and go beyond it, and punish
those whom the law has failed to punish; and the moral sense of the world
will say, 'Well done!'

Did you ever happen to read, Mr. Brand, the letter written by
Madame von Maderspach?"

Brand started at the mention of the name: it recalled the first evening on
which he had seen Natalie. What strange things had happened since then!
He answered that he did not know of Madame von Maderspach's letter.

"By chance I came across it to-day," said Lind, looking at the book.
"Listen: 'I was torn from the arms of my husband, from the circle
of my children, from the hallowed sanctuary of my home, charged
with no offence, allowed no hearing, arraigned before no judge.

I, a woman, wife, and mother, was in my own native town, before the
people accustomed to treat me with respect, dragged into a square
of soldiers, and there scourged with rods.

Look, I can write this without dropping dead! But my husband killed
himself. Robbed of all other weapons, he shot himself with a pocket-pistol.
The people rose, and would have killed those who instigated these horrors,
but their lives were saved by the interference of the military.' Very well.
Von Maderspach took his own way; he shot himself. But if, instead of
doing that, he had taken the law into his own hands, and killed the
author of such an outrage, do you think there is a human being in the
world who would have blamed him?"
He appealed directly to Brand. Brand answered calmly, but with his face
grown rather white, "I think if such a thing were done to--to my wife, I
would have a shot at somebody."
Perhaps Lind thought that it was the recital of the wrongs of Madame
von Maderspach that had made this man's face grow white, and given him
that look about the mouth; but at all events he continued, "Exactly so.
I was only seeking to show you that there are occasions on which a man
might justly take the law into his own hands. Well, then, some would
argue--I don't say so myself, but some would say--that what a man may
do justly an association may do justly. What would the quick-spreading
civilization of America have done but for the Lynch tribunals? The respectable
people said to themselves, 'it is question of life or death. We have to
attack those scoundrels at once, or society will be destroyed. We cannot
wait for the law: it is powerless.'

And so when the president had given his decision, out they went and caught
the scoundrels, and strung them up to the nearest tree.

You do not call them murderers. John Lynch ought to have a statue in every
Western State in America."
"Certainly, certainly!" exclaimed Reitzei, reaching over and filling out
another glass of brandy with an unsteady hand.

He was usually an exceedingly temperate person.

"We are all agreed. Justice must be done, whether the law allows or not; I
say the quicker the better."
Lind paid no heed to him, but proceeded quietly, "Now I will come more directly
to what is required of us by the Council; I have been trying to guess
at their view of the question; perhaps I am altogether wrong; but no matter.
And I will ask you to imagine yourselves not here in this free
country of England, where the law is strong--and not only that, but
you have a public opinion that is stronger still--and where it is
not possible that a great Churchman should be a man living in open
iniquity, and an oppressor and a scoundrel--I will ask you to imagine
yourselves living in Italy, let one say in the Papal Territory
itself, where the reign of Christ should be, and where the poor
should be cared for, if there is Christianity still on the earth.

And you are poor, let us say; hardly knowing how to scrape together
a handful of food sometimes; and your children ragged and hungry;
and you forced from time to time to go to the Monte di Pieta to
pawn your small belongings, or else you will die, or you will see
your children die before your eyes."

"Ah, yes, yes!"

exclaimed Reitzei. "That is the worst of it--to see one's children
die! That is worse than one's own hunger."
"And you," continued Lind, quietly, but still with a little more
distinctness of emphasis, "you, you poor devils, you see a great dignitary
of the Church, a great prince among priests, living in shameless
luxury, in violation of every law, human and divine, with the
children of his mistresses set up in palaces, himself living on the
fat of the land.

What law does he not break, this libertine, this usurer?
What makes the corn dear, so that you cannot get it for your starving
children?

--what but this plunderer, this robber, seizing the funds that extremity
has dragged from the poor in order to buy up the grain of the
States?

A pretty speculation! No wonder that you murmur and complain; that you
curse him under your breath, that you call him _il cardinale affamatore_.
And no wonder, if you happen to belong to a great association that
has promised to see justice done, no wonder you come to that
association and say, 'Masters, why cannot justice be done now?

It is too long to wait for the Millennium. Remove this oppressor from the
face of the earth: down with the Starving Cardinal!'"

"Yes, yes, yes!" cried Reitzei, excitedly.

Beratinsky sat silent and sullen. Brand, with some strange foreboding
of what was coming, still sat with his hand tight closed on Natalie's
ring.

"More," continued Lind--and now, if he was acting, it was a rare piece of
acting, for wrath and indignation gathered on his brow, and increased
the emphasis of his voice--"it is not only your purses, it is not
only your poor starved homesteadings that are attacked, it is the
honor of your women.

Whose sister or daughter is safe?

Mr. Brand, one of your English poets has made the poor cry to the rich,

"'Our sons are your slaves by day, Our daughters your slaves by
night.'

But what if some day a poor man--I will tell you his name--his name is De
Bedros; he is not a peasant, but a helpless, poor old man--what if this man
comes to the great association that I have mentioned and says, wringing his
hands, 'My Brothers and Companions, you have sworn to protect the
weak and avenge the injured: what is your oath worth if you do not
help me now?

My daughter, my only daughter, has been taken from me, she has been stolen
from my side, shrieking with fear, and I thrown bleeding into the ditch.
By whom?

By one who is beyond the law; who laughs at the law; who is the law! But
you--you will be the avengers.

Too long has this monster outraged the name of Christ and insulted the
forbearance of his fellow creatures: my Brothers, this is what I demand from
your hands--I demand from the SOCIETY OF THE SEVEN STARS--I demand
from you, the Council--I demand, my Brothers and Companions, a
decree of death against the monster Zaccatelli!'"

"Yes, yes, yes, the decree!" shouted Reitzei, all trembling.

"Who could refuse it? Or I myself--"
"Gentlemen," said Lind, calmly, "the decree has been granted.

Here is my authority; read it."
He held out the paper first of all to Brand, who took it in both
his hands, and forced himself to go over it.

But he could not read it very carefully; his heart was beating
quickly; he was thinking of a great many things all at once--of
Lord Evelyn, of Natalie, of his oaths to the Society, even of his
Berkshire home and the beech-woods.

He handed on the paper to Reitzei, who was far too much excited to
read it at all.

Beratinsky merely glanced at it carelessly, and put it back on the
table.

"Gentlemen," Lind continued, returning to his unemotional manner,
"personally, I consider it just that this man, whom the law cannot
or does not choose to reach, should be punished for his long career
of cruelty, oppression, and crime, and punished with death!

but, as I confessed to you before, I could have wished that that
punishment had not been delivered by our hands.

We have made great progress in England; and we have been preaching nothing
but peace and good-will, and the use of lawful means of amelioration.

If this deed is traced to our Society, as it almost certainly will be, it
will do us a vast amount of injury here; for the English people will not be
able to understand that such a state of affairs as I have described
can exist, or that this is the only remedy.

As I said to you before, it is with great reluctance that I summoned
you here to-night--" 
"Why so, Brother Lind?"

Reitzei broke in, and again he reached over for the bottle. "We are not
cowards, then?"
Beratinsky took the bottle from him and put it back on the table.

Reitzei did not resent this interference; he only tried to roll up
a cigarette, and did not succeed very well with his trembling
fingers.

"You will have seen," said Lind, continuing as if there had been no interruption,
"why the Council have demanded this duty of the English section. The lesson
would be thrown away altogether--a valuable life belonging to the Society
would be lost--if it were supposed that this was an act of private
revenge.

No; the death of Cardinal Zaccatelli will be a warning that Europe
will take to heart.

At least," he added, thoughtfully, "I hope it will prove to be so,
and I hope it will be unnecessary to repeat the warning."

"You are exceedingly tender-hearted, Brother Lind," said Reitzei. "Do you
pity this man, then?

Do you think he should flourish his crimes in the face of the world for
another twenty, thirty years?"

"It is unnecessary to say what I think," observed Lind, in the same
quiet fashion.

"It is enough for us that we know our duty. The Council have commanded; we
obey."
"Yes; but let us come to the point, Brother Lind," said Beratinsky, in a
somewhat surly fashion.

"I do not much care what happens to me; yet one wishes to know."
"Gentlemen," said Lind, composedly, "you know that among the ordinances of
the Society is one to the effect that no member shall be sent on any
duty involving peril to his life without a ballot among at least
four persons.

As this particular service is one demanding great secrecy and circumspection,
I have considered it right to limit the ballot to four--to ourselves,
in fact."

There was not a word said.

"That the duty involves peril to life is obvious; it will be a miracle if he
who undertakes this affair should escape.

As for myself, you will perceive by the paper you have read that I am
commissioned by the Council to form the ballot, but not instructed to include
myself. I could avoid doing so if I chose, but when I ask my friends to
run a risk, I am willing to take the same risk.

For the rest, I have been in as dangerous enterprises before."

He leaned over and pulled toward him a sheet of paper. Then he took a pair
of scissors and cut the sheet into four pieces; these he proceeded
to fold up until they were about the size of a shilling, and
identically alike.

All the time he was talking.

"Yes, it will be a dangerous business," he said, slowly, "and one
requiring great forethought and caution.

Then I do not say it is altogether impossible one might escape; though
then the warning, the lesson of this act of punishment might not
be so effective: they might mistake it for a Camorra affair, though
the Cardinal himself already knows otherwise."

He opened a bottle of red ink that stood by.

"The simplest means are sufficient," said he. "This is how we used to
settle affairs in '48."
He opened one of the pieces of paper, and put a cross in red on it,
which he dried on the blotting-paper.

Then he folded it up again, threw the four pieces into a pasteboard box,
put down the lid, and shook the box lightly.

"Whoever draws the red cross," he said, almost indifferently, "carries
out the command of the Council. Have you anything to say, gentlemen--to
suggest?"
"Yes," said Reitzei, boldly.

Lind regarded him.

"What is the use of the ballot?" said the pallid-faced young man.

"What if one volunteers? I should myself like to settle the business of
the scoundrelly Cardinal."

Lind shook his head.

"Impossible. Calabressa thought of a volunteer; he was mad!

There must be a ballot. Come; shall we proceed?"
He opened the box and put it before Beratinsky. Beratinsky took out one of
the papers, opened it, glanced at it, crumpled it up, and threw it into
the fire.

"It isn't I, at all events," he said.

It was Reitzei next.

When he glanced at the paper he had drawn, he crushed it together
with an oath, and dashed it on the floor.

"Of course, of course," he exclaimed, "just when I was eager for a
bit of active service.

So it is you, Brother Lind, or our friend Brand who is to settle
the business of the Starving Cardinal."

Calmly, almost as a matter of course, Lind handed the box to George
Brand; and he, being a proud man, and in the presence of foreigners,
was resolved to show no sign of emotion whatever.

When he took out the paper and opened it, and saw his fate there in the red
cross, he laid it on the table before him without a word.

Then he shut his hand on Natalie's ring.

"Well," said Lind, rather sadly, as he took out the remaining paper
without looking at it, and threw aside the box, "I almost regret
it, as between you and me.

I have less of life to look forward to."

"I would like to ask one question," said Brand, rising: he was perfectly
firm.

"Yes?"

"The orders of the Council must be obeyed. I only wish to know whether--when--when
this thing comes to be done--I must declare my own name?"

"Not at all--not at all!"

Lind said, quickly.

"You may use any name you like."

"I am glad of that," he said.

Then, with the same proud, impassive firmness, he made an appointment
for the next day, got his hat and coat, bade his companions good-night,
and went down-stairs into the cold night air.

He could not realize as yet all that had happened, but his first
quick, instinctive thought had been,
"Ah, not that--not the name that my mother bore!"

CHAPTER XLI.

IN THE DEEPS.

The sudden shock of the cold night air was a relief to his burning
brain; and so also as he passed into the crowded streets, was the
low continuous thunder all around him.

The theatres were coming out; cabs, omnibuses, carriages added to
the muffled roar; the pavements were thronged with people talking,
laughing, jostling, calling out one to the other.

He was glad to lose himself in this seething multitude; he was glad
to be hidden by the darkness; he would try to think.

But his thoughts were too rapid and terrible to be very clear.

He only vaguely knew--it was a consciousness that seemed to possess both
heart and brain like a consuming fire--that the beautiful dreams
he had been dreaming of a future beyond the wide Atlantic, with
Natalie living and working by his side, her proud spirit cheering
him on, and refusing to be daunted--these dreams had been suddenly
snatched away from him; and in their stead, right before him, stood
this pitiless, inexorable fate.

But now, Stokes, what is to be done? This money must be
paid. Have you got it?"

The poor man looked blank.

"She will never be at ease till this money is paid," I insisted.

"Well, sir, I ain't got it, but I'll borrow it of someone; I'll go to
master, and ask him."

"No, my good fellow, that won't do. Your master would want to know what
you were going to do with it, perhaps; and we mustn't let more people know
about it than just ourselves and Squire Tresham. There is no occasion for
that. I'll tell you what: I'll give you the money, and you must take it;
or, if you like, I will take it to the squire, and tell him all about it.
Do you authorise me to do this, Mrs. Stokes?"

"Please, sir. It's very kind of you. I will work hard to pay you again, if
it please God to spare me. I am very sorry I was so cross-tempered to you,
sir; but I couldn't bear the disgrace of it."

She said all this from under the bed-clothes.

"Well, I'll go," I said; "and as soon as I've had my dinner I'll get a
horse and ride over to Squire Tresham's. I'll come back to-night and tell
you about it. And now I hope you will be able to thank God for forgiving
you this sin; but you must not hide and cover it up, but confess it clean
out to him, you know."

She made me no answer, but went on sobbing.

I hastened home, and as I entered sent Walter to ask the loan of a horse
which a gentleman, a neighbour, had placed at my disposal.

When I went into the dining-room, I found that they had not sat down to
dinner. I expostulated: it was against the rule of the house, when my
return was uncertain.

"But, my love," said my wife, "why should you not let us please ourselves
sometimes?" Dinner is so much nicer when you are with us."

"I am very glad you think so," I answered. "But there are the children: it
is not good for growing creatures to be kept waiting for their meals."

"You see there are no children; they have had their dinner."

"Always in the right, wife; but there's Mr. Percivale."

"I never dine till seven o'clock, to save daylight," he said.

"Then I am beaten on all points. Let us dine."

During dinner I could scarcely help observing how Percivale's eyes followed
Wynnie, or, rather, every now and then settled down upon her face. That she
was aware, almost conscious of this, I could not doubt. One glance at her
satisfied me of that. But certain words of the apostle kept coming again
and again into my mind; for they were winged words those, and even when
they did not enter they fluttered their wings at my window: "Whatsoever is
not of faith is sin." And I kept reminding myself that I must heave the
load of sin off me, as I had been urging poor Mrs. Stokes to do; for God
was ever seeking to lift it, only he could not without my help, for that
would be to do me more harm than good by taking the one thing in which I
was like him away from me--my action. Therefore I must have faith in
him, and not be afraid; for surely all fear is sin, and one of the most
oppressive sins from which the Lord came to save us.

Before dinner was over the horse was at the door. I mounted, and set out
for Squire Tresham's.


I found him a rough but kind-hearted elderly man. When I told him the story
of the poor woman's misery, he was quite concerned at her suffering. When I
produced the sovereign he would not receive it at first, but requested me
to take it back to her and say she must keep it by way of an apology for
his rudeness about her ginger-beer; for I took care to tell him the whole
story, thinking it might be a lesson to him too. But I begged him to take
it; for it would, I thought, not only relieve her mind more thoroughly, but
help to keep her from coming to think lightly of the affair afterwards. Of
course I could not tell him that I had advanced the money, for that would
have quite prevented him from receiving it. I then got on my horse again,
and rode straight to the cottage.

"Well, Mrs. Stokes," I said, "it's all over now. That's one good thing
done. How do you feel yourself now?"

"I feel better now, sir. I hope God will forgive me."

"God does forgive you. But there are more things you need forgiveness for.
It is not enough to get rid of one sin. We must get rid of all our sins,
you know. They're not nice things, are they, to keep in our hearts? It is
just like shutting up nasty corrupting things, dead carcasses, under lock
and key, in our most secret drawers, as if they were precious jewels."

"I wish I could be good, like some people, but I wasn't made so. There's my
husband now. I do believe he never do anything wrong in his life. But then,
you see, he would let a child take him in."

"And far better too. Infinitely better to be taken in. Indeed there is no
harm in being taken in; but there is awful harm in taking in."

She did not reply, and I went on:

"I think you would feel a good deal better yet, if you would send for your
daughter and her husband now, and make it up with them, especially seeing
you are so ill."

"I will, sir. I will directly. I'm tired of having my own way. But I was
made so."

"You weren't made to continue so, at all events. God gives us the necessary
strength to resist what is bad in us. He is making at you now; only you
must give in, else he cannot get on with the making of you. I think very
likely he made you ill now, just that you might bethink yourself, and feel
that you had done wrong."

"I have been feeling that for many a year."

"That made it the more needful to make you ill; for you had been feeling
your duty, and yet not doing it; and that was worst of all. You know Jesus
came to lift the weight of our sins, our very sins themselves, off our
hearts, by forgiving them and helping us to cast them away from us.
Everything that makes you uncomfortable must have sin in it somewhere, and
he came to save you from it. Send for your daughter and her husband, and
when you have done that you will think of something else to set right
that's wrong."

"But there would be no end to that way of it, sir."

"Certainly not, till everything was put right."

"But a body might have nothing else to do, that way."

"Well, that's the very first thing that has to be done. It is our business
in this world. We were not sent here to have our own way and try to enjoy
ourselves."

"That is hard on a poor woman that has to work for her bread."

"To work for your bread is not to take your own way, for it is God's way.
But you have wanted many things your own way. Now, if you would just take
his way, you would find that he would take care you should enjoy your
life."

"I'm sure I haven't had much enjoyment in mine."

"That was just because you would not trust him with his own business, but
must take it into your hands. If you will but do his will, he will take
care that you have a life to be very glad of and very thankful for. And the
longer you live, the more blessed you will find it. But I must leave you
now, for I have talked to you long enough. You must try and get a sleep. I
will come and see you again to-morrow, if you like."

"Please do, sir; I shall be very grateful."

As I rode home I thought, if the lifting of one sin off the human heart was
like a resurrection, what would it be when every sin was lifted from every
heart! Every sin, then, discovered in one's own soul must be a pledge of
renewed bliss in its removing. And when the thought came again of what St.
Paul had said somewhere, "whatsoever is not of faith is sin," I thought
what a weight of sin had to be lifted from the earth, and how blessed it
might be. But what could I do for it? I could just begin with myself, and
pray God for that inward light which is his Spirit, that so I might see him
in everything and rejoice in everything as his gift, and then all things
would be holy, for whatsoever is of faith must be the opposite of sin; and
that was my part towards heaving the weight of sin, which, like myriads
of gravestones, was pressing the life out of us men, off the whole world.
Faith in God is life and righteousness--the faith that trusts so that it
will obey--none other. Lord, lift the people thou hast made into holy
obedience and thanksgiving, that they may be glad in this thy world.


CHAPTER VI.

THE GATHERING STORM.


The weather cleared up again the next day, and for a fortnight it was
lovely. In this region we saw less of the sadness of the dying year than in
our own parish, for there being so few trees in the vicinity of the ocean,
the autumn had nowhere to hang out her mourning flags. "Calabressa," he
said, frankly, "I am going away to-morrow morning: do you understand that?"

Calabressa bowed gravely.

"To comprehend that is easy. Allons, let us play out the little plot for the
amusement of that rogue of a Natalushka. And if she does not thank me--eh
bien! perhaps her papa will: who knows?"
Before the overture began that evening, Brand was in his seat in the
stalls; and he had scarcely sat down when he knew, rather than
saw, that certain figures were coming into the box which he had
been covertly watching.

The opera was _Fidelio_--that beautiful story of a wife's devotion and
courage, and reward. As he sat and listened, he knew she was listening too;
and he could almost have believed it was her own voice that was
pleading so eloquently with the jailer to let the poor prisoner see
the light of day for a few minutes in the garden.

Would not that have been her prayer, too, in similar circumstances? Then
Leonora, disguised as a youth, is forced to assist in the digging of her own
husband's grave, Pizarro enters; the unhappy prisoners are driven back to
their cells and chains, and Leonora can only call down the vengeance of
Heaven on the head of the tyrant.

At the end of the act Brand went up to the box and tapped outside.

It was opened from within, and he entered. Natalie turned to receive him; she
was a little pale, he thought; he took a seat immediately behind
her; and there was some general talk until the opening of the second
act restored silence.

For him it was a strange silence, that the music outside did not
disturb.

Sitting behind her, he could study the beautiful profile and the outward
curve of her dark eyelashes; he could see where here and there a delicate
curl of the raven-black hair, escaping from the mob-cap of rose-red silk,
lay about the small ear or wandered down to the shapely white neck; he
could almost, despite the music, fancy he heard her breathe, as the black
gossamer and scarlet flowers of an Indian shawl stirred over the shining
satin dress.

Her fan and handkerchief were perfumed with white-rose.

And to-morrow he would be in Wolverhampton, amidst grimy streets
and dirty houses, in a leaden-hued atmosphere laden with damp and
the fumes of chimneys, practically alone, with days of monotonous
work before him, and solitary evenings to be spent in cheerless inns.

What wonder if this seemed some brief vision of paradise--the golden light
and glowing color, the soft strains of music, the scent of white-rose?

Doubtless Natalie had seen this opera of Fidelio many a time before; but she
was always intently interested in music; and she had more than
once expressed in Brand's hearing her opinion of the conduct of the
ladies and gentlemen who make an opera, or a concert, or a play a
mere adjunct to their own foolish laughter and tittle-tattle.

She recognized the serious aims of a great artist; she listened with deep
attention and respect; she could talk idly elsewhere and at other times. And
so there was scarcely a word said--except of involuntary admiration--as
the opera proceeded. But in the scene where the disguised wife discovers
her husband in the prison--where, as Pizarro is about to stab him,
she flings herself between them to protect him--Brand could see that
Natalie Lind was fast losing her manner of calm and critical
attention, and yielding to a profounder emotion.

When Leonora reveals herself to her husband, and swears that she will
save him, even such a juncture, from his vindictive enemy--
"Si, si, mio dolce amico, La tua Eleonora ti salvera; Affronto il suo furor!"

the girl gave a slight convulsive sob, and her hands were involuntarily
clasped. Then, as every one knows, Leonora draws a pistol
from her bosom and confronts the tyrant; a trumpet is heard in the
distance; relief is near; and the act winds up with the joyful duet between
the released husband and the courageous wife--"_Destin, destin ormai
felice!_"
Here it was that Calabressa proposed he should escort Madame Potecki to the
cooler air of the large saloon; and madame, who had been young herself,
and guessed that the lovers might like to be alone for a few minutes,
instantly and graciously acquiesced. But Natalie rose also, a little
quickly, and said that Madame Potecki and herself would be glad to
have some coffee; and could that be got in the saloon?

Madame Potecki and her companion led the way; but then Brand put his
hand on the arm of Natalie and detained her.

"Natalie!"

he said, in a low and hurried voice, "I am going away to-morrow.

I don't know when I shall see you again.

Surely you will give me some assurance--some promise, something I can repeat
to myself.

Natalie, I know the value of what I am asking; you will give yourself to
me?"
She stood by the half-shut door, pale, irresolute, and yet outwardly calm.
Her eyes were cast down; she held her fan firmly with both hands.

"Natalie, are you afraid to answer?"
Then the young Hungarian girl raised her eyes, and bravely regarded
him, though her face was still pale and apprehensive.

"No," she said, in a low voice. "But how can I answer you more than
this--that if I am not to give myself to you I will give myself to no
other?

I will be your wife, or the wife of no one.

Dear friend, I can say no more."
"It is enough."

She went quickly to the front of the box; in both bouquets there were
forget-me-nots.

She hurriedly selected some, and returned and gave them to him.

"Whatever happens, you will remember that there was one who at least wished
to be worthy of your love."

Then they followed their friends into the saloon, and sat down at a small
table, though Natalie's hands were trembling so that she could scarcely undo
her gloves.

And George Brand said nothing; but once or twice he looked into his wife's
eyes.

CHAPTER XXI.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

When Ferdinand Lind told Calabressa that Natalie had grown to be a woman,
he no doubt meant what he said; but he himself had not the least notion what
the phrase implied. He could see, of course, that she had now a woman's
years, stature, self-possession; but, for all that, she was still
to him only a child--only the dark-eyed, gentle, obedient little
Natalushka, who used to be so proud when she was praised for her
music, and whose only show of resolution was when she set to work
on the grammar of a new language.

Indeed, it is the commonest thing in the world for a son, or a daughter,
or a friend to grow in years without those nearest them being aware of the
fact, until some chance circumstance, some crisis, causes a
revelation, and we are astounded at the change that time has
insidiously made.

Such a discovery was now about to confront Ferdinand Lind. He was to learn
not only that his daughter had left the days of her childhood behind
her, but also that the womanhood to which she had attained was of
a fine and firm character, a womanhood that rung true when tried.

And this is how the discovery was forced on him:

On his arrival in London, Mr. Lind drove first to Lisle Street, to
pick up letters on his way home.

Beratinsky had little news about business matters to impart; but, instead,
he began--as Lind was looking at some of the envelopes--to drop
hints about Brand.

It was easy to see now, he said, why the rich Englishman was so eager to join
them, and give up his life in that way.

It was not for nothing. Mr. Lind would doubtless hear more at home; and so
forth.

Mr.

Lind was thinking of other things; but when he came to understand what these
innuendoes meant, he was neither angry nor impatient.

He had much toleration for human weakness, and he took it that Beratinsky
was only a little off his head with jealousy. He was aware that it had
been Beratinsky's ambition to become his son-in-law: a project that swiftly
came to an end through the perfect unanimity of father and daughter
on that point.

"You are a fool, Beratinsky," he said, as he tied the bundle of letters
together. "At your time of life you should not imagine that every one's
head is full of philandering nonsense. Mr. Brand has something else to
think of; besides, he has been in the midland counties all this time."

"Has he? Who, then, was taking your daughter to dinner-parties, to
theatres--I don't know what?"

Lind dealt gently with this madness.

"Who told you?"
"I have eyes and ears."
"Put them to a better use, Beratinsky."
Then he left, and the hansom carried him along to Curzon Street. Natalie
herself flew to the door when she heard the cab drive up: there
she was to receive him, smiling a welcome, and so like her mother
that he was almost startled.

She caught his face in her two hands and kissed him.

"Ah, why did you not let me come to meet you at Liverpool?"
"There were too many with me, Natalie. I was busy. Now get Anneli to open
my portmanteau, and you can find out for yourself all the things
I have brought for you."

"I do not care for them, papa; I like to have you yourself back."
"I suppose you were rather dull, Natalushka, being all by yourself?"
"Sometimes.

But I will tell you all that has happened when you are having breakfast."

"I have had breakfast, child. Now I shall get through my letters, and you can
tell me all that has happened afterward."
This was equivalent to a dismissal; so Natalie went up-stairs, leaving her
father to go into the small study, where lay another bundle of letters for
him.

Almost the first that he opened was from George Brand; and to his amazement
he found, not details about progress in the North, but a simple, straightforward,
respectful demand to be permitted to claim the hand of Natalie in
marriage. He did not conceal the fact that this proposal had already been
made to Natalie herself; he ventured to hope that it was not distasteful to
her; he would also hope that her father had no objections to urge. It was
surely better that the future of a young girl in her position should be
provided for. As regarded by himself, Mr. Lind's acquaintance with him
was no doubt but recent and comparatively slight; but if he wished any
further and natural inquiry into the character of the man to whom he was
asked to intrust his daughter, Lord Evelyn might be consulted as his closest
friend. And a speedy answer was requested.

This letter was, on the whole, rather a calm and business-like
performance.

Brand could appeal to Natalie, and that earnestly and honestly
enough; he felt he could not bring himself to make any such appeal
to her father.

Indeed, any third person reading this letter would have taken it
to be more of the nature of a formal demand, or something required
by the conventionalities; a request the answer to which was not of
tremendous importance, seeing that the two persons most interested
had already come to an understanding.

But Mr. Lind did not look at it in that light at all. He was at first
surprised; then vexed and impatient, rather than angry; then determined to
put an end to this nonsense at once. If he had deemed the matter more
serious, he would have sat down and considered it with his customary fore
thought; but he was merely irritated.

"Beratinsky was not so mad as I took him to be, after all," he said to
himself. "Fortunately, the affair has not gone too far."
He carried the open letter up-stairs, and found Natalie in the drawing-room,
dusting some pieces of Venetian glass.

"Natalie," he said, with an abruptness that startled her, and in a
tone of anger which was just a little bit affected--"Natalie, what
is the meaning of this folly?"

She turned and regarded him. He held the open letter in his hand.

She said, calmly,
"I do not understand you."

This only vexed him the more.

"I ask you what you have been doing in my absence?" he said, angrily.
"What have you been doing to entitle any man to write me such a letter
as this? His affection! your future!

--has he not something else to think of?

And you--you seem not to have been quite so dull when I was away, after
all! Well, it is time to have an end of it. Whatever nonsense may have been
going on, I hope you have both of you come to your senses.

Let me hear no more of it!"
Now she saw clearly what the letter must contain--what had stirred her
father to such an unusual exhibition of wrath. She was a little pale,
but not afraid. There was no tremor in her voice as she spoke.

"I am sorry, papa, you should speak to me like that. I think you forget that
I am no longer a child. I have done nothing that I am ashamed of;
and if Mr.

Brand has written to you, I am willing to share the responsibility of
anything he says. You must remember, papa, that I am a woman, and that
I ought to have a voice in anything that concerns my own happiness."

He looked at her almost with wonder, as if he did not quite recognize
her.

Was this the gentle-natured little Natalushka, whose eyes would fill with
tears if she was scolded even in fun?--this tall, self-possessed girl with
the pale face, and the firm and even tones?

"Do you mean to tell me, Natalie, that it is with your consent Brand
has written to me?"

her father asked, with frowning brows.

"I did not know he would write. I expected he would."
"Perhaps," said he, with an ironical smile, "perhaps you have taken time
by the forelock, and already promised to be his wife?"
The answer was given with the same proud composure.

"I have not. But I have promised, if I am not his wife, never to be the
wife of any other man."

It was now that Lind began to perceive how serious this matter was.

This was no school-girl, to be frightened out of a passing fancy.

He must appeal to the reason of a woman; and the truth is, that if
he had known he had this to undertake, he would not so hastily have
gone into that drawing-room with the open letter in his hand.

"Sit down Natalie," he said, quite gently. "I want to talk to you. I spoke
hastily; I was surprised and angry.

Now let us see calmly how matters stand; I dare say no great harm
has been done yet."

She took a seat opposite him; there was not the least sign of any girlish
breaking down, even when he spoke to her in this kind way.

"I have no doubt you acted quite rightly and prudently when I was away;
and as for Mr.

Brand, well, any one can see that you have grown to be a good-looking young
woman, and of course he would like to have a good-looking young wife
to show off among the country people, and to go riding to hounds
with him.

Let us see what is involved in your becoming his wife, supposing that were
ever seriously to be thought of. You give up all your old sympathies and
friends, your interest in the work we have on hand, and you get
transferred to a Buckinghamshire country-house to take the place
of the old house-keeper.

If you do not hear anything of what is going on--of our struggles--of your
friends all over Europe--what of that? You will have the kitchen-garden
to look after, and poultry to feed; and your neighbors will talk to
you at dinner about foxes and dogs and horses and the clergyman's charities.
It will be a healthy life, Natalie: perhaps you will get stout and rosy,
like an English matron. But your old friends--you will have forgotten
them."
"Never!--never!" she said, vehemently; and, despite herself, her eyes
filled with tears.

"Then we will take Mr. Brand. The Buckinghamshire house is open again.
An Englishman's house is his castle; there is a great deal of work in
superintending it, its entertainments, its dependents. Perhaps he has a
pack of foxhounds; no doubt he is a justice of the peace, and the terror
of poachers.

But in the midst of all this hunting, and giving of dinner-parties,
and shooting of pheasants, do you think he has much time or thought
for the future of the millions of poor wretches all over Europe who once
claimed his care? Not much! That was in his days of irresponsible bachelorhood.
Now he is settled down--he is a country gentleman. The world can set
itself right without him. He is anxious about the price of wheat."

"Ah, how you mistake him, papa!" said she, proudly. And there was a
proud light on her face too as she rose and quickly went to a small escritoire
close by. A few seconds sufficed her to write a short note, which she
brought back to her father.

"There," said she, "I will abide by that test. If he says 'yes,' I will
never see him again--never speak one word to him again."

Her father took the note and read it.

It was as follows:

"My Dear Friend,--I am anxious about the future for both of us. If you
will promise me, now and at once, to give up the work you are engaged in, I
will be your wife, when and where you will.

NATALIE."
"Send it!" she said, proudly. "I am not afraid. If he says 'yes,' I will never
see him again."
The challenge was not accepted. He tore the note in two and flung it into
the grate.

"It is time to put an end to this folly," he said impatiently. "I have
shown you what persistence in it would bring on yourself. You would be
estranged from everything and every one you have hitherto been interested
in; you would have to begin a new life, for which you are not fitted;
you would be the means of doing our cause an irreparable injury.

Yes, I say so frankly.

The withdrawal of this man Brand, which would certainly follow, sooner
or later, on his marriage, would be a great blow to us.

We have need of his work; we have still more need of his money. And it is
you, you of all people in the world, who would be the means of taking
him away from us!"

"But it is not so, papa," she said in great distress. "Surely you do not
think that I am begging to be allowed to become his wife? That is for him
to decide; I will follow his wishes as far as I can--as far as you
will allow me, papa.

But this I know, that, so far from interfering with the work he has undertaken,
it would only spur him on. Should I have thought of it otherwise? Ah,
surely you know--you have said so to me yourself--he is not one
to go back."

"He is an Englishman; you do not understand Englishmen," her father said; and
then he added, firmly, "You are not to be deterred by what may
happen to yourself.

Well, consider what may happen to him. I tell you I will not have this
risk run. George Brand is too valuable to us. If you or he persist
in this folly, it will be necessary to provide against all contingencies
by procuring his banishment."
"Banishment!" she exclaimed, with a quick and frightened look.
"That may not sound much to you," said her father, calmly, "for you
have scarcely what may be called a native country. You have lived
anywhere, everywhere. It is different with an Englishman, who has
his birthplace, his family estate, his friends in England."
"What do you mean, papa?" said she, in a low voice. She had not
been frightened by the fancy picture he had drawn of her own future,
but this ominous threat about her lover seemed full of menace.
"I say that, at all hazards," Lind continued, looking at her from
under the bushy eyebrows, "this folly must be brought to an end.
It is not expedient that a marriage between you and Mr. Brand should
even be thought of. You have both got other duties, inexorable
duties. It is my business to see that nothing comes in the way of
their fulfilment. Do you understand?"
She sat dumb now, with a vague fear about the future of her lover;
for herself she had no fear.Drowning is only an easy way of dying.
Mind, they are all in God's hands."

"Yes, papa. I will turn round and shut my eyes, and fancy that his hand is
over them, making them dark with his care."

"And it will not be fancy, my darling, if you do. You remember those
odd but no less devout lines of George Herbert? Just after he says, so
beautifully, 'And now with darkness closest weary eyes,' he adds:

  Thus in thy ebony box
  Thou dost enclose us, till the day
  Put our amendment in our way,
  And give new wheels to our disordered clocks."

"He is very fond of boxes, by the way. So go to sleep, dear. You are a good
clock of God's making; but you want new wheels, according to our beloved
brother George Herbert. Therefore sleep. Good-night."

This was tiresome talk--was it--in the middle of the night, reader? Well,
but my child did not think so, I know.

Dark, dank, weeping, the morning dawned. All dreary was the earth and sky.
The wind was still hunting the clouds across the heavens. It lulled a
little while we sat at breakfast, but soon the storm was up again, and
the wind raved. I went out. The wind caught me as if with invisible human
hands, and shook me. I fought with it, and made my way into the village.
The streets were deserted. I peeped up the inn-yard as I passed: not a man
or horse was to be seen. The little shops looked as if nobody had crossed
their thresholds for a week. Not a door was open. One child came out of the
baker's with a big loaf in her apron. The wind threatened to blow the hair
off her head, if not herself first into the canal. I took her by the hand
and led her, or rather, let her lead me home, while I kept her from being
carried away by the wind. Having landed her safely inside her mother's
door, I went on, climbed the heights above the village, and looked abroad
over the Atlantic. What a waste of aimless tossing to and fro! Gray mist
above, full of falling rain; gray, wrathful waters underneath, foaming and
bursting as billow broke upon billow. The tide was ebbing now, but almost
every other wave swept the breakwater. They burst on the rocks at the end
of it, and rushed in shattered spouts and clouds of spray far into the air
over their heads. "Will the time ever come," I thought, "when man shall
be able to store up even this force for his own ends? Who can tell?" The
solitary form of a man stood at some distance gazing, as I was gazing, out
on the ocean. I walked towards him, thinking with myself who it could be
that loved Nature so well that he did not shrink from her even in her most
uncompanionable moods. I suspected, and soon found I was right; it was
Percivale.

"What a clashing of water-drops!" I said, thinking of a line somewhere in
Coleridge's Remorse. They are but water-drops, after all, that make this
great noise upon the rocks; only there is a great many of them."

"Yes," said Percivale. "But look out yonder. You see a single sail,
close-reefed--that is all I can see--away in the mist there? As soon as you
think of the human struggle with the elements, as soon as you know that
hearts are in the midst of it, it is a clashing of water-drops no more. It
is an awful power, with which the will and all that it rules have to fight
for the mastery, or at least for freedom."

"Surely you are right. It is the presence of thought, feeling, effort that
gives the majesty to everything. It is even a dim attribution of human
feelings to this tormented, passionate sea that gives it much of its awe;
although, as we were saying the other day, it is only _a picture_ of the
troubled mind. But as I have now seen how matters are with the elements,
and have had a good pluvial bath as well, I think I will go home and change
my clothes."

"I have hardly had enough of it yet," returned Percivale. "I shall have a
stroll along the heights here, and when the tide has fallen a little way
from the foot of the cliffs I shall go down on the sands and watch awhile
there."

"Well, you're a younger man than I am; but I've seen the day, as Lear says.
What an odd tendency we old men have to boast of the past: we would be
judged by the past, not by the present. We always speak of the strength
that is withered and gone, as if we had some claim upon it still. But I am
not going to talk in this storm. I am always talking."

"I will go with you as far as the village, and then I will turn and take my
way along the downs for a mile or two; I don't mind being wet."

"I didn't once."

"Don't you think," resumed Percivale, "that in some sense the old man--not
that I can allow _you that dignity yet, Mr. Walton--has a right to regard
the past as his own?"

"That would be scanned," I answered, as we walked towards the village.
"Surely the results of the past are the man's own. Any action of the man's,
upon which the life in him reposes, remains his. But suppose a man had done
a good deed once, and instead of making that a foundation upon which to
build more good, grew so vain of it that he became incapable of doing
anything more of the same sort, you could not say that the action belonged
to him still. Therein he has severed his connection with the past. Again,
what has never in any deep sense been a man's own, cannot surely continue
to be his afterwards. Thus the things that a man has merely possessed once,
the very people who most admired him for their sakes when he had them,
give him no credit for after he has lost them. Riches that have taken
to themselves wings leave with the poor man only a surpassing poverty.
Strength, likewise, which can so little depend on any exercise of the will
in man, passes from him with the years. It was not his all the time; it was
but lent him, and had nothing to do with his inward force. A bodily feeble
man may put forth a mighty life-strength in effort, and show nothing to the
eyes of his neighbour; while the strong man gains endless admiration for
what he could hardly help. But the effort of the one remains, for it was
his own; the strength of the other passes from him, for it was never his
own. So with beauty, which the commonest woman acknowledges never to have
been hers in seeking to restore it by deception. So, likewise, in a great
measure with intellect."

"But if you take away intellect as well, what do you leave a man that can
in any way be called his own?"

"Certainly his intellect is not his own. One thing only is his own--to will
the truth. This, too, is as much God's gift as everything else: I ought to
say is more God's gift than anything else, for he gives it to be the man's
own more than anything else can be. And when he wills the truth, he has
God himself. Man _can_ possess God: all other things follow as necessary
results. What poor creatures we should have been if God had not made us to
do something--to look heavenwards--to lift up the hands that hang down, and
strengthen the feeble knees! Something like this was in the mind of the
prophet Jeremiah when he said, 'Thus saith the Lord, Let not the wise man
glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not
the rich man glory in his riches; but let him that glorieth glory in this,
that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercise
loving-kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth: for in these
things I delight, saith the Lord.' My own conviction is, that a vague sense
of a far higher life in ourselves than we yet know anything about is at the
root of all our false efforts to be able to think something of ourselves.
We cannot commend ourselves, and therefore we set about priding ourselves.
We have little or no strength of mind, faculty of operation, or worth of
will, and therefore we talk of our strength of body, worship the riches
we have, or have not, it is all one, and boast of our paltry intellectual
successes. The man most ambitious of being considered a universal genius
must at last confess himself a conceited dabbler, and be ready to part with
all he knows for one glimpse more of that understanding of God which the
wise men of old held to be essential to every man, but which the growing
luminaries of the present day will not allow to be even possible for any
man."

We had reached the brow of the heights, and here we parted. A fierce blast
of wind rushed at me, and I hastened down the hill. How dreary the streets
did look!--how much more dreary than the stormy down! I saw no living
creature as I returned but a terribly draggled dog, a cat that seemed to
have a bad conscience, and a lovely little girl-face, which, forgetful of
its own rights, would flatten the tip of the nose belonging to it against a
window-pane. Every rain-pool was a mimic sea, and had a mimic storm within
its own narrow bounds. The water went hurrying down the kennels like a long
brown snake anxious to get to its hole and hide from the tormenting wind,
and every now and then the rain came in full rout before the conquering
blast.

When I got home, I peeped in at Connie's door the first thing, and saw that
she was raised a little more than usual; that is, the end of the conch
against which she leaned was at a more acute angle. She was sitting
staring, rather than gazing, out at the wild tumult which she could see
over the shoulder of the down on which her window immediately looked. Her
face was paler and keener than usual.

"Why, Connie, who set you up so straight?"

"Mr. Turner, papa. I wanted to see out, and he raised me himself. He says I
am so much better, I may have it in the seventh notch as often as I like."

"But you look too tired for it. Hadn't you better lie down again?"

"It's only the storm, papa."

"The more reason you should not see it if it tires you so."

"It does not tire me, papa. Only I keep constantly wondering what is going
to come out of it. It looks so as if something must follow."

"You didn't hear me come into your room last night, Connie. The storm was
raging then as loud as it is now, but you were out of its reach--fast
asleep. Now it is too much for you. You must lie down."

"Very well, papa."

I lowered the support, and when I returned from changing my wet garments
she was already looking much better.

After dinner I went to my study, but when evening began to fall I went out
again. I wanted to see how our next neighbours, the sexton and his wife,
were faring. The wind had already increased in violence. It threatened to
blow a hurricane. The tide was again rising, and was coming in with great
rapidity. The old mill shook to the foundation as I passed through it to
reach the lower part where they lived. When I peeped in from the bottom
of the stair, I saw no one; but, hearing the steps of someone overhead, I
called out.

Agnes's voice made answer, as she descended an inner stair which led to the
bedrooms above--

"Mother's gone to church, sir."

"Gone to church!" I said, a vague pang darting through me as I thought
whether I had forgotten any service; but the next moment I recalled what
the old woman had herself told me of her preference for the church during a
storm.

"O yes, Agnes, I remember!" I said; "your mother thinks the weather bad
enough to take to the church, does she? How do you come to be here now?
Where is your husband?"

"He'll be here in an hour or so, sir. He don't mind the wet. You see, we
don't like the old people to be left alone when it blows what the sailors
call 'great guns.'"

"And what becomes of his mother then?"

"There don't be any sea out there, sir. Leastways," she added with a quiet
smile, and stopped.

"You mean, I suppose, Agnes, that there is never any perturbation of the
elements out there?"

She laughed; for she understood me well enough. The temper of Joe's mother
was proverbial.

"But really, sir," she said, "she don't mind the weather a bit; and though
we don't live in the same cottage with her, for Joe wouldn't hear of that,
we see her far oftener than we see my mother, you know."

"I'm sure it's quite fair, Agnes. Is Joe very sorry that he married you,
now?"

She hung her head, and blushed so deeply through all her sallow complexion,
that I was sorry I had teased her, and said so. This brought a reply.

"I don't think he be, sir. I do think he gets better. He's been working
very hard the last week or two, and he says it agrees with him."

"And how are you?"

"Quite well, thank you, sir."

I had never seen her look half so well. Life was evidently a very different
thing to both of them now. I left her, and took my way to the church.

When I reached the churchyard, there, in the middle of the rain and the
gathering darkness, was the old man busy with the duties of his calling. A
certain headstone stood right under a drip from the roof of the southern
transept; and this drip had caused the mould at the foot of the stone, on
the side next the wall, to sink, so that there was a considerable crack
between the stone and the soil. The old man had cut some sod from another
part of the churchyard, and was now standing, with the rain pouring on him
from the roof, beating this sod down in the crack. He was sheltered from
the wind by the church, but he was as wet as he could be. I may mention
that he never appeared in the least disconcerted when I came upon him in
the discharge of his functions: he was so content with his own feeling in
the matter, that no difference of opinion could disturb him.

"This will never do, Coombes," I said. "You will get your death of cold.
You must be as full of water as a sponge. Old man, there's rheumatism in
the world!"

"It be only my work, sir. But I believe I ha' done now for a night. I think
he'll be a bit more comfortable now. The very wind could get at him through
that hole."

"Do go home, then," I said, "and change your clothes. Is your wife in the
church?"

"She be, sir. This door, sir--this door," he added, as he saw me going
round to the usual entrance. "You'll find her in there."

I lifted the great latch and entered. I could not see her at first, for it
was much darker inside the church. It felt very quiet in there somehow,
although the place was full of the noise of winds and waters. Mrs. Coombes
was not sitting on the bell-keys, where I looked for her first, for the
wind blew down the tower in many currents and draughts--how it did roar up
there--as if the louvres had been a windsail to catch the wind and send
it down to ventilate the church!--she was sitting at the foot of the
chancel-rail, with her stocking as usual.

The sight of her sweet old face, lighted up by a moonlike smile as I drew
near her, in the middle of the ancient dusk filled with sounds, but only
sounds of tempest, gave me a sense of one dwelling in the secret place of
the Most High, such as I shall never forget. It was no time to say much,
however.

"How long do you mean to stay here, Mrs. Coombes?" I asked. "Not all
night?"

"No, not all night, surely, sir. But I hadn't thought o' going yet for a
bit."

"Why there's Coombes out there, wet to the skin; and I'm afraid he'll go on
pottering at the churchyard bed-clothes till he gets his bones as full of
rheumatism as they can hold."

"Deary me! I didn't know as my old man was there. He tould me he had them
all comforble for the winter a week ago. But to be sure there's always some
mendin' to do."

I heard the voice of Joe outside, and the next moment he came into the
church. After speaking to me, he turned to Mrs. Coombes.

"You be comin' home with me, mother. This will never do. Father's as wet as
a mop. I ha' brought something for your supper, and Aggy's a-cookin' of it;
and we're going to be comfortable over the fire, and have a chapter or two
of the New Testament to keep down the noise of the sea. There! Come along."

The old woman drew her cloak over her head, put her knitting carefully in
her pocket, and stood aside for me to lead the way.

"No, no," I said; "I'm the shepherd and you're the sheep, so I'll drive you
before me--at least, you and Coombes. Joe here will be offended if I take
on me to say I am _his_ shepherd."


"Nay, nay, don't say that, sir. You've been a good shepherd to me when I
was a very sulky sheep. But if you'll please to go, sir, I'll lock the door
behind; for you know in them parts the shepherd goes first and the sheep
follow the shepherd. And I'll follow like a good sheep," he added,
laughing.

"You're right, Joe," I said, and took the lead without more ado.

I was struck by his saying _them parts_, which seemed to indicate a habit
of pondering on the places as well as circumstances of the gospel-story.
The sexton joined us at the door, and we all walked to his cottage, Joe
taking care of his mother-in-law and I taking what care I could of Coombes
by carrying his tools for him. But as we went I feared I had done ill in
that, for the wind blew so fiercely that I thought the thin feeble little
man would have got on better if he had been more heavily weighted against
it. But I made him take a hold of my arm, and so we got in. The old man
took his tools from me and set them down in the mill, for the roof of which
I felt some anxiety as we passed through, so full of wind was the whole
space. But when we opened the inner door the welcome of a glowing fire
burst up the stair as if that had been a well of warmth and light below. I
went down with them. Coombes departed to change his clothes, and the rest
of us stood round the fire, where Agnes was busy cooking something like
white puddings for their supper.

"Did you hear, sir," said Joe, "that the coastguard is off to the
Goose-pot? There's a vessel ashore there, they say. I met them on the road
with the rocket-cart."

"How far off is that, Joe?"

"Some five or six miles, I suppose, along the coast nor'ards."

"What sort of a vessel is she?"

"That I don't know. Some say she be a schooner, others a brigantine. The
coast-guard didn't know themselves."

"Poor things!" said Mrs. Coombes. "If any of them comes ashore, they'll be
sadly knocked to pieces on the rocks in a night like this."

She had caught a little infection of her husband's mode of thought.

"It's not likely to clear up before morning, I fear; is it, Joe?"

"I don't think so, sir. There's no likelihood."

"Will you condescend to sit down and take a share with us, sir?" said the
old woman.

"There would be no condescension in that, Mrs. Coombes. I will another time
with all my heart; but in such a night I ought to be at home with my own
people. They will be more uneasy if I am away."

"Of coorse, of coorse, sir."

"So I'll bid you good-night. I wish this storm were well over."

I buttoned my great-coat, pulled my hat down on my head, and set out. It
was getting on for high water. The night was growing very dark. There would
be a moon some time, but the clouds were so dense she could not do much
while they came between. The roaring of the waves on the shore was
terrible; all I could see of them now was the whiteness of their breaking,
but they filled the earth and the air with their furious noises. The wind
roared from the sea; two oceans were breaking on the land, only to the one
had been set a hitherto--to the other none. Ere the night was far gone,
however, I had begun to doubt whether the ocean itself had not broken its
bars.

I found the whole household full of the storm. The children kept pressing
their faces to the windows, trying to pierce, as by force of will, through
the darkness, and discover what the wild thing out there was doing. They
could see nothing: all was one mass of blackness and dismay, with a soul in
it of ceaseless roaring. I ran up to Connie's room, and found that she was
left alone. She looked restless, pale, and frightened. The house quivered,
and still the wind howled and whistled through the adjoining bark-hut.

"Connie, darling, have they left you alone?" I said.

"Only for a few minutes, papa. I don't mind it."

"Don't he frightened at the storm, my dear. He who could walk on the sea
of Galilee, and still the storm of that little pool, can rule the Atlantic
just as well. Jeremiah says he 'divideth the sea when the waves thereof
roar.'"

The same moment Dora came running into the room.

"Papa," she cried, "the spray--such a lot of it--came dashing on the
windows in the dining-room. Will it break them?"

"I hope not, my dear. Just stay with Connie while I run down."

"O, papa! I do want to see."

"What do you want to see, Dora?"

"The storm, papa."

"It is as black as pitch. You can't see anything."

"O, but I want to--to--be beside it."

"Well, you sha'n't stay with Connie, if you are not willing. Go along. Ask
Wynnie to come here."

The child was so possessed by the commotion without that she did not
seem even to see my rebuke, not to say feel it. She ran off, and Wynnie
presently came. I left her with Connie, put on a long waterproof cloak,
and went down to the dining-room. A door led from it immediately on to the
little green in front of the house, between it and the sea. The dining-room
was dark, for they had put out the lights that they might see better from
the windows. The children and some of the servants were there looking out.
I opened the door cautiously. It needed the strength of two of the women
to shut it behind me. The moment I opened it a great sheet of spray rushed
over me. I went down the little grassy slope. The rain had ceased, and it
was not quite so dark as I had expected. I could see the gleaming whiteness
all before me. The next moment a wave rolled over the low wall in front of
me, breaking on it and wrapping me round in a sheet of water. Something
hurt me sharply on the leg; and I found, on searching, that one of the
large flat stones that lay for coping on the top of the wall was on the
grass beside me. If it had struck me straight, it must have broken my leg.

There came a little lull in the wind, and just as I turned to go into the
house again, I thought I heard a gun. I stood and listened, but heard
nothing more, and fancied I must have been mistaken. Lord Evelyn looked
up.

"In the mean time, does she know about your going?"

"I presume not--not yet.

But I must see her and tell her unless, indeed, Lind should try to
prevent that too.

He might lay injunctions on her that she was not to see me again."
"That is true," his friend said. "He might command.

But the question is whether she would obey.

I have known Natalie Lind longer than you have.
She is capable of thinking and acting for herself."

Nothing further was said on this point; they proceeded to talk of
other matters.

It was perhaps a quarter of an hour afterward--close on eleven o'clock--that
Waters knocked at the door and then came into the room.

"A letter for you, sir."
A quick glance at the envelope startled him.

"How did you get it?" he said instantly.

"A girl brought it, sir, in a cab. She is gone again.

There was no answer, she said."
Waters withdrew. Brand hastily opened the letter, and read the following
lines, written in pencil, apparently with a trembling hand:
"Dearest,--I spent this evening with Madame Potecki.

My father came for me, and on the way home has told me something of what
has occurred. It was for the purpose of telling me that you and I
must not meet again--never, never. My own, I cannot allow you to
pass a single night, or a single hour, thinking such a thing possible.
Have I not promised to you? When it is your wish to see me, come
to me: I am yours. Good-night, and Heaven guard you!
"NATALIE." 
George Brand turned to his friend.was the unformed movement of our thoughts. But
the moment we left the drawing-room the thing was clear, though not the
less marvellous and alarming. We forgot all about the ship, and thought
only of our Connie. So much does the near hide the greater that is afar!
Connie kept on calling, and her voice guided our eyes.

A, little stair led immediately from this floor up to the bark-hut, so that
it might be reached without passing through the bedroom. The door at the
top of it was open. The door that led from Connie's room into the bark-hut
was likewise open, and light shone through it into the place--enough to
show a figure standing by the furthest window with face pressed against the
glass. And from this figure came the cry, "Papa, papa! Quick, quick! The
waves will knock her to pieces!"

In very truth it was Connie standing there.


CHAPTER VIII.

THE SHIPWRECK.


Things that happen altogether have to be told one after the other. Turner
and I both rushed at the narrow stair. There was not room for more than one
upon it. I was first, but stumbled on the lowest step and fell. Turner
put his foot on my back, jumped over me, sprang up the stair, and when I
reached the top of it after him, he was meeting me with Connie in his arms,
carrying her back to her room. But the girl kept crying--"Papa, papa, the
ship, the ship!"

My duty woke in me. Turner could attend to Connie far better than I could.
I made one spring to the window. The moon was not to be seen, but the
clouds were thinner, and light enough was soaking through them to show a
wave-tormented mass some little way out in the bay; and in that one moment
in which I stood looking, a shriek pierced the howling of the wind, cutting
through it like a knife. I rushed bare-headed from the house. When or
how the resolve was born in me I do not know, but I flew straight to the
sexton's, snatched the key from the wall, crying only "ship ashore!" and
rushed to the church.

I remember my hand trembled so that I could hardly get the key into the
lock. I made myself quieter, opened the door, and feeling my way to the
tower, knelt before the keys of the bell-hammers, opened the chest, and
struck them wildly, fiercely. An awful jangling, out of tune and harsh,
burst into monstrous being in the storm-vexed air. Music itself was
untuned, corrupted, and returning to chaos. I struck and struck at the
keys. I knew nothing of their normal use. They paused to let a man driving a
wagon and a pair of oxen go by; and then Calabressa, enjoining his
companion to remain where he was, went on alone.

The changing sky had opened somewhat overhead, and there was a wan
twilight shining through the parted clouds. Edwards, looking after Calabressa,
could have fancied that the dark figure had disappeared like a ghost;
but the old albino had merely crossed the road, opened the one half of a
huge gate, and entered a garden.

It was precisely like the gardens of the other villas along the highway--cut
in terraces along the steep side of the hill, with winding pathways, and
marble lions here and there, and little groves of orange and olive and fig
trees; while on one side the sheer descent was guarded by an enormous
cactus hedge. The ground was very unequal: on one small plateau a
fountain was playing--the trickling of the water the only sound audible
in the silence.

Calabressa took out his pocket-book, and tore a leaf from it.

"The devil!"

he muttered to himself.

"How is one to write in the dark?"

But he managed to scrawl the word "Barsanti;" then he wrapped the paper
round a small pebble and approached the fountain. By putting one foot on
the edge of the stone basin beneath he could reach over to the
curved top, and there he managed to drop the missive into some
aperture concealed under the lip.

He stepped back, dried his hand with his handkerchief, and then
went down one of the pathways to a lower level of the garden.

Here he easily found the entrance to an ordinary sort of grotto--a narrow
cave winding inward and ending in a piece of fancy rockwork down
which the water was heard to trickle.

But he did not go to the end--he stopped about half-way and listened.

There was no sound whatever in the dark, except the plash of the tiny
water-fall.

Then there was a heavy grating noise, and in the black wall before him
appeared a vertical line of orange light.

This sudden gleam was so bewildering to the eyes that Calabressa
could not see who it was that come out to him; he only knew that
the stranger waited for him to pass on into the outer air.

"It is cooler here. To your business, friend Calabressa."
The moment Calabressa recognized this tall, military-looking man,
with the closely cropped bullet-head and long silver-white mustache,
he whipped off his cap, and said, anxiously,
"A thousand pardons, Excellency!

a thousand pardons! Do I interrupt? May not I see Fossati?"
"It is unnecessary. There is much business to-night. One must breathe the
air sometimes."
Calabressa for once had completely lost his _sang-froid_.

He could not speak for stammering.

"I assure you, your Excellency, it is death to me to think that I
interrupt you."

"But why did you come, then, my friend? To the point."
"Zaccatelli," the other managed to get out.

"Well?"
"There was a proposal. Some days ago I saw Granaglia."

"Well?"
"Pardon me, Excellency. If I had known, not for worlds would I have called
you--"

"Come, come my Calabressa," said the other, good-naturedly. "No more apologies.
What is it you have to say?--the proposal made by the Cardinal? Yes; we know
about that."

"And it has not been accepted?

--the decree remains?"
"You waste your breath, my friend. The decree remains, certainly. We are not
children; we do not play. What more, my Calabressa?"
But Calabressa had to collect his thoughts. Then he said, slowly,
"It occurred to me when I was in England--there was a poor devil there who
would have thrown away his life in a useless act of revenge--well--"
"Well, you brought him over here," said the other, interrupting him.
"Your object? Ah, Lind and you being old comrades; and Lind appearing to
you to be in a difficulty. But did Lind approve?"
"Not quite," said Calabressa, still hesitating. "He allowed us to try.

He was doubtful himself."
"I should have thought so," said the other, ironically. "No, good Calabressa;
we cannot accept the services of a maniac. The night has got dark; I cannot
see whether you are surprised. How do we know? The man Kirski has been
twice examined--once in Venice, once this morning, when you went
down to the _Luisa_; the reports the same.

What! To have a maniac blundering about the gates, attracting every
one's notice by his gibberish; then he is arrested with a pistol or a knife
in his hand; he talks nonsense about some Madonna; he is frightened into
a confession, and we become the laughing-stock of Europe! Impossible,
impossible, my Calabressa: where were your wits? No wonder Lind was
doubtful--"
"The man is capable of being taught," said Calabressa, humbly.
"We need not waste more breath, my friend. To-night Lind will be
reminded why it was necessary that the execution of this decree was
intrusted to the English section: he must not send any Russian
madman to compromise us."It was
terrible to have to do nothing. Percivale went about hurriedly, talking to
this one and that one, as if he still thought something might be done. He
turned to me.

"Do try, Mr. Walton, and find out for me where the captain of the life-boat
is."

I turned to a sailor-like man who stood at my elbow and asked him.

"It's no use, I assure you, sir," he answered; "no boat could live in such
a sea. It would be throwing away the men's lives."

"Do you know where the captain lives?" Percivale asked.

"If I did, I tell you it is of no use."

"Are you the captain yourself?" returned Percivale.

"What is that to you?" he answered, surly now. "I know my own business."

The same moment several of the crowd nearest the edge of the water made a
simultaneous rush into the surf, and laid hold of something, which, as they
returned drawing it to the shore, I saw to be a human form. It was the body
of a woman--alive or dead I could not tell. I could just see the long hair
hanging from the head, which itself hung backward helplessly as they bore
her up the bank. I saw, too, a white face, and I can recall no more.

"Run, Percivale," I said, "and fetch Turner. She may not be dead yet."

"I can't," answered Percivale. "You had better go yourself, Mr. Walton."

He spoke hurriedly. I saw he must have some reason for answering me so
abruptly. He was talking to a young fellow whom I recognised as one of the
most dissolute in the village; and just as I turned to go they walked away
together.

I sped home as fast as I could. It was easier to get along now that the
moon shone. I found that Turner had given Connie a composing draught, and
that he had good hopes she would at least be nothing the worse for the
marvellous result of her excitement. She was asleep exhausted, and her
mother was watching by her side. It, seemed strange that she could sleep;
but Turner said it was the safest reaction, partly, however, occasioned by
what he had given her. In her sleep she kept on talking about the ship.

We hurried back to see if anything could be done for the woman. As we went
up the side of the canal we perceived a dark body meeting us. The clouds
had again obscured, though not quite hidden the moon, and we could not at
first make out what it was. When we came nearer it showed itself a body
of men hauling something along. Yes, it was the life-boat, afloat on the
troubled waves of the canal, each man seated in his own place, his hands
quiet upon his oar, his cork-jacket braced about him, his feet out before
him, ready to pull the moment they should pass beyond the broken gates of
the lock out on the awful tossing of the waves. They sat very silent, and
the men on the path towed them swiftly along. The moon uncovered her face
for a moment, and shone upon the faces of two of the rowers.

"Percivale! Joe!" I cried.

"All right, sir!" said Joe.

"Does your wife know of it, Joe?" I almost gasped.

"To be sure," answered Joe. "It's the first chance I've had of returning
thanks for her. Please God, I shall see her again to-night."

"That's good, Joe. Trust in God, my men, whether you sink or swim."

"Ay, ay, sir!" they answered as one man.

"This is your doing, Percivale," I said, turning and walking alongside of
the boat for a little way.

"It's more Jim Allen's," said Percivale. "If I hadn't got a hold of him I
couldn't have done anything."

"God bless you, Jim Allen!" I said. "You'll be a better man after this, I
think."

"Donnow, sir," returned Jim cheerily. "It's harder work than pulling an
oar."

The captain himself was on board. Percivale having persuaded Jim Allen, the
two had gone about in the crowd seeking proselytes. In a wonderfully short
space they had found almost all the crew, each fresh one picking up another
or more; till at length the captain, protesting against the folly of it,
gave in, and once having yielded, was, like a true Englishman, as much in
earnest as any of them. The places of two who were missing were supplied by
Percivale and Joe, the latter of whom would listen to no remonstrance.

"I've nothing to lose," Percivale had said. "You have a young wife, Joe."

"I've everything to win," Joe had returned. "The only thing that makes me
feel a bit faint-hearted over it, is that I'm afraid it's not my duty that
drives me to it, but the praise of men, leastways of a woman. What would
Aggy think of me if I was to let them drown out there and go to my bed and
sleep? I must go."

"Very well, Joe," returned Percivale, "I daresay you are right. You can
row, of course?"

"I can row hard, and do as I'm told," said Joe.

"All right," said Percivale; "come along."

This I heard afterwards. We were now hurrying against the wind towards the
mouth of the canal, some twenty men hauling on the tow-rope. The critical
moment would be in the clearing of the gates, I thought, some parts of
which might remain swinging; but they encountered no difficulty there, as
I heard afterwards. For I remembered that this was not my post, and turned
again to follow the doctor.

"God bless you, my men!" I said, and left them.

They gave a great hurrah, and sped on to meet their fate. I found Turner in
the little public-house, whither they had carried the body. The woman was
quite dead.

"I fear it is an emigrant vessel," he said.

"Why do you think so?" I asked, in some consternation.

"Come and look at the body," he said.

It was that of a woman about twenty, tall, and finely formed. The face was
very handsome, but it did not need the evidence of the hands to prove that
she was one of our sisters who have to labour for their bread.

"What should such a girl be doing on board ship but going out to America or
Australia--to her lover, perhaps," said Turner. "You see she has a locket
on her neck; I hope nobody will dare to take it off. Some of these people
are not far derived from those who thought a wreck a Godsend."

A sound of many feet was at the door just as we turned to leave the house.
They were bringing another body--that of an elderly woman--dead, quite
dead. Turner had ceased examining her, and we were going out together,
when, through all the tumult of the wind and waves, a fierce hiss,
vindictive, wrathful, tore the air over our heads. Far up, seawards,
something like a fiery snake shot from the high ground on the right side of
the bay, over the vessel, and into the water beyond it.

"Thank God! that's the coastguard," I cried.

We rushed through the village, and up on the heights, where they had
planted their apparatus. A little crowd surrounded them. How dismal the sea
looked in the struggling moonlight! I felt as if I were wandering in the
mazes of an evil dream. But when I approached the cliff, and saw down below
the great mass, of the vessel's hulk, with the waves breaking every moment
upon her side, I felt the reality awful indeed. Now and then there would
come a kind of lull in the wild sequence of rolling waters, and then I
fancied for a moment that I saw how she rocked on the bottom. Her masts had
all gone by the board, and a perfect chaos of cordage floated and swung in
the waves that broke over her. But her bowsprit remained entire, and shot
out into the foamy dark, crowded with human beings. The first rocket
had missed. They were preparing to fire another. Roxton stood with his
telescope in his hand, ready to watch the result.

"This is a terrible job, sir," he said when I approached him; "I doubt if
we shall save one of them."

"There's the life-boat!" I cried, as a dark spot appeared on the waters
approaching the vessel from the other side.

"The life-boat!" he returned with contempt. "You don't mean to say they've
got _her_ out! She'll only add to the mischief. We'll have to save her
too."

She was still some way from the vessel, and in comparatively smooth water.
But between her and the hull the sea raved in madness; the billows rode
over each other, in pursuit, as it seemed, of some invisible prey. Another
hiss, as of concentrated hatred, and the second rocket was shooting its
parabola through the dusky air. Roxton raised his telescope to his eye the
same moment.

"Over her starn!" he cried. "There's a fellow getting down from the
cat-head to run aft.--Stop, stop!" he shouted involuntarily. "There's an
awful wave on your quarter."

His voice was swallowed in the roaring of the storm. I fancied I could
distinguish a dark something shoot from the bows towards the stern. But the
huge wave fell upon the wreck. The same moment Roxton exclaimed--so coolly
as to amaze me, forgetting how men must come to regard familiar things
without discomposure--

"He's gone! I said so. The next'll have better luck, I hope."

That man came ashore alive, though.

All were forward of the foremast. The bowsprit, when I looked through
Roxton's telescope, was shapeless as with a swarm of bees. Now and then a
single shriek rose upon the wild air. But now my attention was fixed on the
life-boat. She had got into the wildest of the broken water; at one
moment she was down in a huge cleft, the next balanced like a beam on the
knife-edge of a wave, tossed about hither and thither, as if the waves
delighted in mocking the rudder; but hitherto she had shipped no water. I
am here drawing upon the information I have since received; but I did
see how a huge wave, following close upon the back of that on which she
floated, rushed, towered up over her, toppled, and fell upon the life-boat
with tons of water: the moon was shining brightly enough to show this with
tolerable distinctness. The boat vanished. The next moment, there she was,
floating helplessly about, like a living thing stunned by the blow of the
falling wave. The struggle was over. As far as I could see, every man was
in his place; but the boat drifted away before the storm shore-wards, and
the men let her drift. Were they all killed as they sat? I thought of my
Wynnie, and turned to Roxton.

"That wave has done for them," he said. "I told you it was no use. There
they go."

"But what is the matter?" I asked. "The men are sitting every man in his
place."

"I think so," he answered. "Two were swept overboard, but they caught the
ropes and got in again. But don't you see they have no oars?"

That wave had broken every one of them off at the rowlocks, and now they
were as helpless as a sponge.

I turned and ran. Before I reached the brow of the hill another rocket was
fired and fell wide shorewards, partly because the wind blew with fresh
fury at the very moment. I heard Roxton say--"She's breaking up. It's no
use. That last did for her;" but I hurried off for the other side of the
bay, to see what became of the life-boat. I heard a great cry from the
vessel as I reached the brow of the hill, and turned for a parting glance.
The dark mass had vanished, and the waves were rushing at will over the
space. When I got to the shore the crowd was less. Many were running, like
myself, towards the other side, anxious about the life-boat. I hastened
after them; for Percivale and Joe filled my heart.

They led the way to the little beach in front of the parsonage. It would
be well for the crew if they were driven ashore there, for it was the only
spot where they could escape being dashed on rocks.

There was a crowd before the garden-wall, a bustle, and great confusion of
speech. The people, men and women, boys and girls, were all gathered about
the crew of the life-boat,--which already lay, as if it knew of nothing but
repose, on the grass within.

"Percivale!" I cried, making my way through the crowd.

There was no answer.

"Joe Harper!" I cried again, searching with eager eyes amongst the crew, to
whom everybody was talking.

Still there was no answer; and from the disjointed phrases I heard, I could
gather nothing. All at once I saw Wynnie looking over the wall, despair in
her face, her wide eyes searching wildly through the crowd. I could not
look at her till I knew the worst. The captain was talking to old Coombes.
I went up to him. As soon as he saw me, he gave me his attention.

"Where is Mr. Percivale?" I asked, with all the calmness I could assume.

He took me by the arm, and drew me out of the crowd, nearer to the waves,
and a little nearer to the mouth of the canal. The tide had fallen
considerably, else there would not have been standing-room, narrow as it
was, which the people now occupied. He pointed in the direction of the
Castle-rock.

"If you mean the stranger gentleman--"

"And Joe Harper, the blacksmith," I interposed.

"They're there, sir."

"You don't mean those two--just those two--are drowned?" I said.

"No, sir; I don't say that; but God knows they have little chance."

I could not help thinking that God might know they were not in the smallest
danger. But I only begged him to tell me where they were.

"Do you see that schooner there, just between you and the Castle-rock?"

"No," I answered; "I can see nothing. Stay. I fancy I can. But I am always
ready to fancy I see a thing when I am told it is there. I can't say I see
it."

"I can, though. The gentleman you mean, and Joe Harper too, are, I believe,
on board of that schooner."

"Is she aground?"

"O dear no, sir. She's a light craft, and can swim there well enough. If
she'd been aground, she'd ha' been ashore in pieces hours ago. But whether
she'll ride it out, God only knows, as I said afore."

"How ever did they get aboard of her? I never saw her from the heights
opposite."

"You were all taken up by the ship ashore, you see, sir. And she don't make
much show in this light. But there she is, and they're aboard of her. And
this is how it was."

He went on to give me his part of the story; but I will now give the whole
of it myself, as I have gathered and pieced it together.

Two men had been swept overboard, as Roxton said--one of them was
Percivale--but they had both got on board again, to drift, oarless, with
the rest--now in a windless valley--now aloft on a tempest-swept hill of
water--away towards a goal they knew not, neither had chosen, and which yet
they could by no means avoid.

A little out of the full force of the current, and not far from the channel
of the small stream, which, when the tide was out, flowed across the sands
nearly from the canal gates to the Castle-rock, lay a little schooner,
belonging to a neighbouring port, Boscastle, I think, which, caught in
the storm, had been driven into the bay when it was almost dark, some
considerable time before the great ship. The master, however, knew the
ground well. The current carried him a little out of the wind, and would
have thrown him upon the rocks next, but he managed to drop anchor just in
time, and the cable held; and there the little schooner hung in the skirts
of the storm, with the jagged teeth of the rocks within an arrow flight. In
the excitement of the great wreck, no one had observed the danger of the
little coasting bird. If the cable held till the tide went down, and the
anchor did not drag, she would be safe; if not, she must be dashed to
pieces.

In the schooner were two men and a boy: two men had been washed overboard
an hour or so before they reached the bay. When they had dropped their
anchor, they lay down exhausted on the deck. Indeed they were so worn out
that they had been unable to drop their sheet anchor, and were holding on
only by their best bower. Had they not been a good deal out of the wind,
this would have been useless. Even if it held she was in danger of having
her bottom stove in by bumping against the sands as the tide went out. But
that they had not to think of yet. The moment they lay down they fell
fast asleep in the middle of the storm. While they slept it increased in
violence.

Suddenly one of them awoke, and thought he saw a vision of angels. For over
his head faces looked down upon him from the air--that is, from the top of
a great wave. The same moment he heard a voice, two of the angels dropped
on the deck beside him, and the rest vanished. Those angels were Percivale
and Joe. And angels they were, for they came just in time, as all angels
do--never a moment too soon or a moment too late: the schooner _was_
dragging her anchor. This was soon plain even to the less experienced eyes
of the said angels.

But it did not take them many minutes now to drop their strongest anchor,
and they were soon riding in perfect safety for some time to come.

One of the two men was the son of old Coombes, the sexton, who was engaged
to marry the girl I have spoken of in the end of the fourth chapter in the
second volume.

Percivale's account of the matter, as far as he was concerned, was, that as
they drifted helplessly along, he suddenly saw from the top of a huge wave
the little vessel below him. They were, in fact, almost upon the rigging.
The wave on which they rode swept the quarter-deck of the schooner.

Percivale says the captain of the lifeboat called out "Aboard!" The captain
said he remembered nothing of the sort. If he did, he must have meant
it for the men on the schooner to get on board the lifeboat. Percivale,
however, who had a most chivalrous (ought I not to say Christian?) notion
of obedience, fancying the captain meant them to board the schooner, sprang
at her fore-shrouds. Thereupon the wave sweeping them along the schooner's
side, Joe sprang at the main-shrouds, and they dropped on the deck
together.

But although my reader is at ease about their fate, we who were in the
affair were anything but easy at the time corresponding to this point of
the narrative. It was a terrible night we passed through.

When I returned, which was almost instantly, for I could do nothing by
staring out in the direction of the schooner, I found that the crowd was
nearly gone. One little group alone remained behind, the centre of which
was a woman. Wynnie had disappeared. The woman who remained behind was
Agnes Harper.

The moon shone out clear as I approached the group; indeed, the clouds were
breaking-up and drifting away off the heavens. The storm had raved out its
business, and was departing into the past.

"Agnes," I said.

"Yes, sir," she answered, and looked up as if waiting for a command. There
was no colour in her cheeks or in her lips--at least it seemed so in the
moonlight--only in her eyes. But she was perfectly calm. She was leaning
against the low wall, with her hands clasped, but hanging quietly down
before her.

"The storm is breaking-up, Agnes," I said.

"Yes, sir," she answered in the same still tone. Then, after just a
moment's pause, she spoke out of her heart.

"Joe's at his duty, sir?"

I have given the utterance a point of interrogation; whether she meant that
point I am not quite sure.

"Indubitably," I returned. "I have such faith in Joe, that I should be sure
of that in any case. At all events, he's not taking care of his own life.
And if one is to go wrong, I would ten thousand times rather err on that
side. But I am sure Joe has been doing right, and nothing else."

"Then there's nothing to be said, sir, is there?" she returned, with a sigh
that sounded as of relief.

I presume some of the surrounding condolers had been giving her Job's
comfort by blaming her husband.

"Do you remember, Agnes, what the Lord said to his mother when she
reproached him with having left her and his father?"

"I can't remember anything at this moment, sir," was her touching answer.

"Then I will tell you. He said, 'Why did you look for me? Didn't you know
that I must be about something my Father had given me to do?' Now, Joe was
and is about his Father's business, and you must not be anxious about him.
There could be no better reason for not being anxious."

Agnes was a very quiet woman. When without a word she took my hand and
kissed it, I felt what a depth there was in the feeling she could not
utter. I did not withdraw my hand, for I knew that would be to rebuke her
love for Joe.

"Will you come in and wait?" I said indefinitely.

"No, thank you, sir. I must go to my mother. God will look after Joe, won't
he, sir?"

"As sure as there is a God, Agnes," I said; and she went away without
another word.

I ask you to think over whether it is wise for your own happiness--whether
it would improve Natalie's probabilities of happiness--whether it would
interfere in some measure with the work you have undertaken--if you
continue to cherish this fancy, and let it grow on you.

Surely it is better, for a man to have but one purpose in life. Nevertheless,
I am open to conviction.

"That reminds me that there is another matter on which I should like to say
a few words to you when there is the chance. If there is a break in the
current of your present negotiations, shall you have time to run up to
London? Only this: you will, I trust, not seek to see Natalie, or to write
to her, until we have come to an understanding. Again I thank you for having
spoken to me so early, before any mischief can have been done.

Think over what I have said, my dear friend; and remember, above all things,
where your chief duty lies.

"Yours sincerely, Ferdinand Lind."
* * * * *

He read this letter over two or three times, and the more he read
it the more he was impressed with the vexatious conviction that it
would be an uncommonly difficult thing to answer it.

It was so reasonable, so sensible, so plausible. Then his old suspicions
returned. Why was this man Lind so plausible? If he objected, why did
he not say so outright?

All these specious arguments: how was one to turn and twist, evading some,
meeting others; and all the time taking it for granted that the happiness
of two people's lives was to be dependent on such logic-chopping
as could be put down on a sheet of paper?

Then he grew impatient. He would not answer the letter at all.

Lind did not understand.

The matter had got far ahead of this clever argumentation; he would appeal
to Natalie herself; it was her "Yes" or "No" that would be final; not any
contest and balancing of words.

There were others he could recall, of more importance to him.

He could almost hear them now in the trembling, low voice: "_I will be your
wife, or the wife of no one. Dear friend, I can say no more._" And again,
when she gave him the forget-me-nots, "_Whatever happens, you will
remember that there was one who at least wished to be worthy of
your love._" He could remember the proud, brave look; again he felt
the trembling of the hand that timidly sought his for an instant;
he could almost scent the white-rose again, and hear the murmur of
the people in the corridor.

And this was the woman, into whose eyes he had looked as if they were
the eyes of his wife, who was to be taken away from him by means
of a couple of sheets of note-paper all covered over with little
specious suggestions.

He thrust the letter into a pocket, and hurriedly proceeded with his
dressing, for he had a breakfast appointment.

Indeed, before he was ready, the porter came up and said that a gentleman
had called for him, and was waiting for him in the coffee-room.

"Ask him what he will have for breakfast, and let him go on. I shall be
down presently."

When Brand did at length go down, he found that his visitor had frankly
accepted this permission, and had before him a large plate of corned-beef,
with a goodly tankard of beer. Mr.

John Molyneux, although he was a great authority among English workmen
generally, and especially among the trades-unionists of the North, had
little about him of the appearance of the sleek-haired demagogue as that
person is usually represented to us. He was a stout, yeoman-looking man,
with a frosty-red face and short silver-white whiskers; he had
keen, shrewd blue eyes, and a hand that gave a firm grip.

The fact is, that Molyneux had in early life been a farmer, and a
well-to-do-farmer. But he had got smitten with the writings of Cobbett, and
he began to write too. Then he took to lecturing--on the land laws, on
Robert Owenism, on the Church of England, but more especially on co-operation.
Finding, however, that all this pamphleteering and lecturing was playing
ducks and drakes with his farming, and being in many respects a shrewd
and sensible person, he resolved on selling out of his farm and investing
the proceeds in the government stock of America, the country of his deepest
admiration. In the end he found that he had about one hundred and
fifty pounds a year, on which he could live very comfortably, while
giving up all his time and attention to his energetic propagandism. This
was the person who now gave Brand a hearty greeting, and then took a long
draught at the tankard of ale.

"You see, Mr.

Brand," said he, looking cautiously around, and then giving a sly wink.
"I thought we might have a chat by ourselves in this corner."
Brand nodded; there was no one near them.

"Now I have been considering about what you told me; and last night I called
on Professor ----, of Owens College, ye know, and I had some further talk
with him. Well, sir, it's a grand scheme--splendid; and I don't wonder
you've made such progress as I hear of.

And when all the lads are going in for it, what would they say if old John
Molyneux kept out, eh?"
"Why, they would say he had lost some of his old pluck; that's about what
they would say, isn't it?" said Brand; though the fact was that he was
thinking a good deal more about the letter in his pocket.

"There was one point, though, Mr. Brand, that I did not put before either
Professor ---- or yourself, and it is important.

The point is, dibs."
"I beg your pardon," said Brand, absently; he was, in truth, recalling
the various phrases and sentences in that letter of Ferdinand Lind.

"Dibs, sir--dibs," said the farmer-agitator, energetically. "You know
what makes the mare go. And you know these are not the best of times;
and some of the lads will be thinking they pay enough into their
own Union.

That's what I want to know, Mr. Brand, before I can advise any one. You
need money; how do you get it?

What's the damage on joining, and after?"

Brand pulled himself together.

"Oh, money?" said he. "That need not trouble you. We exact nothing. How could
we ask people to buy a pig in a poke? There's not a working-man in the
country but would put us down as having invented an ingenious
scheme for living on other people's earnings.

It is not money we want; it is men."

"Yes, yes," said Molyneux, looking rather puzzled. "But when you've got the
machine, you want oil, eh?

The basis of everything, sir, is dibs:

what can ye do without it?"

"We want money, certainly," Brand said. "But we do not touch a farthing
that is not volunteered. There are no compulsory subscriptions. We take
it that the more a man sees of what we are doing, and of what has to be done,
the more he will be willing to give according to his means; and
so far there has been no disappointment."

"H'm!" said Molyneux, doubtfully.

"I reckon you won't get much from our chaps."
"You don't know.

It is wonderful what a touch of enthusiasm will do--and emulation
between the local centers.

Besides, we are always having accessions of richer folk, and these are
expected to make up all deficiencies."

"Ah!" said the other. "I see more daylight that way. Now you, Mr. Brand,
must have been a good fat prize for them, eh?"
The shrewd inquiring glance that accompanied this remark set George
Brand laughing.

"I see, Mr. Molyneux, you want to get at the 'dibs' of everything.
Well, I can't enlighten you any further until you join us: you have
not said whether you will or not."

"I will!"

said the other, bringing his fist down on the table, though he still
spoke in a loud whisper. "I'm your man! In for a penny, in for a pound!"

"I beg your pardon," said Brand, politely, "but you are in for
neither, unless you like.

You may be in for a good deal of work, though.

You must bring us men, and you will be let off both the penny and
the pound.

Now, could you run up with me to London to-night, and be admitted to-morrow,
and get to know something of what we are doing?"
"Is it necessary?"
"In your case, yes. We want to make you a person of importance."
So at last Molyneux agreed, and they started for London in the evening; the
big, shrew, farmer-looking man being as pleased as a child to have
certain signs and passwords confided to him. Brand made light of these
things--and, in fact, they were only such as were used among the outsiders;
but Molyneux was keenly interested, and already pictured himself going through
Europe and holding this subtle conversation with all the unknown companions
whom chance might throw in his way.

But long ere he reached London the motion of the train had sent him to
sleep; and George Brand had plenty of time to think over that
letter, and to guess at what possible intention might lie under its
plausible phrases.

He had leisure to think of other things, too. The question of money,
for example--about which Molyneux had been so curious with regard to this
association--was one on which he himself was but slightly informed, the
treasury department being altogether outside his sphere.
He did not even know whether Lind had private means, or was enabled to
live as he did by the association, for its own ends.

He knew that the Society had numerous paid agents; no doubt, he
himself could have claimed a salary, had it been worth his while.

But the truth is that "dibs" concerned him very little.

He had never been extravagant; he had always lived well within his
income; and his chief satisfaction in being possessed of a liberal
fortune lay in the fact that he had not to bother his head about
money.

There was one worry the less in life.

But then George Brand had been a good deal about the world, and had
seen something of human life, and knew very well the power the
possession of money gives.

Why, this very indifference, this happy carelessness about pecuniary
details, was but the consequence of his having a large fund in the
background that he could draw on at will.

If he did not overvalue his fortune, on the other hand he did not undervalue
it; and he was about the last man in the world who could reasonably have
been expected to part with it.

CHAPTER XXIII.

A TALISMAN.

Natalie Lind was busy writing at the window of the drawing-room in Curzon
Street when Calabressa entered, unannounced.

He had outstripped the little Anneli; perhaps he was afraid of being
refused. He was much excited.

"Forgive me, signorina, if I startle you," he said, rapidly, in his
native tongue; "forgive me, little daughter.

We go away to-night, I and the man Kirski, whom you saved from
madness: we are ordered away; it is possible I may never see you
again.

Now listen."
He took a seat beside her; in his hurry and eagerness he had for
the moment abandoned his airy manner.

"When I came here I expected to see you a school-girl--some one in
safe-keeping--with no troubles to think of.

You are a woman; you may have trouble; and it is I, Calabressa, who would
then cut off my right hand to help you.

I said I would leave you my address; I cannot.

I dare not tell any one even where I am going. What of that? Look well
at this card."

He placed before her a small bit of pasteboard, with some lines marked on
it.

"Now we will imagine that some day you are in great trouble; you know not
what to do; and you suddenly, bethink yourself, 'Now it is Calabressa,
and the friends of Calabressa, who must help me--'"
"Pardon me, signore," said Natalie, gently.

"To whom should I go but to my father, if I were in trouble? And why should
one anticipate trouble?

If it were to come, perhaps one might be able to brave it."
"My little daughter, you vex me. You must listen. If no trouble comes,
well! If it does, are you any the worse for knowing that there are
many on whom you can rely?

Very well; look! This is the Via Roma in Naples."
"I know it," said Natalie: why should she not humor the good-natured
old albino, who had been a friend of her mother's?

"You go along it until you come to this little lane; it is the Vico
Carlo; you ascend the lane--here is the first turning--you go round, and
behold! the entrance to a court.

The court is dark, but there is a lamp burning all day; go farther in, there
are wine-vaults. You enter the wine-vaults, and say, 'Bartolotti.' You do
not say, 'Is Signor Bartolotti at home?' or, 'Can I see the illustrious
Signor Bartolotti,' but 'Bartolotti,' clear and short. You understand?"

"You give yourself too much trouble, signore."

"I hope so, little daughter. I hope you will never have to search for these
wine-vaults; but who knows? _Alors_, one comes to you, and says, 'What
is your pleasure, signorina?' Then you ask, 'Where is Calabressa?'

The answer to that? It may be, 'We do not know;' or it may be, 'Calabressa
is in prison again,' or it may be,'Calabressa is dead.' Never mind. When
Calabressa dies, no one will care less than Calabressa himself."

"Some one would care, signore; you have a mother."
He took her hand.

"And a daughter, too," he said, lightly; "if the wicked little minx
would only listen.

Then you know what you must say to the man whom you will see at the
wine-vaults; you must say this, 'Brother, I come with a message
from Calabressa; it is the daughter of Natalie Berezolyi who demands
your help.'

Then do you know what will happen? From the next morning you will be under
the protection of the greatest power in Europe; a power unknown but
invincible; a power that no one dares to disobey.

Ah, little one, you will find out what the friends of Calabressa can do
for you when you appeal to them!"
He smiled proudly.

"_Allons!_ Put this card away in a secret place. Do not show it to any one;
let no one know the name I confided to you. Can you remember it, little
daughter?"
"Bartolotti."
"Good! Now that is one point settled; here is the next. You do not seem to
have any portrait of your mother, my little one?"
"Ah, no!" she exclaimed, quickly; for she was more interested now. "I
suppose my father could not bear to be reminded of his loss: if
there is any portrait, I have not seen it; and how could I ask him?"

He regarded her for a moment, and then he spoke more slowly than
hitherto:

"Little Natalushka, I told you I am going away; and who knows what may
happen to me?

I have no money or land to leave to any one; if I had a wife and children,
the only name I could leave them would be the name of a jailbird. If
I were to leave a will behind me, it would read, 'My heart to my
beloved Italia; my curse to Austria; and my--'Ah, yes, after all I
have something to leave to the little Natalushka."

He put his hand, which trembled somewhat, into the breast of his coat, and
brought out a small leather case.

"I am about to give you my greatest treasure, little one; my only treasure.
I think you will value it."
He opened the case and handed it to her; inside there was a miniature,
painted on ivory; it might have been a portrait of Natalie herself. For
some time the girl did not say a word, but her eyes slowly filled with
tears.

"She was very beautiful signore," she murmured.

"Ah little daughter," he said, cheerfully, "I am glad to see the portrait in
safe-keeping at last. Many a risk I have run with it; many a time I have
had to hide it. And you must hide it too; let no one see it but yourself.
But now you will give me one of your own in exchange, my little one; and
so the bargain is complete."
She went to the small table adjoining to hunt among the photographs.

"And lastly, one more point, Signorina Natalushka," said Calabressa,
with the air of one who had got through some difficult work. "You asked
me once to find out for you who was the lady from whom you received the
little silver locket. Well, you see, that is now out of my power. I am
going away. If you are still curious, you must ask some one else; but
is it not natural to suppose that the locket may have been stolen
a great many years ago, and at last the thief resolves to restore it?

No matter; it is only a locket."
She returned with a few photographs for him to chose from.

He picked out two.

"There is one for me; there is one for my old mother. I will say to her,
'Do you remember the young Hungarian lady who came to see you at Spezia?
Put on your spectacles now, and see whether that is not the same young lady.
Ah, good old mother; can you see no better than that?

--that is not Natalie Berezolyi at all; that is her daughter, who lives in
England.
But she has not got the English way; she is not content when she
herself is comfortable; she thinks of others; she has an ear for
voices afar off.'

  That is what I shall say to the old mother."

He put the photographs in his pocket.

  "In the mean time, my little daughter," said he, "now that our
pressing business is over, one may speak at leisure: and what of
you, now?

My sight is not very good; but even my eyes can see that you are not looking
cheerful enough. You are troubled, Natalushka, or you would not have
forgotten to thank me for giving you the only treasure I have in the world."

The girl's pale face flushed, and she said, quickly,
"There are some things that are not to be expressed in words, Signor
Calabressa.

I cannot tell you what I think of your kindness to me."
"Silence! do you not understand my joking? _Eh, bien_; let us understand
each other. Your father has spoken to me--a little, not much. He would rather
have an end to the love affair, _n'est ce pas_?"
"There are some other things that are not to be spoken of," the girl said,
in a low voice, but somewhat proudly.

"Natalushka, I will not have you answer me like that.

It is not right.

If you knew all my history, perhaps you would understand why I ask you
questions--why I interfere--why you think me impertinent--"
"Oh no, signore; how can I think that?"

She had her mother's portrait in her hand; she was gazing into the face that
was so strangely like her own.

"Then why not answer me?"
She looked up with a quick, almost despairing look.

"Because I try not to think about it," she said, hurriedly. "Because I try
to think only of my work. And now, Signor Calabressa, you have given me
something else to think about; something to be my companion when I am
alone; and from my heart I thank you."
"But you speak as if you were in great grief, my little one. It is not all
over between you and your lover?"
"How can I tell? What can I say?" she exclaimed; and for a moment her
eyes looked up with the appealing look of a child. "He does not
write to me.

I may not write to him. I must not see him."

"But then there may be reasons for delay and consideration, little Natalushka;
your father may have reasons. And your father did not speak to me as if it
were altogether impossible. What he said was, in effect, 'We will
see--we will see.' However, let us return to the important point: it
is my advice to you--you cannot have forgotten it--that whatever happens,
whatever you may think, do not, little one, seek to go against your
father's wishes. You will promise me that?"

"I have not forgotten, signore; but do you not remember my answer?

I am no longer a child. If I am to obey, I must have reasons for obeying."

"What?" said he smiling. "And you know that one of our chief principles
is that obedience is a virtue in itself?"

"I do not belong to your association, Signor Calabressa."

"The little rebel!"
"No, no, signore; do not drive me into a false position.

I cannot understand my father, who has always been so kind to me;
it is better not to speak of it: some day, when you come back,
Signore Calabressa, you will find it all a forgotten story.

Some people forget so readily; do they not?"
The trace of pathetic bitterness in her speech did not escape him.

"My child," said he, "you are suffering; I perceive it. But it may soon be
over, and your joy will be all the greater. If not, if the future has trouble
for you, remember what I have told you. _Allons donc!_ Keep up a brave
heart; but I need not say that to the child of the Berezolyis."
He rose, and at the same moment a bell was heard below.

"You are not going, Signore Calabressa? That must be my father."
"Your father!" he exclaimed; and he seemed confused. Then he added, quickly,
"Ah, very well. I will see him as I go down. Our business, little one,
is finished; is it not? Now repeat to me the name I mentioned to you."
"Bartolotti?"

"Excellent, excellent! And you will keep the portrait from every one's eyes
but your own. Now, farewell!"

He took her two hands in his.

"My beautiful child," said he, in rather a trembling voice, "may
Heaven keep you as true and brave as your mother was, and send you
more happiness.

I may not see England again--no, it is not likely; but in after-years you
may sometimes think of old Calabressa, and remember that he loved
you almost as he once loved another of your name."

Surely she must have understood. He hurriedly kissed her on the forehead,
and said, "Adieu, little daughter!" and left. And when he had gone
she sunk into the chair again, and clasped both her hands round her
mother's portrait and burst into tears.
Calabressa made his way down-stairs, and, at the foot, ran against
Ferdinand Lind.
"Ah, amico mio," said he, in his gay manner. "See now, we have been
bidding our adieux to the little Natalushka--the rogue, to pretend
to me she had no sweetheart! Shall we have a glass of wine, _mon
capitaine_, before we imbark?"
"Yes, yes," said Lind, though without any great cordiality. "Come
into my little room."
He led him into the small study, and presently there was wine upon
the table. Calabressa was exceedingly vivacious, and a little
difficult to follow, especially in his French. But Lind allowed him
to rattle on, until by accident he referred to some meeting that
was shortly to take place at Posilipo.
"Well, now, Calabressa," said Lind, with apparent carelessness, as
he broke off a bit of biscuit and poured out a glass of wine for
himself, "I suppose you know more about the opinions of the Council
now than any one not absolutely within itself."Indeed, I think you can't get away till Monday morning. My wife
and I will be glad of your company till then."

"I'm no company for gentle-fowk, sir."

"Come and show me in which of these graves you would like to have her
laid," I said.

He yielded and followed me.

Coombes had not dug many spadefuls before he saw what had been plain
enough--that ten such men as he could not dig the graves in time. But there
was plenty of help to be had from the village and the neighbouring farms.
Most of them were now ready, but a good many men were still at work. The
brown hillocks lay all about the church-yard--the mole-heaps of burrowing
Death.

The stranger looked around him. His face grew critical. He stepped a little
hither and thither. At length he turned to me and said--

"I wadna like to be greedy; but gin ye wad lat her lie next the kirk
there--i' that neuk, I wad tak' it kindly. And syne gin ever it cam' aboot
that I cam' here again, I wad ken whaur she was. Could ye get a sma' bit
heidstane putten up? I wad leave the siller wi' ye to pay for't."

"To be sure I can. What will you have put on the stone?"

"Ow jist--let me see--Maggie Jamieson--nae Marget, but jist Maggie. She was
aye Maggie at home. Maggie Jamieson, frae her father. It's the last thing I
can gie her. Maybe ye micht put a verse o' Scripter aneath't, ye ken."

"What verse would you like?"

He thought for a little.

"Isna there a text that says, 'The deid shall hear his voice'?"

"Yes: 'The dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God.'"

"Ay. That's it. Weel, jist put that on.--They canna do better than hear his
voice," he added, with a strange mixture of Scotch ratiocination.

I led the way home, and he accompanied me without further objection or
apology. After dinner, I proposed that we should go upon the downs, for the
day was warm and bright. We sat on the grass. I felt that I could not talk
to them as from myself. I knew nothing of the possible gulfs of sorrow in
their hearts. To me their forms seemed each like a hill in whose unseen
bosom lay a cavern of dripping waters, perhaps with a subterranean torrent
of anguish raving through its hollows and tumbling down hidden precipices,
whose voice God only heard, and God only could still. This daughter
_might_, though from her face I did not think it, have gone away against
her father's will. That son _might_ have been a ne'er-do-well at home--how
could I tell? The woman _might_ be looking for the lover that had forsaken
her--I could not divine. I would speak no words of my own. The Son of
God had spoken words of comfort to his mourning friends, when he was the
present God and they were the forefront of humanity; I would read some of
the words he spoke. From them the human nature in each would draw what
comfort it could. I took my New Testament from my pocket, and said, without
any preamble,

"When our Lord was going to die, he knew that his friends loved him enough
to be very wretched about it. He knew that they would be overwhelmed for a
time with trouble. He knew, too, that they could not believe the glad end
of it all, to which end he looked, across the awful death that awaited
him--a death to which that of our friends in the wreck was ease itself. I
will just read to you what he said."

I read from the fourteenth to the seventeenth chapter of St. John's Gospel.
I knew there were worlds of meaning in the words into which I could hardly
hope any of them would enter. But I knew likewise that the best things are
just those from which the humble will draw the truth they are capable of
seeing. Therefore I read as for myself, and left it to them to hear for
themselves. Nor did I add any word of comment, fearful of darkening counsel
by words without knowledge. For the Bible is awfully set against what is
not wise.

When I had finished, I closed the book, rose from the grass, and walked
towards the brow of the shore. They rose likewise and followed me. I talked
of slight things; the tone was all that communicated between us. But little
of any sort was said. The sea lay still before us, knowing nothing of the
sorrow it had caused.

We wandered a little way along the cliff. The burial-service was at seven
o'clock.

"I have an invalid to visit out in this direction," I said; "would you mind
walking with me? I shall not stay more than five minutes, and we shall get
back just in time for tea."

They assented kindly. I walked first with one, then with another; heard a
little of the story of each; was able to say a few words of sympathy, and
point, as it were, a few times towards the hills whence cometh our aid. I
may just mention here, that since our return to Marshmallows I have had two
of them, the young woman and the Scotchman, to visit us there.

The bell began to toll, and we went to church. My companions placed
themselves near the dead. I went into the vestry till the appointed hour.
I thought as I put on my surplice how, in all religions but the Christian,
the dead body was a pollution to the temple. Here the church received it,
as a holy thing, for a last embrace ere it went to the earth.

As the dead were already in the church, the usual form could not be carried
out. I therefore stood by the communion-table, and there began to read, "I
am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord: he that believeth in me,
though he were dead, yet shall he live: and whosoever liveth and believeth
in me shall never die."

I advanced, as I read, till I came outside the rails and stood before the
dead. There I read the Psalm, "Lord, thou hast been our refuge," and
the glorious lesson, "Now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the
first-fruits of them that slept." Then the men of the neighbourhood came
forward, and in long solemn procession bore the bodies out of the church,
each to its grave. At the church-door I stood and read, "Man that is born
of a woman;" then went from one to another of the graves, and read over
each, as the earth fell on the coffin-lid, "Forasmuch as it hath pleased
Almighty God, of his great mercy." Then again, I went back to the
church-door and read, "I heard a voice from heaven;" and so to the end of
the service.

Leaving the men to fill up the graves, I hastened to lay aside my
canonicals, that I might join my guests; but my wife and daughter had
already prevailed on them to leave the churchyard.

A word now concerning my own family. Turner insisted on Connie's remaining
in bed for two or three days. She looked worse in face--pale and worn; but
it was clear, from the way she moved in bed, that the fresh power called
forth by the shock had not vanished with the moment.

Wynnie was quieter almost than ever; but there was a constant _secret_
light, if I may use the paradox, in her eyes. Percivale was at the
house every day, always ready to make himself useful. My wife bore up
wonderfully. As yet the much greater catastrophe had come far short of the
impression made by the less. When quieter hours should come, however, I
could not help fearing that the place would be dreadfully painful to
all but the younger ones, who, of course, had the usual child-gift of
forgetting. The servants--even Walter--looked thin and anxious.

That Saturday night I found myself, as I had once or twice found myself
before, entirely unprepared to preach. I did not feel anxious, because I
did not feel that I was to blame: I had been so much occupied. I had again
and again turned my thoughts thitherward, but nothing recommended itself to
me so that I could say "I must take that;" nothing said plainly, "This is
what you have to speak of."

As often as I had sought to find fitting matter for my sermon, my mind
had turned to death and the grave; but I shrunk from every suggestion, or
rather nothing had come to me that interested myself enough to justify me
in giving it to my people. And I always took it as my sole justification,
in speaking of anything to the flock of Christ, that I cared heartily in my
own soul for that thing. Without this consciousness I was dumb. And I do
think, highly as I value prophecy, that a clergyman ought to be at liberty
upon occasion to say, "My friends, I cannot preach to-day." What a riddance
it would be for the Church, I do not say if every priest were to speak
sense, but only if every priest were to abstain from speaking of that in
which, at the moment, he feels little or no interest!

I went to bed, which is often the very best thing a man can do; for sleep
will bring him from God that which no effort of his own will can compass.
I have read somewhere--I will verify it by present search--that Luther's
translation, of the verse in the psalm, "So he giveth to his beloved
sleep," is, "He giveth his beloved sleeping," or while asleep. Yes, so it
is, literally, in English, "It is in vain that ye rise early, and then
sit long, and eat your bread with care, for to his friends he gives it
sleeping." This was my experience in the present instance; for the thought
of which I was first conscious when I awoke was, "Why should I talk about
death? Every man's heart is now full of death. We have enough of that--even
the sum that God has sent us on the wings of the tempest. What I have to
do, as the minister of the new covenant, is to speak of life." It flashed
in on my mind: "Death is over and gone. The resurrection comes next. I will
speak of the raising of Lazarus."

The same moment I knew that I was ready to speak. Shall I or shall I not
give my reader the substance of what I said? I wish I knew how many of them
would like it, and how many would not. I do not want to bore them with
sermons, especially seeing I have always said that no sermons ought to
be printed; for in print they are but what the old alchymists would have
called a _caput mortuum_, or death's head, namely, a lifeless lump of
residuum at the bottom of the crucible; for they have no longer the living
human utterance which gives all the power on the minds of the hearers. But
I have not, either in this or in my preceding narrative, attempted to give
a sermon as I preached it. I have only sought to present the substance of
it in a form fitter for being read, somewhat cleared of the unavoidable,
let me say necessary--yes, I will say _valuable_--repetitions and
enforcements by which the various considerations are pressed upon the minds
of the hearers. These are entirely wearisome in print--useless too, for
the reader may ponder over every phrase till he finds out the purport of
it--if indeed there be such readers nowadays.

I rose, went down to the bath in the rocks, had a joyous physical ablution,
and a swim up and down the narrow cleft, from which I emerged as if myself
newly born or raised anew, and then wandered about on the downs full of
hope and thankfulness, seeking all I could to plant deep in my mind the
long-rooted truths of resurrection, that they might be not only ready to
blossom in the warmth of the spring-tides to come, but able to send out
some leaves and promissory buds even in the wintry time of the soul, when
the fogs of pain steam up from the frozen clay soil of the body, and make
the monarch-will totter dizzily upon his throne, to comfort the eyes of the
bewildered king, reminding him that the King of kings hath conquered Death
and the Grave. There is no perfect faith that cannot laugh at winters and
graveyards, and all the whole array of defiant appearances. The fresh
breeze of the morning visited me. "O God," I said in my heart, "would that
when the dark day comes, in which I can feel nothing, I may be able to
front it with the memory of this day's strength, and so help myself to
trust in the Father! I would call to mind the days of old, with David the
king."

When I returned to the house, I found that one of the sailors, who had been
cast ashore with his leg broken, wished to see me. I obeyed, and found him
very pale and worn.

"I think I am going, sir," he said; "and I wanted to see you before I die."

"Trust in Christ, and do not be afraid," I returned.

"I prayed to him to save me when I was hanging to the rigging, and if I
wasn't afraid then, I'm not going to be afraid now, dying quietly in my
bed. But just look here, sir."

He took from under his pillow something wrapped up in paper, unfolded the
envelope, and showed a lump of something--I could not at first tell what.
He put it in my hand, and then I saw that it was part of a bible, with
nearly the upper half of it worn or cut away, and the rest partly in a
state of pulp.

"That's the bible my mother gave me when I left home first," he said. "I
don't know how I came to put it in my pocket, but I think the rope that cut
through that when I was lashed to the shrouds would a'most have cut through
my ribs if it hadn't been for it."

"Very likely," I returned. "The body of the Bible has saved your bodily
life: may the spirit of it save your spiritual life."

"I think I know what you mean, sir," he panted out. "My mother was a good
woman, and I know she prayed to God for me."

"Would you like us to pray for you in church to-day?"

"If you please, sir; me and Bob Fox. He's nearly as bad as I am."

"We won't forget you," I said. "I will come in after church and see how you
are."

I knelt and offered the prayers for the sick, and then took my leave. I did
not think the poor fellow was going to die.

I may as well mention here, that he has been in my service ever since. We
took him with us to Marshmallows, where he works in the garden and stables,
and is very useful. We have to look after him though, for his health
continues delicate.


CHAPTER X.

THE SERMON.


When I stood up to preach, I gave them no text; but, with the eleventh
chapter of the Gospel of St. John open before me, to keep me correct, I
proceeded to tell the story in the words God gave me; for who can dare to
say that he makes his own commonest speech?

"When Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and therefore our elder brother,
was going about on the earth, eating and drinking with his brothers and
sisters, there was one family he loved especially--a family of two sisters
and a brother; for, although he loves everybody as much as they can be
loved, there are some who can be loved more than others. Only God is always
trying to make us such that we can be loved more and more. There are
several stories--O, such lovely stories!--about that family and Jesus; and
we have to do with one of them now.

"They lived near the capital of the country, Jerusalem, in a village they
called Bethany; and it must have been a great relief to our Lord, when he
was worn out with the obstinacy and pride of the great men of the city, to
go out to the quiet little town and into the refuge of Lazarus's house,
where everyone was more glad at the sound of his feet than at any news that
could come to them.

"They had at this time behaved so ill to him in Jerusalem--taking up stones
to stone him even, though they dared not quite do it, mad with anger as
they were--and all because he told them the truth--that he had gone away to
the other side of the great river that divided the country, and taught the
people in that quiet place. While he was there his friend Lazarus was taken
ill; and the two sisters, Martha and Mary, sent a messenger to him, to say
to him, 'Lord, your friend is very ill.' Only they said it more beautifully
than that: 'Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.' You know, when
anyone is ill, we always want the person whom he loves most to come to him.
This is very wonderful. In the worst things that can come to us the first
thought is of love. People, like the Scribes and Pharisees, might say,
'What good can that do him?' And we may not in the least suppose that the
person we want knows any secret that can cure his pain; yet love is the
first thing we think of. And here we are more right than we know; for, at
the long last, love will cure everything: which truth, indeed, this story
will set forth to us. No doubt the heart of Lazarus, ill as he was, longed
after his friend; and, very likely, even the sight of Jesus might have
given him such strength that the life in him could have driven out the
death which had already got one foot across the threshold. But the sisters
expected more than this: they believed that Jesus, whom they knew to have
driven disease and death out of so many hearts, had only to come and touch
him--nay, only to speak a word, to look at him, and their brother was
saved. Do you think they presumed in thus expecting? The fact was, they did
not believe enough; they had not yet learned to believe that he could cure
him all the same whether he came to them or not, because he was always with
them. We cannot understand this; but our understanding is never a measure
of what is true.

"Whether Jesus knew exactly all that was going to take place I cannot tell.
Some people may feel certain upon points that I dare not feel certain upon.
One thing I am sure of: that he did not always know everything beforehand,
for he said so himself. It is infinitely more valuable to us, because more
beautiful and godlike in him, that he should trust his Father than that he
should foresee everything. At all events he knew that his Father did not
want him to go to his friends yet. So he sent them a message to the effect
that there was a particular reason for this sickness--that the end of it
was not the death of Lazarus, but the glory of God. This, I think, he told
them by the same messenger they sent to him; and then, instead of going to
them, he remained where he was.

"But O, my friends, what shall I say about this wonderful message? Think of
being sick for the glory of God! of being shipwrecked for the glory of God!
of being drowned for the glory of God! How can the sickness, the fear, the
broken-heartedness of his creatures be for the glory of God? What kind of
a God can that be? Why just a God so perfectly, absolutely good, that the
things that look least like it are only the means of clearing our eyes to
let us see how good he is. For he is so good that he is not satisfied with
_being_ good. He loves his children, so that except he can make them good
like himself, make them blessed by seeing how good he is, and desiring the
same goodness in themselves, he is not satisfied. He is not like a fine
proud benefactor, who is content with doing that which will satisfy his
sense of his own glory, but like a mother who puts her arm round her child,
and whose heart is sore till she can make her child see the love which is
her glory. The glorification of the Son of God is the glorification of the
human race; for the glory of God is the glory of man, and that glory is
love. Welcome sickness, welcome sorrow, welcome death, revealing that
glory!

"The next two verses sound very strangely together, and yet they almost
seem typical of all the perplexities of God's dealings. The old painters
and poets represented Faith as a beautiful woman, holding in her hand a cup
of wine and water, with a serpent coiled up within. Highhearted Faith!
she scruples not to drink of the life-giving wine and water; she is not
repelled by the upcoiled serpent. The serpent she takes but for the type of
the eternal wisdom that looks repellent because it is not understood. The
wine is good, the water is good; and if the hand of the supreme Fate put
that cup in her hand, the serpent itself must be good too,--harmless, at
least, to hurt the truth of the water and the wine. But let us read the
verses.

"'Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. When he had heard
therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where
he was.'

"Strange! his friend was sick: he abode two days where he was! But remember
what we have already heard. The glory of God was infinitely more for the
final cure of a dying Lazarus, who, give him all the life he could have,
would yet, without that glory, be in death, than the mere presence of the
Son of God. I say _mere_ presence, for, compared with the glory of God, the
very presence of his Son, so dissociated, is nothing. He abode where he was
that the glory of God, the final cure of humanity, the love that triumphs
over death, might shine out and redeem the hearts of men, so that death
could not touch them.

"After the two days, the hour had arrived. He said to his disciples, 'Let
us go back to Judæa.' They expostulated, because of the danger, saying,
'Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither
again?' The answer which he gave them I am not sure whether I can
thoroughly understand; but I think, in fact I know, it must bear on the
same region of life--the will of God. I think what he means by walking
in the day is simply doing the will of God. That was the sole, the
all-embracing light in which Jesus ever walked. I think he means that now
he saw plainly what the Father wanted him to do. If he did not see that the
Father wanted him to go back to Judæa, and yet went, that would be to
go stumblingly, to walk in the darkness. There are twelve hours in the
day--one time to act--a time of light and the clear call of duty; there is
a night when a man, not seeing where or hearing how, must be content to
rest. Something not inharmonious with this, I think, he must have intended;
but I do not see the whole thought clearly enough to be sure that I am
right. I do think, further, that it points at a clearer condition of human
vision and conviction than I am good enough to understand; though I hope
one day to rise into this upper stratum of light.

Of course, he is a man of strong will, and he does not like to be thwarted:
without that strength of character he could not have done what he has
done. But he also knows that his daughter is no longer a child, and when the
proper time comes you will find that his common sense will lead him to
withdraw an opposition which would otherwise be futile. Do I explain
myself clearly? My dear madame, have no anxiety about the future of your
daughter. When you see herself, when you speak to her, you will find that
she is one who is not given to fear."
For a moment the apprehensive look left her face. She remained silent, a
happier light coming into her eyes.

"She is not sad and sorrowful, then?" she said, presently.

"Oh no; she is too brave."

"What beautiful hair she has!" said this worn-faced woman with the sad
eyes. "Ah, many a time I have said to myself that when I take her to
my heart I will feel the beautiful soft hair; I will stroke it; her
head will lie on my bosom, and I will gather courage from her eyes: when
she laughs my heart will rejoice! I have lived many years in solitude--in
secret, with many apprehensions; perhaps I have grown timid and fearful;
once I was not so. But I have been troubling myself with fears; I have said,
'Ah, if she looks coldly on me, if she turns away from me, then
my heart will break!'"

"I do not think you have much to fear," said he, regarding the beautiful,
sad face.

"I have tried to catch the sound of her voice," she continued, absently, and
her eyes were filled with tears, "but I could not do that. But I have watched
her, and wondered. She does not seem proud and cold."
"She will not be proud or cold to you," he said, "when she is kindness and
gentleness to all the world."
"And--and when shall you see her again?" she asked, timidly.

"Now," he said. "If you will permit me, I will go to her at once. I will
bring her to you."
"Oh no!" she exclaimed hastily drying her eyes. "Oh no! She must not
find a sad mother, who has been crying. She will be repelled. She will think,
'I have enough of sadness.' Oh no, you must let me collect myself: I must
be very brave and cheerful when my Natalie comes to me. I must make her
laugh, not cry."
"Madame," said he, gravely, "I may have but a few days longer in
England: do you think it is wise to put off the opportunity?

You see, she must be prepared; it would be a terrible shock if she were
to know suddenly. And how can one tell what may happen to-morrow or next
day? At the present moment I know she is at home; I could bring her to
you directly."
"Just now?" she said; and she began to tremble again. She rose and went
to a mirror.

"She could not recognize herself in me. She would not believe me. And I
should frighten her with my mourning and my sadness."

"I do not think you need fear, madame."
She turned to him eagerly.

"Perhaps you would explain to her? Ah, would you be so kind! Tell her
I have seen much trouble of late. My father has just died, after years
of illness; and we were kept in perpetual terror. You will tell her
why I dared not go to her before: oh no! not that--not that!"
"You forget, madame, that I myself do not know."
"It is better she should not know--better she should not know!" she
said, rapidly. "No, let the girl have confidence in her father while
she remains in his house. Perhaps some time she may know; perhaps
some one who is a fairer judge than I will tell her the story and
make excuses:
it must be that there is some excuse."
"She will not want to know; she will only want to come to you."

"But half an hour, give me half an hour," she said, and she glanced
round the room. "It is so poor a chamber."
"She will not think of the chamber."
"And the little girl with her--she will remain down-stairs, will
she not? I wish to be alone, quite alone, with my child." Her breath
came and went quickly, and she clasped her fingers tight. "Oh,
monsieur, my heart will break if my child is cold to me!"
"That is the last thing you have to fear," said he, and he rose.Jesus, responding instantly to her faith, granting her
half-born prayer, says, 'Thy brother shall rise again;' not meaning the
general truth recognised, or at least assented to by all but the Sadducees,
concerning the final resurrection of the dead, but meaning, 'Be it unto
thee as thou wilt. I will raise him again.' For there is no steering for a
fine effect in the words of Jesus. But these words are too good for Martha
to take them as he meant them. Her faith is not quite equal to the belief
that he actually will do it. The thing she could hope for afar off she
could hardly believe when it came to her very door. 'O, yes,' she said, her
mood falling again to the level of the commonplace, 'of course, at the last
day.' Then the Lord turns away her thoughts from the dogmas of her faith
to himself, the Life, saying, 'I am the resurrection and the life: he that
believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever
liveth and believeth in me, shall never die. Believest thou this ?' Martha,
without understanding what he said more than in a very poor part, answered
in words which preserved her honesty entire, and yet included all he asked,
and a thousandfold more than she could yet believe: 'Yea, Lord; I believe
that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the
world.'

"I dare not pretend to have more than a grand glimmering of the truth of
Jesus' words 'shall never die;' but I am pretty sure that when Martha came
to die, she found that there was indeed no such thing as she had meant when
she used the ghastly word _death_, and said with her first new breath,
'Verily, Lord, I am not dead.'

"But look how this declaration of her confidence in the Christ operated
upon herself. She instantly thought of her sister; the hope that the Lord
would do something swelled within her, and, leaving Jesus, she went to find
Mary. Whoever has had a true word with the elder brother, straightway
will look around him to find his brother, his sister. The family feeling
blossoms: he wants his friend to share the glory withal. Martha wants Mary
to go to Jesus too.

"Mary heard her, forgot her visitors, rose, and went. They thought she went
to the grave: she went to meet its conqueror. But when she came to him, the
woman who had chosen the good part praised of Jesus, had but the same words
to embody her hope and her grief that her careful and troubled sister had
uttered a few minutes before. How often during those four days had not the
self-same words passed between them! 'Ah, if he had been here, our brother
had not died!' She said so to himself now, and wept, and her friends who
had followed her wept likewise. A moment more, and the Master groaned; yet
a moment, and he too wept. 'Sorrow is catching;' but this was not the mere
infection of sorrow. It went deeper than mere sympathy; for he groaned in
his spirit and was troubled. What made him weep? It was when he saw them
weeping that he wept. But why should he weep, when he knew how soon their
weeping would be turned into rejoicing? It was not for their weeping, so
soon to be over, that he wept, but for the human heart everywhere swollen
with tears, yea, with griefs that can find no such relief as tears; for
these, and for all his brothers and sisters tormented with pain for lack of
faith in his Father in heaven, Jesus wept. He saw the blessed well-being
of Lazarus on the one side, and on the other the streaming eyes from whose
sight he had vanished. The veil between was so thin! yet the sight of those
eyes could not pierce it: their hearts must go on weeping--without cause,
for his Father was so good. I think it was the helplessness he felt in
the impossibility of at once sweeping away the phantasm death from their
imagination that drew the tears from the eyes of Jesus. Certainly it was
not for Lazarus; it could hardly be for these his friends--save as they
represented the humanity which he would help, but could not help even as he
was about to help them.

"The Jews saw herein proof that he loved Lazarus; but they little thought
it was for them and their people, and for the Gentiles whom they despised,
that his tears were now flowing--that the love which pressed the fountains
of his weeping was love for every human heart, from Adam on through the
ages.

"Some of them went a little farther, nearly as far as the sisters, saying,
'Could he not have kept the man from dying?' But it was such a poor thing,
after all, that they thought he might have done. They regarded merely this
unexpected illness, this early death; for I daresay Lazarus was not much
older than Jesus. They did not think that, after all, Lazarus must die some
time; that the beloved could be saved, at best, only for a little while.
Jesus seems to have heard the remark, for he again groaned in himself.

"Meantime they were drawing near the place where he was buried. It was a
hollow in the face of a rock, with a stone laid against it. I suppose the
bodies were laid on something like shelves inside the rock, as they are in
many sepulchres. They were not put into coffins, but wound round and round
with linen.

"When they came before the door of death, Jesus said to them, 'Take away
the stone.' The nature of Martha's reply--the realism of it, as they would
say now-a-days--would seem to indicate that her dawning faith had sunk
again below the horizon, that in the presence of the insignia of death, her
faith yielded, even as the faith of Peter failed him when he saw around him
the grandeur of the high-priest, and his Master bound and helpless. Jesus
answered--O, what an answer!"But you are looking tired, Natalie."
"I did not sleep much last night. I was thinking."
The tears started to her eyes; she impatiently brushed them aside.

"I know what you were thinking. That is why I came so early to see you.
You were blaming yourself for what has happened. That is not right. You are
not to blame at all. Do you think I gave you that promise for
nothing?"

"You were always like that," she said in a low voice. "Very generous and
unselfish. Yes, I--I--was miserable; I thought if you had never known
me--"
"If I had never known you! You think that would be a desirable thing for
me!--"
But at this moment the hurried, anxious, half-whispered conversation had to
cease, for Madame Potecki came up. Nor was she surprised to find Mr.
Brand there.

On the contrary, she said that her time was limited, and that she could not
expect other people to care for old porcelain as much as she did; and if Mr.
Brand would take her dear daughter Natalie to see some pictures
in the rooms up-stairs, she would come and find her out by-and-by.

"Not at all, dear madame," said Natalie, with some slight flush.

"No. We will go with you to see the three wonderful vases."
So they went, and saw the three crackle vases, and many another piece of
porcelain and enamel and bronze; but always the clever little Polish
woman took care that she should be at some other case, so that she
could not overhear what these two had to say to each other. And they
had plenty to say.

"Why, Natalie, where is your courage? What is the going to America? It cannot
be for ever and ever."
"But even then," she said, in a low, hesitating voice. "If you were never
to see me again, you would blame me for it all. You would regret."
"How can I regret that my life was made beautiful to me, if only
for a time?

It was worth nothing to me before. And you are forgetting all about the
ring, and my promise to you."
This light way of talking did not at all deceive her. What had been torturing
her all the night long was the fancy, the suspicion, that her father was
sending her lover to America, not solely with a view to the work he
should have to undertake there, but to insure a permanent separation between
herself and him. That was the cruel bit of it. And she more than ever
admired the manliness of this man, because he would make no complaint
to her.

He had uttered no word of protest, for fear of wounding her. He did not
mention her father to her at all; but merely treated this project
of going to America as if it were a part of his duty that had to
be cheerfully accepted.
"After I have once said good-bye to you Natalie" said he, "it will
not be so bad for me. I shall have my work."
"When do you go?" she asked, with rather a white face.We are not called upon to
believe that he will raise from the tomb that joy of our hearts which lies
buried there beyond our sight. Stop! Are we not? We are called upon to
believe this; else the whole story were for us a poor mockery. What is it
to us that the Lord raised Lazarus?--Is it nothing to know that our Brother
is Lord over the grave? Will the harvest be behind the first-fruits? If he
tells us he cannot, for good reasons, raise up our vanished love to-day, or
to-morrow, or for all the years of our life to come, shall we not mingle
the smile of faithful thanks with the sorrow of present loss, and walk
diligently waiting? That he called forth Lazarus showed that he was in his
keeping, that he is Lord of the living, and that all live to him, that he
has a hold of them, and can draw them forth when he will. If this is not
true, then the raising of Lazarus is false; I do not mean merely false in
fact, but false in meaning. If we believe in him, then in his name, both
for ourselves and for our friends, we must deny death and believe in life.
Lord Christ, fill our hearts with thy Life!"


CHAPTER XI.

CHANGED PLANS.


In a day or two Connie was permitted to rise and take to her couch once
more. It seemed strange that she should look so much worse, and yet be so
much stronger. The growth of her power of motion was wonderful. As they
carried her, she begged to be allowed to put her feet to the ground. Turner
yielded, though without quite ceasing to support her. He was satisfied,
however, that she could have stood upright for a moment at least. He would
not, of course, risk it, and made haste to lay her down.

The time of his departure was coming near, and he seemed more anxious the
nearer it came; for Connie continued worn-looking and pale; and her smile,
though ever ready to greet me when I entered, had lost much of its light. I
noticed, too, that she had the curtain of her window constantly so arranged
as to shut out the sea. I said something to her about it once. Her reply
was:

"Papa, I can't bear it. I know it is very silly; but I think I can make you
understand how it is: I was so fond of the sea when I came down; it seemed
to lie close to my window, with a friendly smile ready for me every morning
when I looked out. I daresay it is all from want of faith, but I can't help
it: it looks so far away now, like a friend that had failed me, that I
would rather not see it."

I saw that the struggling life within her was grievously oppressed, that
the things which surrounded her were no longer helpful. Her life had been
driven as to its innermost cave; and now, when it had been enticed to
venture forth and look abroad, a sudden pall had descended upon nature. I
could not help thinking that the good of our visit to Kilkhaven had come,
and that evil, from which I hoped we might yet escape, was following. I
left her, and sought Turner.

"It strikes me, Turner," I said, "that the sooner we get out of this the
better for Connie."

"I am quite of your opinion. I think the very prospect of leaving the place
would do something to restore her. If she is so uncomfortable now, think
what it will be in the many winter nights at hand."

"Do you think it would be safe to move her?"

"Far safer than to let her remain. At the worst, she is now far better than
when she came. Try her. Hint at the possibility of going home, and see how
she will take it."

"Well, I sha'n't like to be left alone; but if she goes they must all go,
except, perhaps, I might keep Wynnie. But I don't know how her mother would
get on without her."

"I don't see why you should stay behind. Mr. Weir would be as glad to come
as you would be to go; and it can make no difference to Mr. Shepherd."

It seemed a very sensible suggestion. I thought a moment. Certainly it was
a desirable thing for both my sister and her husband. They had no such
reasons as we had for disliking the place; and it would enable her to avoid
the severity of yet another winter. I said as much to Turner, and went back
to Connie's room.

The light of a lovely sunset was lying outside her window. She was sitting
so that she could not see it. I would find out her feeling in the matter
without any preamble.

"Would you like to go back to Marshmallows, Connie?" I asked.

Her countenance flashed into light.

"O, dear papa, do let us go," she said; "that would be delightful."

"Well, I think we can manage it, if you will only get a little stronger for
the journey. The weather is not so good to travel in as when we came down."

"No; but I am ever so much better, you know, than I was then."

The poor girl was already stronger from the mere prospect of going home
again. She moved restlessly on her couch, half mechanically put her hand to
the curtain, pulled it aside, looked out, faced the sun and the sea, and
did not draw back. My mind was made up. I left her, and went to find
Ethelwyn. She heartily approved of the proposal for Connie's sake, and said
that it would be scarcely less agreeable to herself. I could see a certain
troubled look above her eyes, however.

"You are thinking of Wynnie," I said.

"Yes. It is hard to make one sad for the sake of the rest."

"True. But it is one of the world's recognised necessities."

"No doubt."

"Besides, you don't suppose Percivale can stay here the whole winter. They
must part some time."

"Of course. Only they did not expect it so soon."

But here my wife was mistaken.

I went to my study to write to Weir. I had hardly finished my letter when
Walter came to say that Mr. Percivale wished to see me. I told him to show
him in.

"I am just writing home to say that I want my curate to change places with
me here, which I know he will be glad enough to do. I see Connie had better
go home."

"You will all go, then, I presume?" returned Percivale.

"Yes, yes; of course."

"Then I need not so much regret that I can stay no longer. I came to tell
you that I must leave to-morrow."

"Ah! Going to London?"

"Yes. I don't know how to thank you for all your kindness. You have made my
summer something like a summer; very different, indeed, from what it would
otherwise have been."

"We have had our share of advantage, and that a large one. We are all glad
to have made your acquaintance, Mr. Percivale."

He made no answer.

"We shall be passing through London within a week or ten days in all
probability. Perhaps you will allow us the pleasure of looking at some of
your pictures then?"

His face flushed. What did the flush mean? It was not one of mere pleasure.
There was confusion and perplexity in it. But he answered at once:

"I will show you them with pleasure. I fear, however, you will not care for
them."

Would this fear account for his embarrassment? I hardly thought it would;
but I could not for a moment imagine, with his fine form and countenance
before me, that he had any serious reason for shrinking from a visit.

He began to search for a card.

"O, I have your address. I shall be sure to pay you a visit. But you will
dine with us to-day, of course?" I said.

"I shall have much pleasure," he answered; and took his leave.

I finished my letter to Weir, and went out for a walk.

I remember particularly the thoughts that moved in me and made that walk
memorable. Indeed, I think I remember all outside events chiefly by virtue
of the inward conditions with which they were associated. Mere outside
things I am very ready to forget. Moods of my own mind do not so readily
pass away; and with the memory of some of them every outward circumstance
returns; for a man's life is where the kingdom of heaven is--within him.
There are people who, if you ask the story of their lives, have nothing to
tell you but the course of the outward events that have constituted, as it
were, the clothes of their history. But I know, at the same time, that some
of the most important crises in my own history (by which word _history_ I
mean my growth towards the right conditions of existence) have been beyond
the grasp and interpretation of my intellect. They have passed, as it were,
without my consciousness being awake enough to lay hold of their phenomena.
The wind had been blowing; I had heard the sound of it, but knew not whence
it came nor whither it went; only, when it was gone, I found myself more
responsible, more eager than before.

I remember this walk from the thoughts I had about the great change hanging
over us all. I had now arrived at the prime of middle life; and that change
which so many would escape if they could, but which will let no man pass,
had begun to show itself a real fact upon the horizon of the future. Death
looks so far away to the young, that while they acknowledge it unavoidable,
the path stretches on in such vanishing perspective before them, that they
see no necessity for thinking about the end of it yet; and far would I be
from saying they ought to think of it. Life is the true object of a man's
care: there is no occasion to make himself think about death. But when
the vision of the inevitable draws nigh, when it appears plainly on the
horizon, though but as a cloud the size of a man's hand, then it is equally
foolish to meet it by refusing to meet it, to answer the questions that
will arise by declining to think about them. Indeed, it is a question of
life then, and not of death. We want to keep fast hold of our life, and, in
the strength of that, to look the threatening death in the face. But to my
walk that morning.

I wandered on the downs till I came to the place where a solitary rock
stands on the top of a cliff looking seaward, in the suggested shape of a
monk praying. On the base on which he knelt I seated myself, and looked out
over the Atlantic. How faded the ocean appeared! It seemed as if all the
sunny dyes of the summer had been diluted and washed with the fogs of the
coming winter, when I thought of the splendour it wore when first from
these downs I gazed on the outspread infinitude of space and colour.

"What," I said to myself at length, "has she done since then? Where is
her work visible? She has riven, and battered, and destroyed, and her
destruction too has passed away. So worketh Time and its powers! The
exultation of my youth is gone; my head is gray; my wife is growing old;
our children are pushing us from our stools; we are yielding to the new
generation; the glory for us hath departed; our life lies weary before us
like that sea; and the night cometh when we can no longer work."

Something like this was passing vaguely through my mind. I sat in a
mournful stupor, with a half-consciousness that my mood was false, and that
I ought to rouse myself and shake it off. There is such a thing as a state
of moral dreaming, which closely resembles the intellectual dreaming in
sleep. I went on in this false dreamful mood, pitying myself like a child
tender over his hurt and nursing his own cowardice, till, all at once, "a
little pipling wind" blew on my cheek. The morning was very still: what
roused that little wind I cannot tell; but what that little wind roused I
will try to tell. With that breath on my cheek, something within me began
to stir. It grew, and grew, until the memory of a certain glorious sunset
of red and green and gold and blue, which I had beheld from these same
heights, dawned within me. I knew that the glory of my youth had not
departed, that the very power of recalling with delight that which I had
once felt in seeing, was proof enough of that; I knew that I could believe
in God all the night long, even if the night were long. And the next moment
I thought how I had been reviling in my fancy God's servant, the sea. To
how many vessels had she not opened a bounteous highway through the waters,
with labour, and food, and help, and ministration, glad breezes and
swelling sails, healthful struggle, cleansing fear and sorrow, yea, and
friendly death! Because she had been commissioned to carry this one or that
one, this hundred or that thousand of his own creatures from one world to
another, was I to revile the servant of a grand and gracious Master? It was
blameless in Connie to feel the late trouble so deeply that she could not
be glad: she had not had the experience of life, yea, of God, that I had
had; she must be helped from without. But for me, it was shameful that I,
who knew the heart of my Master, to whom at least he had so often shown his
truth, should ever be doleful and oppressed. Yet even me he had now helped
from within. The glory of existence as the child of the Infinite had
again dawned upon me. The first hour of the evening of my life had indeed
arrived; the shadows had begun to grow long--so long that I had begun to
mark their length; this last little portion of my history had vanished,
leaving its few gray ashes behind in the crucible of my life; and the final
evening must come, when all my life would lie behind me, and all the memory
of it return, with its mornings of gold and red, with its evenings of
purple and green; with its dashes of storm, and its foggy glooms; with its
white-winged aspirations, its dull-red passions, its creeping envies in
brown and black and earthy yellow. But from all the accusations of my
conscience, I would turn me to the Lord, for he was called Jesus because he
should save his people from their sins. Then I thought what a grand gift it
would be to give his people the power hereafter to fight the consequences
of their sins. Anyhow, I would trust the Father, who loved me with a
perfect love, to lead the soul he had made, had compelled to be, through
the gates of the death-birth, into the light of life beyond. I would cast
on him the care, humbly challenge him with the responsibility he had
himself undertaken, praying only for perfect confidence in him, absolute
submission to his will.

I rose from my seat beside the praying monk, and walked on. The thought of
seeing my own people again filled me with gladness. I would leave those
I had here learned to love with regret; but I trusted I had taught them
something, and they had taught me much; therefore there could be no end
to our relation to each other--it could not be broken, for it was _in the
Lord_, which alone can give security to any tie. I should not, therefore,
sorrow as if I were to see their faces no more.

I now took my farewell of that sea and those cliffs. I should see them
often ere we went, but I should not feel so near them again. Even this
parting said that I must "sit loose to the world"--an old Puritan phrase,
I suppose; that I could gather up only its uses, treasure its best things,
and must let all the rest go; that those things I called mine--earth, sky,
and sea, home, books, the treasured gifts of friends--had all to leave
me, belong to others, and help to educate them. I should not need them. I
should have my people, my souls, my beloved faces tenfold more, and could
well afford to part with these. Why should I mind this chain passing to
my eldest boy, when it was only his mother's hair, and I should have his
mother still?

So my thoughts went on thinking themselves, until at length I yielded
passively to their flow.

I found Wynnie looking very grave when I went into the drawing-room. Her
mother was there, too, and Mr. Percivale. It seemed rather a moody party.
They wakened up a little, however, after I entered, and before dinner was
over we were all chatting together merrily.

"How is Connie?" I asked Ethelwyn.

"Wonderfully better already," she answered.

"I think everybody seems better," I said. "The very idea of home seems
reviving to us all."

Wynnie darted a quick glance at me, caught my eyes, which was more than
she had intended, and blushed; sought refuge in a bewildered glance at
Percivale, caught his eye in turn, and blushed yet deeper. He plunged
instantly into conversation, not without a certain involuntary sparkle in
his eye.

"Did you go to see Mrs. Stokes this morning?" he asked.

"No," I answered. "She does not want much visiting now; she is going about
her work, apparently in good health. Her husband says she is not like the
same woman; and I hope he means that in more senses than one, though I do
not choose to ask him any questions about his wife."

I did my best to keep up the conversation, but every now and then after
this it fell like a wind that would not blow. I withdrew to my study.
Percivale and Wynnie went out for a walk. The next morning he left by the
coach--early. Turner went with him.

Wynnie did not seem very much dejected. I thought that perhaps the prospect
of meeting him again in London kept her up.


CHAPTER XII.

THE STUDIO.


I will not linger over our preparations or our leave-takings. The most
ponderous of the former were those of the two boys, who, as they had wanted
to bring down a chest as big as a corn-bin, full of lumber, now wanted to
take home two or three boxes filled with pebbles, great oystershells, and
sea-weed.

Weir, as I had expected, was quite pleased to make the exchange. An early
day had been fixed for his arrival; for I thought it might be of service
to him to be introduced to the field of his labours. Before he came, I had
gone about among the people, explaining to them some of my reasons for
leaving them sooner than I had intended, and telling them a little about my
successor, that he might not appear among them quite as a stranger. He was
much gratified with their reception of him, and had no fear of not finding
himself quite at home with them. I promised, if I could comfortably manage
it, to pay them a short visit the following summer, and as the weather was
now getting quite cold, hastened our preparations for departure.

I could have wished that Turner had been with us on the journey, but he
had been absent from his cure to the full extent that his conscience would
permit, and I had not urged him. He would be there to receive us, and we
had got so used to the management of Connie, that we did not feel much
anxiety about the travelling. We resolved, if she seemed strong enough as
we went along, to go right through to London, making a few days there the
only break in the transit.

It was a bright, cold morning when we started. But Connie could now bear
the air so well, that we set out with the carriage open, nor had we
occasion to close it. The first part of our railway journey was very
pleasant. But when we drew near London, we entered a thick fog, and before
we arrived, a small dense November rain was falling. Connie looked a little
dispirited, partly from weariness, but no doubt from the change in the
weather.

"Not very cheerful, this, Connie, my dear," I said.

"No, papa," she answered; "but we are going home, you know."

_Going home._ It set me thinking--as I had often been set thinking before,
always with fresh discovery and a new colour on the dawning sky of hope. I
lay back in the carriage and thought how the November fog this evening in
London, was the valley of the shadow of death we had to go through on the
way _home._ A. shadow like this would fall upon me; the world would grow
dark and life grow weary; but I should know it was the last of the way
home.

Then I began to question myself wherein the idea of this home consisted. I
knew that my soul had ever yet felt the discomfort of strangeness, more or
less, in the midst of its greatest blessedness. I knew that as the thought
of water to the thirsty _soul_, for it is the soul far more than the body
that thirsts even for the material water, such is the thought of home to
the wanderer in a strange country. As the weary soul pines for sleep, and
every heart for the cure of its own bitterness, so my heart and soul had
often pined for their home. Did I know, I asked myself, where or what that
home was? It could consist in no change of place or of circumstance; no
mere absence of care; no accumulation of repose; no blessed communion even
with those whom my soul loved; in the midst of it all I should be longing
for a homelier home--one into which I might enter with a sense of
infinitely more absolute peace, than a conscious child could know in the
arms, upon the bosom of his mother. In the closest contact of human soul
with human soul, when all the atmosphere of thought was rosy with love,
again and yet again on the far horizon would the dun, lurid flame of unrest
shoot for a moment through the enchanted air, and Psyche would know that
not yet had she reached her home. As I thought this I lifted my eyes, and
saw those of my wife and Connie fixed on mine, as if they were reproaching
me for saying in my soul that I could not be quite at home with them. Then
I said in my heart, "Come home with me, beloved--there is but one home for
us all. When we find--in proportion as each of us finds--that home, shall
we be gardens of delight to each other--little chambers of rest--galleries
of pictures--wells of water."

Again, what was this home? God himself. His thoughts, his will, his love,
his judgment, are man's home. To think his thoughts, to choose his will, to
love his loves, to judge his judgments, and thus to know that he is in us,
with us, is to be at home. And to pass through the valley of the shadow of
death is the way home, but only thus, that as all changes have hitherto
led us nearer to this home, the knowledge of God, so this greatest of all
outward changes--for it is but an outward change--will surely usher us into
a region where there will be fresh possibilities of drawing nigh in heart,
soul, and mind to the Father of us. It is the father, the mother, that make
for the child his home. Indeed, I doubt if the home-idea is complete to the
parents of a family themselves, when they remember that their fathers and
mothers have vanished.

At this point something rose in me seeking utterance.

"Won't it be delightful, wife," I began, "to see our fathers and mothers
such a long way back in heaven?"

But Ethelwyn's face gave so little response, that I felt at once how
dreadful a thing it was not to have had a good father or mother. I do not
know what would have become of me but for a good father. I wonder how
anybody ever can be good that has not had a good father. How dreadful not
to be a good father or good mother! Every father who is not good, every
mother who is not good, just makes it as impossible to believe in God as
it can be made. But he is our one good Father, and does not leave us, even
should our fathers and mothers have thus forsaken us, and left him without
a witness.

Here the evil odour of brick-burning invaded my nostrils, and I knew that
London was about us. A few moments after, we reached the station, where a
carriage was waiting to take us to our hotel.

Dreary was the change from the stillness and sunshine of Kilkhaven to the
fog and noise of London; but Connie slept better that night than she had
slept for a good many nights before.

After breakfast the next morning, I said to Wynnie,

"I am going to see Mr. Percivale's studio, my dear: have you any objection
to going with me?"

"No, papa," she answered, blushing. "I have never seen an artist's studio
in my life."

"Come along, then. Get your bonnet at once. It rains, but we shall take a
cab, and it won't matter."

She ran off, and was ready in a few minutes. We gave the driver directions,
and set off. It was a long drive. At length he stopped at the door of a
very common-looking house, in a very dreary-looking street, in which no man
could possibly identify his own door except by the number. I knocked. A
woman who looked at once dirty and cross, the former probably the cause of
the latter, opened the door, gave a bare assent to my question whether Mr.
Percivale was at home, withdrew to her den with the words "second-floor,"
and left us to find our own way up the two flights of stairs. This,
however, involved no great difficulty. We knocked at the door of the front
room. A well-known voice cried, "Come in," and we entered.

Percivale, in a short velvet coat, with his palette on his thumb, advanced
to meet us cordially. she said, indignantly.

"He told me, Natalie," George Brand said.

"You knew?" the girl said, turning to him with wide eyes.

"Yes; and Calabressa, when he told me, implored me never to tell you.
Well, perhaps he thought it would give you needless pain. But I was
thinking, within the last few days, that I ought to tell you before I
left for America."
"Do you hear, mother?" the girl said, in a low voice. "He is going away
to America--and alone. I wished to go; he refuses."
"Now I am going away much more contented, Natalie, since you will have
a constant companion with you. I presume, madame, you will remain in
England?"

The elder woman looked up with rather a frightened air.

"Alas, monsieur, I do not know! When at last I found myself free--when I
knew I could come and speak to my child--that was all I thought
of."

"But you wish to remain in England: is it not so?"

"What have I in the world now but this beautiful child--whose heart is not
cold, though her mother comes so late to claim her?"

"Then be satisfied, madame. It is simple. No one can interfere with you.
But I will provide you, if you will allow me, with better lodgings
than these.

I have a few days' idleness still before me."
"That is his way, mother," Natalie said, in a still lower voice.

"It is always about others he is thinking--how to do one a kindness."

"I presume," he said, in quite a matter-of-fact way, "that you do not wish
your being in London to become known?"

She looked up timidly, but in truth she could hardly take her
attention away from this newly-found daughter of hers for a single
second.

She still continued stroking the soft hair and rounded cheek as she said,

"If that is possible."

"It would not be long possible in an open thoroughfare like this,"
he said; "But I think I could find you a small old-fashioned house
down about Brompton, with a garden and a high wall.

I have passed such places occasionally.

There Natalie could come to see you, and walk with you.

There is another thing," he said, in a matter-of-fact way, taking
out his watch.

"It is now nearly two o'clock.

Now, dear madame, Natalie is in the habit of having luncheon at one. You
would not like to see your child starve before your eyes?"

The elder woman rose instantly; then she colored somewhat.

"No doubt you did not expect visitors," George Brand said, quickly.
"Well, what do you say to this? Let us get into a four-wheeled cab, and drive
down to my chambers.

I have an indefatigable fellow, who could get something for us in
the desert of Saharra."

"What do you say, child?"
Natalie had risen too: she was regarding her mother with earnest eyes, and
not thinking much about luncheon.

"I will do whatever you wish," she was saying: but suddenly she cried, "Oh,
I am indeed so happy!" and flung her arms round her mother's neck, and burst
into a flood of tears for the first time. She had struggled long; but she
had broken down at last.

"Natalie," said George Brand, pretending to be very anxious about the time,
"could you get your mother's things for her? I think we shall be down there
by a quarter past two."

She turned to him with her streaming eyes.

"Yes, we will go with you. Do not let us be separated."

"Then look sharp," said he, severely.

Natalie took her mother into the adjoining room.

Brand, standing at the window, succeeded in catching the eye of a
cab-man, whom he signaled to come to the door below.

Presently the two women appeared.

"Now," he said, "Miss Natalie, there is to be no more crying."
"Oh no!" she said, smiling quite radiantly. "And I am so anxious to see the
rooms--I have heard so much of them from Lord Evelyn."
She said nothing further then, for she was passing before him on her way
out.

In doing so, she managed, unseen, to pick up the miniature she had
thrown on the table.

She had made believe to despise that portrait very much; but all the same,
as they went down the dark staircase, she conveyed it back to the secret
little pocket she had made for it--next her heart.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

A SUMMONS.

"Mother," said the girl, in the soft-sounding Magyar, as these two were
together going down-stairs, "give me your hand; let me hold it tight, to
make sure. All the way here I kept terrifying myself by thinking it must
be a dream; that I should wake, and find the world empty without you, just
as before.

But now--now with your hand in mine, I am sure."

"Natalushka, you can hear me speak also. Ghosts do not speak like this,
do they?"

Brand had preceded them to open the door. As Natalie was passing him she
paused for a second, and regarded him with the beautiful, tender, dark
eyes.

"I am not likely to forget what I owe to you," she said in English.

He followed them into the cab.

"What you owe to me?" he said, lightly. "You owe me nothing at all. But
if you wish to do me a good turn, you may pretend to be pleased with
whatever old Waters can get together for you.

The poor old fellow will be in a dreadful state. To entertain two ladies,
and not a moment of warning! However, we will show you the river, and the
boats and things, and give him a few minutes' grace."
Indeed, it was entirely as a sort of harmless frolic that he chose to
regard this present excursion of theirs. He was afraid of the effect of
excessive emotion on this worn woman, and he was anxious that she should
see her daughter cheerful and happy. He would not have them think of
any future; above all, he would have nothing said about himself or America;
it was all an affair of the moment--the joyous re-union of mother
and daughter--a pleasant morning with London all busy and astir--the
only serious thing in the whole world the possible anxieties and
struggles of the venerable major-domo in Buckingham Street.

He had not much difficulty in entertaining these two guests of his
on their way down.

They professed to be greatly interested in the history and antiquities
of the old-fashioned little thoroughfare over the river; arrived there,
they regarded with much apparent curiosity the houses pointed out
to them as having been the abode of illustrious personages:
they examined the old water gate; and, in ascending the oak staircase,
they heard of painted ceilings and what not with a deep and respectful
attention.

But always these two had each other's hand clasped tight, and occasionally
Natalie murmured a little snatch of Magyar. It was only to make sure, she
explained.

Before they reached the topmost story they heard a considerable noise
overhead. It was a one-sided altercation; broken and piteous on the one
hand, voluble and angry on the other.

"It sounds as if Waters were having a row with the man in possession,"
Brand said.

They drew nearer.

"Why, Natalie, it is your friend Kirski!"

Brand was following his two guests up-stairs; and so could not interfere
between the two combatants before they arrived. But the moment that Natalie
appeared on the landing there was a dead silence. Kirski shrunk back
with a slight exclamation, and stood looking from one to the other with a
frightened air. She advanced to him and asked him what was the matter, in
his native tongue. He shrunk farther back.

The man could not or would not speak. He murmured something to himself,
and stared at her as if she were a spectre.

"He has got a letter for you, sir," Waters said; "I have seen the address;
and he will neither leave it nor take it. And as for what he has been
trying to say, Lord A'mighty knows what it is--I don't."
"Very well--all right," Brand said. "You leave him to us. Cut away and get
some luncheon--whatever you can find--at once."
But Natalie had gone nearer to the Russian, and was talking to him in that
fearless, gentle way of hers. By-and-by he spoke, in an uncertain, almost
gasping voice. Then he showed her a letter; and, in obedience to something
she said, went timidly forward and placed it in Brand's hand.

"_A Monsieur, M. George Brand, Esq., Londres._"
This was the superscription; and Brand recognized the handwriting
easily enough.

"The letter is from Calabressa," he said obviously. "Tell him not to be
alarmed. We shall not eat him, however hungry we may be."
Kirski had recovered himself somewhat, and was speaking eagerly to her, in
a timid, anxious, imploring fashion. She listened in silence; but she was
clearly somewhat embarrassed, and when she turned to her lover there was
some flush of color on her face.

"He talks some wild things," she said, "and some foolish things; but he
means no harm. I am sorry for the poor man. He is afraid you are angry
with him; he says he promised never to try to see me; that he would not
have come if he had known. I have told him you are not angry; that it is
not his fault; that you will show that you are not angry."
But first of all Brand ushered his guests into the long, low-roofed chamber,
and drew the portieres across the middle, so that Waters might have an
apartment for his luncheon preparations. Then he opened the letter. Kirski
remained at the door, with his cap in his hand.

* * * * *

"My much-esteemed friend,"--Calabressa wrote, in his ornate, ungrammatical,
and phonetic French--"the poor devil who is the bearer of this
letter is known to you, and yet not altogether known to you.

You know something of his conversion from a wild beast into a man--from
the tiger into a devotee; but you do not, my friend, perhaps entirely
know how his life has become absorbed in one worship, one aspiration,
one desire.

The means of the conversion, the instrument, you know, have I not
myself before described it to you?

The harassed and bleeding heart, crushed with scorn and filled with
despair--how can a man live with that in his bosom? He wishes to die.
The world has been too cruel to him. But all at once an angel appears;
into the ruins of the wasted life a seed of kindness is dropped,
and then behold the beautiful flower of love springing up--love
that becomes a worship, a religion!

Yes, I have said so much before to you; now I say more; now I
entreat you not to check this beautiful worship--it is sacred. This man
goes round the churches; he stands before the pictures of the
saints; he wanders on unsatisfied:
he says there is no saint like the beautiful one in England, who
healed him with her soft words when he was sick to death.

But now, my dear Monsieur Brand, I hear you say to yourself, 'What is my
friend Calabressa after now? Has he taken to the writings of pious sermons?
Is he about to shave his head and put a rope round his waist? My faith,
that is not like that fellow Calabressa!'

You are right, my friend. I describe the creation of the devotee; it is a
piece of poetry, as one might say.

But your devotee must have his amulet; is it not so? This is the meaning and
prayer of my letter to you.

The bearer of it was willing to do us a great service; perhaps--if
one must confess it--he believed it was on behalf of the beautiful
Natalushka and her father that he was to undertake the duty that
now devolves on some other.

One must practice a little _finesse_ sometimes; what harm is there? Very
well.

Do you know what he seeks by way of reward--what he considers the most
valuable thing in the world? It is a portrait of his saint, you understand?
That is the amulet the devotee would have. And I do not further wish to
write to her; no, because she would say, 'What, that is a little matter to
do for my friend Calabressa.'

No; I write to you--I write to one who has knowledge of affairs--and I say
to myself, 'If he considers it prudent, then he will ask the beautiful
child to give her portrait to this one who will worship it.' I have declared
to him that I will make the request; I make it. Do not consider it a
trifling matter; it is not to him; it is the crown of his existence. And
if he says, 'Do you see, this is what I am ready to do for her--I will
give my life if she or her friends wish it;' then I say--I, Calabressa--that
a portrait at one shilling, two shillings, ten shillings, is not so very
much in return.
Now, my dear friend, you will consider the prudence of granting his
request and mine. I believe in his faithfulness. If you say to him,
'The beautiful lady who was kind to you wishes you to do this or do that;
or wishes you never to part with this portrait; or wishes you to keep silence
on this or on that,' you may depend on him. I say so. Adieu! Say to the
little one that there is some one who does not forget her.
Perhaps you will never hear from Calabressa again: remember him not as a
madcap, but as one who wishes you well. To-morrow I start for Cyprus--then
farther--with a light heart. Adieu!

"Calabressa."
* * * * *
He handed the letter to Natalie's mother. The elder woman read the letter
carefully. She laughed quietly; but there were tears in her eyes.

"It is like my old friend Calabressa," she said.

"Natalushka, they want you to give your portrait to this poor creature who
adores you. Why not?
Calabressa says he will do whatever you tell him.

Tell him, then, not to part with it; not to show it to any one, and not to
say to any one he has seen either you or me here. Is not that simple?
Tell him to come here to-morrow or next day; you can send the
photograph to Mr.

Brand."

The girl went to the door, and said a few words to Kirski.

He said nothing in reply, but sunk on his knees, as he had done in Curzon
Street, and took her hand and kissed it; then he rose, and bowed
respectfully to the others, and left.

Presently Waters came in and announced that luncheon was on the table; the
portieres were drawn aside; they passed into the farther end of the
apartment, and sat down. The banquet was not a sumptuous one, and
there were no flowers on the table; but it was everything that any human
being could have done in fifteen minutes; and these were bachelors'
rooms.
Natalie took care to make a pretty speech in the hearing of Mr. Waters.

"Yes, but you eat nothing," the host said. "Do you think your mother will
have anything if she sees you indifferent?"
Presently the mother, who seemed to be much amused with something or other,
said in French,
"Ah, my friend, I did not think my child would be so deceitful.

I did not think she would deceive you."
The girl stared with wide eyes.

"She pretended to tell you what this poor man said to her," said the
mother, with a quiet smile. "She forgot that some one else than herself
might know Russian."
Natalie flushed red.

"Mother!" she remonstrated. "I said he had spoken a lot of foolish
things."

"After all," said the mother, "he said no more than what Calabressa
says in the letter.

You have been kind to him; he regards you as an angel; he will give
you his life; you, or any one whom you love.

The poor man!

Did you see how he trembled?"

Natalie turned to George Brand.

"He said something more than that," said she. "He said he had undertaken
some duty, some service, that was expected to have cost him his
life.

He did not know what it was: do you?"
"I do not," said he, answering frankly the honest look of her eyes.

"I can scarcely believe any one was foolish enough to think of intrusting
any serious duty to a man like that. But still Calabressa hints
as much; and I know he left England with Calabressa."
"Natalushka," the mother said, cautiously, and yet with an anxious
scrutiny, "I have often wondered--whether you knew much--much about
the Society."
"Oh no, mother! I am allowed to translate, and sometimes I hear
that help is to be given here or there; but I am in no secrets at
all. That is my misfortune." 
The mother seemed much relieved.
"It is not a misfortune, child. You are happier as you are, I
think.
Then," she added, with a quick glance, "you have never heard of
one--Bartolotti?"
"No," she answered; but directly afterwards she exclaimed, "Oh yes,
yes!
Bartolotti, that is the name Calabressa gave me. He said if ever I
was in very serious trouble, I was to go to Naples; and that was
the password. But I thought to myself, 'If I am in trouble, why
should I not go to my own father?'"
The mother rose and went to the girl, and put her arm round her
daughter's neck, and stooped down.
"Natalushka," said she, earnestly, "you are wiser than Calabressa.
If you are in trouble, do not seek any help that way. Go to your
father."
"And to you, mother," said she, drawing down the worn, beautiful
face and kissing it. "Why not to you also? Why not to you both?"

The mother smiled, and patted the girl's head, and then returned
to the other side of the table. Waters brought in some fruit, fresh
from Covent Garden.
He also brought in a letter, which he put beside his master's
plate.
Brand did not even look at it; he pushed it aside, to give him more
room. But in pushing it aside he turned it somewhat and Natalie's
eye happening to fall on the address, she perceived at once that
it was in the handwriting of her father.
"Dearest," said she, in a low voice, and rather breathlessly, "the
letter is from papa."With this triumphant answer they turned and hurried, a little abashed, out
of the room; but not many moments elapsed before the sounds that arose from
them were sufficiently reassuring as to the state of their spirits.
When they were gone, I forgot my books in the attempt to penetrate and
understand the condition of my boys' thoughts; and I soon came to see that
they were right and I was wrong. It was the movement of that undeveloped
something in us which makes it possible for us in everything to give
thanks. It was the wonder of the discovery of the existence of law. There
was nothing that they could understand, _à priori_, to necessitate the
remaining of the things where they had left them. No doubt there was a
reason in the nature of God, why all things should hold together, whence
springs the law of gravitation, as we call it; but as far as the boys could
understand of this, all things might as well have been arranged for flying
asunder, so that no one could expect to find anything where he had left it.
I began to see yet further into the truth that in everything we must give
thanks, and whatever is not of faith is sin. Even the laws of nature reveal
the character of God, not merely as regards their ends, but as regards
their kind, being of necessity fashioned after ideal facts of his own being
and will.

I rose and went down to see if everybody was getting settled, and how the
place looked. I found Ethel already going about the house as if she had
never left it, and as if we all had just returned from a long absence and
she had to show us home-hospitality. Wynnie had vanished; but I found her
by and by in the favourite haunt of her mother before her marriage--beside
the little pond called the Bishop's Basin, of which I do not think I have
ever told my readers the legend. But why should I mention it, for I cannot
tell it now? The frost lay thick in the hollow when I went down there to
find her; the branches, lately clothed with leaves, stood bare and icy
around her. Ethelwyn and I had almost forgotten that there was anything out
of the common in connection with the house. The horror of this mysterious
spot had laid hold upon Wynnie. I resolved that that night I would, in her
mother's presence, tell her all the legend of the place, and the whole
story of how I won her mother. I did so; and I think it made her trust us
more. But now I left her there, and went to Connie. She lay in her bed;
for her mother had got her thither at once, a perfect picture of blessed
comfort. There was no occasion to be uneasy about her. I was so pleased
to be at home again with such good hopes, that I could not rest, but went
wandering everywhere--into places even which I had not entered for ten
years at least, and found fresh interest in everything; for this was home,
and here I was.

Now I fancy my readers, looking forward to the end, and seeing what a small
amount of print is left, blaming me; some, that I have roused curiosity
without satisfying it; others, that I have kept them so long over a dull
book and a lame conclusion. But out of a life one cannot always cut
complete portions, and serve them up in nice shapes. I am well aware that I
have not told them the _fate_, as some of them would call it, of either of
my daughters. This I cannot develop now, even as far as it is known to me;
but, if it is any satisfaction to them to know this much--and it will be
all that some of them mean by _fate_, I fear--I may as well tell them now
that Wynnie has been Mrs. Percivale for many years, with a history well
worth recounting; and that Connie has had a quiet, happy life for nearly
as long, as Mrs. Turner. She has never got strong, but has very tolerable
health. Impose the heaviest penalties on such an offence; cast him out
when you have the opportunity.' It would be strange, indeed; it would be
like fate; it would appear as though the thing were in the blood, and
must come out, no matter what warning the man may have had before. You know,
Natalie, what your husband had to endure for his former lapse?"
She nodded her head.

For some time he was again silent, and there was a deeper air of
reflection on his face than almost seemed natural to it, for he
looked more of a soldier than a thinker.I have no
time to tell you about her now; but as you know her so little, it cannot be
such a trial to remain, for a time at least, unenlightened with regard to
her _fate._

The only other part of my history which could contain anything like
incident enough to make it interesting in print, is a period I spent in
London some few years after the time of which I have now been writing. But
I am getting too old to regard the commencement of another history with
composure. The labour of thinking into sequences, even the bodily labour of
writing, grows more and more severe. I fancy I can think correctly still;
but the effort necessary to express myself with corresponding correctness
becomes, in prospect, at least, sometimes almost appalling. You know
Armfeldt, who is now at Berne: they had tried him only four times
in Berlin; and there was only a little matter of nine years' sentence
against him. Listen."
He took up the _Osservatore_, and read out a paragraph, stating that Dr.
Julius Armfeldt had again been tried _in contumaciam_, and sentenced to a
further term of two years' imprisonment, for seditious writing.

Further, the publisher of his latest pamphlet, a citizen of Berne,
had likewise been sentenced in his absence to twelve months'
imprisonment.Good-bye.

THE END.