A German inventor who migrated to California after World War II had long
been interested in ways to reduce the drag of friction produced by air
or water on the surface of objects passing through them. One day, while
watching a group of porpoises cavort past a speeding ship with the
greatest of ease, it occurred to him that the skin of these animals, if
closely studied, might shed light on ways of cutting surface friction.
It was many years before the inventor was able to enlist the aid of
aquarium managers in securing porpoise skins for study. In 1955,
however, he obtained the necessary skins and found that dolphins, in
fact, owe much of their great speed to a unique skin which markedly
reduces the effect of turbulence against it. From this knowledge has
come the recent development of a diaphragm-damping fluid surface which
has real potential not only for underwater high-speed bodies, such as
submarines, torpedoes and underwater missiles, but for any vehicle where
fast-moving gases or fluids may cause drag.[3]

The implications of this knowledge for satellites near Earth or for
reentering spacecraft are obvious.

Sometimes a reverse twist in reasoning by a speculative mind will result
in enormous practical utility.

In Cambridge, Mass., a sanitary engineer teaching at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology began to wonder about the principles of
adhesion--why things stick to each other. Do they only stick together
because some sticky substance is holding them, or are there other
reasons? "If a person is sick," he asked himself, "is it because a cause
of sickness is present or because a cause of health is absent? We now
know that in infectious diseases the first alternative is true; the
patient is ill because he harbors pathogenic germs. The opposite case
prevails in deficiency diseases, where necessary vitamins are absent
from food and illness is brought about by this absence. To which of the
classes does adhesion belong? When we cannot produce a dependable bond,
are we dealing with the lack of some adhesive force or with existence of
an obstacle to sticking?"

Operating on the theory that adhesion might result not only from the
presence of a sticky agent but from the removal of all impediments to
sticking, this scientist has now managed to produce strong adhesion
between the least sticky of substances--polyethylene plastics. He has
done it by studying the molecular structure of polyethylenes and
removing all impurities which normally find their way into the
manufacture of such material. The next step: "We hope to prepare
adhesive joints in which a noble gas acts as an adhesive. Noble gases
are the least active substances known to chemistry; if they can adhere,
it is clear that no specific forces are needed for adhesiveness."[4]

No great imagination is required to perceive the meaning which this new
knowledge, if proved out, will have for our everyday lives--to say
nothing of its usefulness in the making of astronautic equipment.


THE ULTIMATE VALUES

In any event, it is apparent that where research is concerned--and
especially space research with its broad scale of inquiry--we cannot
always see the value of scientific endeavor on the basis of its
beginning. We cannot always account for what we have purchased with each
research dollar.

The Government stated this proposition when it first undertook to put
the space program on a priority basis:

     Scientific research has never been amenable to rigorous cost
     accounting in advance. Nor, for that matter, has exploration of any
     sort. But if we have learned one lesson, it is that research and
     exploration have a remarkable way of paying off--quite apart from
     the fact that they demonstrate that man is alive and insatiably
     curious. And we all feel richer for knowing what explorers and
     scientists have learned about the universe in which we live.[5]

In this statement there is political support for what the historian, the
anthropologist, the psychologist consider to be established fact--that
some innate force in the human being makes him _know_, whatever his
formal beliefs or whatever his unconscious philosophy, that he _must_
progress. Progress is the core of his destiny.

This is a concept which, in connection with space exploration, has been
recognized for many years. One of the earliest and most perceptive of
the space "buffs" stated it before the British Interplanetary Society in
1946 in these words: "* * * our civilization is no more than the sum of
all the dreams that earlier ages have brought to fulfillment. And so it
must always be, for if men cease to dream, if they turn their backs upon
the wonder of the universe, the story of our race will be coming to an
end".[6]

[Illustration: FIGURE 2.--In the years immediately ahead, the
orbiting observatory or the manned satellite will uncover crucial
information about the nature of the universe.]


STEERING A MIDDLE ROAD

In any endeavor which is as futuristic as space exploration it is not
difficult to become lost in the land of the starry-eyed prognosticators.
Conversely, it is also easy to find oneself lining up with the debunkers
and the champions of the status quo, for their arguments and views give
the impression of being hard-headed, sensible.

If one must err in either direction, however, it is probably safer,
where space is concerned, to err in the direction of the enthusiasts.
This is because (and subsequent parts of this report will show it) the
Nation cannot afford not to be in the vanguard of the space explorers.

Events today move with facility and lightning rapidity. Today, more than
ever, time is on the side of the expeditious. We can no longer take the
risk of giving much support to the scoffers--to that breed of
unimaginative souls who thought Robert Fulton was a fool for harnessing
a paddlewheel to a boiler, who thought Henry Ford was a fool for putting
an internal combustion engine on wheels, who thought Samuel Langley was
a fool for designing a contraption to fly through the air.

There are always those who will say it cannot be done. Even in this era
of sophisticated flight there have been those who said the sound barrier
would never be broken. It was. Others said later that space vehicles
would never get through the heat barrier. They have. Now, some say men
will never overcome the radiation barrier in space. But we can be sure
they will.

It is undoubtedly wise for the layman, in terms of the benefits he can
expect from the space program in the foreseeable future, to steer a
reasonable course between the two extremes. Yet one cannot help
remembering that the secret of taking practical energy from the atom, a
secret which the human race had been trying to learn for thousands of
years, was accomplished in less than a decade from the moment when men
first determined that it was possible to split an atom. It is difficult
to forget that even after World War II some of our most respected
scientists sold short the idea of developing long-range missiles.
Impractical, they said; visionary. But 6 years after the United States
went to work seriously on missiles, an operational ICBM with a
9,000-mile range was an accomplished fact.


THE TIME FOR SPACE

All of the glowing predictions being made on behalf of space exploration
will not be here tomorrow or the next day. Yet this seems less important
than that we recognize the significance of our moment of history.

