The act had condescension in it; yet, too, something unconsciously simple
and primitive.  Parpon the dwarf, who that moment perched himself on the
fence, could not decide which Valmond was just then--dauphin or fool.
Valmond did not see the little man, but swung away down the dusty road,
reciting to himself couplets from 'Le Vieux Drapeau':

              "Oh, come, my flag, come, hope of mine,
               And thou shalt dry these fruitless tears;"

and apparently, without any connection, he passed complacently to an
entirely different song:

              "She loved to laugh, she loved to drink,
               I bought her jewels fine."

Sometimes he had, lonely and often sickly educated, had few friends. For
all his Zärtlichkeitsbedürfnis was no one been present when the parents
who cared little for him, and the servants. And the violence of love is
always wrong size when they are only after their value rise and not
on the tension which precedes it, that empty, dark space of
disappointment and loneliness, before all the major events of the
heart lies.

"Come, lazy-bones," she said; "come fetch me currants from the garden."

"Come, mocking-bird," answered he; "come peck me on the cheek."

She tossed her head and struck straight home.  "It isn't a game of pass
it on from gentleman to beetle."

"You think he's a gentleman?" he asked.

"As sure as I think you're a beetle."

He laughed, took off his cap, and patted himself on the head.  "Parpon,
Parpon!" said he, "if Jean Malboir could see you now, he'd put his foot
on you and crush you--dirty beetle!"

At the mention of her father's name a change passed over Elise; for this
same Parpon, when all men else were afraid, had saved Jean Malboir's life
at a log chute in the hills.  When he died, Parpon was nearer to him than
the priest, and he loved to hear the dwarf chant his wild rhythms of the
Little Good Folk of the Scarlet Hills, more than to listen to holy
prayers.  Elise, who had a warm, impulsive nature, in keeping with her
black eyes and tossing hair, who was all fire and sun and heart and
temper, ran over and caught the dwarf round the neck, and kissed him on
the cheek, dashing the tears out of her eyes, as she said:

"I'm a cat, I'm a bad-tempered thing, Parpon; I hate myself."

He laughed, shook his shaggy head, and pushed her away the length of his
long, strong arms.  "Bosh!" said he; "you're a puss and no cat, and I
like you better for the claws.  If you hate yourself, you'll get a big
penance.  Hate the ugly like Parpon, not the pretty like you.  The one's
no sin, the other is."

She was beside the open door of the oven; and it would be hard to tell
whether her face was suffering from heat or from blushes.  However that
might chance, her mouth was soft and sweet, and her eyes were still wet.

"Who is he, Parpon?" she asked, not looking at him.

"Is he like Duclosse the mealman, or Lajeunesse the blacksmith, or
Garotte the lime-burner-and the rest?"

"Of course not," she answered.

"Is he like the Cure, or Monsieur De la Riviere, or Monsieur Garon, or
Monsieur Medallion?"

"He's different," she said hesitatingly.

"Better or worse?"

"More--more"--she did not know what to say--"more interesting."

"Is he like the Judge Honourable that comes from Montreal, or the grand
Governor, or the General that travels with the Governor?"

"Yes, but different--more--more like us in some things, like them in
others, and more--splendid.  He speaks such fine things!  You mind the
other night at the Louis Quinze.  He is like--"

She paused.  "What is he like?" Parpon asked slyly, enjoying her
difficulty.

"Ah, I know," she answered; "he is a little like Madame the American who
came two years ago.  There is something--something!"

Parpon laughed again.  "Like Madame Chalice from New York--fudge!"  Yet
he eyed her as if he admired her penetration.  "How?" he urged.

"I don't know--quite," she answered, a little pettishly.  "But I used to
see Madame go off in the woods, and she would sit hour by hour, and
listen to the waterfall, and talk to the birds, and at herself too; and
more than once I saw her shut her hands--like that!  You remember what
tiny hands she had?"  (She glanced at her own brown ones unconsciously.)
"And she spoke out, her eyes running with tears--and she all in pretty
silks, and a colour like a rose.  She spoke out like this: 'Oh, if I
could only do something, something, some big thing!  These are the
principles and fundamentals insurance, which must sustain and support a
company so hard, and some difficulties in view of all have graduated
from impossible.

The establishment of the Black River and promotion of whaling should
be the only agent that has the time insensibly pave and overcome.

In the day, engaged in promoting this fishery for their own use are view
required, the duration, to maintain or establish a temporary post
at the port of San Jose to repair his people from the elements and
keep food, utensils and effects.

If this link the trade of salt, which is abundant there is occupation
of the whole year.

They need to steer, and the fresh meat would be very useful and cheap.
To all those offered to provide land: to promote cattle can build over
time, in terms that remove any fruit of their hides and meat,
because there will be very easy and inexpensive to trade, for the
abundance and excellent salt of salt, and be of higher quality meat
to those in the fields of Montevideo and Buenos Aires, so SALITROSO
of their pastures.

This is another incentive, coupled with the background population
that makes up a useful one port for our ships sailing out to sea in their
southern arribadas: since the immediacy of the Black River may
soon cool and procure needed to thrive So the ships, the British
closed the door through which entry is easy at the river, and
consequently in the whole kingdom of Peru, by cutting the progress
they make, and can advance with the lights we have made these
discoveries in the most important whaling, as this extension will
have more exposure to the Lord in my Vertiz said motion of October
13 to which I refer.

If our Spanish to introduce the trade with accessories that are proposed
in terms the Crown to produce the same or higher rate that takes
away from Portugal on the island of Santa Catalina, on the temporary
licenses granted to companies established for this purpose, may be
the most effective and proportionate way of recognizing the coast
to go and Strait, and advancing stocks.

It is only optional power real or absolute time license for the
exploitation of these fisheries, seas as belonging to their domains.

Open eyes with a working knowledge of the great value of this trade, to
attract to their advantage. This is the state where you can get the result
the Crown, not by the interests that revolves Portugal, but by the survey
and those populations most advanced parag south, that we care or
interest.

Who is ahead in the most useful, and we demonstrate for the safe shelter
of the boats, giving people, compénsesele these costs to the grant of any
privilege or license to do their fishing at the time that appears
regularly with formal obligation Mortgages and contracts.

Unansele thank those who allowed the real protection and sovereignty, and
thus no real waste of exchequer, the king will make these useful
depopulated domains, preparing a means to attract real knowledge
that so many souls occupy idolaters in the spread of Faith and
usefulness of the state, and provide different benefits to navigation
and commerce.

Although the Strait of Magellan and the Islands of Fire is very important
to us a true and accurate recognition, if we allow ports that provide
passage to the sea in the south, should not neglect the Gulf of San Jorge,
which is located at 45 degrees and minutes, to look with indifference
here. The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the
expedition went to the command of D.

                   Antonio Viedma, to establish in
                    San Julian, the only
                    recognized with the packet boat
                    San Sebastian, about 40 miles north of the banda, pulling to the
west of the gulf.

It was their custom to meet once a week, at the house of one or another,
for a "causerie," as the avocat called it.  On the Friday evening of this
particular week, all were seated in the front garden of the Cure's house,
as Valmond came over the hill, going towards the Louis Quinze.  His step
was light, his head laid slightly to one side, as if in pleased and
inquiring reverie, and there was a lifting of one corner of the mouth,
suggesting an amused disdain.  Was it that disdain which comes from
conquest not important enough to satisfy ambition?  The social conquest
of a village--to be conspicuous and attract the groundlings in this tiny
theatre of life, that seemed little!

Valmond appeared not to see the little coterie, but presently turned,
when just opposite the gate, and, raising his hat, half paused.  Then,
without more ado, he opened the gate and advanced to the outstretched
hand of the Cure, who greeted him with a courtly affability.  He shook
hands with, and nodded good-humouredly at, Medallion and the Little
Chemist, bowed to the avocat, and touched off his greeting to Monsieur De
la Riviere with deliberation, not offering his hand--this very reserve a
sign of equality not lost on the young Seigneur.  He had not this
stranger at any particular advantage, as he had wished, he knew scarcely
why.  Valmond took the seat offered him beside the Cure, who remarked
presently:

"My dear friend, Monsieur Garon, was saying just now that the spirit of
France has ever been the Captain of Freedom among the nations."

Valmond glanced quickly from the Cure to the others, a swift, inquisitive
look, then settled back in his chair, and turned, bowing, towards
Monsieur Garon.  The avocat's pale face flushed, his long, thin fingers
twined round each other and untwined, and presently he said, in his
little chirping voice, so quaint as to be almost unreal:

"I was saying that the spirit of France lived always ahead of the time,
was ever first to conceive the feeling of the coming century, and by its
own struggles and sufferings--sometimes too abrupt and perilous--made
easy the way for the rest of the world."

During these words a change passed over Valmond.  His restless body
became still, his mobile face steady and almost set--all the life of him
seemed to have burnt into his eyes; but he answered nothing, and the
Cure, in the pause, was constrained to say:

"Our dear Monsieur Garon knows perfectly the history of France, and is
devoted to the study of the Napoleonic times and of the Great Revolution
--alas for our people and the saints of Holy Church who perished then!"

The avocat lifted a hand in mute disacknowledgment.  Again there was a
silence, and out of the pause Monsieur De la Riviere's voice was heard.

"Monsieur Valmond, how fares this spirit of France now--you come from
France?"

There was a shadow of condescension and ulterior meaning in De la
Riviere's voice, for he had caught the tricks of the poseur in this
singular gentleman.

Valmond did not stir, but looked steadily at De la Riviere, and said
slowly, dramatically, yet with a strange genuineness also:

"The spirit of France, monsieur, the spirit of France looks not forward
only, but backward, for her inspiration.  It is as ready for action now
as when the old order was dragged from Versailles to Paris, and in Paris
to the guillotine, when France got a principle and waited, waited--"

He did not finish his sentence, but threw back his head with a sort of
reflective laugh.

"Waited for what?" asked the young Seigneur, trying to conquer his
dislike.

"For the Man!" came the quick reply.

The avocat rubbed his hands in pleasure.  He instantly divined one who
knew his subject, though he talked this melodramatically: a thing not
uncommon among the habitants and the professional story-tellers, but
scarcely the way of the coterie.

"Ah, yes, yes," he said, "for--?  monsieur, for--?"  He paused, as if to
give himself the delight of hearing their visitor speak.

"For Napoleon," was the abrupt reply.

"Ah, yes, dear Lord, yes--a Napoleon--of--of the Empire.  France can only
cherish an idea when a man is behind it, when a man lives it, embodies
it.  She must have heroes.  She is a poet, a poet--and an actress."

"So said the Man, Napoleon," cried Valmond, getting to his feet.  "He
said that to Barras, to Remusat, to Josephine, to Lucien, to--to another,
when France had for the moment lost her idea--and her man."

The avocat trembled to his feet to meet Valmond, who stood up as he
spoke, his face shining with enthusiasm, a hand raised in broad dramatic
gesture, a dignity come upon him, in contrast to the figure which had
disported itself through the village during the past week.  The avocat
had found a man after his own heart.  He knew that Valmond understood
whereof he spoke.  It was as if an artist saw a young genius use a brush
on canvas for a moment; a swordsman watch an unknown master of the sword.
It was not so much the immediate act, as the divination, the rapport, the
spirit behind the act, which could only come from the soul of the real
thing.

"I thank you, monsieur; I thank you with all my heart," the avocat said.
"It is the true word you have spoken."

Here a lad came running to fetch the Little Chemist, and Medallion and he
departed, but not without the auctioneer having pressed Valmond's hand
warmly, for he was quick of emotion, and, like the avocat, he recognised,
as he thought, the true word behind the dramatic trappings.

Monsieur Garon and Valmond talked on, eager, responsive, Valmond lost in
the discussion of Napoleon, Garon in the man before him.  Because, as
such, he was able to offer this new friend, whom he could not even dare
to say to you, where was a road, one way to betray his feelings? More
and more and more he felt the pain, to be small, a little Half, immature,
a child of twelve years and have never had it so stormily the Kindsein
cursed so heartily that gesehnt otherwise wake up, just as he
dreamed: Large and strong, a man, an adult as the others.
Helena.  A private
saying of Napoleon's, a word from his letters and biography, a phrase out
of his speeches to his soldiers, sent tears to the avocat's eyes, and for
a moment transformed Valmond.

While they talked, the Cure and the young Seigneur listened, and there
passed into their minds the same wonder that had perplexed Elise Malboir;
so that they were troubled, as was she, each after his own manner and
temperament.  Their reasoning, their feelings were different, but they
were coming to the point the girl had reached when she cried into the
darkness of the night, "Napoleon--Napoleon!"

They sat forgetful of the passing of time, the Cure preening with
pleasure because of Valmond's remarks upon the Church when quoting the
First Napoleon's praise of religion.

Suddenly a carriage came dashing up the hill, with four horses and a
postilion.  The avocat was in the house searching for a book.  De la
Riviere, seeing the carriage first, got to his feet with instant
excitement, and the others turned to look.  As it neared the house, the
Cure took off his baretta, and smiled expectantly, a little red spot
burning on both cheeks.  These deepened as the carriage stopped, and a
lady, a little lady like a golden flower, with sunny eyes and face--how
did she keep so fresh in their dusty roads?--stood up impulsively, and
before any one could reach the gate was entering herself, her blue eyes
swimming with the warmth of a kind heart--or a warm temperament, which
may exist without a kind heart.

Was it the heart, or the temperament, or both, that sent her forward with
hands outstretched, saying: "Ah, my dear, dear Cure, how glad I am to see
you once again!  It is two years too long, dear Cure."

She held his hand in both of hers, and looked up into his eyes with a
smile at once child-like and naive--and masterful; for behind the
simplicity and the girlish manner there was a power, a mind, with which
this sweet golden hair and cheeks like a rose-garden had nothing to do.
The Cure, beaming, touched by her warmth, and by her tiny caressing
fingers, stooped and kissed them both like an old courtier.  He had come
of a good family in France long ago, very long ago,--and even in this
French-Canadian village; where he had taught and served and lingered
forty years, he had kept the graces of his youth, and this beautiful
woman drew them all out.  Since his arrival in Pontiac, he had never
kissed a woman's hand--women had kissed his; and this woman was a
Protestant, like Medallion!

Turning from the Cure, she held out a hand to the young Seigneur with a
little casual air, as if she had but seen him yesterday, and said:
"Monsieur De la Riviere--what, still buried?--and the world waiting for
the great touch!  But we in Pontiac gain what the world loses."

She turned to the Cure again, and said, placing a hand upon his arm:

"I could not pass without stepping in upon my dear old friend, even
though soiled and unpresentable.  But you forgive that, don't you?"

"Madame is always welcome, and always unspotted of the dusty world," he
answered gallantly.

She caught his fingers in hers as might a child, turned full upon
Valmond, and waited.  The Cure instantly presented Valmond to her.  She
looked at him brightly, alluringly, apparently so simply; yet her first
act showed the perception behind that rosy and golden face, and the
demure eyes whose lids languished now and then--to the unknowing with an
air of coquetry, to the knowing--did any know her?--as one would shade
one's eyes to see a landscape clearly, or make out a distant figure.  As
Valmond bowed, a thought seemed to fetch down the pink eyelids, and she
stretched out her hand, which he took and kissed, while she said in
English, though they had been talking in French:

"A traveller too, like myself, Monsieur Valmond?  But Pontiac--why
Pontiac?"

A furtive, inquiring look shot from the eyes of the young Seigneur, a
puzzled glance from the Cure's, as they watched Valmond; for they did not
know that he had knowledge of English; he had not spoken it to Medallion,
who had sent into his talk several English words.  How did this woman
divine it?

A strange suspicion flashed into Valmond's face, but it was gone on the
instant, and he replied quickly:

"Yes, madame, a traveller; and for Pontiac--there is as much earth and
sky about Pontiac as about Paris or London or New York."

"But people count, Monsieur-Valmond."

She hesitated before the name, as if trying to remember, though she
recalled perfectly.  It was her tiny fashion to pique, to appear
unknowing.

"Truly, Madame Chalice," he answered instantly, for he did not yield to
the temptation to pause before her name; "but sometimes the few are as
important to us as the many--eh?"

She almost started at the eh, for it broke in grimly upon the gentlemanly
flavour of his speech.

"If my reasons for coming were only as good as madame's--" he added.

"Who knows!" she said, with her eyes resting idly on his flowered
waistcoat, and dropping to the incongruous enamelled knee-boots with
their red tassels.  She turned to the Cure again, but not till Valmond
had added:

"Or the same--who knows?"

Again she looked at him with drooping eyelids and a slight smile so full
of acid possibilities that De la Riviere drew in a sibilant breath of
delight.  Her movement had been as towards an impertinence; but as she
caught Valmond's eye, something in it, so really boylike, earnest, and
free from insolence, met hers, that, with a little way she had, she laid
back her head slowly, her lips parted in a sweet, ambiguous smile, her
eyes dwelt on him with a humorous interest, or flash of purpose, and she
said softly:

"Nobody knows--eh?"

She could not resist the delicate malice of the exclamation, she imitated
the gaucherie so delightfully.

From my heart! If a few of you And give him courteous conduct hieher.

The court hearing, however Bellarios letter. A writer (reads). "Eur Highness
intended to post that when I receive your letter was very ill.

But at the moment, because your messenger arrived, it was with me on a
friendly visit to a young doctor of Rome, named Balthasar. I did
it with the trade dispute between the Jews and the merchant Antonio know
we beat a lot of books after.

It is my informed opinion, which he corrected by his own erudition
(whose size I can not recommend enough), has taken to my Andringen
Your Highness to my Instead sufficeth to be done.

I urge you, let his lack of years be no reason to give him a decent
respect to failure because I never knew such a young body with such an
old head. I leave it recording your merciful, he will test his best
friend. "Doge. You listen to what the learned men tell us, And here, so
I think , the doctor already. (Porzia occurs as a legal scholar dressed.)
Give me your hand, you are coming from our old Bellario? Porzia.
To serve, gnädger Lord! Doge. You're welcome! Take your place. Are you
familiar with quarrels known here before the court is? Porzia. I am
informed by the whole thing. Who is the merchant here and who is the
Jew? Doge. Antonio, Shylock old, stand in front! Porzia. Eur Nam is
Shylock? Shylock. Shylock is my name. Porzia. From strange nature is your
trade, however, in the form that the law of Venice you can not challenge
what your verfahrt .-- You're threatened by him; seid Your not? Antonio.
Yes, he says. Porzia.

The certificate recognizes your offer? Antonio. Yes. Porzia. So the Jew
can be made Gnad. Shylock. coerced What must I do? Tell me das Porzia.
The kind of grace knows no constraint.

They trickled like a mild rain of heaven to earth beneath her; zwiefach
blessed: it blesses him who gives, and him who takes; On most powerful
in Mächtgen, they zieret The prince on the throne longer than the
crown.

The scepter shows the secular power, The attribute of the dignity and
majesty, what a fear and aversion of Köngen sits.

Gnad But is this scepter of power, you thronet in the heart of the monarch,
it is an attribute of the divinity itself, And irdsche divine power
comes closest, with grace, if the law stands. Therefore, Jew, Are you
looking to have right to consider this: That after the race the right of
our salvation would not we all pray for mercy, And this be our
prayer of grace deeds also practice teach.

This I said, To your request of law to mitigate, if you insist, then strict
court of Venice must be the clerk there to do a message disadvantage.
Shylock. My deeds on my head! I fordre Law, Repentance and pledge my
slip. Porzia. Is it the money is unable to pay? Bassanio.

Oh, yes, here I offer it's before the court, yes, even twice, if this were
not enough, I undertake it ten times to pay, and set the hands, head and
heart to the pledge. If this is not enough, it's clearly evident,
the malice expresses honesty.

I ask you, the law prevents even after your handsome: Tut small injustice
to a great law and resisting the devil's wicked will.

Porzia. It must not happen.

Not handsome in Venice If a valid law to change. It would be a process
led, And many a misstep by the same instance handle 'in order to
stay in the state, it can not be.

Shylock. A Daniel come to judge, yes, a Daniel!
Like De la Riviere, she perceived a strange combination of the gentleman
and--something else; but, unlike him, she saw also a light in the face
and eyes that might be genius, poetry, adventure.  For the incongruities,
what did they matter to her?  She wished to probe life, to live it, to
race the whole gamut of inquiry, experiences, follies, loves, and
sacrifices, to squeeze the orange dry, and then to die while yet young,
having gone the full compass, the needle pointing home.  She was as broad
as sumptuous in her nature; so what did a gaucherie matter? or a dash of
the Oriental in a citizen of the Occident?

"Then we must set the centuries right, and so on--if you will come to see
me when I am settled at the Manor," she added, with soft raillery, to
Valmond.  He bowed, expressed his pleasure a little oracularly, and was
about to say something else, but she turned deftly to De la Riviere, with
a sweetness which made up for her previous irony to him, and said:

"You, my kind Seigneur, will come to breakfast with me one day?  My
husband will be here soon.  When you see our flag flying, you will find
the table always laid for four."

Then to the Cure and the avocat: "You shall visit me whenever you will,
and you are to wait for nothing, or I shall come to fetch you.  Voila!
I am so glad to see you.  And now, dear Cure, will you take me to my
carriage?"

Soon there was a surf of dust rising behind the carriage, hiding her; but
four men, left behind in the little garden, stood watching, as if they
expected to see a vision in rose and gold rise from it; and each was
smiling unconsciously.


CHAPTER IV

Since Friday night the good Cure, in his calm, philosophical way, had
brooded much over the talk in the garden upon France, the Revolution, and
Napoleon.  As a rule, his sermons were commonplace almost to a classical
simplicity, but there were times when, moved by some new theme, he talked
to the villagers as if they, like himself, were learned and wise.  He
thought of his old life in France, of two Napoleons that he had seen, and
of the time when, at Neuilly, a famous general burst into his father's
house, and, with streaming tears, cried:

"He is dead--he is dead--at St. Helena--Napoleon!  Oh, Napoleon!"

A chapter from Isaiah came to the Cure's mind.  Edgar was in the dark,
happy and confused, he had wanted to laugh and cry. Because he loved
those people, as he never had a boyfriend, never father and mother
and not even God had loved.

     The whole unripe passion gripped his earlier years the image of this
     man, whose name it two hours ago had not yet known. But he was wise
     enough by the unexpected and peculiar to this new friendship is
not to be afflicted.

     What confused him so much, it was his feeling unworthy, its nullity.
     "Passe to him because I, I, a little boy, twelve years old, yet
the school ahead of her, the evening before all others will be sent
to bed?

     «tormented he is from. »What can I do it, what can I offer him?
     And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house,
     the offspring and the issue.  .  .  .

He looked very benign as he quoted these verses in the pulpit on Sunday
morning, with a half smile, as of pleased meditation.  He was lost to the
people before him, and when he began to speak, it was as in soliloquy.
He was talking to a vague audience, into that space where a man's eyes
look when he is searching his own mind, discovering it to himself.  The
instability of earthly power, the putting down of the great, their exile
and chastening, and their restoration in their own persons, or in the
persons of their descendants--this was his subject.  He brought the
application down to their own rude, simple life, then returned with
it to a higher plane.

At last, as if the memories of France, "beloved and incomparable,"
overcame him, he dwelt upon the bitter glory of the Revolution.  Then,
with a sudden flush, he spoke of Napoleon.  At that name the church
became still, and the dullest habitant listened intently.  Napoleon was
in the air--a curious sequence to the song that was sung on the night of
Valmond's arrival, when a phrase was put in the mouths of the parish,
which gave birth to a personal reality.  Shylock. An oath! An oath! ich
hab 'nen oath in heaven. Should I invite my soul perjury? Not to
Venice.

Porzia. Well, he is in ruins, and on the rights of the Jud this request
with a pound of meat, first at the heart of the merchant cut .-- Be
merciful! triple Take money, let me rip the slip. Shylock. If he is
paid, as is its content .-- It is clear you are a judge würdger; know
your rights, your speech was the flush, I fordr you on the law,
Whereof you are a deservedly pillars are, Coming now to the verdict,
in my soul I swear, that no human being tongue has power over me,
I stand here on my license.

Antonio. From my heart I ask the court to The award to be done. Porzia.
Well well, so it is! prepare your bosom for his knife. Shylock. O wise
judge! wackrer young man Porzia. Because the law has the content and
order full agreement with the penance, here in the sham than guilty will
be recognized. Shylock. Very true, o wise and fair judge! At what age are
you, as you look! Porzia . That is why the breasts bared. Shylock. Yes,
the breast, So says the note - not true, my noble judge? "First of
all, the heart," are the appropriate words. Porzia. That's. Is there a
balance, to weigh the flesh? Shylock. Yes, I have them in hand. Porzia.
Take a Feldscher, Shylock, Eur for money, to join him that he is not
devitalized. Shylock. Is it stated in the sham? Porzia. It is not
there alone so what? It would be good to your tätet from human love.
Shylock. I can not find, 's is not in the sham.

Porzia. Come, Businessman! you have some something to say?
Beneath the sword of Louis the Martyr, the great treasure of the parish,
presented to this church by Marie Antoinette, sat Monsieur Garon, his
thin fingers pressed to his mouth as if to stop a sound.  Presently, out
of pure spontaneity, there ran through the church like a soft chorus:

                   "O, say, where goes your love?
                    O gai, vive le roi!
                    He wears a silver sword,
                    Vive Napoleon!"

The thing was unprecedented.  Who had started it?  Afterwards some said
it was Parpon, the now chosen comrade--or servant--of Valmond, who,
people said, had given himself up to the stranger, body and soul; but no
one could swear to that.  Shocked, and taken out of his dream, the Cure
raised his hand against the song.  "Hush, hush, my children!" he said.
"Hush, I command you!"

It was the sight of the upraised hands, more than the Cure's voice, which
stilled the outburst.  Those same hands had sprinkled the holy water in
the sacrament of baptism, had blessed man and maid at the altar, had
quieted the angry arm lifted to strike, had anointed the brow of the
dying, and laid a crucifix on breasts which had ceased to harbour breath
and care and love, and all things else.

Silence fell.  In another moment the Cure finished his sermon, but not
till his eyes had again met those of Valmond, and there had passed into
his mind a sudden, startling thought.

Unconsciously the Cure had declared himself the patron of all that made
Pontiac for ever a notable spot in the eyes of three nations: and if he
repented of it, no man ever knew.

During mass and the sermon Valmond had sat very still, once or twice
smiling curiously at thought of how, inactive himself, the gate of
destiny was being opened up for him.  Yet he had not been all inactive.
He had paid much attention to his toilet, selecting, with purpose, the
white waistcoat, the long, blue-grey coat cut in a fashion anterior to
this time by thirty years or more, and particularly to the arrangement of
his hair.  He resembled Napoleon--not the later Napoleon, but the
Bonaparte, lean, shy, laconic, who fought at Marengo; and this had
startled the Cure in his pulpit, and the rest of the little coterie.

But Madame Chalice, sitting not far from Elise Malboir, had seen the
resemblance in the Cure's garden on Friday evening; and though she had
laughed at it, for, indeed, the matter seemed ludicrous enough at first,
--the impression had remained.  She was no Catholic, she did not as a
rule care for religious services; but there was interest in the air, she
was restless, the morning was inviting, she was reverent of all true
expression of life and feeling, though a sad mocker in much; and so she
had come to the little church.

Following Elise's intent look, she read with amusement the girl's budding
romance, and was then suddenly arrested by the head of Valmond, now half
turned towards her.  It had, indeed, a look of the First Napoleon.  
Shylock. Bankrottierer The Buß the rest. Graziano. To your soul, at your
sole not, Do you do your knife sharp, you tough Jew! But no metal, not
even the executioner Beil, Did half the sharpness of thy fierce resentment.
But where
was the great strength?  It was lacking.  The close association of Parpon
and Valmond--that was droll; yet, too, it had a sort of fitness, she knew
scarcely why.  However, Monsieur was not a fool, in the vulgar sense, for
he had made a friend of a little creature who could be a wasp or a
humming-bird, as he pleased.  "Just this painfully perceived inability to
show his feelings somehow, you made him unhappy. Otherwise, if he had
fond comrades, it was his first, a few small treasures his desk, stamps,
and stones, the possession of the childish childhood, to share with
him, but all these things to him yesterday is very important and rare
stimulus had appeared with him one time devalued, footling and contemptible.

