
It is just this close correspondence between the two natures which is the
basis of the whole science of physiognomy. By means of this nervous
connection (which, as we have seen, lies at the bottom of the
communication of feelings) the most secret movements of the soul are
revealed on the exterior of the body, and passion penetrates even through
the veil of the hypocrite. Each passion has its specific expressions,
its peculiar dialect, so to speak, by which one knows it. And, indeed,
it is an admirable law of Supreme Wisdom, that every passion which is
noble and generous beautifies the body, while those that are mean and
hateful distort it into animal forms. The more the mind departs from the
likeness of the Deity, the nearer does the outward form seem to approach
the animal, and always that animal which has a kindred proclivity. Thus,
the mild expression of the philanthropist attracts the needy, whom the
insolent look of the angry man repels. This is an indispensable guide in
social life. It is astonishing what an accordance bodily appearance has
with the passions; heroism and fearlessness pour life and strength
through the veins and muscles, the eyes sparkle, the breast heaves, all
the limbs arm themselves alike for combat--the man has the appearance of
a war-horse. Fright and fear extinguish the fire in the eyes, the limbs
sink powerless and heavy, the marrow in the bones seems frozen, the blood
falls back on the heart like a stone, a general weakness cripples the
powers of life.

A great, bold, lofty thought compels us to stand on tiptoe, to hold up
the head, to expand the mouth and nose. The feeling of eternity, the
outlook on a wide open horizon, the sea, etc., make us stretch out our
arms--we would merge ourselves into the eternal: with the mountains, we
would grow towards the heavens, rush thither on storms and waves: yawning
abysses throw us down in giddiness. In like manner, hate is expressed in
the body by a repelling force; while, on the contrary, in every pressure
of the hand, in every embrace, our body will merge into that of our
friend, in the same manner as the souls are in harmonious combination.
Pride makes the body erect as the soul rises; pettiness bends the head,
the limbs hang down; servile fear is expressed in the cringing walk; the
thought of pain distorts our face, if pleasurable aspects spread a grace
over the whole body; anger, on the other hand, will break through every
strong opposing cord, and need will almost overcome the impossible. I
would now ask through what mechanism it happens that exactly these
movements result from these feelings, that just these organs are affected
by these passions? Might I not just as well want to know why a certain
wounding of the ligament should stiffen the lower jaw?

If the passion which sympathetically awakened these movements of the
frame be often renewed, if this sensation of soul become habitual, then
these movements of the body will become so also. If this matured passion
be of a lasting character, then these constitutional features of the
frame become deeply engraved: they become, if I may borrow the
pathologist's word, "deuteropathetic," and are at last organic. Thus, at
last, the firm perennial physiognomy of man is formed, so that it is
almost easier afterwards to change the soul than the form. In this
sense, one may also say, without being a "Stahlian," that the soul forms
the body; and perhaps the earliest years of youth decide the features of
a man for life, as they certainly are the foundation of his moral
character. An inert and weak soul, which never overflows in passions,
has no physiognomy at all; and want of expression is the leading
characteristic of the countenance of the imbecile. The original features
which nature gave him continue unaltered; the face is smooth, for no soul
has played upon it; the eyebrows retain a perfect arch, for no wild
passion has distorted them; the whole form retains its roundness, for the
fat reposes in its cells; the face is regular, perhaps even beautiful,
but I pity the soul of it!

A physiognomy of (perfect) organic parts, e.g., as to the form and size
of the nose, eyes, mouth, ears, etc., the color of the hair, the height
of the neck, and such like, may perhaps possibly be found, but certainly
not very easily, however much Lavater should continue to rave about it
through ten quarto volumes. Willy said, "Grandma, that table looks as if
something was on it;" and little Sarah said, "Grandma, I guess Old
Father Christmas has been here."
[Illustration]
"Yes, dear children," said their Grandma, "Father Christmas has
been here, and this time he looked very much like your Grandpa.

He will be up soon, and then we will see what is on the table."
Oh how the children did wish to peep! They could not look at
anything else; they danced and jumped round the table, and were in a great
hurry for their Grandpa. In a few minutes he came into the room, and all
the children ran up to him and said, "Dear Grandpa, do let us see
what you have got on the table."

He smiled, and went to the table and took the cloth off.

The children were so astonished that they could not say a single
word; the table was covered with beautiful things, and under it was
something that looked like a little red-brick house.

"Well," said their kind Grandpa, "my dear children, you did not
think you were going to be treated with such a fine show as this; you
may go up to the table, and see if you can find out who they are for."
The children gathered round the table, and Willy took from the top a
fine brig with all her sails set, and colours flying. His eyes sparkled
when he saw written on a slip of paper which lay on the deck, these words;
"For my dear Willy." The children clapped their hands, and nothing was
heard, but "How beautiful!" "What a fine ship!" "It is a brig of war,"
said Willy: "only look at the little brass guns on her deck! Thank
you, thank you, dear Grandpa. What is the name of my ship?"
"Her name is painted on her stern," said his Grandpa. Willy looked, and
saw that she was called the "Louisa." He blushed, and looked very funny,
and the other children laughed, for Willy knew a very pretty little girl
whose name was Louisa, and he liked her very much; and that was
what made them laugh when they heard the name.

After they had all admired the brig, they went back to the table,
and there were two beautiful books, full of engravings or pictures,
one for Bella and one for Mary; and next to these was a large wax
doll for Carry, and another for Fanny.

Carry's doll was dressed in blue satin, with a white satin hat and
a lace veil, and Fanny's doll was dressed in pink satin with a black
velvet hat and feathers--their eyes opened and shut, and they had
beautiful faces.

How delighted the little girls were! They hugged their dolls to their little
breasts, and then ran to hug and kiss their Grandpa.

Carry said, "My dolly's name shall be Rose;" and Fanny said, "My dolly's
name shall be Christmas, because I got her on Christmas-day."
Well I must hurry and tell you the rest, for I am afraid my story
is getting too long.

Thomas found for him a splendid menagerie, and all the animals made
noises like real animals.

There were roaring lions, and yelling tigers, and laughing hyenas, and
braying asses, and chattering monkeys, and growling bears, and
many other wild beasts.

Oh, how pleased Thomas was, and all the children!

Little Sarah did nothing but jump up and down, and say, "So many
things!

So many things! I never saw so many things!"
But who was to have the little house under the table, I wonder? There was
a little piece of paper sticking out of the chimney, and Sarah pulled
it out and carried it to her Grandpa. He took her up in his arms,
and read it to her. What was written on it was, "A baby-house for my
little darling Sarah."
"Why, I guess this must be for you," said Grandpapa.

"Yes, it is for me," said the little girl; "my name is Sarah, and it
must be for me."
Her Grandpa put her down, and led her to the table. He drew the
little house out, and opened it. The whole front of the house opened,
and there, inside, were two rooms; one was a parlour, and one a bedroom.
The children all cried out, "What a fine baby-house! Look at the
centre-table, and the red velvet chairs; and only see the elegant curtains!
Oh dear! how beautiful it is!"
Little Sarah did not say a word. She stood before the baby-house with her
hands stretched out, and jumped up and down, her eyes shining like
diamonds.

   She was too much pleased to speak. She
           looked so funny jumping up
   and down all the time, that she made Willy laugh
   again, and then everybody laughed.
   
   At last she said, "There is a young lady sitting in the
                         chair with a red sash on.

I think she wants to come out."
"Well, you may take her out," said her Grandpa. So Sarah took the young
lady out, and then took up the chairs and sofa, one by one, and smoothed
the velvet, and looked at the little clock on the mantelpiece, and
opened the little drawers of the bureau; and then putting them down,
she began to jump again.

There was never such a happy party before.
In relation to pain, it is thus proved that it aims at the death of the
subject.

But, the motions of the nerves under pleasant sensations being so
harmonious to the continuance of the machinery that the condition of mind
which constitutes pleasure is that of the greatest bodily well-being,
should not rather, then, pleasant sensation prolong the bloom of the body
eternally? This inference is too hasty. In a certain stage of
moderation, these nervous motions are wholesome, and really a sign of
health. But if they outgrow this stage, they may be the highest
activity, the highest momentary perfection; but, thus, they are excess of
health, no longer health itself.

We only call that condition of the natural motions health in which the
root of similar ones for the future lies, viz., those which confirm the
perfection of succeeding motions; thus, the destiny of continuance is
essentially contained in the idea of health. Thus, for example, the body
of the most debilitated profligate attains to its greatest harmony at the
moment of excess; but it is only momentarily, and a so much deeper
abatement shows sufficiently that overstraining was not health.
Therefore one may justly accept that an overstrained vigor of physical
action hastens death as much as the greatest disorder or the worst
illness. Both pain and pleasure draw us towards an unavoidable death,
unless something be present which limits their advance.


S 26.--Excellence of this Abatement.


It is just this (the limit to their growth) which the abatement of the
animal nature causes. It must be no other than this limitation of our
fragile frame (that appeared to have lent to our opponents so strong a
proof against its perfection) which ameliorates all the evil consequences
that the mechanism otherwise makes unavoidable. It is exactly this
sinking, this lassitude of the organs, over which tinkers complain so
much, that prevents our own strength destroying us in a short time; that
does not permit our positions to be always increasing towards our
destruction. The first time I had _personal_ interview with my
venerable friend was at Newcastle upon Tyne, on Wednesday, October 1, 1823,
after perambulating the romantic regions of Cumberland and Westmoreland,
with my friend, John E. Bowman, Esq., F.L.S.Hence, the highest
pitch of rapture, of fear, and of anger, are the same as weariness,
weakness, or fainting. But sleep vouchsafes more, for as Shakspeare
says:--

