Produced by John Bickers and David Widger


HERODIAS

By Gustave Flaubert


CHAPTER I

In the eastern side of the Dead Sea rose the citadel of Machaerus. It
was built upon a conical peak of basalt, and was surrounded by four deep
valleys, one on each side, another in front, and the fourth in the rear.
At the base of the citadel, crowding against one another, a group of
houses stood within the circle of a wall, whose outlines undulated with
the unevenness of the soil. A zigzag road, cutting through the rocks,
joined the city to the fortress, the walls of which were about one
hundred and twenty cubits high, having numerous angles and ornamental
towers that stood out like jewels in this crown of stone overhanging an
abyss.

Within the high walls stood a palace, adorned with many richly carved
arches, and surrounded by a terrace that on one side of the building
spread out below a wide balcony made of sycamore wood, upon which tall
poles had been erected to support an awning.

One morning, just before sunrise, the tetrarch, Herod-Antipas, came out
alone upon the balcony. He leaned against one of the columns and looked
about him.

The crests of the hill-tops in the valley below the palace were just
discernible in the light of the false dawn, although their bases,
extending to the abyss, were still plunged in darkness. * * * * *
YELLOW PRESSURE.

"Rather a funny thing happened the other day," she remarked.

"Yes?" I replied languidly.

"About you."
"Oh!" I said with animation. "Do tell me."
"It was at lunch," she explained, "at Duke's. The people at the next table
were talking about you. I couldn't help hearing a little. A man there
said he had met you in Shanghai."
"Not really!"

I exclaimed.

"Yes. He met you in Shanghai."

"That's frightfully interesting," I said. "What did he say about
me?"
"That's what I couldn't hear," she replied. "You see I had to pay some
attention to my own crowd. I only caught the word 'delightful.'"
Ever since she told me this. I have been turning it over in my mind; and
it is particularly vexing not to know more.

"Delightful" can be such jargon and mean nothing--or, at any rate,
nothing more than amiability.
Still, that is something, for one is not always amiable, even when
meeting strangers.

On the other hand it might be, from this man, the highest praise.

The whole thing naturally leads to thought, because I have never been
farther east than Athens in my life.

Yet here is a man who met me in Shanghai. What does it mean? Can we possibly
visit other cities in our sleep? Has each of us an _alter ego_, who can
really behave, elsewhere?

Whether we have or not, I know that this information about my
Shanghai double is going to be a great nuisance to me. It is going
to change my character.

In fact it has already begun to do so. Let me give you an example.

Only yesterday I was about to be very angry with a telegraph boy who brought
back a telegram I had despatched about two hours earlier, saying that
it could not be delivered because it was insufficiently addressed.

Obviously it was not the boy's fault, for he belonged to our country
post-office and the telegram had been sent to London and was
returned from there; and yet I started to abuse that boy as though he
were not only the POSTMASTER-GENERAL himself but the inventor of red-tape
into the bargain. And all for a piece of carelessness of my own.

And then suddenly I remembered Shanghai and how delightful I was there.
And I shut up instantly and apologised and rewrote the message and gave
the boy a shilling for himself. If one could be delightful in Shanghai
one must be delightful at home too.

And so it is going to be. There is very little fun for me in the
future, and all because of that nice-mannered man in Shanghai whom
I must not disgrace.

For it would be horrible if one day a lady told him that she had
overheard someone who had met him in London and found him to be a bear

.

* * * * *

HERRICK TO JULIA.

(_War Edition_).

When as in silks my Julia goes Then, then (methinks) how wanton
shows That efflorescence of her clothes.

But when I cast mine eyes and see Her drest for decent industry, Oh,
how that plainness taketh me!

* * * * *

FOR TRAITORS.

[Illustration: A WARNING TO PROMOTERS OF STRIKES IN WAR-TIME.]
* * * * *
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Tuesday, March 28th.

_--Sir EDWARD CARSON was back on the Front Opposition Bench to-day, so
much the better for his recent rest-cure that he is credited with the
desire to prescribe similar treatment for other jaded politicians. Three
of the potential patients--the PRIME MINISTER, the FOREIGN
SECRETARY and the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS--have anticipated his kindly
suggestion by going for a little trip on the Seine, and are making
arrangements with their Continental friends for another on the
Spree at a later date.

[Illustration: REST CURES.

Sir Edward Carson, M.D., anxious to prescribe.]
Before his departure Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, ever thoughtful for the welfare
of others, arranged with the Military authorities to give a change
of scene to six members of the Clyde Workers' Committee, who have
been recently over-straining their vocal chords.

This was the impression I got from Dr. ADDISON, who, like his great namesake,
is a master of the bland style; but Sir EDWARD CARSON thrust aside
official euphemism and bluntly inquired whether these men were not in
fact assisting the KING'S enemies, and ought not to be indicted
for high treason.

The suppression of a number of _Sinn Fein_ papers in Ireland stimulated
Mr.

GINNELL to the concoction of a Question about as long as a leading
article.

To ensure a reply he addressed it simultaneously to the UNDER SECRETARY
FOR WAR and the CHIEF SECRETARY FOR IRELAND. In spite of this
precaution he was disappointed, for, owing to the storm, Mr. BIRRELL
had not received the necessary information from Ireland, while Mr.
TENNANT, no doubt for the same reason, had not even received the
Question.

Mr.
GINNELL is now convinced that the official conspiracy against him
has been joined by the Clerk of the Weather.

I shall hardly be surprised if the next time I walk down Whitehall I find
sandwichmen out with their boards inscribed--
Westminster Aerodrome.
Flying every Tuesday.
Billing Breaks all Records.

The new Member for East Herts has displayed unprecedented dexterity
in catching the SPEAKER'S eye.

In three weeks he has already spoken more columns of _Hansard_ than
many Members fill during a long Parliamentary career. His speech to-day
consisted almost entirely of a catalogue of fatal accidents to
aviators, due, he declared, to the faulty engines and machines
supplied to them by the Government--"though within twenty miles of
here we have a far better machine than the _Fokker_."

Previous to this we had listened to a bright and diverting dialogue
between Mr. DUDLEY WARD, representing the Anti-Aircraft Service, and
Mr.
JOYNSON-HICKS, briefed by the Municipal authorities, on the question of
what happened at Ramsgate during the last raid. As they differed _in
toto_ on every detail the House was not much the wiser for the discussion,
but it was consoled by Mr.

JOYNSON-HICKS' remark that "if the MAYOR and TOWN CLERK have lied
to me no one will be more pleased than myself."

Members were much more impressed by the obvious sincerity and
occasional eloquence of the appeal on behalf of the East Coast towns
made by Sir A.

GELDER. His indignation at the trick played on one place by the Military
authorities, who tried to allay public anxiety by mounting a dummy
gun, was shared by the House.

Mr. TENNANT did not attempt to deny or palliate this imposture, but
he made a fairly adequate reply to other counts of the indictment, and
promised a judicial inquiry into the casualties enumerated by Mr.
BILLING.

The revelation that he himself has a son in the Flying Corps was perhaps
the most effective point in a speech which did not wholly remove
the impression that the Government has its head in the air rather
than its heart.

_Wednesday, March 29th._--There are more ways than one of getting
into the House of Commons. Mr. PERCY HARRIS, the new Member for the
Market Harborough division, who took his seat to-day, arrived by the
old-fashioned route of a contested election. He was just about to shake
hands with the SPEAKER when a khaki-clad stranger took a short cut
from the Gallery and reached the floor _per saltum_.

Not only so, but before he could be arrested this Messenger from Mars
succeeded in delivering his maiden speech, to the effect that British
soldiers' heads should be protected against shrapnel-fire. The
SERJEANT-AT-ARMS, who had had a narrow escape, goes further, holding
the view that his own head should be protected from acrobatic
British soldiers.

To-day Mr. LONG had the difficult task of convincing the House that
the married men had no grievance, and that the Government were
doing their best to remove it.

Only a man who has fought with bulls in Ireland could hope to tackle such
a paradox. Mr. LONG, having enjoyed that experience, was fairly
successful.

Sir EDWARD CARSON, who had been expected by some people to initiate a
raging "Down-the-Government" agitation, was comparatively mild, and,
admitting that his late colleagues had done something, chiefly blamed
them for not having done it earlier. Still he made it plain that
in his view compulsion all round was inevitable if Prussianism was to
be crushed. Mr. ELLIS GRIFFITH agreed with him. The Government ought
not to bargain with the public; it ought to give them a clear and
definite command. Such sentiments, proceeding from one who still claimed
to belong to the Liberal Party, shocked Sir WILLIAM BYLES. Maintaining
that those who had voted against the Military Service Bill were the
truest friends of the PRIME MINISTER, he promised again to give him
his invaluable support "if he would only lead us to our accustomed
pasture."

There is no justification, however, for the theory that the worthy knight
is a candidate for the Order of the Thistle.

_Thursday, March 30th._--In the Lords to-day Viscount TEMPLETOWN
moved that London should be declared a prohibited area, with a view to
removing the eight or nine thousand Germans still carrying on business
there. His argument was a little difficult to follow, for it included a
complaint that in Eastbourne, which is a prohibited area, a number
of aliens are residing in comfort and affluence.

The Marquis of LANSDOWNE, usually so logical, on this occasion answered
inconsequence by inconsequence. In one breath he asserted that to
declare the whole of the Metropolis a prohibited area would throw too
much work on the police; and in the next that it would have the effect
of driving away large numbers of aliens to places not so well policed
as London is.
Lord BERESFORD caught the infection. In the course of a long question
designed to clear General TOWNSHEND of the responsibility for the
advance upon Bagdad, he remarked with startling irrelevance that
if his (Lord BERESFORD's) advice had been taken by the PRIME MINISTER
the _Lusitania_ would still be afloat and we should have lost no
battleships in the Dardanelles.

He did not appear to attach undue importance to this claim, and Lord
ISLINGTON, who replied for the Government, did not think it necessary
to make any reference to it, but contented himself with stating that
the Bagdad advance was authorised on the advice of General NIXON
and the Indian Government, and professing official ignorance of any
representations on the part of General TOWNSHEND.

In the Commons the trouble on the Clyde was the _pièce de résistance_.

At Question time Mr.

LLOYD GEORGE, fresh from the Paris Conference, had to deal with a
number of inquiries put by the little group of Scottish malcontents
whose notion of patriotism is to embarrass the Government on each
and every occasion.

Mr. HOGGE wanted to know when the MINISTER OF MUNITIONS was going to give
the other side of the case--"the German side," as an interrupter
pertinently put it; and Mr.

PRINGLE intimated that a settlement could have been reached but for the
unreasonableness of the Government.

This gave Dr. ADDISON, usually the mildest-mannered man that ever lanced
a gumboil, an opportunity of administering to big accuser a much-needed
lesson in deportment. The hon.

Member had first forced himself, without invitation, into a private
conversation in the Minister's room, and had then given a totally misleading
account of what took place.

He had made himself the spokesman of a body which had displayed "a
treacherous disregard of the highest national interests."
Mr.

PRINGLE was as much surprised as if he had been bitten by a rabbit,
and wound up an unconvincing defence of himself with the remark that
he would rather keep silence than say anything to exacerbate feeling.
It is a pity that his friend Mr. HOGGE did not imitate this wise if rather
tardy reticence. He gave Mr. LLOYD GEORGE the lie when he was describing
how the disputes had interfered with the supply of guns urgently needed
by the Army, and provoked the retort that, instead of encouraging the
strikers by unfounded suggestions, he would be better employed if "with
what credit is left to him" he went down to the Clyde and tried to get
them to work.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _She._ "Good gracious! The Brown-Smiths!! I thought they
were so poor."
_He._ "Yes. But, you see, he's been supplying the Government with shells
for quite a fortnight!"]
* * * * *
A LETTER TO THE FRONT.

"Kin yer write a letter?"
"More or less," I said. I did not rate myself with Madame DE STAËL
nor with EDWARD FITZGERALD, but I forebore to mention these names because
I thought that they would not be familiar to my questioner. If you happen
to know Paradise Rents, Fulham, you will realise that neither Madame
DE STAËL, nor FITZGERALD is much read there.

Moreover, the type that addressed me had not the aspect of a literary
man.

He was a man of some seven years, maybe, in company with a younger man,
perhaps of five. He was hatless, coatless, waistcoatless, but he had a
pair of trousers, short in the leg, precariously held by one brace.

That is the fashion in Paradise Rents. I had come upon these two young men
about Fulham as they were staring with absorbed interest into the
undertaker's shop advantageously situated for custom at the corner
of the Rents and the main street.

Certainly it was a pleasant window.

Besides the legends and texts, the artificial wreaths and the pictures of
tombs and tombstones, there was a number of model coffins in
miniature.

It was these that had fascinated the attention of the two young men.

"I should like one o' them to ply with," said the elder covetously.
"What would yer do with it, Bill?" the younger asked.
"I'd put the old KAYSER in it, along wi' Farver."
It is rude to laugh at other people's conversation, particularly
if you have not been introduced to them, but I caught myself in an
audible chuckle over this fine blend of patriotic and filial
sentiment. Then I pulled myself but not in time; I had been
detected.
If you wish to know what it is to be stared at, you should interrupt,
as I had, a conversation between two young men of about this age
in Fulham or elsewhere. They stared in unison and in silence until
the tension became unbearable, and one of them, the elder, whose
name was Bill, relieved it with the above quest on, "Kin yer write
a letter?"
Perhaps my answer was a little modest. He regarded me doubtfully,
then asked-- 
"'Ow soon kin yer write a letter?"
"You mean, how long does it take me to write a letter?"
He nodded his head vehemently.
"Well," I began, "it rather depends, you know, on what there is to
say." I saw dissatisfaction cloud his face, and hastened to add,
"Oh, well, about ten minutes."
At that his expression cleared to astonishment. Passing that emotion,
it went to incredulity. It was a beautifully legible face, though
everything but clean. He made up his mind.
"Will yer come," he asked, "and write a letter for my granmother?"

We were on the heels of adventure now; no one could say what new
country this might lead to.

"Where does she live?" I asked.
"Just round the corner, two doors from my Great-aunt Maria's," he
said, astonished that I should not know,
"Lead on," I said, concealing my ignorance of the residence of
great-aunt Maria.My forefathers were the conquerors of thine! The first of the
Maccabees drove thy people out of Hebron; Hyrcanus forced them to be
circumcised!" Then, with all the contempt of the patrician for the
plebeian, the hatred of Jacob for Esau, she reproached him for his
indifference towards palpable outrages to his dignity, his weakness
regarding the Phoenicians, who had been false to him, and his cowardly
attitude towards the people who detested and insulted herself.

"But thou art like them!" she cried; "Dost regret the loss of the Arab
girl who danced upon these very pavements? Take her back! Go and live
with her--in her tent! Eat her bread, baked in the ashes! Drink curdled
sheep's-milk! Kiss her dark cheeks--and forget me!"

The tetrarch had already forgotten her presence, it appeared. He paid no
further heed to her anger, but looked intently at a young girl who had
just stepped out upon the balcony of a house not far away. At her side
stood an elderly female slave, who held over the girl's head a kind of
parasol with a handle made of long, slender reeds. In the middle of
the rug spread upon the floor of the balcony stood a large open
travelling-hamper or basket, and girdles, veils, head-dresses, and gold
and silver ornaments were scattered about in confusion. At intervals
the young girl took one object or another in her hands, and held it up
admiringly. She was dressed in the costume of the Roman ladies, with a
flowing tunic and a peplum ornamented with tassels of emeralds; and blue
silken bands confined her hair, which seemed almost too luxuriant, since
from time to time she raised a small hand to push back the heavy masses.
The parasol half hid the maiden from the gaze of Antipas, but now and
then he caught a glimpse of her delicate neck, her large eyes, or a
fleeting smile upon her small mouth. He noted that her figure swayed
about with a singularly elastic grace and elegance. He leaned forward,
his eyes kindled, his breath quickened. All this was not lost upon
Herodias, who watched him narrowly.

"Who is that maiden?" the tetrarch asked at last.

Herodias replied that she did not know, and her fierce demeanour
suddenly changed to one of gentleness and amiability.

At the entrance to the castle the tetrarch was awaited by several
Galileans, the master of the scribes, the chief of the land stewards,
the manager of the salt mines, and a Jew from Babylon, commanding his
troops of horse. As the tetrarch approached the group, he was greeted
with respectful enthusiasm. Acknowledging the acclamations with a grave
salute, he entered the castle.

As he proceeded along one of the corridors, Phanuel suddenly sprang from
a corner and intercepted him.

"What! Art thou still here?" said the tetrarch in displeasure. "Thou
seekest Iaokanann, no doubt."

"And thyself, my lord. I have something of great importance to tell
thee."

At a sign from Antipas, the Essene followed him into a somewhat dark and
gloomy room.

The daylight came faintly through a grated window. The walls were of a
deep shade of crimson, so dark as to look almost black. At one end of
the room stood an ebony bed, ornamented with bands of leather. A
shield of gold, hanging at the head of the bed, shone like a sun in the
obscurity of the apartment. Antipas crossed over to the couch and threw
himself upon it in a half-reclining attitude, while Phanuel remained
standing before him. Suddenly he raised one hand, and striking a
commanding attitude said:

"At times, my lord, the Most High sends a message to the people through
one of His sons. Iaokanann is one of these. If thou oppress him, thou
shalt be punished!"

"But it is he that persecutes me!" exclaimed Antipas. "He asked me to do
a thing that was impossible. Since then he has done nothing but revile
me. And I was not severe with him when he began his abuse of me. But
he had the hardihood to send various men from Machaerus to spread
dissension and discontent throughout my domain. A curse upon him! Since
he attacks me, I shall defend myself."

"Without doubt, he has expressed his anger with too much violence,"
Phanuel replied calmly. "But do not heed that further. He must be set
free."

"One does not let loose a furious animal," said the tetrarch.

"Have no fear of him now," was the quick reply. "He will go straight to
the Arabs, the Gauls, and the Scythians. His work must be extended to
the uttermost ends of the earth."

For a moment Antipas appeared lost in thought, as one who sees a vision.
Then he said:

"His power over men is indeed great. In spite of myself, I admire him!"

"Then set him free!"

But the tetrarch shook his head. He feared Herodias, Mannaeus, and
unknown dangers.

Phanuel tried to persuade him, promising, as a guaranty of the honesty
of his projects, the submission of the Essenians to the King. These poor
people, clad only in linen, untameable in spite of severe treatment,
endowed with the power to divine the future by reading the stars, had
succeeded in commanding a certain degree of respect.

"What is the important matter thou wouldst communicate to me?" Antipas
inquired, with sudden recollection.

Before Phanuel could reply, a Negro entered the room in great haste. He
was covered with dust, and panted so violently that he could scarcely
utter the single word:

"Vitellus!"

"Has he arrived?" asked the tetrarch.

"I have seen him, my lord. Within three hours he will be here."

Throughout the palace, doors were opening and closing and portieres were
swaying as if in a high wind, with the coming and going of many persons;
there was a murmur of voices; sounds of the moving of heavy furniture
could be heard, and the rattle of silver plates and dishes. From the
highest tower a loud blast upon a conch summoned from far and near all
the slaves belonging to the castle.


CHAPTER II

The ramparts were thronged with people when at last Vitellius entered
the castle gates, leaning on the arm of his interpreter. Behind them
came an imposing red litter, decorated with plumes and mirrors. The
proconsul wore a toga ornamented with the laticlave, a broad purple band
extending down the front of the garment, indicating his rank; and his
feet were encased in the kind of buskins worn by consuls. A guard
of lictors surrounded him. Against the wall they placed their twelve
fasces--a bundle of sticks with an axe in the centre. And the populace
trembled before the insignia of Roman majesty.

The gorgeous litter, borne by eight men, came to a halt. From it
descended a youth. He wore many pearls upon his fingers, but he had
a protruding abdomen and his face was covered with pimples. A cup of
aromatic wine was offered to him. He drank it, and asked for a second
draught.

The tetrarch had fallen upon his knees before the proconsul, saying that
he was grieved beyond words not to have known sooner of the favour of
his presence within those domains; had he been aware of the approach
of his distinguished guest, he would have issued a command that every
person along the route should place himself at the proconsul's orders.
Of a surety, the proconsul's family was descended direct from the
goddess Vitellia. A highway, leading from the Janiculum to the sea,
still bore their name. Questors and consuls were innumerable in that
great family; and as for the noble Lucius, now his honoured guest, it
was the duty of the whole people to thank him, as the conqueror of
the Cliti and the father of the young Aulus, now returning to his own
domain, since the East was the country of the gods. These hyperboles
were expressed in Latin, and Vitellius accepted them impassively.

He replied that the great Herod was the honour and glory of the nation;
that the Athenians had chosen him to direct the Olympian games; that
he had built temples in the honour of Augustus; had been patient,
ingenious, terrible; and was faithful to all the Caesars.

Between the two marble columns, with bronze capitals, Herodias could now
be seen advancing with the air of an empress, in the midst of a group
of women and eunuchs carrying perfumed torches set in sockets of
silver-gilt.

The proconsul advanced three steps to meet her. She saluted him with an
inclination of her head.

"How fortunate," she exclaimed, "that henceforth Agrippa, the enemy of
Tiberius, can work harm no longer!"

Vitellius did not understand her allusion, but he thought her a
dangerous woman. Antipas immediately declared that he was ready to do
anything for the emperor.

"Even to the injury of others?" Vitellius asked, significantly.

He had taken hostages from the king of the Parthians, but the emperor
had given no further thought to the matter, because Antipas, who had
been present at the conference, had, in order to gain favour, sent off
despatches bearing the news. From that time he had borne a profound
hatred towards the emperor and had delayed in sending assistance to him.

The tetrarch stammered in attempting to reply to the query of the
proconsul. But Aulus laughed and said: "Do not be disturbed. I will
protect thee!"

The proconsul feigned not to hear this remark. The fortune of the father
depended, in a way, on the corrupt influence of the son; and through him
it was possible that Antipas might be able to procure for the proconsul
very substantial benefits, although the glances that he cast about him
were defiant, and even venomous.

But now a new tumult arose just within the gates. A file of white mules
entered the courtyard, mounted by men in priestly garb. These were the
Sadducees and the Pharisees, who were drawn to Machaerus by the same
ambition: the one party hoping to be appointed public sacrificers,
the other determined to retain those offices. Their faces were dark,
particularly those of the Pharisees, who were enemies of Rome and of the
tetrarch. The flowing skirts of their tunics embarrassed their movements
as they attempted to pass through the throng; and their tiaras sat
unsteadily upon their brows, around which were bound small bands of
parchment, showing lines of writing.

Almost at the same moment, the soldiers of the advance guard arrived.
Cloth coverings had been drawn over their glittering shields to
protect them from the dust. Behind them came Marcellus, the proconsul's
lieutenant, followed by the publicans, carrying their tablets of wood
under their arms.

Antipas named to Vitellius the principle personages surrounding them:
Tolmai, Kanthera, Schon, Ammonius of Alexandria, who brought asphalt for
Antipas; Naaman, captain of his troops of skirmishers, and Jacim, the
Babylonian.

Vitellius had noticed Mannaeus.

"Who is that man?" he inquired.

The tetrarch by a significant gesture indicated that Mannaeus was the
executioner. He then presented the Sadducees to the proconsul's notice.

Jonathas, a man of low stature, who spoke Greek, advanced with a firm
step and begged that the great lord would honour Jerusalem with a visit.
Vitellius replied that he should probably go to Jerusalem soon.

Eleazar, who had a crooked nose and a long beard, put forth a claim, in
behalf of the Pharisees, for the mantle of the high priest, held in the
tower of Antonia by the civil authorities.

Then the Galileans came forward and denounced Pontius Pilate. On one
occasion, they said, a mad-man went seeking in a cave near Samaria for
the golden vases that had belonged to King David, and Pontius Pilate
had caused several inhabitants of that region to be executed. In their
excitement all the Galileans spoke at once, Mannaeus's voice being heard
above all others. Vitellius promised that the guilty ones should be
punished.

Fresh vociferations now broke out in front of the great gates, where
the soldiers had hung their shields. Their coverings having now been
removed, on each shield a carving of the head of Caesar could be seen
on the umbo, or central knob. To the Jews, this seemed an evidence of
nothing short of idolatry. Antipas harangued them, while Vitellius,
who occupied a raised seat within the shadow of the colonnade, was
astonished at their fury. Tiberius had done well, he thought, to exile
four hundred of these people to Sardinia. Presently the Jews became so
violent that he ordered the shields to be removed.

Then the multitude surrounded the proconsul, imploring him to abolish
certain unjust laws, asking for privileges, or begging for alms. They
rent their clothing and jostled one another; and at last, in order to
drive them back, several slaves, armed with long staves, charged upon
them, striking right and left. Those nearest the gates made their escape
and descended to the road; others rushed in to take their place, so that
two streams of human beings flowed in and out, compressed within the
limits of the gateway.

Vitellius demanded the reason for the assembling of so great a throng.
Antipas explained that they had been invited to come to a feast in
celebration of his birthday; and he pointed to several men who, leaning
against the battlements, were hauling up immense basket-loads of food,
fruits, vegetables, antelopes, and storks; large fish, of a brilliant
shade of blue; grapes, melons, and pyramids of pomegranates. At this
sight, Aulus left the courtyard and hastened to the kitchens, led by his
taste for gormandizing, which later became the amazement of the world.

As they passed the opening to a small cellar, Vitellius perceived some
objects resembling breast-plates hanging on a wall. He looked at them
with interest, and then demanded that the subterranean chambers of the
fortress be thrown open for his inspection. These chambers were cut into
the rocky foundation of the castle, and had been formed into vaults,
with pillars set at regular distances. The first vault opened contained
old armour; the second was full of pikes, with long points emerging from
tufts of feathers. The walls of the third chamber were hung with a kind
of tapestry made of slender reeds, laid in perpendicular rows. Those of
the fourth were covered with scimitars. In the middle of the fifth cell,
rows of helmets were seen, the crests of which looked like a battalion
of fiery serpents. The sixth cell contained nothing but empty quivers;
the seventh, greaves for protecting the legs in battle; the eighth
vault was filled with bracelets and armlets; and an examination of the
remaining vaults disclosed forks, grappling-irons, ladders, cords, even
catapults, and bells for the necks of camels; and as they descended
deeper into the rocky foundation, it became evident that the whole mass
was a veritable honeycomb of cells, and that below those already seen
were many others.

Vitellius, Phineas, his interpreter, and Sisenna, chief of the
publicans, walked among these gloomy cells, attended by three eunuchs
bearing torches.

In the deep shadows hideous instruments, invented by barbarians, could
be seen: tomahawks studded with nails; poisoned javelins; pincers
resembling the jaws of crocodiles; in short, the tetrarch possessed in
his castle munitions of war sufficient for forty thousand men.

He had accumulated these weapons in anticipation of an alliance against
him among his enemies. But he bethought him that the proconsul might
believe, or assert, that he had collected this armoury in order to
attack the Romans; so he hastened to offer explanations of all that
Vitellius had observed.

Some of these things did not belong to him at all, he said: many of
them were necessary to defend the place against brigands and marauders,
especially the Arabs. Many of the objects in the vault had been the
property of his father, and he had allowed them to remain untouched. As
he spoke, he managed to get in advance of the proconsul and preceded
him along the corridors with rapid steps. Presently he halted and stood
close against the wall as the party came up; he spoke quickly, standing
with his hands on his hips, so that his voluminous mantle covered a wide
space of the wall behind him. But just above his head the top of a door
was visible. Vitellius remarked it instantly, and demanded to know what
it concealed.

The tetrarch explained that the door was fastened, and that none could
open it save the Babylonian, Jacim.

"Summon him, then!" was the command.

A slave was sent to find Jacim, while the group awaited his coming.

Out of Frere's Hospital, however, _its_ silence and seclusion, many a
stranger never found his way except by the high mountains of transfiguration,
in the chariots of fire, driven by the horsemen of Heaven, covered
with whose glory they departed.

Through the wards of this well-ordered hospital a lady passed one night,
and, entering a small apartment separated from the others, advanced
with noiseless step to a bedside, and there sat down. You may guess
if her heart was beating fast, and whether it was with difficulty
that she kept her gray eyes clear of tears.

There were about her traces of long and hurried journeying.

Under no limitations of caution had she passed so noiselessly through
the wards. Involuntary was that noiselessness,--involuntary also
the surprise with which one and another of the more wakeful patients
turned to follow her, with hopeless, weary eyes, as she passed on.

Now and then some feeble effort was made to attract her attention and
arrest her progress, but she went, absorbed beyond observation by the
errand that constrained her steps and thoughts.

When she reached the door of the apartment to which the surgeon
had directed her, she seemed for an instant to hesitate; then she
pushed the door open and passed into the room. The next instant she sank
into a chair by the bedside of a man who was lying there asleep. It
seemed as if the silent room had a profounder stillness added to it
since she entered.

It was Colonel Ames whom she saw lying on the cot before her with a bandage
round his forehead, so evidently asleep. He was smiling in a dream. He
was not going to give up the ghost, it seemed, though he had given
up so much--how much!

--with that passion of giving which possessed this nation, North and
South, during four awful, glorious years. _He_ had given up the splendor
and the beauty of this world. All its radiance was blotted out in
that moment of fury and of death when the shot struck him, and left
him blind upon the field.

Never on earth would it be said to him, "Receive thy sight."

The lady knew this who sat down by his bedside to wait for his awaking.
The surgeon had told her this, when at last, after having searched
for her brother long among the dead, she came to Frere's Hospital and
found him alive.

She sat so close beside him it seemed that he could not remain a
moment unconscious of her immediate presence after waking. Her hand lay
just where his hand, moving when he wakened, must touch it.

She had rightly calculated the chances; he did touch it, and started and
said: "Who's here? Doctor!" Then with a firmer grasp he seized the
unresisting fingers, and exclaimed, "My God, am I dreaming?

it ought to be Lizzie's hand."
"The doctor told me I should find you here, and might come," she
answered; and, disguised as the voice was by the feeling that tore
her heart, the Colonel, poor young fellow, listening as if for life,
knew it, and said, "O Lizzie, my child, I don't know about this,--why
couldn't you wait?"

"I waited and waited forever," she answered. "You're not sorry that
I've found you out after such a hunt? Of course you'll make believe, but
then--you needn't; I'm here, any way!"
Just then the surgeon came in.

The Colonel knew his step, and said, "Doctor, look here; is this Lizzie?"

"I believe you're right," said the doctor. "She said she had a hero for a
brother, and I have no doubt about that myself."
"O Dan, we had given you up! Though I knew all the time we shouldn't.

I could not believe--"

"Must come to that Lizzie,--do it over again; for what you have
here isn't your old Dan."

"My old Dan!"

she exclaimed, and then there was a little break in the conversation
the two heroes were endeavoring to maintain.

Meanwhile the surgeon had seated himself on the edge of the bed
waiting the moment when there should be a positive need of him.

He saw when it arrived.

"Colonel," said he, in his hearty, cheery voice, which alone had lifted
many a poor fellow from the slough of misery, and put new heart
and soul in him, since his ministrations began in the hospital,--"Colonel,
your aids are in waiting."

The soldier smiled; his face flushed. "My aids can wait," said he.

"That is a fine thing to say. Here he has been bothering me, madam, not
to say browbeating me, and I've been moving heaven and earth for my part,
and at last have secured the aids, and now hear him dismiss them!"
"Bring them round here," said the patient suddenly.
The surgeon quietly lifted from the floor a pair of crutches, and
placed them in his patient's hands.He braced his long, lean arms, raised the cover slowly,
and in a moment it lay flat upon the stones. The bystanders admired the
strength of the old man.

Under the bronze lid was a wooden trap-door of the same size. At a blow
of the fist it folded back, allowing a wide hole to be seen, the mouth
of an immense pit, with a flight of winding steps leading down into the
darkness. Those that bent over to peer into the cavern beheld a vague
and terrifying shape in its depths.

This proved to be a human being, lying on the ground. His long locks
hung over a camel's-hair robe that covered his shoulders. Slowly he rose
to his feet. His head touched a grating embedded in the wall; and as
he moved about he disappeared, from time to time, in the shadows of his
dungeon.

The rich tiaras of the Romans sparkled brilliantly in the sunlight, and
their glittering sword-hilts threw out glancing golden rays. The doves,
flying from their cotes, circled above the heads of the multitude.
It was the hour when Mannaeus was accustomed to feed them. But now he
crouched beside the tetrarch, who stood near Vitellius. The Galileans,
the priests, and the soldiers formed a group behind them; all were
silent, waiting with painful anticipation for what might happen.

A deep groan, hollow and startling, rose from the pit.

Herodias heard it from the farther end of the palace. Drawn by an
irresistible though terrible fascination, she made her way through the
throng, and, reaching Mannaeus, she leant one hand on his shoulder and
bent over to listen.

The hollow voice rose again from the depths of the earth.

"Woe to thee, Sadducees and Pharisees! Thy voices are like the tinkling
of cymbals! O race of vipers, bursting with pride!"

The voice of Iaokanann was recognised. His name was whispered about.
Spectators from a distance pressed closer to the open pit.

"Woe to thee, O people! Woe to the traitors of Judah, and to the
drunkards of Ephraim, who dwelt in the fertile valleys and stagger with
the fumes of wine!

"May they disappear like running water; like the slug that sinks into
the sand as it moves; like an abortion that never sees the light!

"And thou too, Moab! hide thyself in the midst of the cypress, like the
sparrow; in caverns, like the wild hare! The gates of the fortress shall
be crushed more easily than nut-shells; the walls shall crumble; cities
shall burn; and the scourge of God shall not cease! He shall cause your
bodies to be bathed in your own blood, like wool in the dyer's vat. He
shall rend you, as with a harrow; He shall scatter the remains of your
bodies from the tops of the mountains!"

Of which conqueror was he speaking? Was it Vitellius? Only the Romans
could bring about such an extermination. The people began to cry out:
"Enough! enough! let him speak no more!"

But the prisoner continued in louder tones:

"Beside the corpses of their mothers, thy little ones shall drag
themselves over the ashes of the burned cities. At night men will creep
from their hiding-places to seek a bit of food among the ruins, even at
the risk of being cut down with the sword. Jackals shall pick thy bones
in the public places, where at eventide the fathers were wont to gather.
At the bidding of Gentiles, thy maidens shall be forced to cease their
lamentations and to make music upon the zither, and the bravest of thy
sons shall learn to bend their backs, chafed with heavy burdens."

The listeners remembered the days of exile, and all the misfortunes and
catastrophes of the past. These words were like the anathemas of the
ancient prophets. The captive thundered them forth like bolts from
heaven.

Presently his voice became almost as sweet and harmonious as if he
were uttering a chant. He spoke of the world's redemption from sin
and sorrow; of the glories of heaven; of gold in place of clay; of the
desert blossoming like the rose. "That which is now worth sixty pieces
of silver will not cost a single obol. Fountains of milk shall spring
from the rocks; men shall sleep, well satisfied, among the wine-presses.
The people shall prostrate themselves before Thee, and Thy reign shall
be eternal, O Son of David!"

The tetrarch suddenly recoiled from the opening of the pit; the mention
of the existence of a son of David seemed to him like a menace to
himself.

Iaokanann then poured forth invectives against him for presuming to
aspire to royalty.

"There is no other king than the Eternal God!" he cried; and he cursed
Antipas for his luxurious gardens, his statues, his furniture of carved
ivory and precious woods, comparing him to the impious Ahab.

Antipas broke the slender cord attached to the royal seal that he wore
around his neck, and throwing the seal into the pit, he commanded his
prisoner to be silent.

But Iaokanann replied: "I shall cry aloud like a savage bear, like the
wild ass, like a woman in travail! The punishment of heaven has already
visited itself upon thy incest! May God inflict thee with the sterility
of mules!"

At these words, a sound of suppressed laughter arose here and there
among the listeners.

Vitellius had remained close to the opening of the dungeon while
Iaokanann was speaking. His interpreter, in impassive tones, translated
into the Roman tongue all the threats and invectives that rolled up
from the depths of the gloomy prison. The tetrarch and Herodias felt
compelled to remain near at hand. Antipas listened, breathing heavily;
while the woman, with parted lips, gazed into the darkness of the pit,
her face drawn with an expression of fear and hatred.

The terrible man now turned towards her. He grasped the bars of his
prison, pressed against them his bearded face, in which his eyes glowed
like burning coals, and cried:

"Ah! Is it thou, Jezebel? Thou hast captured thy lord's heart with the
tinkling of thy feet. Thou didst neigh to him like a mare. Thou
didst prepare thy bed on the mountain top, in order to accomplish thy
sacrifices!

"The Lord shall take from thee thy sparkling jewels, thy purple robes
and fine linen; the bracelets from thine arms, the anklets from thy
feet; the golden ornaments that dangle upon thy brow, thy mirrors of
polished silver, thy fans of ostrich plumes, thy shoes with their heels
of mother-of-pearl, that serve to increase thy stature; thy glittering
diamonds, the scent of thy hair, the tint of thy nails,--all the
artifices of thy coquetry shall disappear, and missiles shall be found
wherewith to stone the adulteress!"

Herodias looked around for some one to defend her. The Pharisees lowered
their eyes hypocritically. The Sadducees turned away their heads,
fearing to offend the proconsul should they appear to sympathise with
her. Antipas was almost in a swoon.

Louder still rose the voice from the dungeon; the neighbouring hills
gave back an echo with startling effect, and Machaerus seemed actually
surrounded and showered with curses.

"Prostrate thyself in the dust, daughter of Babylon, and scourge
thyself! Remove thy girdle and thy shoes, gather up thy garments and
walk through the flowing stream; thy shame shall follow thee, thy
disgrace shall be known to all men, thy bosom shall be rent with sobs.
God execrates the stench of thy crimes! Accursed one! die like a dog!"

At that instant the trap-door was suddenly shut down and secured by
Mannaeus, who would have liked to strangle Iaokanann then and there.

Herodias glided away and disappeared within the palace. The Pharisees
were scandalised at what they had heard. Antipas, standing among
them, attempted to justify his past conduct and to excuse his present
situation.

"Without doubt," said Eleazar, "it was necessary for him to marry his
brother's wife; but Herodias was not a widow, and besides, she had a
child, which she abandoned; and that was an abomination."

"You are wrong," objected Jonathas the Sadducee; "the law condemns such
marriages but does not actually forbid them."

"What matters it? All the world shows me injustice," said Antipas,
bitterly; "and why? Did not Absalom lie with his father's wives, Judah
with his daughter-in-law, Ammon with his sister, and Lot with his
daughters?"

Aulus, who had been reposing within the palace, now reappeared in the
court. After he had heard how matters stood, he approved of the attitude
of the tetrarch. "A man should never allow himself to be annoyed," said
he, "by such foolish criticism." And he laughed at the censure of the
priests and the fury of Iaokanann, saying that his words were of little
importance.

Herodias, who also had reappeared, and now stood at the top of a flight
of steps, called loudly:

"You are wrong, my lord! He ordered the people to refuse to pay the
tax!"

"Is that true?" he demanded. The general response was affirmative,
Antipas adding his word to the declaration of the others.

Vitellius had a misgiving that the prisoner might be able to escape;
and as the conduct of Antipas appeared to him rather suspicious, he
established his own sentinels at the gates, at intervals along the
walls, and in the courtyard itself.

At last he retired to the apartments assigned to him, accompanied by
the priests. Without touching directly upon the question of the coveted
offices of public sacrificers, each one laid his own grievances before
the proconsul. They fairly beset him with complaints and requests, but
he soon dismissed them from his presence.

As Jonathas left the proconsul's apartments he perceived Antipas
standing under an arch, talking to an Essene, who wore a long white robe
and flowing locks. Jonathas regretted that he had raised his voice in
defence of the tetrarch.

One thought now consoled Herod-Antipas. He was no longer personally
responsible for the fate of Iaokanann. The Romans had assumed that
charge. What a relief! He had noticed Phanuel pacing slowly through
the court, and calling him to his side, he pointed put the guards
established by Vitellius, saying:

"They are stronger than I! I cannot now set the prisoner free! It is not
my fault if he remains in his dungeon."

The courtyard was empty. The slaves were sleeping. The day was drawing
to a close, and the sunset spread a deep rosy glow over the horizon,
against which the smallest objects stood out like silhouettes. Antipas
was able to distinguish the excavations of the salt-mines at the farther
end of the Dead Sea, but the tents of the Arabs were no longer visible.
As the moon rose, the effect of the day's excitement passed away, and a
feeling of peace entered his heart.

Phanuel, also wearied by the recent agitating scenes, remained beside
the tetrarch. He sat in silence for some time, his chin resting on his
breast. At last he spoke in confidence to Antipas, and revealed what he
had wished to say.

From the beginning of the month, he said, he had been studying the
heavens every morning before daybreak, when the constellation of Perseus
was at the zenith; Agalah was scarcely visible; Algol was even less
bright; Mira-Cetus had disappeared entirely; from all of which he
augured the death of some man of great importance, to occur that very
night in Machaerus.

Who was the man? Vitellius was too closely guarded to be reached. No one
would kill Iaokanann.

"It is I!" thought the tetrarch.

It might be that the Arabs would return and make a successful attack
upon him. Perhaps the proconsul would discover his relations with the
Parthians. Several men whom Antipas had recognised as hired assassins
from Jerusalem, had escorted the priests in the train of the proconsul;
they all carried daggers concealed beneath their robes. The tetrarch had
no doubt whatever of the exactness of Phanuel's skill in astrology.

Suddenly he bethought him of Herodias. He would consult her. He hated
her, certainly, but she might give him courage; and besides, in spite
of his dislike, not all the bonds were yet broken of that sorcery which
once she had woven about him.

When he entered her chamber, he was met by the pungent odour of cinnamon
burning in a porphyry vase and the perfume of powders, unguents,
cloud-like gauzes and embroideries light as feathers, filled the air
with fragrance.

He did not speak of Phanuel's prophecy, nor of his own fear of the Jews
and the Arabs. Herodias had already accused him of cowardice. He spoke
only of the Romans, and complained that Vitellius had not confided to
him any of his military projects. He said he supposed the proconsul
was the friend of Caligula, who often visited Agrippa; and expressed
a surmise that he himself might be exiled, or that perhaps his throat
would be cut.

As soon as the bird was burned Steelpacha vanished forever.

So the Prince took his wife and went happily home.

_The Buried Moon_

Long ago in my grandmother's time, the Carland was all in bogs,
great pools of black water, and creeping trickles of green water,
and squishy mools which squirted when you stepped on them.

Well, granny used to say how long before her time the Moon herself was
once dead and buried in the marshes, and as she used to tell me, I'll
tell you all about it.

The Moon up yonder shone and shone just as she does now, and when she
shone she lighted up the bogpools, so that one could walk about
almost as safe as in the day.

But when she didn't shine, out came the Things that dwelt in the darkness
and went about seeking to do evil and harm; Bogles and Crawling Horrors,
all came out when the Moon didn't shine.

Well, the Moon heard of this, and being kind and good--as she surely
is, shining for us in the night instead of taking her natural
rest--she was main troubled.

"I'll see for myself, I will," said she, "maybe it's not so bad as
folks make out."

Sure enough, at the month's end down she stepped, wrapped up in a
black cloak, and a black hood over her yellow shining hair.

Straight she went to the bog edge and looked about her. Water here
and water there; waving tussocks and trembling mools, and great black
snags all twisted and bent. Before her all was dark--dark but for the
glimmer of the stars in the pools, and the light that came from her
own white feet, stealing out of her black cloak.

The Moon drew her cloak faster about her and trembled, but she wouldn't
go back without seeing all there was to be seen; so on she went,
stepping as light as the wind in summer from tuft to tuft between the
muddy, gurgling water holes. Just as she came near a big black pool her
foot slipped and she was nigh tumbling in. She grabbed with both hands
at a snag near by, to steady herself with, but as she touched it,
it twined itself round her wrists, like a pair of handcuffs, and
gripped her so that she couldn't move.

She pulled and twisted and fought, but it was no good. She was fast,
and must stay fast.

Presently as she stood trembling in the dark, wondering if help would
come, she heard something calling in the distance, calling, calling,
and then dying away with a sob, till the marshes were full of this
pitiful crying sound; then she heard steps floundering along,
squishing in the mud and slipping on the tufts, and through the
darkness she saw a white face with great feared eyes.

'T was a man strayed in the bogs. Mazed with fear he struggled on toward
the flickering light that looked like help and safety. And when the
poor Moon saw that he was coming nigher and nigher to the deep hole,
farther and farther from the path, she was so mad and so sorry
that she struggled and fought and pulled harder than ever.

And though she couldn't get loose she twisted and turned, till her
black hood fell back off her shining yellow hair, and the beautiful
light that came from it drove away the darkness.

Oh, but the man cried with joy to see the light again. And at once all
evil things fled back into the dark corners, for they cannot abide
the light.

So he could see where he was, and where the path was, and how
he could get out of the marsh. And he was in such haste to get away
from the Quicks, and Bogles, and Things that dwelt there, that he scarce
looked at the brave light that came from the beautiful shining yellow
hair, streaming out over the black cloak and falling to the water at his
feet. And the Moon herself was so taken up with saving him, and with
rejoicing that he was back on the right path, that she clean forgot
that she needed help herself, and that she was held fast by the
Black Snag.

So off he went, spent and gasping, and stumbling and sobbing with
joy, flying for his life out of the terrible bogs. Then it came over
the Moon, she would main like to go with him. So she pulled and fought
as if she were mad, till she fell on her knees, spent with tugging,
at the foot of the snag. And as she lay there, gasping for breath, the
black hood fell forward over her head. So out went the blessed light
and back came the darkness, with all its Evil Things, with a screech
and a howl. They came crowding round her, mocking and snatching and
beating; shrieking with rage and spite, and swearing and snarling,
for they knew her for their old enemy, that drove them back into the
corners, and kept them from working their wicked wills.

"Drat thee!" yelled the witch-bodies, "thou 'st spoiled our spells
this year agone!"
"And us thou sent'st to brood in the corners!" howled the Bogles.

And all the Things joined in with a great "Ho, ho!"

till the very tussocks shook and the water gurgled. And they began
again.

"We'll poison her--poison her!" shrieked the witches.

And "Ho, ho!" howled the Things again.

"We'll smother her--smother her!"

whispered the Crawling Horrors, and twined themselves round her
knees.

And "Ho, ho!" mocked the rest of them.

And again they all shouted with spite and ill-will. And the poor
Moon crouched down, and wished she was dead and done with.

And they fought and squabbled what they should do with her, till a pale
gray light began to come in the sky; and it drew nigh the dawning. And
when they saw that, they were feared lest they shouldn't have time to
work their will; and they caught hold of her, with horrid bony
fingers, and laid her deep in the water at the foot of the snag.

And the Bogles fetched a strange big stone and rolled it on top of her,
to keep her from rising. And they told two of the Will-o-the-wykes to
take turns in watching on the black snag, to see that she lay safe and
still, and couldn't get out to spoil their sport.

And there lay the poor Moon, dead and buried in the bog; till some one
would set her loose; and who'd know where to look for her?

Well, the days passed, and 't was the time for the new moon's coming,
and the folk put pennies in their pockets and straws in their caps so
as to be ready for her, and looked about, for the Moon was a good friend
to the marsh folk, and they were main glad when the dark time was
gone, and the paths were safe again, and the Evil Things were driven
back by the blessed Light into the darkness and the waterholes.

But days and days passed, and the new Moon never came, and the nights
were aye dark, and the Evil Things were worse than ever. And still the
days went on, and the new Moon never came. Naturally the poor folk
were strangely feared and mazed, and a lot of them went to the Wise
Woman who dwelt in the old mill, and asked if so be she could find out
where the Moon was gone.

"Well," said she, after looking in the brewpot, and in the mirror,
and in the Book, "it be main queer, but I can't rightly tell ye
what's happened to her.

If ye hear aught, come and tell me."
So they went their ways; and as days went by, and never a Moon came,
naturally they talked--my word!

I reckon they _did_ talk!

their tongues wagged at home, and at the inn, and in the
garth.

But so came one day, as they sat on the great settle in the Inn, a
man from the far end of the bog lands was smoking and listening,
when all at once he sat up and slapped his knee.

"My faicks!" said he, "I'd clean forgot, but I reckon I kens where the
Moon be!" and he told them of how he was lost in the bogs, and how,
when he was nigh dead with fright, the light shone out, and he found
the path and got home safe.

So off they all went to the Wise Woman, and told her about it, and she
looked long in the pot and the Book again, and then she nodded her
head.

"It's dark still, childer, dark!" says she, "and I can't rightly
see, but do as I tell ye, and ye'll find out for yourselves. Go, all of
ye, just afore the night gathers, put a stone in your mouth, and take
a hazel-twig in your hands, and say never a word till you're safe home
again. Then walk on and fear not, far into the midst of the marsh, till
ye find a coffin, a candle, and a cross.

Then ye'll not be far from your Moon; look, and m'appen ye'll find
her."

So come the next night in the darklings, out they went all together, every
man with a stone in his mouth, and a hazel-twig in his hand, and
feeling, thou may'st reckon, main feared and creepy.

And they stumbled and stottered along the paths into the midst of the
bogs; they saw naught, though they heard sighings and flutterings in
their ears, and felt cold wet fingers touching them; but all together,
looking around for the coffin, the candle, and the cross, while they
came nigh to the pool beside the great snag, where the Moon lay
buried.

And all at once they stopped, quaking and mazed and skeery, for there
was the great stone, half in, half out of the water, for all the
world like a strange big coffin; and at the head was the black snag,
stretching out its two arms in a dark gruesome cross, and on it a
tiddy light flickered, like a dying candle.

And they all knelt down in the mud, and said, "Our Lord," first
forward, because of the cross, and then backward, to keep off the
Bogles; but without speaking out, for they knew that the Evil Things
would catch them, if they didn't do as the Wise Woman told them.

Then they went nigher, and took hold of the big stone, and shoved
it up, and afterward they said that for one tiddy minute they saw
a strange and beautiful face looking up at them glad-like out of
the black water; but the Light came so quick and so white and
shining, that they stepped back mazed with it, and the very next
minute, when they could see again, there was the full Moon in the
sky, bright and beautiful and kind as ever, shining and smiling
down at them, and making the bogs and the paths as clear as day,
and stealing into the very corners, as though she'd have driven the
darkness and the Bogles clean away if she could.

_The Farmer of Liddesdale_

There was in Liddesdale (in Morven) a Farmer who suffered great loss within
the space of one year. In the first place, his wife and children died,
and shortly after their death the Ploughman left him.

The hiring-markets were then over, and there was no way of getting
another Ploughman in the place of the one that left.

When spring came his neighbours began ploughing; but he had not a man to
hold the plough, and he knew not what he should do.

The time was passing, and he was, therefore, losing patience.

At last he said to himself, in a fit of passion, that he would
engage the first man that came his way, whoever he should be.

Shortly after that a man came to the house.

The Farmer met him at the door, and asked him whither was he going,
or what was he seeking? He answered that he was a Ploughman, and that
he wanted an engagement. "I want a Ploughman, and if we agree about
the wages, I will engage thee.
What dost thou ask from this day to the day when the crop will be
gathered in?"

"Only as much of the corn when it shall be dry as I can carry with
me in one burden-withe."

"Thou shalt get that," said the Farmer, and they agreed.

Next morning the Farmer went out with the Ploughman, and showed
him the fields which he had to plough. Before they returned, the Ploughman
went to the wood, and having cut three stakes, came back with them, and
placed one of them at the head of each one of the fields. After he had
done that he said to the Farmer, "I will do the work now alone,
and the ploughing need no longer give thee anxiety."

Having said this, he went home and remained idle all that day. The next
day came, but he remained idle as on the day before.

After he had spent a good while in that manner, the Farmer said to him
that it was time for him to begin to work now, because the spring
was passing away, and the neighbours had half their work finished.

He replied, "Oh, our land is not ready yet."
"How dost thou think that?"
"Oh, I know it by the stakes."
If the delay of the Ploughman made the Farmer wonder, this answer made him
wonder more.

He resolved that he would keep his eye on him, and see what he was
doing.

The Farmer rose early next morning, and saw the Ploughman going to the
first field.

When he reached the field, he pulled the stake at its end out of the
ground, and put it to his nose. He shook his head and put the stake
back in the ground, He then left the first field and went to the
rest.

He tried the stakes, shook his head, and returned home. In the dusk he
went out the second time to the fields, tried the stakes, shook his
head, and after putting them again in the ground, went home.
Next morning he went out to the fields the third time. When he reached
the first stake he pulled it out of the ground and put it to his
nose as he did on the foregoing days. But no sooner had he done that
than he threw the stake from him, and stretched away for the horses
with all his might.

He got the horses, the withes, and the plough, and when he reached the
end of the first field with them, he thrust the plough into the ground,
and cried:

"My horses and my leather-traces, and mettlesome lads, The earth is coming
up!"
He then began ploughing, kept at it all day at a terrible rate and
before the sun went down that night there was not a palm-breadth
of the three fields which he had not ploughed, sowed, and harrowed. When
the Farmer saw this he was exceedingly well pleased, for he had his work
finished as soon as his neighbours.

The Ploughman was quick and ready to do everything that he was told, and
so he and the Farmer agreed well until the harvest came. But on a certain
day when the reaping was over the Farmer said to him that he thought
the corn was dry enough for putting in. The Ploughman tried a sheaf or
two, and answered that it was not dry yet. But shortly after that
day he said that it was now ready.

"If it is," said the Farmer, "we'd better begin putting it in."

"We will not until I get my share out of it first," said the
Ploughman.

He then went off to the wood, and in a short time returned, having
in his hand a withe scraped and twisted.

He stretched the withe on the field, and began to put the corn in it.

He continued putting sheaf after sheaf in the withe until he had
taken almost all the sheaves that were on the field.

The Farmer asked of him what he meant?

"Thou didst promise me as wages as much corn as I could carry with
me in one burden-withe, and here I have it now," said the Ploughman,
as he was shutting the withe.

The Farmer saw that he would be ruined by the Ploughman, and therefore
said:

"'T was in the Mart I sowed, 'T was in the Mart I baked, 'T was in
the Mart I harrowed.

Thou Who hast ordained the three Marts, Let not my share go in one
burden-withe.'"
Instantly the withe broke, and it made a loud report, which echo answered
from every rock far and near. Then the corn spread over the field, and
the Ploughman went away in a white mist in the skies, and was seen
no more.

_The Badger's Money_

Once upon a time, in a hut at a place called Namékata, in Hitache, there
lived an old priest, famous neither for learning nor wisdom, but bent
only on passing his days in prayer and meditation. He had not even a
child to wait upon him, but prepared his food with his own hands. Night
and morning he recited the prayer, "Namu Amida Butsu," intent upon that
alone. Although the fame of his virtue did not reach far, yet his neighbours
respected and revered him, and often brought him food and raiment; and
when his roof or his walls fell out of repair, they would mend them
for him; so for the things of this world he took no thought.

One very cold night, when he little thought any one was outside, he
heard a voice calling, "Your reverence! your reverence!" So he rose
and went out to see who it was, and there he beheld an old badger
standing. Any ordinary man would have been greatly alarmed at the
apparition; but the priest, being such as he has been described above,
showed no sign of fear, but asked the creature his business.
In her hands she carried a patera,
a shallow vessel of silver used by the Romans in pouring libations;
and, advancing to the front of the balcony and pausing just above the
tetrarch's chair, she cried:

"Long live Caesar!"

This homage was repeated by Vitellius, Antipas, and the priests.

But now, beginning at the farthest end of the banqueting-hall, a murmur
of surprise and admiration swept through the multitude. A beautiful
young girl had just entered the apartment, and stood motionless for an
instant, while all eyes were turned upon her.

Through a drapery of filmy blue gauze that veiled her head and
throat, her arched eyebrows, tiny ears, and ivory-white skin could be
distinguished. A scarf of shot-silk fell from her shoulders, and was
caught up at the waist by a girdle of fretted silver. Her full trousers,
of black silk, were embroidered in a pattern of silver mandragoras, and
as she moved forward with indolent grace, her little feet were seen to
be shod with slippers made of the feathers of humming-birds.

When she arrived in front of the pavilion she removed her veil. Behold!
she seemed to be Herodias herself, as she had appeared in the days of
her blooming youth.

Immediately the damsel began to dance before the tetrarch. Her slender
feet took dainty steps to the rhythm of a flute and a pair of Indian
bells. Her round white arms seemed ever beckoning and striving to
entice to her side some youth who was fleeing from her allurements. She
appeared to pursue him, with movements light as a butterfly; her whole
mien was like that of an inquisitive Psyche, or a floating spirit that
might at any moment dissolve and disappear.

Presently the plaintive notes of the gingras, a small flute of
Phoenician origin, replaced the tinkling bells. The attitudes of the
dancing nymph now denoted overpowering lassitude. Her bosom heaved with
sighs, and her whole being expressed profound languor, although it was
not clear whether she sighed for an absent swain or was expiring of love
in his embrace. With half-closed eyes and quivering form, she caused
mysterious undulations to flow downward over her whole body, like
rippling waves, while her face remained impassive and her twinkling feet
still moved in their intricate steps.

Vitellius compared her to Mnester, the famous pantomimist. Aulus was
overcome with faintness. The tetrarch watched her, lost in a voluptuous
reverie, and thought no more of the real Herodias. In fancy he saw her
again as she appeared when she had dwelt among the Sadducees. Then the
vision faded.

But this beautiful thing before him was no vision. The dancer was
Salome, the daughter of Herodias, who for many months her mother had
caused to be instructed in dancing, and other arts of pleasing, with
the sole idea of bringing her to Machaerus and presenting her to the
tetrarch, so that he should fall in love with her fresh young beauty
and feminine wiles. The plan had proved successful, it seemed; he was
evidently fascinated, and Herodias felt that at last she was sure of
retaining her power over him!

And now the graceful dancer appeared transported with the very delirium
of love and passion. She danced like the priestesses of India, like the
Nubians of the cataracts, or like the Bacchantes of Lydia. She whirled
about like a flower blown by the tempest. The jewels in her ears
sparkled, her swift movements made the colours of her draperies appear
to run into one another. Her arms, her feet, her clothing even, seemed
to emit streams of magnetism, that set the spectators' blood on fire.

Suddenly the thrilling chords of a harp rang through the hall, and the
throng burst into loud acclamations. All eyes were fixed on Salome, who
paused in her rhythmic dance, placed her feet wide apart, and without
bending the knees, suddenly swayed her lithe body downward, so that her
chin touched the floor; and her whole audience,--the nomads, accustomed
to a life of privation and abstinence, the Roman soldiers, expert in
debaucheries, the avaricious publicans, and even the crabbed, elderly
priests--gazed upon her with dilated nostrils.

Next she began to whirl frantically around the table where Antipas the
tetrarch was seated. He leaned towards the flying figure, and in a voice
half choked with the voluptuous sighs of a mad desire, he sighed: "Come
to me! Come!" But she whirled on, while the music of dulcimers swelled
louder and the excited spectators roared their applause.

The tetrarch called again, louder than before: "Come to me! Come! Thou
shalt have Capernaum, the plains of Tiberias! my citadels! yea, the half
of my kingdom!"

Again the dancer paused; then, like a flash, she threw herself upon the
palms of her hands, while her feet rose straight up into the air. In
this bizarre pose she moved about upon the floor like a gigantic beetle;
then stood motionless.

The nape of her neck formed a right angle with her vertebrae. The full
silken skirts of pale hues that enveloped her limbs when she stood
erect, now fell to her shoulders and surrounded her face like a rainbow.
Her lips were tinted a deep crimson, her arched eyebrows were black
as jet, her glowing eyes had an almost terrible radiance; and the tiny
drops of perspiration on her forehead looked like dew upon white marble.

She made no sound; and the burning gaze of that multitude of men was
concentrated upon her.

A sound like the snapping of fingers came from the gallery over the
pavilion. Instantly, with one of her movements of bird-like swiftness,
Salome stood erect. The next moment she rapidly passed up a flight of
steps leading to the gallery, and coming to the front of it she leaned
over, smiled upon the tetrarch, and, with an air of almost childlike
naivete, pronounced these words:

"I ask my lord to give me, placed upon a charger, the head of--" She
hesitated, as if not certain of the name; then said: "The head of
Iaokanann!"

The tetrarch sank back in his chair as if stunned.

He had bound himself by his promise to her; and the people awaited his
next movement. But the death that night of some conspicuous man that had
been predicted to him by Phanuel,--what if, by bringing it upon another,
he could avert it from himself, thought Antipas. If Iaokanann was in
very truth the Elias so much talked of, he would have power to protect
himself; and if he were only an ordinary man, his murder was of no
importance.

Mannaeus stood beside his chair, and read his master's thoughts.
Vitellius beckoned him to his side and gave him an order for the
execution, to be transmitted to the soldiers placed on guard over the
dungeon. This execution would be a relief, he thought. In a few moments
all would be over!

But for once Mannaeus did not perform a commission satisfactorily. He
left the hall but soon returned, in a state of great perturbation.

During forty years he had exercised the functions of the public
executioner. It was he that had drowned Aristobulus, strangled
Alexander, burned Mattathias alive, beheaded Zozimus, Pappus, Josephus,
and Antipater; but he dared not kill Iaokanann! His teeth chattered and
his whole body trembled.

She remembered now that she had promised a little girl, Miss Ellen Holmes
indeed, that she would some time show her where the red-caps and fairy-cups
grew, and there was yet time, before sunset, for a long walk in the
woods.But they said they
had seen nothing except a Jewish captain who had attacked them, and whom
they had killed.

The fury of Herodias poured forth in a torrent of invective against
the populace. She clenched the railing of the balcony so fiercely as
to break her nails; the two stone lions at her back seemed to bite her
shoulders and join their voices to hers.

Antipas followed her example; and priests, soldiers, and Pharisees cried
aloud together for vengeance, echoed by the rest of the gathering, who
were indignant that a mere slave should dare to delay their pleasures.

Again Mannaeus left the hall, covering his face with his hands.

The guests found the second delay longer than the first. It seemed
tedious to every one.

Some of their words arrested my attention, and I turned my head to see
and listen.

The speaker, who wore a sergeant's chevron and carried one arm in a sling,
was a tall, loosely made person, with a pale face, light eyes of a
washed-out blue tint, and very sparse yellow whiskers. His mouth was
weak, both lips being almost alike, so that the organ might have
been turned upside down without affecting its expression.

His forehead, however, was high and thinly covered with sandy hair.
I should have said, as a phrenologist, Will feeble,--emotional, but not
passionate,--likely to be enthusiast, or weakly bigot.

I caught enough of what passed to make me call to the sergeant when
the chaplain left him.
"Good morning," said he. "How do you get on?"When she approached him with her ghastly burden, he turned away his head
to avoid looking at it. [Illustration]

THE DIRTY BOY.
Here is a poor boy; he is going to have a wash at the pump. His
clothes are all torn and soiled, but he can keep his face clean,
and he will soon be old enough to earn some better clothes.The sharp blade of the sword had cut into the jaw with a swift downward
stroke. The corners of the mouth were drawn, as if by a convulsion.
Clots of blood besprinkled the beard. The closed eyelids had a
shell-like transparency, and the candelabra on every side lighted up the
gruesome object with terrible distinctness.

Mannaeus arrived at the table where the priests were seated. One of them
turned the charger about curiously, to look at the head from all sides.
Her right hand moved nervously. Strange that her father had not sent some
word by Ezra; but then he didn't know, of course, that Ezra was coming.
Ay! that was a lucky thought. What she had written seemed to imply some
blame.The lights began to flicker and die out. And she added, in a tone that
contradicted her words, "I am sure I should not have come if I had known
you were coming!"
"I dare say not," replied Hobert, in a voice so sad and so tender withal,
as to set the roses Jenny wore in her bosom trembling.At sunrise the two men who had been sent on a mission by Iaokanann some
time before, returned to the castle, bringing the answer so long awaited
and hoped for.

They whispered the message to Phanuel, who received it with rapture.

Then he showed them the lugubrious object, still resting on the charger
amid the ruins of the feast. Is it affected by the rise and fall of the advertisement columns?

State the difference between "News Specially Communicated" and a puff
paragraph.

9. Give the statistics (if you are able) of the number of aspirants
to Journalism who have risen and fallen.Then the three, taking with them the head of John the Baptist, set out
upon the road to Galilee; and as the burden was heavy, each man bore it
awhile in turn.