In the great room of the underwriters, ninety-eight feet long by forty
wide, a _dejeuner_ was served, at which the Queen, the Prince, the
Duchess of Kent, and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, with other persons
of rank, including the foreign ambassadors and their wives, sat on the
dais at the cross-table. At the long table beneath the dais, among the
Cabinet ministers and their wives, members of Parliament, judges, the
Court of Aldermen, and many other distinguished and privileged persons,
sat Sir Robert and Lady Sale, in another scene than any they had known
among the defiles and forts of Afghanistan. The Bishop of London said
grace. The usual toasts, "Her gracious Majesty, Queen Victoria"--no longer
the young girl who bore her part so well at the Guildhall dinner, but the
woman in her flower, endowed with all which makes life precious--"Prince
Albert, the Prince of Wales, and the rest of the royal family," were
drunk, and replied to by the comprehensive wish, "Prosperity to the City
of London."

At twenty minutes after two the Queen and the Prince went downstairs again
to the quadrangle, in the centre of which her Majesty stopped, while the
Ministers and the Corporation formed a circle round her. The heralds made
proclamation and commanded silence; the Queen, after receiving a slip of
paper from Sir James Graham, announced in clear, distinct tones, "It is my
royal will and pleasure that this building be hereafter called "The Royal
Exchange." The incident remained in my mind. As a matter of fact, practical
Radcliffe Thorpe, absorbed in questions of strain and ease, his head full
of cylinders and wheels and ratchets and the Lord knows what else, would
have seemed to me the last man on earth to create that haunting,
strange, unearthly face, human in form, but not in expression.

It was about this time that Radcliffe began to give so much attention
to the making of very high flights. His favourite time was in the early
morning, as soon as it was light. Then in the chill dawn he would rise
and soar and wing his flight high and ever higher, up and up, till the
eye could no longer follow his ascent.

I remember he made one of these strange, solitary flights when I
was spending the week-end with him at his cottage near the Attercliffe
Aviation Grounds.At last the
National Anthem was played, the Queen showed herself, and this section of
her subjects was appeased and passed from clamorous discontent to equally
clamorous satisfaction.

During the winter Sir Robert and Lady Sale paid the Queen a visit at
Windsor, while Miss Liddell was maid-of-honour in waiting. The lively
narrator of the events of these days describes Lady Sale, as tall, thin,
and rather plain, but with a good countenance, while Sir Robert was stout.
Lady Sale told these wondering listeners, in a palace that she started
from Cabul in a cloth habit, which got wet the first day, and became like
a sheet of ice, while it was nine days before she could take it off. She
was wounded in the arm on the second day's march, the ball passing first
below the elbow and coming out at the wrist, while there were other balls
which passed through her habit; Mrs. Sturt's fatherless child, Lady
Sales's grand-daughter, was born in a small room without light and almost
without air. The captive ladies often slept in the open air on the snow,
with the help of sheepskins, half of which were under and half over the
sleepers. They washed their clothes by dipping them in the rivers and
patting the garments till they became dry. Sometimes the prisoners were
twenty-four hours without food, and when served it consisted of dishes of
rice with sheeps' tails in the middle, and melted fat like tallow poured
over them. The captivity lasted ten weary months, while the captives were
dragged from place to place, over fearful roads, amidst the snows of the
Caucasus.