Produced by David Widger


STUDIES AND ESSAYS

By John Galsworthy


          "Je vous dirai que l'exces est toujours un mal."
                                        --ANATOLE FRANCE


                         CONCERNING LIFE


TABLE OF CONTENTS:
          INN OF TRANQUILITY
          MAGPIE OVER THE HILL
          SHEEP-SHEARING
          EVOLUTION
          RIDING IN THE MIST
          THE PROCESSION
          A CHRISTIAN
          WIND IN THE ROCKS
          MY DISTANT RELATIVE
          THE BLACK GODMOTHER


THE INN OF TRANQUILLITY

Under a burning blue sky, among the pine-trees and junipers, the
cypresses and olives of that Odyssean coast, we came one afternoon on a
pink house bearing the legend: "Osteria di Tranquillita,"; and, partly
because of the name, and partly because we did not expect to find a house
at all in those goat-haunted groves above the waves, we tarried for
contemplation.  To the familiar simplicity of that Italian building there
were not lacking signs of a certain spiritual change, for out of the
olive-grove which grew to its very doors a skittle-alley had been formed,
and two baby cypress-trees were cut into the effigies of a cock and hen.
The song of a gramophone, too, was breaking forth into the air, as it
were the presiding voice of a high and cosmopolitan mind.  And, lost in
admiration, we became conscious of the odour of a full-flavoured cigar.
Yes--in the skittle-alley a gentleman was standing who wore a bowler hat,
a bright brown suit, pink tie, and very yellow boots.  His head was
round, his cheeks fat and well-coloured, his lips red and full under a
black moustache, and he was regarding us through very thick and
half-closed eyelids.

Perceiving him to be the proprietor of the high and cosmopolitan mind, we
accosted him.

"Good-day!" he replied: "I spik English.  Been in Amurrica yes."

"You have a lovely place here."

Sweeping a glance over the skittle-alley, he sent forth a long puff of
smoke; then, turning to my companion (of the politer sex) with the air of
one who has made himself perfect master of a foreign tongue, he smiled,
and spoke.

"Too-quiet!"

"Precisely; the name of your inn, perhaps, suggests----"

"I change all that--soon I call it Anglo-American hotel."

"Ah! yes; you are very up-to-date already."

He closed one eye and smiled.

Having passed a few more compliments, we saluted and walked on; and,
coming presently to the edge of the cliff, lay down on the thyme and the
crumbled leaf-dust.  All the small singing birds had long been shot and
eaten; there came to us no sound but that of the waves swimming in on a
gentle south wind.  The wanton creatures seemed stretching out white arms
to the land, flying desperately from a sea of such stupendous serenity;
and over their bare shoulders their hair floated back, pale in the
sunshine.  If the air was void of sound, it was full of scent--that
delicious and enlivening perfume of mingled gum, and herbs, and sweet
wood being burned somewhere a long way off; and a silky, golden warmth
slanted on to us through the olives and umbrella pines.  Large wine-red
violets were growing near.  On such a cliff might Theocritus have lain,
spinning his songs; on that divine sea Odysseus should have passed.  And
we felt that presently the goat-god must put his head forth from behind a
rock.

It seemed a little queer that our friend in the bowler hat should move
and breathe within one short flight of a cuckoo from this home of Pan.
One could not but at first feelingly remember the old Boer saying: "O
God, what things man sees when he goes out without a gun!" But soon the
infinite incongruity of this juxtaposition began to produce within one a
curious eagerness, a sort of half-philosophical delight. It began to seem
too good, almost too romantic, to be true. To think of the gramophone
wedded to the thin sweet singing of the olive leaves in the evening wind;
to remember the scent of his rank cigar marrying with this wild incense;
to read that enchanted name, "Inn of Tranquillity," and hear the bland
and affable remark of the gentleman who owned it--such were, indeed,
phenomena to stimulate souls to speculation.  And all unconsciously one
began to justify them by thoughts of the other incongruities of
existence--the strange, the passionate incongruities of youth and age,
wealth and poverty, life and death; the wonderful odd bedfellows of this
world; all those lurid contrasts which haunt a man's spirit till
sometimes he is ready to cry out: "Rather than live where such things can
be, let me die!"

Like a wild bird tracking through the air, one's meditation wandered on,
following that trail of thought, till the chance encounter became
spiritually luminous.  That Italian gentleman of the world, with his
bowler hat, his skittle-alley, his gramophone, who had planted himself
down in this temple of wild harmony, was he not Progress itself--the
blind figure with the stomach full of new meats and the brain of raw
notions?  Was he not the very embodiment of the wonderful child,
Civilisation, so possessed by a new toy each day that she has no time to
master its use--naive creature lost amid her own discoveries!  Was he not
the very symbol of that which was making economists thin, thinkers pale,
artists haggard, statesmen bald--the symbol of Indigestion Incarnate!
Did he not, delicious, gross, unconscious man, personify beneath his
Americo-Italian polish all those rank and primitive instincts, whose
satisfaction necessitated the million miseries of his fellows; all those
thick rapacities which stir the hatred of the humane and thin-skinned!
And yet, one's meditation could not stop there--it was not convenient to
the heart!

A little above us, among the olive-trees, two blue-clothed peasants, man
and woman, were gathering the fruit--from some such couple, no doubt, our
friend in the bowler hat had sprung; more "virile" and adventurous than
his brothers, he had not stayed in the home groves, but had gone forth to
drink the waters of hustle and commerce, and come back--what he was.  And
he, in turn, would beget children, and having made his pile out of his
'Anglo-American hotel' would place those children beyond the coarser
influences of life, till they became, perhaps, even as our selves, the
salt of the earth, and despised him.  And I thought: "I do not despise
those peasants--far from it.  I do not despise myself--no more than
reason; why, then, despise my friend in the bowler hat, who is, after
all, but the necessary link between them and me?"  I did not despise the
olive-trees, the warm sun, the pine scent, all those material things
which had made him so thick and strong; I did not despise the golden,
tenuous imaginings which the trees and rocks and sea were starting in my
own spirit.  Why, then, despise the skittle-alley, the gramophone, those
expressions of the spirit of my friend in the billy-cock hat?  To despise
them was ridiculous!

And suddenly I was visited by a sensation only to be described as a sort
of smiling certainty, emanating from, and, as it were, still tingling
within every nerve of myself, but yet vibrating harmoniously with the
world around.  It was as if I had suddenly seen what was the truth of
things; not perhaps to anybody else, but at all events to me.  And I felt
at once tranquil and elated, as when something is met with which rouses
and fascinates in a man all his faculties.

"For," I thought, "if it is ridiculous in me to despise my friend--that
perfect marvel of disharmony--it is ridiculous in me to despise anything.
If he is a little bit of continuity, as perfectly logical an expression
of a necessary phase or mood of existence as I myself am, then, surely,
there is nothing in all the world that is not a little bit of continuity,
the expression of a little necessary mood. Yes," I thought, "he and I,
and those olive-trees, and this spider on my hand, and everything in the
Universe which has an individual shape, are all fit expressions of the
separate moods of a great underlying Mood or Principle, which must be
perfectly adjusted, volving and revolving on itself.  For if It did not
volve and revolve on Itself, It would peter out at one end or the other,
and the image of this petering out no man with his mental apparatus can
conceive. Therefore, one must conclude It to be perfectly adjusted and
everlasting.  But if It is perfectly adjusted and everlasting, we are all
little bits of continuity, and if we are all little bits of continuity it
is ridiculous for one of us to despise another.  So," I thought, "I have
now proved it from my friend in the billy-cock hat up to the Universe,
and from the Universe down, back again to my friend."

And I lay on my back and looked at the sky.  It seemed friendly to my
thought with its smile, and few white clouds, saffron-tinged like the
plumes of a white duck in sunlight.  "And yet," I wondered, "though my
friend and I may be equally necessary, I am certainly irritated by him,
and shall as certainly continue to be irritated, not only by him, but by
a thousand other men and so, with a light heart, you may go on being
irritated with your friend in the bowler hat, you may go on loving those
peasants and this sky and sea.  But, since you have this theory of life,
you may not despise any one or any thing, not even a skittle-alley, for
they are all threaded to you, and to despise them would be to blaspheme
against continuity, and to blaspheme against continuity would be to deny
Eternity.  Love you cannot help, and hate you cannot help; but contempt
is--for you--the sovereign idiocy, the irreligious fancy!"

There was a bee weighing down a blossom of thyme close by, and underneath
the stalk a very ugly little centipede.  The wild bee, with his little
dark body and his busy bear's legs, was lovely to me, and the creepy
centipede gave me shudderings; but it was a pleasant thing to feel so
sure that he, no less than the bee, was a little mood expressing himself
out in harmony with Designs tiny thread on the miraculous quilt.  And I
looked at him with a sudden zest and curiosity; it seemed to me that in
the mystery of his queer little creepings I was enjoying the Supreme
Mystery; and I thought: "If I knew all about that wriggling beast, then,
indeed, I might despise him; but, truly, if I knew all about him I should
know all about everything--Mystery would be gone, and I could not bear to
live!"

So I stirred him with my finger and he went away.

"But how"--I thought "about such as do not feel it ridiculous to despise;
how about those whose temperaments and religions show them all things so
plainly that they know they are right and others wrong?  They must be in a
bad way!"  And for some seconds I felt sorry for them, and was
discouraged.  But then I thought: "Not at all--obviously not!  For if
they do not find it ridiculous to feel contempt, they are perfectly right
to feel contempt, it being natural to them; and you have no business to
be sorry for them, for that is, after all, only your euphemism for
contempt.  They are all right, being the expressions of contemptuous
moods, having religions and so forth, suitable to these moods; and the
religion of your mood would be Greek to them, and probably a matter for
contempt.  But this only makes it the more interesting.  For though to
you, for instance, it may seem impossible to worship Mystery with one
lobe of the brain, and with the other to explain it, the thought that
this may not seem impossible to others should not discourage you; it is
but another little piece of that Mystery which makes life so wonderful
and sweet."

The sun, fallen now almost to the level of the cliff, was slanting upward
on to the burnt-red pine boughs, which had taken to themselves a quaint
resemblance to the great brown limbs of the wild men Titian drew in his
pagan pictures, and down below us the sea-nymphs, still swimming to
shore, seemed eager to embrace them in the enchanted groves.  All was
fused in that golden glow of the sun going down-sea and land gathered
into one transcendent mood of light and colour, as if Mystery desired to
bless us by showing how perfect was that worshipful adjustment, whose
secret we could never know.  And I said to myself: "None of those
thoughts of yours are new, and in a vague way even you have thought them
before; but all the same, they have given you some little feeling of
tranquillity."

And at that word of fear I rose and invited my companion to return toward
the town.  But as we stealthy crept by the "Osteria di Tranquillita," our
friend in the bowler hat came out with a gun over his shoulder and waved
his hand toward the Inn.

"You come again in two week--I change all that!  And now," he added, "I
go to shoot little bird or two," and he disappeared into the golden haze
under the olive-trees.

A minute later we heard his gun go off, and returned homeward with a
prayer.

1910.


MAGPIE OVER THE HILL

I lay often that summer on a slope of sand and coarse grass, close to the
Cornish sea, trying to catch thoughts; and I was trying very hard when I
saw them coming hand in hand.

She was dressed in blue linen, and a little cloud of honey-coloured hair;
her small face had serious eyes the colour of the chicory flowers she was
holding up to sniff at--a clean sober little maid, with a very touching
upward look of trust.  Her companion was a strong, active boy of perhaps
fourteen, and he, too, was serious--his deep-set, blacklashed eyes looked
down at her with a queer protective wonder; the while he explained in a
soft voice broken up between two ages, that exact process which bees
adopt to draw honey out of flowers.  Once or twice this hoarse but
charming voice became quite fervent, when she had evidently failed to
follow; it was as if he would have been impatient, only he knew he must
not, because she was a lady and younger than himself, and he loved her.

They sat down just below my nook, and began to count the petals of a
chicory flower, and slowly she nestled in to him, and he put his arm
round her.  Never did I see such sedate, sweet lovering, so trusting on
her part, so guardianlike on his.  They were like, in miniature---though
more dewy,--those sober couples who have long lived together, yet whom
one still catches looking at each other with confidential tenderness, and
in whom, one feels, passion is atrophied from never having been in use.

Long I sat watching them in their cool communion, half-embraced, talking
a little, smiling a little, never once kissing.  They did not seem shy of
that; it was rather as if they were too much each other's to think of
such a thing.  And then her head slid lower and lower down his shoulder,
and sleep buttoned the lids over those chicory-blue eyes.  How careful he
was, then, not to wake her, though I could see his arm was getting stiff!
He still sat, good as gold, holding her, till it began quite to hurt me
to see his shoulder thus in chancery.  But presently I saw him draw his
arm away ever so carefully, lay her head down on the grass, and lean
forward to stare at something.  Straight in front of them was a magpie,
balancing itself on a stripped twig of thorn-tree.  The agitating bird,
painted of night and day, was making a queer noise and flirting one wing,
as if trying to attract attention.  Rising from the twig, it circled,
vivid and stealthy, twice round the tree, and flew to another a dozen
paces off.  The boy rose; he looked at his little mate, looked at the
bird, and began quietly to move toward it; but uttering again its queer
call, the bird glided on to a third thorn-tree.  The boy hesitated
then--but once more the bird flew on, and suddenly dipped over the hill.
I saw the boy break into a run; and getting up quickly, I ran too.

When I reached the crest there was the black and white bird flying low
into a dell, and there the boy, with hair streaming back, was rushing
helter-skelter down the hill.  He reached the bottom and vanished into
the dell.  I, too, ran down the hill.  For all that I was prying and must
not be seen by bird or boy, I crept warily in among the trees to the edge
of a pool that could know but little sunlight, so thickly arched was it
by willows, birch-trees, and wild hazel.  There, in a swing of boughs
above the water, was perched no pied bird, but a young, dark-haired girl
with, dangling, bare, brown legs.  And on the brink of the black water
goldened, with fallen leaves, the boy was crouching, gazing up at her
with all his soul. She swung just out of reach and looked down at him
across the pool. How old was she, with her brown limbs, and her gleaming,
slanting eyes?  Or was she only the spirit of the dell, this elf-thing
swinging there, entwined with boughs and the dark water, and covered with
a shift of wet birch leaves.  So strange a face she had, wild, almost
wicked, yet so tender; a face that I could not take my eyes from.  Her
bare toes just touched the pool, and flicked up drops of water that fell
on the boy's face.

From him all the sober steadfastness was gone; already he looked as wild
as she, and his arms were stretched out trying to reach her feet.  I
wanted to cry to him: "Go back, boy, go back!" but could not; her elf
eyes held me dumb-they looked so lost in their tender wildness.

And then my heart stood still, for he had slipped and was struggling in
deep water beneath her feet.  What a gaze was that he was turning up to
her--not frightened, but so longing, so desperate; and hers how
triumphant, and how happy!

And then he clutched her foot, and clung, and climbed; and bending down,
she drew him up to her, all wet, and clasped him in the swing of boughs.

I took a long breath then.  An orange gleam of sunlight had flamed in
among the shadows and fell round those two where they swung over the dark
water, with lips close together and spirits lost in one another's, and in
their eyes such drowning ecstasy!  And then they kissed!  All round me
pool, and leaves, and air seemed suddenly to swirl and melt--I could see
nothing plain! .  .  .   What time passed--I do not know--before their
faces slowly again became visible!  His face the sober boy's--was turned
away from her, and he was listening; for above the whispering of leaves a
sound of weeping came from over the hill.  It was to that he listened.

And even as I looked he slid down from out of her arms; back into the
pool, and began struggling to gain the edge.  What grief and longing in
her wild face then!  But she did not wail.  She did not try to pull him
back; that elfish heart of dignity could reach out to what was coming, it
could not drag at what was gone.  Unmoving as the boughs and water, she
watched him abandon her.

Slowly the struggling boy gained land, and lay there, breathless. With
this latter purpose he sallied out in the dusk through the well-known
streets, carefully shunning observation, but in vain: one of the
first persons whom he met at once recognised him.

It was Mrs. Flockhart, Fergus Mac- Ivor's good-humoured landlady.

'Gude guide us, Mr. Waverley, is this you? na, ye needna be feared
for me.

I wad betray nae gentleman in your circumstances. Eh, lack-a-day! lack-a-day!
here's a change o' markets; how merry Colonel MacIvor and you used to be
in our house!'

And the good- natured widow shed a few natural tears. As there was no
resisting her claim of acquaintance, Waverley acknowledged it with a good
grace, as well as the danger of his own situation. 'As it's near the
darkening, sir, wad ye just step in by to our house and tak a dish
o' tea?

and I am sure if ye like to sleep in the little room, I wad tak care
ye are no disturbed, and naebody wad ken ye; for Kate and Matty, the
limmers, gaed aff wi' twa o' Hawley's dragoons, and I hae twa new
queans instead o' them.'
Waverley accepted her invitation, and engaged her lodging for a
night or two, satisfied he should be safer in the house of this
simple creature than anywhere else.

When he entered the parlour his heart swelled to see Fergus's bonnet,
with the white cockade, hanging beside the little mirror.

'Ay,' said Mrs. Flockhart, sighing, as she observed the direction of
his eyes, 'the puir Colonel bought a new ane just the day before they
marched, and I winna let them tak that ane doun, but just to brush
it ilka day mysell; and whiles I look at it till I just think I
hear him cry to Callum to bring him his bonnet, as he used to do
when he was ganging out.

It's unco silly--the neighbours ca' me a Jacobite, but they may say their
say--I am sure it's no for that--but he was as kind-hearted a gentleman
as ever lived, and as weel-fa'rd too. Oh, d'ye ken, sir, when he is to
suffer?'
'Suffer!

Good heaven!

Why, where is he?'
'Eh, Lord's sake! d'ye no ken? The poor Hieland body, Dugald Mahony,
cam here a while syne, wi' ane o' his arms cuttit off, and a sair clour
in the head--ye'll mind Dugald, he carried aye an axe on his shouther--and
he cam here just begging, as I may say, for something to eat. Aweel,
he tauld us the Chief, as they ca'd him (but I aye ca' him the Colonel),
and Ensign Maccombich, that ye mind weel, were ta'en somewhere beside
the English border, when it was sae dark that his folk never missed him
till it was ower late, and they were like to gang clean daft. And he
said that little Callum Beg (he was a bauld mischievous callant that)
and your honour were killed that same night in the tuilzie, and mony
mae braw men. But he grat when he spak o' the Colonel, ye never saw
the like. And now the word gangs the Colonel is to be tried,
and to suffer wi' them that were ta'en at Carlisle.'
'And his sister?'
'Ay, that they ca'd the Lady Flora--weel, she's away up to Carlisle to him,
and lives wi' some grand Papist lady thereabouts to be near him.'

'And,' said Edward,'the other young lady?'
'Whilk other? I ken only of ae sister the Colonel had.'
'I mean Miss Bradwardine,' said Edward.

'Ou, ay; the laird's daughter' said his landlady. 'She was a very bonny
lassie, poor thing, but far shyer than Lady Flora.'
'Where is she, for God's sake?'
'Ou, wha kens where ony o' them is now? puir things, they're sair ta'en
doun for their white cockades and their white roses; but she gaed
north to her father's in Perthshire, when the government troops cam
back to Edinbro'. There was some prettymen amang them, and ane Major
Whacker was quartered on me, a very ceevil gentleman,--but O, Mr. Waverley,
he was naething sae weel fa'rd as the puir Colonel.'
'Do you know what is become of Miss Bradwardine's father?'
'The auld laird? na, naebody kens that. But they say he fought very hard
in that bluidy battle at Inverness; and Deacon Clank, the whit-iron
smith, says that the government folk are sair agane him for having been
out twice; and troth he might hae ta'en warning, but there's nae Me
like an auld fule. The puir Colonel was only out ance.'

Such conversation contained almost all the good-natured widow knew of the
fate of her late lodgers and acquaintances; but it was enough to
determine Edward, at all hazards, to proceed instantly to Tully-Veolan,
where he concluded he should see, or at least hear, something of
Rose.

He therefore left a letter for Colonel Talbot at the place agreed
upon, signed by his assumed name, and giving for his address the
post-town next to the Baron's residence.

From Edinburgh to Perth he took post-horses, resolving to make the
rest of his journey on foot; a mode of travelling to which he was
partial, and which had the advantage of permitting a deviation from
the road when he saw parties of military at a distance.

His campaign had considerably strengthened his constitution and
improved his habits of enduring fatigue.

His baggage he sent before him as opportunity occurred.

As he advanced northward, the traces of war became visible.

Broken carriages, dead horses, unroofed cottages, trees felled for
palisades, and bridges destroyed or only partially repaired--all
indicated the movements of hostile armies.

In those places where the gentry were attached to the Stuart cause, their
houses seemed dismantled or deserted, the usual course of what may be
called ornamental labour was totally interrupted, and the inhabitants were
seen gliding about, with fear, sorrow, and dejection on their faces.

It was evening when he approached the village of Tully-Veolan, with
feelings and sentiments--how different from those which attended
his first entrance!

Then, life was so new to him that a dull or disagreeable day was one of
the greatest misfortunes which his imagination anticipated, and it seemed
to him that his time ought only to be consecrated to elegant or amusing
study, and relieved by social or youthful frolic. Now, how changed! how
saddened, yet how elevated was his character, within the course of a
very few months! Danger and misfortune are rapid, though severe teachers.
'A sadder and a wiser man,' he felt in internal confidence and mental
dignity a compensation for the gay dreams which in his case experience
had so rapidly dissolved.

As he approached the village he saw, with surprise and anxiety, that a
party of soldiers were quartered near it, and, what was worse, that
they seemed stationary there. This he conjectured from a few tents
which he beheld glimmering upon what was called the Common Moor. To
avoid the risk of being stopped and questioned in a place where he was
so likely to be recognised, he made a large circuit, altogether avoiding
the hamlet, and approaching the upper gate of the avenue by a by-path
well known to him. A single glance announced that great changes had taken
place. One half of the gate, entirely destroyed and split up for firewood,
lay in piles, ready to be taken away; the other swung uselessly
about upon its loosened hinges. The battlements above the gate were broken
and thrown down, and the carved bears, which were said to have done
sentinel's duty upon the top for centuries, now, hurled from their posts,
lay among the rubbish. The avenue was cruelly wasted.
Several large trees were felled and left lying across the path; and the
cattle of the villagers, and the more rude hoofs of dragoon horses, had
poached into black mud the verdant turf which Waverley had so much
admired.

Upon entering the court-yard, Edward saw the fears realised which these
circumstances had excited. The place had been sacked by the King's troops,
who, in wanton mischief, had even attempted to burn it; and though
the thickness of the walls had resisted the fire, unless to a partial
extent, the stables and out-houses were totally consumed. The towers and
pinnacles of the main building were scorched and blackened; the pavement
of the court broken and shattered, the doors torn down entirely, or
hanging by a single hinge, the windows dashed in and demolished, and the
court strewed with articles of furniture broken into fragments. The
accessaries of ancient distinction, to which the Baron, in the pride
of his heart, had attached so much importance and veneration, were treated
with peculiar contumely. The fountain was demolished, and the spring which
had supplied it now flooded the court-yard. The stone basin seemed to be
destined for a drinking-trough for cattle, from the manner in which
it was arranged upon the ground.

The whole tribe of bears, large and small, had experienced as little favour
as those at the head of the avenue, and one or two of the family
pictures, which seemed to have served as targets for the soldiers,
lay on the ground in tatters.

With an aching heart, as may well be imagined, Edward viewed this wreck
of a mansion so respected. But his anxiety to learn the fate of the
proprietors, and his fears as to what that fate might be, increased
with every step. When he entered upon the terrace new scenes of desolation
were visible. The balustrade was broken down, the walls destroyed, the
borders overgrown with weeds, and the fruit-trees cut down or grubbed
up. In one compartment of this old-fashioned garden were two immense
horse-chestnut trees, of whose size the Baron was particularly vain; too
lazy, perhaps, to cut them down, the spoilers, with malevolent ingenuity,
had mined them and placed a quantity of gunpowder in the cavity. One had
been shivered to pieces by the explosion, and the fragments lay
scattered around, encumbering the ground it had so long shadowed.

The other mine had been more partial in its effect. About one-fourth of
the trunk of the tree was torn from the mass, which, mutilated and
defaced on the one side, still spread on the other its ample and
undiminished boughs.

[Footnote: A pair of chestnut trees, destroyed, the one entirely and
the other in part, by such a mischievous and wanton act of revenge,
grew at Invergarry Castle, the fastness of MacDonald of Glengarry.]
Amid these general marks of ravage, there were some which more particularly
addressed the feelings of Waverley. Viewing the front of the building
thus wasted and defaced, his eyes naturally sought the little
balcony which more properly belonged to Rose's apartment, her
troisieme, or rather cinquieme, etage.

It was easily discovered, for beneath it lay the stage-flowers and shrubs
with which it was her pride to decorate it, and which had been hurled
from the bartizan; several of her books were mingled with broken
flower-pots and other remnants.

Among these Waverley distinguished one of his own, a small copy of
Ariosto, and gathered it as a treasure, though wasted by
the wind and rain.

While, plunged in the sad reflections which the scene excited, he
was looking around for some one who might explain the fate of the
inhabitants, he heard a voice from the interior of the building
singing, in well-remembered accents, an old Scottish song:--
They came upon us in the night, And brake my bower and slew my
knight; My servants a' for life did flee, And left us in extremitie.

They slew my knight, to me sae dear; They slew my knight, and drave
his gear; The moon may set, the sun may rise, But a deadly sleep has
closed his eyes.

[Footnote: The first three couplets are from an old ballad, called the
Border Widow's Lament.]
'Alas,' thought Edward, 'is it thou? Poor helpless being, art thou alone
left, to gibber and moan, and fill with thy wild and unconnected scraps
of minstrelsy the halls that protected thee?' He then called, first low,
and then louder, 'Davie--Davie Gellatley!'
The poor simpleton showed himself from among the ruins of a sort
of greenhouse, that once terminated what was called the terrace- walk,
but at first sight of a stranger retreated, as if in terror.
Waverley, remembering his habits, began to whistle a tune to which he was
partial, which Davie had expressed great pleasure in listening to, and
had picked up from him by the ear. Our hero's minstrelsy no more equalled
that of Blondel than poor Davie resembled Coeur de Lion; but the melody
had the same effect of producing recognition. Davie again stole from his
lurking-place, but timidly, while Waverley, afraid of frightening him,
stood making the most encouraging signals he could devise. 'It's his
ghaist,' muttered Davie; yet, coming nearer, he seemed to acknowledge his
living acquaintance. The poor fool himself appeared the ghost of what
he had been. The peculiar dress in which he had been attired in better
days showed only miserable rags of its whimsical finery, the lack of
which was oddly supplied by the remnants of tapestried hangings,
window-curtains, and shreds of pictures with which he had bedizened
his tatters.

His face, too, had lost its vacant and careless air, and the poor
creature looked hollow-eyed, meagre, half-starved, and nervous to
a pitiable degree.

After long hesitation, he at length approached Waverley with some
confidence, stared him sadly in the face, and said, 'A' dead and
gane--a' dead and gane.'

'Who are dead?'

said Waverley, forgetting the incapacity of Davie to hold any connected
discourse.

'Baron, and Bailie, and Saunders Saunderson, and Lady Rose that
sang sae sweet--a' dead and gane--dead and gane;
But follow, follow me, While glowworms light the lea, I'll show ye
where the dead should be-- Each in his shroud, While winds pipe
loud, And the red moon peeps dim through the cloud.

Follow, follow me; Brave should he be That treads by night the dead
man's lea.'

With these words, chanted in a wild and earnest tone, he made a sign to
Waverley to follow him, and walked rapidly towards the bottom of the
garden, tracing the bank of the stream which, it may be remembered,
was its eastern boundary.

Edward, over whom an involuntary shuddering stole at the import of his
words, followed him in some hope of an explanation. As the house was
evidently deserted, he could not expect to find among the ruins any more
rational informer.

Davie, walking very fast, soon reached the extremity of the garden,
and scrambled over the ruins of the wall that once had divided it
from the wooded glen in which the old tower of Tully- Veolan was
situated.

He then jumped down into the bed of the stream, and, followed by
Waverley, proceeded at a great pace, climbing over some fragments
of rock and turning with difficulty round others.

They passed beneath the ruins of the castle; Waverley followed, keeping
up with his guide with difficulty, for the twilight began to fall. Following
the descent of the stream a little lower, he totally lost him, but a
twinkling light which he now discovered among the tangled copse-wood
and bushes seemed a surer guide. He soon pursued a very uncouth path; and
by its guidance at length reached the door of a wretched hut. A fierce
barking of dogs was at first heard, but it stilled at his approach. A
voice sounded from within, and he held it most prudent to listen
before he advanced.

'Wha hast thou brought here, thou unsonsy villain, thou?'

said an old woman, apparently in great indignation.

He heard Davie Gellatley in answer whistle a part of the tune by which
he had recalled himself to the simpleton's memory, and had now no
hesitation to knock at the door. There was a dead silence instantly within,
except the deep growling of the dogs; and he next heard the mistress of
the hut approach the door, not probably for the sake of undoing a latch,
but of fastening a bolt. To prevent this Waverley lifted the latch
himself.

In front was an old wretched-looking woman, exclaiming, 'Wha comes into
folk's houses in this gate, at this time o' the night?' On one side,
two grim and half-starved deer greyhounds laid aside their ferocity at
his appearance, and seemed to recognise him. On the other side, half
concealed by the open door, yet apparently seeking that concealment
reluctantly, with a cocked pistol in his right hand and his left in the
act of drawing another from his belt, stood a tall bony gaunt
figure in the remnants of a faded uniform and a beard of three
weeks' growth.

It was the Baron of Bradwardine. It is unnecessary to add, that he threw
aside his weapon and greeted Waverley with a hearty embrace.

CHAPTER LXIV

COMPARING OF NOTES
Thearon's story was short, when divested of the adages and commonplaces,
Latin, English, and Scotch, with which his erudition garnished it.

He insisted much upon his grief at the loss of Edward and of Glennaquoich,
fought the fields of Falkirk and Culloden, and related how, after all
was lost in the last battle, he had returned home, under the idea
of more easily finding shelter among his own tenants and on his own
estate than elsewhere.

A party of soldiers had been sent to lay waste his property, for
clemency was not the order of the day.

Their proceedings, however, were checked by an order from the civil
court.

The estate, it was found, might not be forfeited to the crown to the
prejudice of Malcolm Bradwardine of Inch-Grabbit, the heir-male,
whose claim could not be prejudiced by the Baron's attainder, as
deriving no right through him, and who, therefore, like other heirs
of entail in the same situation, entered upon possession.

But, unlike many in similar circumstances, the new laird speedily
showed that he intended utterly to exclude his predecessor from all
benefit or advantage in the estate, and that it was his purpose to
avail himself of the old Baron's evil fortune to the full extent.

This was the more ungenerous, as it was generally known that, from a romantic
idea of not prejudicing this young man's right as heir-male, the Baron had
refrained from settling his estate on his daughter.

This selfish injustice was resented by the country people, who were
partial to their old master, and irritated against his successor. In the
Baron's own words, 'The matter did not coincide with the feelings
of the commons of Bradwardine, Mr.

Waverley; and the tenants were slack and repugnant in payment of
their mails and duties; and when my kinsman came to the village wi'
the new factor, Mr.

James Howie, to lift the rents, some wanchancy person --I suspect John
Heatherblutter, the auld gamekeeper, that was out wi' me in the year
fifteen--fired a shot at him in the gloaming, whereby he was so affrighted,
that I may say with Tullius In Catilinam, "Abiit, evasit, erupit,
effugit." He fled, sir, as one may say, incontinent to Stirling. And
now he hath advertised the estate for sale, being himself the last
substitute in the entail.

And if I were to lament about sic matters, this would grieve me
mair than its passing from my immediate possession, whilk, by the
course of nature, must have happened in a few years; whereas now
it passes from the lineage that should have possessed it in scecula
saculorum.

But God's will be done, humana perpessi sumus.
Sir John of Bradwardine--Black Sir John, as he is called--who was
the common ancestor of our house and the Inch-Grabbits, little
thought such a person would have sprung from his loins.

Mean time, he has accused me to some of the primates, the rulers
for the time, as if I were a cut-throat, and an abettor of bravoes
and assassinates and coupe-jarrets.

And they have sent soldiers here to abide on the estate, and hunt
me like a partridge upon the mountains, as Scripture says of good
King David, or like our valiant Sir William Wallace--not that I
bring myself into comparison with either.

I thought, when I heard you at the door, they had driven the auld
deer to his den at last; and so I e'en proposed to die at bay, like
a buck of the first head.

But now, Janet, canna ye gie us something for supper?' 'Ou ay, sir,
I'll brander the moor-fowl that John Heatherblutter brought in this
morning; and ye see puir Davie's roasting the black hen's eggs. I
daur say, Mr.

Wauverley, ye never kend that a' the eggs that were sae weel roasted at
supper in the Ha'-house were aye turned by our Davie? there's no the
like o' him ony gate for powtering wi' his fingers amang the het
peat-ashes and roasting eggs.' Davie all this while lay with his
nose almost in the fire, nuzzling among the ashes, kicking his heels,
mumbling to himself, turning the eggs as they lay in the hot embers,
as if to confute the proverb, that 'there goes reason to roasting of
eggs,' and justify
the eulogium which poor Janet poured out upon
Him whom she loved, her idiot boy.

We
might as well have been that lonely bird crossing up there in the blind
white nothingness, like a human spirit wandering on the undiscovered moor
of its own future.

The mare jumped a pile of stones, which appeared, as it were, after we
had passed over; and it came into my mind that, if we happened to strike
one of the old quarry pits, we should infallibly be killed. Somehow,
there was pleasure in this thought, that we might, or might not, strike
that old quarry pit.  The blood in us being hot, we had pure joy in
charging its white, impalpable solidity, which made way, and at once
closed in behind us.  There was great fun in this yard-by-yard discovery
that we were not yet dead, this flying, shelterless challenge to whatever
might lie out there, five yards in front.  We felt supremely above the
wish to know that our necks were safe; we were happy, panting in the
vapour that beat against our faces from the sheer speed of our galloping.
Suddenly the ground grew lumpy and made up-hill.  The mare slackened
pace; we stopped.  Before us, behind, to right and left, white vapour.
No sky, no distance, barely the earth.  No wind in our faces, no wind
anywhere. At first we just got our breath, thought nothing, talked a
little.  Then came a chillness, a faint clutching over the heart.  The
mare snuffled; we turned and made down-hill.  And still the mist
thickened, and seemed to darken ever so little; we went slowly, suddenly
doubtful of all that was in front.  There came into our minds visions, so
distant in that darkening vapour, of a warm stall and manger of oats; of
tea and a log fire.  The mist seemed to have fingers now, long, dark
white, crawling fingers; it seemed, too, to have in its sheer silence a
sort of muttered menace, a shuddery lurkingness, as if from out of it
that spirit of the unknown, which in hot blood we had just now so
gleefully mocked, were creeping up at us, intent on its vengeance. Since
the ground no longer sloped, we could not go down-hill; there were no
means left of telling in what direction we were moving, and we stopped to
listen.  There was no sound, not one tiny noise of water, wind in trees,
or man; not even of birds or the moor ponies. And the mist darkened.  The
mare reached her head down and walked on, smelling at the heather; every
time she sniffed, one's heart quivered, hoping she had found the way.
She threw up her head, snorted, and stood still; and there passed just in
front of us a pony and her foal, shapes of scampering dusk, whisked like
blurred shadows across a sheet.  Hoof-silent in the long heather--as ever
were visiting ghosts--they were gone in a flash.  The mare plunged
forward, following.  But, in the feel of her gallop, and the feel of my
heart, there was no more that ecstasy of facing the unknown; there was
only the cold, hasty dread of loneliness.  Far asunder as the poles were
those two sensations, evoked by this same motion.  The mare swerved
violently and stopped.  There, passing within three yards, from the same
direction as before, the soundless shapes of the pony and her foal flew
by again, more intangible, less dusky now against the darker screen.
Were we, then, to be haunted by those bewildering uncanny ones, flitting
past ever from the same direction?  This time the mare did not follow, but
stood still; knowing as well as I that direction was quite lost.  Soon,
with a whimper, she picked her way on again, smelling at the heather.
And the mist darkened!

Then, out of the heart of that dusky whiteness, came a tiny sound; we
stood, not breathing, turning our heads.  I could see the mare's eye
fixed and straining at the vapour.  The tiny sound grew till it became
the muttering of wheels.  The mare dashed forward.  The muttering ceased
untimely; but she did not stop; turning abruptly to the left, she slid,
scrambled, and dropped into a trot.  The mist seemed whiter below us; we
were on the road.  And involuntarily there came from me a sound, not
quite a shout, not quite an oath.  I saw the mare's eye turn back,
faintly derisive, as who should say: Alone I did it!  Then slowly,
comfortably, a little ashamed, we jogged on, in the mood of men and
horses when danger is over.  So pleasant it seemed now, in one short
half-hour, to have passed through the circle-swing of the emotions, from
the ecstasy of hot recklessness to the clutching of chill fear.  But the
meeting-point of those two sensations we had left out there on the
mysterious moor!  Why, at one moment, had we thought it finer than
anything on earth to risk the breaking of our necks; and the next,
shuddered at being lost in the darkening mist with winter night fast
coming on?

And very luxuriously we turned once more into the lanes, enjoying the
past, scenting the future.  Close to home, the first little eddy of wind
stirred, and the song of dripping twigs began; an owl hooted, honey-soft,
in the fog.  We came on two farm hands mending the lane at the turn of
the avenue, and, curled on the top of the bank, their cosy red collie
pup, waiting for them to finish work for the day. He raised his sharp
nose and looked at us dewily.  We turned down, padding softly in the wet
fox-red drifts under the beechtrees, whereon the last leaves still
flickered out in the darkening whiteness, that now seemed so little
eerie.  We passed the grey-green skeleton of the farm-yard gate.  A hen
ran across us, clucking, into the dusk.  The maze drew her long,
home-coming snuffle, and stood still.
1910.


THE PROCESSION

In one of those corners of our land canopied by the fumes of blind
industry, there was, on that day, a lull in darkness.  A fresh wind had
split the customary heaven, or roof of hell; was sweeping long drifts of
creamy clouds across a blue still pallid with reek.  The sun even
shone--a sun whose face seemed white and wondering.  And under that rare
sun all the little town, among its slag heaps and few tall chimneys, had
an air of living faster.  In those continuous courts and alleys, where
the women worked, smoke from each little forge rose and dispersed into
the wind with strange alacrity; amongst the women, too, there was that
same eagerness, for the sunshine had crept in and was making pale all
those dark-raftered, sooted ceilings which covered them in, together with
their immortal comrades, the small open furnaces.  About their work they
had been busy since seven o'clock; their feet pressing the leather lungs
which fanned the conical heaps of glowing fuel, their hands poking into
the glow a thin iron rod till the end could be curved into a fiery hook;
snapping it with a mallet; threading it with tongs on to the chain;
hammering, closing the link; and; without a second's pause, thrusting the
iron rod again into the glow.  And while they worked they chattered,
laughed sometimes, now and then sighed.  They seemed of all ages and all
types; from her who looked like a peasant of Provence, broad, brown, and
strong, to the weariest white consumptive wisp; from old women of
seventy, with straggling grey hair, to fifteen-year-old girls.  In the
cottage forges there would be but one worker, or two at most; in the shop
forges four, or even five, little glowing heaps; four or five of the
grimy, pale lung-bellows; and never a moment without a fiery hook about
to take its place on the growing chains, never a second when the thin
smoke of the forges, and of those lives consuming slowly in front of
them, did not escape from out of the dingy, whitewashed spaces past the
dark rafters, away to freedom.

But there had been in the air that morning something more than the white
sunlight.  There had been anticipation.  And at two o'clock began
fulfilment.  The forges were stilled, and from court and alley forth came
the women.  In their ragged working clothes, in their best clothes--so
little different; in bonnets, in hats, bareheaded; with babies born and
unborn, they swarmed into the high street and formed across it behind the
band.  A strange, magpie, jay-like flock; black, white, patched with
brown and green and blue, shifting, chattering, laughing, seeming
unconscious of any purpose.  A thousand and more of them, with faces
twisted and scored by those myriad deformings which a desperate
town-toiling and little food fasten on human visages; yet with hardly a
single evil or brutal face.  Charles was well aware of the desperate
nature of the contest, but had no desire to retreat. His situation was
not worse than what it had been when he landed on the Hebrides.

Having penetrated to within one hundred and twenty miles of London, against
the expectations of every one, why should he not persevere? Some unlooked-for
success, some lucky incidents, might restore him to the throne of his
grandfather.
Besides, a French army of ten thousand was about to land in England.
The Duke of Norfolk, the first nobleman in the country, was ready to
declare in his favor. London was in commotion. A chance remained.

But his followers thought only of their homes, and Charles was obliged
to yield to an irresistible necessity.

Like Richard Coeur de Lion after the surrender of Acre, he was
compelled to return, without realizing the fruit of bravery and
success.

Like the lion-hearted king, pensive and sad, sullen and miserable,
he gave the order to retreat. His spirits, hitherto buoyant and gladsome,
now fell, and despondency and despair succeeded vivacity and hope. He
abandoned himself to grief and vexation, lingered behind his retreating
army, and was reckless of his men and of their welfare.

And well he may have been depressed. The motto of Hampden, "_Vestigia nulla
retrorsum_," had also governed him. But others would not be animated by
it, and he was ruined.

[Sidenote: Battle of Culloden.]
But his miserable and dejected army succeeded in reaching their native
soil, although pursued by the cavalry of two powerful armies, in the midst
of a hostile population, and amid great sufferings from hunger and fatigue.
On the 26th of December, he entered Glasgow, levied a contribution
on the people, and prepared himself for his final battle.
He retreated to the Highlands, and spent the winter in recruiting his troops,
and in taking fortresses. On the 15th of April, 1746, he drew up
his army on the moor of Culloden, near Inverness, with the desperate
resolution of attacking, with vastly inferior forces, the Duke of
Cumberland, intrenched nine miles distant. The design was foolish and
unfortunate.

It was early discovered; and the fresh troops of the royal duke attacked
the dispirited, scattered, and wearied followers of Charles Edward before
they could form themselves in battle array. They defended themselves
with valor. But what is valor against overwhelming force? The army
of Charles was totally routed, and his hopes were blasted forever.

The most horrid barbarities and cruelties were inflicted by the victors.
The wounded were left to die.

The castles of rebel chieftains were razed to the ground. Herds
and flocks were driven away, and the people left to perish with hunger.
Some of the captives were sent to Barbadoes, others were imprisoned, and
many were shot. A reward of thirty thousand pounds was placed on the
head of the Pretender; but he nevertheless escaped. After wandering a while
as a fugitive, disguised, wearied, and miserable, hunted from fortress
to fortress, and from island to island, he succeeded, by means of the
unparalleled loyalty and fidelity of his few Highland followers, in
securing a vessel, and in escaping to France. His adventures among
the Western Islands, especially those which happened while wandering, in
the disguise of a female servant, with Flora Macdonald, are highly
romantic and wonderful. Equally wonderful is the fact that, of the many
to whom his secret was intrusted, not one was disposed to betray him,
even in view of so splendid a bribe as thirty thousand pounds.
But this fact, though surprising, is not inconceivable. Had Washington
been unfortunate in his contest with the mother country, and had he
wandered as a fugitive amid the mountains of Vermont, would not many
Americans have shielded him, even in view of a reward of one hundred
thousand pounds?

[Sidenote: Latter Days of the Pretender.]
The latter days of the Pretender were spent in Rome and Florence. He
married a Polish princess, and assumed the title of _Duke of Albany_.

He never relinquished the hope of securing the English crown, and always
retained his politeness and grace of manner. But he became an object of
pity, not merely from his poverty and misfortunes, but also from the
vice of intemperance, which he acquired in Scotland. He died of apoplexy,
in 1788, and left no legitimate issue. The last male heir of the house
of Stuart was the Cardinal of York, who died in 1807, and who was
buried in St.

Peter's Cathedral; over whose mortal remains was erected a marble
monument, by Canova, through the munificence of George IV., to whom the
cardinal had left the crown jewels which James II. had carried with him
to France. This monument bears the names of James III., Charles III.,
and Henry IX., kings of England; titles never admitted by the English.
With the battle of Culloden expired the hopes of the Catholics and Jacobites
to restore Catholicism and the Stuarts.

The great European war, which was begun by Sir Robert Walpole, not long
before his retirement, was another great event which happened during the
administration of the Pelhams, and with which their administration was
connected. The Spanish war was followed by the war of the Austrian

Succession.

[Sidenote: Maria Theresa.]

Maria Theresa, Queen of Hungary, ascended the oldest and proudest throne
of Europe,--that of Germany,--amid a host of claimants. The Elector of
Bavaria laid claim to her hereditary dominions in Bohemia; the King of
Sardinia made pretension to the duchy of Milan; while the Kings of Poland,
Spain, France, and Prussia disputed with her her rights to the whole
Austrian succession. Never were acts of gross injustice meditated with
greater audacity. Just as the young and beautiful princess ascended the
throne of Charlemagne, amid embarrassments and perplexities,--such as
an exhausted treasury, a small army, a general scarcity, threatened
hostilities with the Turks, and absolute war with France,--the new
king of Prussia, Frederic, surnamed the Great, availing himself of her
distresses, seized one of the finest provinces of her empire.

The first notice which the queen had of the seizure of Silesia, was an
insulting speech from the Prussian ambassador. "I come," said he, "with
safety for the house of Austria on the one hand, and the imperial
crown for your royal highness on the other.

The troops of my master are at the service of the queen, and cannot fail
of being acceptable, at a time when she is in want of both. And as the
king, my master, from the situation of his dominions, will be exposed
to great danger from this alliance with the Queen of Hungary, it is hoped
that, as an indemnification, the queen will not offer him less than
the whole duchy of Silesia."

The queen, of course, was indignant in view of this cool piece of villany,
and prepared to resist. War with all the continental powers was the result.
France joined the coalition to deprive the queen of her empire. Two
French armies invaded Germany.

The Elector of Bavaria marched, with a hostile army, to within eight
miles of Vienna. The King of Prussia made himself master of Silesia.
Abandoned by all her allies,--without an army, or ministers, or money,--the
queen fled to Hungary, her hereditary dominions, and threw herself
on the generosity of her subjects.

She invoked the states of the Diet, and, clad in deep mourning, with the
crown of St.

Stephen on her head, and a cimeter at her side, she traversed the hall
in which her nobles were assembled, and addressed them, in the
immortal language of Rome, respecting her wrongs and her distresses.

Her faithful subjects responded to her call; and youth, beauty, and
rank, in distress, obtained their natural triumph. "A thousand swords
leaped from their scabbards," and the old hall rung with the cry,
"We will die for our queen, Maria Theresa."

Tears started from the eyes of the queen, whom misfortunes and
insult could not bend, and called forth, even more than her words,
the enthusiasm of her subjects.

It was in defence of this injured and noble queen that the English
parliament voted supplies and raised armies. This was the war which
characterized the Pelham administration, and to which Walpole was
opposed.

But it will be further presented, when allusion is made to Frederic
the Great.

France no sooner formed an alliance with Prussia, against Austria,
than the "balance of power" seemed to be disturbed.

To restore this balance, and preserve Austria, was the aim of
England.

To the desire to preserve this power may be traced most of the wars
of the eighteenth century.

The idea of a balance of power was the leading principle which animated
all the diplomatic transactions of Europe for more than a century.

By the treaty of Breslau, (1742,) Maria Theresa yielded up to Frederic
the province of Silesia, and Europe might have remained at peace.

But as England and France were both involved in the contest, their
old spirit of rivalry returned; and, from auxiliaries, they became
principals in the war, and soon renewed it.

The theatre of strife was changed from Germany to Holland, and the arms
of France were triumphant.

The Duke of Cumberland was routed by Marshal Saxe at the great battle of
Fontenoy; and this battle restored peace, for a while, to Germany. The
Grand Duke of Tuscany, husband of Maria Theresa, was elected Emperor of
Germany, and assumed the title of Francis I.

But it was easier to restore tranquillity to Germany, than peace
between England and France; both powers panting for military glory,
and burning with mutual jealousy.

The peace of Aix la Chapelle, in 1748, was a truce rather than a
treaty; and France and England soon found occasion to plunge into
new hostilities.

[Sidenote: Capture of Louisburg.]
During the war of the Austrian Succession, hostilities had not been confined
to the continent of Europe. As colonial jealousy was one of the animating
principles of two of the leading powers in the contest, the
warfare extended to the colonies themselves. A body of French, from
Cape Breton, surprised the little English garrison of Canseau,
destroyed the fort and fishery, and removed eighty men, as prisoners
of war, to Louisburg--the strongest fortress, next to Quebec, in
French America.

These men were afterwards sent to Boston, on parole, and, while there,
communicated to Governor Shirley the state of the fortress in which
they had been confined.

Shirley resolved to capture it, and the legislature of Massachusetts voted
supplies for the expedition.

All the New England colonies sent volunteers; and the united forces,
of about four thousand men were put under the command of William
Pepperell, a merchant at Kittery Point, near Portsmouth.
The principal part of the forces was composed of fishermen; but
they were Yankees.

Amid the fogs of April, this little army, rich in expedients, set sail
to take a fortress which five hundred men could defend against
five thousand.

But they were successful, aided by an English fleet; and, after a
siege of three months, Louisburg surrendered, (1745)--justly deemed
the greatest achievement of the whole war.

[Sidenote: Great Colonial Contest.]
But the French did not relinquish their hopes of gaining an ascendency
on the American continent, and prosecuted their labors of erecting on
the Ohio their chain of fortifications, to connect Canada with
Louisiana.

The erection of these forts was no small cause of the breaking out of fresh
hostilities. When the contest was renewed between Maria Theresa and
Frederic the Great, and the famous Seven Years' War began, the English
resolved to conquer all the French possessions in America.

Without waiting, however, for directions from England, Governor Dinwiddie,
of Virginia, raised a regiment of troops, of which George Washington
was made lieutenant-colonel, and with which he marched across the
wilderness to attack Fort Du Quesne, now Pittsburg, at the junction
of the Alleghany and Monongahela Rivers.

That unsuccessful expedition was the commencement of the great
colonial contest in which Canada was conquered.

Early in 1755, General Braddock was sent to America to commence
offensive operations.

The colonies coöperated, and three expeditions were planned; one
to attack Fort Du Quesne, a second to attack Fort Niagara, and a
third to attack Crown Point.

The first was to be composed of British troops, under Braddock, the
second of American, under Governor Shirley, and the third of militia
of the northern colonies.

The expedition against Fort Du Quesne was a memorable failure.

Braddock was a brave man, but unfitted for his work, Hyde Park having
hitherto been the only field of his military operations.

Moreover, with that presumption and audacity which then characterized
his countrymen, he affected sovereign contempt for his American
associates, and would listen to no advice.

Unacquainted with Indian warfare, and ignorant of the country, he yet pressed
towards the interior, until, within ten miles of Fort Du Quesne, he was
surprised by a body of French and Indians, and taken in an ambuscade.

Instant retreat might still have saved him; but he was too proud not
to fight according to rule; and he fell mortally wounded.

Washington was the only mounted officer that escaped being killed or
wounded. By his prudent and skilful management, he saved half of
his men, who formed after the battle, and effected a retreat.

The other two expeditions also failed, chiefly through want of union
between the provincial governor and the provincial assemblies, and
also from the moral effects of the defeat of Braddock.

Moreover, the colonies perfectly understood that they were fighting, not
for liberty, but for the glory and ambition of the mother country,
and therefore did not exhibit the ardor they evinced in the
revolutionary struggle.

But the failure of these expeditions contributed to make the ministry
of the Duke of Newcastle unpopular.

Other mistakes were also made in the old world. The conduct of Admiral
Byng in the Mediterranean excited popular clamor. The repeated
disappointments and miscarriages, the delay of armaments, the
neglect of opportunities, the absurd disposition of fleets, were
numbered among the misfortunes which resulted from a weak and
incapable ministry.

Stronger men were demanded by the indignant voice of the nation, and the
Duke of Newcastle, first lord of the treasury, since the death of
his brother, was obliged to call Mr.

Pitt and Mr. Legge--the two most popular commoners of England--into
the cabinet. But the new administration did not work harmoniously.

It was an emblem of that image which Nebuchadnezzar beheld in a
vision, with a head of gold, and legs of iron, and feet of clay.

Pitt and Legge were obliged by their colleague to resign. But their removal
incensed the whole nation, and so great was the clamor, that the king
was compelled to reinstate the popular idols--the only men capable
of managing affairs at that crisis.

Pitt became secretary of state, and Legge chancellor of the exchequer.
The Duke of Newcastle, after being at the head of administration
ten years, was, reluctantly, compelled to resign.

The Duke of Devonshire became nominally the premier, but Pitt was the
ruling spirit in the cabinet.

[Sidenote: Character of the Duke of Newcastle.]
The character of the Duke of Newcastle is thus sketched by Horace Walpole;
"He had no pride, but infinite self-love.

Jealousy was the great source of all his faults. There was no expense to
which he was addicted but generosity.

His houses, gardens, table, and equipage, swallowed immense sums, and
the sums he owed were only exceeded by those he wasted. He loved
business immoderately, but was always doing it; he never did it.

His speeches were copious in words, but empty and unmeaning, his
professions extravagant, and his curiosity insatiable.
He was a secretary of state without intelligence, a duke without
money, a man of infinite intrigue without secrecy, and a minister
hated by all parties, without being turned out by either."

"All able men," adds Macaulay, "ridiculed him as a dunce, a driveller,
a child who never knew his own mind an hour together; and yet he
overreached them all."

[Sidenote: Unpopularity of the Pelhams.]
The Pelham administration cannot, on the whole, be called fortunate,
nor, on the other hand, a disgraceful one. The Pelhams "showed themselves,"
says Smyth, "friendly to the principles of mild government." With all
their faults, they were tolerant, peaceful, prudent; they had the merit
of respecting public opinion; and though they were not fitted to
advance the prosperity of their country by any exertions of political
genius, they were not blind to such opportunities as fairly presented
themselves.

But they were not fitted for the stormy times in which they lived, and
quietly yielded to the genius of a man whom they did not like, and whom
the king absolutely hated.

George II., against his will, was obliged to intrust the helm of
state to the only man in the nation capable of holding it.

The administration of William Pitt is emphatically the history of
the civilized world, during a period of almost universal war.

It was for his talents as a war minister that he was placed at the
head of the government, and his policy, like that of his greater
son, in a still more stormy epoch, was essentially warlike.

In the eyes of his contemporaries, his administration was brilliant and
successful, and he undoubtedly raised England to a high pitch of military
glory; but glory, alas!

most dearly purchased, since it led to the imposition of taxes
beyond a parallel, and the vast increase of the national debt.

[Sidenote: Rise of William Pitt.]
He was born in 1708, of good family, his grandfather having
been governor of Madras, and the purchaser of the celebrated diamond
which bears his name, and which was sold to the regent of France
for one hundred and thirty-five thousand pounds.

William Pitt was sent to Oxford at the age of seventeen, and at
twenty-seven, became a member of parliament.

From the first, he was heard with attention, and, when years and experience
had given him wisdom and power, his eloquence was overwhelming.
No one ever equalled him in brilliant invective and scorching sarcasm. He
had not the skill of Fox in debate, nor was he a great reasoner, like
Murray; he did not talk philosophy, like Burke, nor was he master
of details, like his son; but he had an air of sincerity, a vehemence of
feeling, an intense enthusiasm, and a moral elevation of sentiment,
which bore every thing away before him.

When Walpole was driven from power, Pitt exerted his eloquence in behalf
of the Pelham government. Being personally obnoxious to the king, he
obtained no office. But he was not a man to be amused by promises long,
and, as he would not render his indispensable services without a reward,
he was made paymaster of the forces--a lucrative office, but one which did
not give him a seat in the cabinet. This office he retained for
eight years, which were years of peace. But when the horizon was
overclouded by the death of Henry Pelham, in 1754, and difficulties
arose between France and England respecting North America and the
East Indies; when disasters in war tarnished the glory of the British
arms, and the Duke of Newcastle showed his incapacity to meet the
national crisis, Pitt commenced a furious opposition.
It was so good to be alive; so
ineffably good to be living in this most wonderful world, drinking air
nectar.

Behind us, from the three mountains, came the frequent thud and scuffle
of falling rocks, loosened by rains.  The wind, mist, and winter snow had
ground the powdery stones on which we lay to a pleasant bed, but once on
a time they, too, had clung up there.  And very slowly, one could not say
how or when, the sense of joy began changing to a sense of fear.  The
awful impersonality of those great rock-creatures, the terrible
impartiality of that cold, clinging wind which swept by, never an inch
lifted above ground!  Not one tiny soul, the size of a midge or rock
flower, lived here.  Not one little "I" breathed here, and loved!

And we, too, some day would no longer love, having become part of this
monstrous, lovely earth, of that cold, whiffling air.  To be no longer
able to love!  It seemed incredible, too grim to bear; yet it was true!
To become powder, and the wind; no more to feel the sunlight; to be loved
no more!  To become a whiffling noise, cold, without one's self!  To
drift on the breath of that noise, homeless!  Up here, there were not even
those little velvet, grey-white flower-comrades we had plucked.  No life!
Nothing but the creeping wind, and those great rocky heights, whence came
the sound of falling-symbols of that cold, untimely state into which we,
too, must pass. Never more to love, nor to be loved!  One could but turn
to the earth, and press one's face to it, away from the wild loveliness.
Of what use loveliness that must be lost; of what use loveliness when one
could not love?  The earth was warm and firm beneath the palms of the
hands; but there still came the sound of the impartial wind, and the
careless roar of the stories falling.

Below, in those valleys amongst the living trees and grass, was the
comradeship of unnumbered life, so that to pass out into Peace, to step
beyond, to die, seemed but a brotherly act, amongst all those others; but
up here, where no creature breathed, we saw the heart of the desert that
stretches before each little human soul.  Up here, it froze the spirit;
even Peace seemed mocking--hard as a stone.  Yet, to try and hide, to
tuck one's head under one's own wing, was not possible in this air so
crystal clear, so far above incense and the narcotics of set creeds, and
the fevered breath of prayers and protestations.  Even to know that
between organic and inorganic matter there is no gulf fixed, was of no
peculiar comfort.  The jealous wind came creeping over the lifeless
limestone, removing even the poor solace of its warmth; one turned from
it, desperate, to look up at the sky, the blue, burning, wide, ineffable,
far sky.

Then slowly, without reason, that icy fear passed into a feeling, not of
joy, not of peace, but as if Life and Death were exalted into what was
neither life nor death, a strange and motionless vibration, in which one
had been merged, and rested, utterly content, equipoised, divested of
desire, endowed with life and death.

But since this moment had come before its time, we got up, and, close
together, marched on rather silently, in the hot sun.
1910.


MY DISTANT RELATIVE

Though I had not seen my distant relative for years--not, in fact, since
he was obliged to give Vancouver Island up as a bad job--I knew him at
once, when, with head a little on one side, and tea-cup held high, as if,
to confer a blessing, he said: "Hallo!" across the Club smoking-room.

Thin as a lath--not one ounce heavier--tall, and very upright, with his
pale forehead, and pale eyes, and pale beard, he had the air of a ghost
of a man.  He had always had that air.  And his voice--that
matter-of-fact and slightly nasal voice, with its thin, pragmatical
tone--was like a wraith of optimism, issuing between pale lips.  I
noticed; too, that his town habiliments still had their unspeakable pale
neatness, as if, poor things, they were trying to stare the daylight out
of countenance.

He brought his tea across to my bay window, with that wistful sociability
of his, as of a man who cannot always find a listener.

"But what are you doing in town?" I said.  "I thought you were in
Yorkshire with your aunt."

Over his round, light eyes, fixed on something in the street, the lids
fell quickly twice, as the film falls over the eyes of a parrot.

"I'm after a job," he answered.  "Must be on the spot just now."

And it seemed to me that I had heard those words from him before.

"Ah, yes," I said, "and do you think you'll get it?"

But even as I spoke I felt sorry, remembering how many jobs he had been
after in his time, and how soon they ended when he had got them.

He answered:

"Oh, yes!  They ought to give it me," then added rather suddenly: "You
never know, though.  People are so funny!"

And crossing his thin legs, he went on to tell me, with quaint
impersonality, a number of instances of how people had been funny in
connection with jobs he had not been given.

"You see," he ended, "the country's in such a state--capital going out of
it every day.  Enterprise being killed all over the place. There's
practically nothing to be had!"

"Ah!" I said, "you think it's worse, then, than it used to be?"

He smiled; in that smile there was a shade of patronage.

"We're going down-hill as fast as ever we can.  National character's
losing all its backbone.  No wonder, with all this molly-coddling going
on!"

"Oh!" I murmured, "molly-coddling?  Isn't that excessive?"

"Well!  Look at the way everything's being done for them!  The working
classes are losing their self-respect as fast as ever they can.  Their
independence is gone already!"

"You think?"

"Sure of it!  I'll give you an instance----" and he went on to describe
to me the degeneracy of certain working men employed by his aunt and his
eldest brother Claud and his youngest brother Alan.

"They don't do a stroke more than they're obliged," he ended; "they know
jolly well they've got their Unions, and their pensions, and this
Insurance, to fall back on."

It was evidently a subject on which he felt strongly.

"Yes," he muttered, "the nation is being rotted down."

And a faint thrill of surprise passed through me.  For the affairs of the
nation moved him so much more strongly than his own.  His voice already
had a different ring, his eyes a different look.  He eagerly leaned
forward, and his long, straight backbone looked longer and straighter
than ever.  He was less the ghost of a man.  A faint flush even had come
into his pale cheeks, and he moved his well-kept hands emphatically.

"Oh, yes!" he said: "The country is going to the dogs, right enough; but
you can't get them to see it.  They go on sapping and sapping the
independence of the people.  If the working man's to be looked after,
whatever he does--what on earth's to become of his go, and foresight, and
perseverance?"

In his rising voice a certain piquancy was left to its accent of the
ruling class by that faint twang, which came, I remembered, from some
slight defect in his tonsils.

"Mark my words!  So long as we're on these lines, we shall do nothing.
It's going against evolution.  They say Darwin's getting old-fashioned;
all I know is, he's good enough for me.  Competition is the only thing."

"But competition," I said, "is bitter cruel, and some people can't stand
against it!"  And I looked at him rather hard: "Do you object to putting
any sort of floor under the feet of people like that?"

He let his voice drop a little, as if in deference to my scruples.

"Ah!" he said; "but if you once begin this sort of thing, there's no end
to it.  It's so insidious.  The more they have, the more they want; and
all the time they're losing fighting power.  I've thought pretty deeply
about this.  It's shortsighted; it really doesn't do!"

"But," I said, "surely you're not against saving people from being
knocked out of time by old age, and accidents like illness, and the
fluctuations of trade?"

"Oh!" he said, "I'm not a bit against charity.  Aunt Emma's splendid
about that.  And Claud's awfully good.  I do what I can, myself."  He
looked at me, so queerly deprecating, that I quite liked him at that
moment.  At heart--I felt he was a good fellow.  "All I think is," he
went on, "that to give them something that they can rely on as a matter
of course, apart from their own exertions, is the wrong principle
altogether," and suddenly his voice began to rise again, and his eyes to
stare.  "I'm convinced that all this doing things for other people, and
bolstering up the weak, is rotten.  It stands to reason that it must be."

He had risen to his feet, so preoccupied with the wrongness of that
principle that he seemed to have forgotten my presence.  And as he stood
there in the window the light was too strong for him.  All the thin
incapacity of that shadowy figure was pitilessly displayed; the desperate
narrowness in that long, pale face; the wambling look of those pale,
well-kept hands--all that made him such a ghost of a man. But his nasal,
dogmatic voice rose and rose.

"There's nothing for it but bracing up!  We must cut away all this State
support; we must teach them to rely on themselves.  It's all sheer
pauperisation."

And suddenly there shot through me the fear that he might burst one of
those little blue veins in his pale forehead, so vehement had he become;
and hastily I changed the subject.

"Do you like living up there with your aunt?" I asked: "Isn't it a bit
quiet?"

He turned, as if I had awakened him from a dream.

"Oh, well!" he said, "it's only till I get this job."

"Let me see--how long is it since you----?"

"Four years.  She's very glad to have me, of course."

"And how's your brother Claud?"

"Oh!  All right, thanks; a bit worried with the estate.  The poor old
gov'nor left it in rather a mess, you know."

"Ah!  Yes.  Does he do other work?"

"Oh!  Always busy in the parish."

"And your brother Richard?"

"He's all right.  Came home this year.  Got just enough to live on, with
his pension--hasn't saved a rap, of course."

"And Willie?  Is he still delicate?"

"Yes."

"I'm sorry."

"Easy job, his, you know.  And even if his health does give out, his
college pals will always find him some sort of sinecure.  So jolly
popular, old Willie!"

"And Alan?  I haven't heard anything of him since his Peruvian thing came
to grief.  He married, didn't he?"

"Rather!  One of the Burleys.  Nice girl--heiress; lot of property in
Hampshire.  He looks after it for her now."

"Doesn't do anything else, I suppose?"

"Keeps up his antiquarianism."

I had exhausted the members of his family.

Then, as though by eliciting the good fortunes of his brothers I had cast
some slur upon himself, he said suddenly: "If the railway had come, as it
ought to have, while I was out there, I should have done quite well with
my fruit farm."

"Of course," I agreed; "it was bad luck.  But after all, you're sure to
get a job soon, and--so long as you can live up there with your aunt--you
can afford to wait, and not bother."

"Yes," he murmured.  And I got up.

"Well, it's been very jolly to hear about you all!"

He followed me out.

"Awfully glad, old man," he said, "to have seen you, and had this talk.
I was feeling rather low.  Waiting to know whether I get that job--it's
not lively."

He came down the Club steps with me.  By the door of my cab a loafer was
standing; a tall tatterdemalion with a pale, bearded face.  My distant
relative fended him away, and leaning through the window, murmured:
"Awful lot of these chaps about now!"

For the life of me I could not help looking at him very straight. But no
flicker of apprehension crossed his face.

"Well, good-by again!" he said: "You've cheered me up a lot!"

I glanced back from my moving cab.  Some monetary transaction was passing
between him and the loafer, but, short-sighted as I am, I found it
difficult to decide which of those tall, pale, bearded figures was giving
the other one a penny. And by some strange freak an awful vision shot up
before me--of myself, and my distant relative, and Claud, and Richard,
and Willie, and Alan, all suddenly relying on ourselves.  I took out my
handkerchief to mop my brow; but a thought struck me, and I put it back.
Was it possible for me, and my distant relatives, and their distant
relatives, and so on to infinity of those who be longed to a class
provided by birth with a certain position, raised by Providence on to a
platform made up of money inherited, of interest, of education fitting us
for certain privileged pursuits, of friends similarly endowed, of
substantial homes, and substantial relatives of some sort or other, on
whom we could fall back--was it possible for any of us ever to be in the
position of having to rely absolutely on ourselves?  For several minutes
I pondered that question; and slowly I came to the conclusion that, short
of crime, or that unlikely event, marooning, it was not possible.  Never,
never--try as we might--could any single one of us be quite in the
position of one of those whose approaching pauperisation my distant
relative had so vehemently deplored.  We were already pauperised.  If we
served our country, we were pensioned....  If we inherited land, it could
not be taken from us. If we went into the Church, we were there for life,
whether we were suitable or no.  In the hunting-field she will lose
her groom, and babble sport to the Master, with whom she further
ingratiates herself by rating and lashing one of his favourite hounds,
or by heading the fox whenever he attempts to break away.We could never have to rely entirely on
ourselves; we could never be pauperised more than we were already!  And a
light burst in on me.  That explained why my distant relative felt so
keenly.  It bit him, for he saw, of course, how dreadful it would be for
these poor people of the working classes when legislation had succeeded
in placing them in the humiliating position in which we already were--the
dreadful position of having something to depend on apart from our own
exertions, some sort of security in our lives. I saw it now.  It was his
secret pride, gnawing at him all the time, that made him so rabid on the
point.  He was longing, doubtless, day and night, not to have had a
father who had land, and had left a sister well enough off to keep him
while he was waiting for his job. He must be feeling how horribly
degrading was the position of Claud--inheriting that land; and of
Richard, who, just because he had served in the Indian Civil Service, had
got to live on a pension all the rest of his days; and of Willie, who was
in danger at any moment, if his health--always delicate--gave out, of
having a sinecure found for him by his college friends; and of Alan,
whose educated charm had enabled him to marry an heiress and live by
managing her estates. All, all sapped of go and foresight and
perseverance by a cruel Providence!  IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LEIPZIG
BERNHARD TAUCHNITZ
1864.

NOTE TO THE READER.

The incidents and testimonies given in this work as matters of fact,
are not drawn from imagination, but reported from excellent authority--though
I have used my own words. And in the cases of reported words of third
parties, the words stand unchanged, without any meddling.

THE AUTHOR.

THE OLD HELMET.

CHAPTER I.

THE RUINS.

"She look'd and saw that all was ruinous, Here stood a shattered archway
plumed with fern; And here had fall'n a great part of a tower,
Whole, like a crag that tumbles from the cliff, And like a crag was
gay with wilding flowers, And high above a piece of turret stair,
Worn by the feet that now were silent, Bare to the sun."

The first thing noticeable is a gleam of white teeth.

Now that is a pleasant thing generally; yet its pleasantness depends, after
all, upon the way the lips part over the ivory. There is a world
of character discoverable in the curve of those soft lines. In the
present case, that of a lady, as it is undoubtedly the very first
thing you notice, the matter must be investigated. The mouth is rather
large, with well cut lips however; and in the smile which comes not
infrequently, the lips part freely and frankly, though not too
far, over a wealth of white, beautiful teeth. So free is the curve
of the upper lip, and so ready its revelation of the treasures
beneath, that there is an instant suspicion of a certain frankness
and daring, and perhaps of a little mischief, on the part of their
possessor; so free, at the same time, as to forbid the least notion
of consciousness or design in that beautiful revelation. But how
fine and full and regular are those white treasures of hers! seeming
to speak for a strong and perfect physical organisation; and if
your eye goes further, for her flat hat is on the ground, you will
see in the bountiful rich head of hair another token of the same
thing. Her figure is finely developed; her colour clear and healthy;
not blonde; the full-brown hair and eyes agree with the notion of
a nature more lively than we assign to the other extreme of complexion.
The features are not those of a beauty, though better than that,
perhaps; there is a world of life and sense and spirit in them.
It speaks for her good nature and feeling, that her smile is as
frank as ever just now, and as pleasant as ever; for she is with
about the last one of her party on whom she would have chosen to
bestow herself.Panic's at the back of
most crimes and follies."

Knowing that his philosophical statements were always the result of
concrete instance, and that he would not tell us what that instance was
if we asked him--such being his nature--we were careful not to agree.

He gave us a look out of those eyes of his, so like the eyes of a mild
eagle, and said abruptly: "What do you say to this then? . . . I was out
in the dog-days last year with this fellow of mine, looking for Osmunda,
and stayed some days in a village--never mind the name. Coming back one
evening from my tramp, I saw some boys stoning a mealy-coloured dog.  I
went up and told the young devils to stop it.  They only looked at me in
the injured way boys do, and one of them called out, 'It's mad, guv'nor!'
I told them to clear off, and they took to their heels.  The dog followed
me.  It was a young, leggy, mild looking mongrel, cross--I should
say--between a brown retriever and an Irish terrier.  There was froth
about its lips, and its eyes were watery; it looked indeed as if it might
be in distemper.  I was afraid of infection for this fellow of mine, and
whenever it came too close shooed it away, till at last it slunk off
altogether.  Well, about nine o'clock, when I was settling down to write
by the open window of my sitting-room--still daylight, and very quiet and
warm--there began that most maddening sound, the barking of an unhappy
dog.  I could do nothing with that continual 'Yap yap!' going on, and it
was too hot to shut the window; so I went out to see if I could stop it.
Many women do that, without losing at all the ordinary characteristics
of women. She must ride bare-backed, she must understand a horse's ailments
and his points, she must trudge (in the constant society of men)
over fallows and through turnips in pursuit of partridges, she must be
able to talk learnedly of guns, of powders, and of shot, she must
possess a gun of her own, and think she knows how to use it, she must own
a retriever, and herself make him submissive by the frequent application
of a silver-headed dog-whip.

These attainments are her ideals of earthly bliss, and she sets out
to realise them with a terrible perseverance. Her father, of course,
knows but little of sport. He is, however, afflicted with the ordinary
desire to shine as a sportsman, and as a host of sportsmen. He stocks
his coverts with game, and invites large shooting parties to stay with
him. He himself takes to a gun as a hen might take to the water; although,
as his daughter contemptuously expresses it, he is calculated to miss
a hippopotamus at ten yards, he seems to imagine, if one may be permitted
to judge from the wild frequency of his shots, that it is the easiest thing
in the world to hit a pheasant or a partridge flying at ten times
that distance. From such a father the Manly Maiden easily secures permission,
first of all, to walk with the men while they are shooting, and subsequently
to carry a gun herself.

And now the difficulties of the situation begin to make themselves
felt, not, indeed, by her, for she remains sublimely unconscious
to the end, but by the men who are compelled to associate with her
upon her ventures.Well, I got it in, and heaped two or
three of those hairy little red rugs landladies are so fond of, up in a
corner; and got it on to them, and put down my bread and milk.  But it
wouldn't eat--its sense of proportion was all gone, fairly destroyed by
terror.  It lay there moaning, and every now and then it raised its head
with a 'yap' of sheer fright, dreadful to hear, and bit the air, as if
its enemies were on it again; and this fellow of mine lay in the opposite
corner, with his head on his paw, watching it.  I sat up for a long time
with that poor beast, sick enough, and wondering how it had come to be
stoned and kicked and battered into this state; and next day I made it my
business to find out."

Our friend paused, scanned us a little angrily, and then went on: "It had
made its first appearance, it seems, following a bicyclist. There are
men, you know--save the mark--who, when their beasts get ill or too
expensive, jump on their bicycles and take them for a quick run, taking
care never to look behind them.  When they get back home they say:
'Hallo! where's Fido?'  Fido is nowhere, and there's an end!  Well, this
poor puppy gave up just as it got to our village; and, roaming shout in
search of water, attached itself to a farm labourer.  The man with
excellent intentions--as he told me himself--tried to take hold of it,
but too abruptly, so that it was startled, and snapped at him.  Whereon
he kicked it for a dangerous cur, and it went drifting back toward the
village, and fell in with the boys coming home from school.  It thought,
no doubt, that they were going to kick it too, and nipped one of them who
took it by the collar. Thereupon they hullabalooed and stoned it down the
road to where I found them.  Then I put in my little bit of torture, and
drove it away, through fear of infection to my own dog.  After that it
seems to have fallen in with a man who told me: 'Well, you see, he came
sneakin' round my house, with the children playin', and snapped at them
when they went to stroke him, so that they came running in to their
mother, an' she' called to me in a fine takin' about a mad dog. I ran out
with a shovel and gave 'im one, and drove him out.  I'm sorry if he
wasn't mad, he looked it right enough; you can't be too careful with
strange dogs.'  Produced by Malcolm Farmer, William Flis, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.

PUNCH,
OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 99.

December 6, 1890.

MODERN TYPES.

(_BY MR. PUNCH'S OWN TYPE WRITER._)
NO. XXII.--THE MANLY MAIDEN.

The Manly Maiden may be defined as the feminine exaggeration of those rougher
qualities which men display in their intercourse with one another, or in
the pursuit of those sports in which courage, strength, and endurance
play a part. In a fatal moment she conceives the idea that she can earn
the proud title of "a good fellow" by emulating the fashions and
the habits of the robuster sex. She perceives that men have a liking for
men who are strong, bluff, outspoken, and contemptuous of peril, and
she infers mistakenly, that the same tribute of admiration is certain to
be paid to a woman who, setting the traditions of her sex at defiance,
consciously apes the manly model without a thought of all that the
imitation involves. She forgets that as soon as a woman steps down
of her own free will from the pedestal on which the chivalrous
admiration of men has placed her, she abandons at once her claim
to that flattering reticence of speech, and that specially attentive
courtesy of bearing, which are in men the outward and visible signs
of the spiritual grace which they assume as an attribute of all
women. In spite of what the crazy theorists of the perfect equality
school may say, men still continue to expect and to admire in women
precisely those qualities in which they feel themselves to be chiefly
deficient. Their reverence and affection are bestowed upon her whose
voice is ever soft, gentle and low, and whose mild influence is
shed like a balm upon the labours and troubles of life. Of slang,
and of slaps upon the back, of strength, whether of language or of
body, they get enough and to spare amongst themselves, and they are
scarcely to be blamed if at certain moments they should prefer
refinement to roughness, and gentleness to gentlemen.From that fellow on the bicycle, afraid of the
worry and expense, as soon as it showed signs of distemper, to myself and
the man with the pitch fork--not one of us, I daresay, would have gone
out of our way to do it--a harm.  But we felt fear, and so by the law of
self-preservation, or what ever you like--it all began, till there the
poor thing was, with a battered head and a hole in its neck, ravenous
with hunger, and too distraught even to lap my bread and milk.  Yes, and
there's something uncanny about a suffering animal--we sat watching it,
and again we were afraid, looking at its eyes and the way it bit the air.
Fear!  It's the black godmother of all damnable things!"

Our friend bent down, crumpling and crumpling at his dog's ears.  We,
too, gazed at the ground, thinking of, that poor lost puppy, and the
horrible inevitability of all that happens, seeing men are what they are;
thinking of all the foul doings in the world, whose black godmother is
Fear.

"And what became of the poor dog?" one of us asked at last.

"When," said our friend slowly, "I'd had my fill of watching, I covered
it with a rug, took this fellow away with me, and went to bed.  There was
nothing else to do.  At dawn I was awakened by three dreadful cries--not
like a dog's at all.  Construction will be another strong economic driver,
especially as hydroelectric dam and road projects gain steam. In late
2004, Laos gained Normal Trade Relations status with the US, allowing
Laos-based producers to face lower tariffs on exports. This new status
may help spur growth. In addition, the European Union has agreed
to provide $1 million to the Lao Government for technical assistance
in preparations for WTO membership.

If the avian flu worsens and spreads in the region, however, prospects
for tourism could dim.And we, too, were silent, seeing in spirit that vigil of early morning:
The thin, lifeless, sandy-coloured body, stretched on those red mats; and
this black creature--now lying at our feet--propped on its haunches like
the dog in "The Death of Procris," patient, curious, ungrieved, staring
down at it with his bright, interested eyes.
1912.