As I feel a little better, I will recommence my lecture--I don't mean
to defend Mormonism--indeed, I have no hesitation in affirming, and I
affirm it boldly, and I would repeat the observation to my own wife's
face, if I had one, but as I haven't one, I'll say it boldly to every
other man's wife, that I don't think it wise to marry more than one
wife at a time, without it is done to oblige the ladies, and then it
should be done sparingly, and not oftener than three times a day, for
the marriage ceremony isn't lightly to be repeated.  While admiring
its grace and its majesty, I think of the great amount of human
happiness and of comfort to the inferior animals of which it has
been the blessed instrument.

How many a happy assemblage of children and young persons has been,
during the past century, repeatedly gathered under its shade, in the
sultry noons of summer! How many a young May-queen has been crowned
under its roof, when the greensward was just daisied with the
early flowers of spring! And how many a weary traveller has
rested from his journey in its benevolent shade, and from a
state of weariness and vexation, when o'erspent by heat and length
of way, has subsided into one of quiet thankfulness and content!

"After some considerable hesitation I agreed, and went to the girl's
mother for her consent: 'No objection to your marrying my four girls,
but you'll have to take me as well.'  After a little reflection, I
consented, and went to the two grandmothers for their consent:--'No
objection,' said the old dames in a breath, 'but you'll have to marry
us as well.  We cannot think of separating the family.'  After a
little cosy hesitation on my part, I finally agreed to swallow the
two old venerable antiquities as a sort of sauce to the other five."

Under these circumstances, who can wonder at Brigham Young being the
most highly married man in the Republic?  In a word, he is too much
married--indeed, if I were he, I should say two hundred and too much
married.

As I see my esteemed friend Joe Whitton, of Niblo's Garden, sitting
right before me, I will give him an anecdote which he will
appreciate.  There is considerable barter in Salt Lake City--horses
and cows are good for hundred-dollar greenbacks, while pigs, dogs,
cats, babies, and pickaxes are the fractional currency.  I dare say
my friend Joe Whitton would be as much astonished as I was after my
first lecture.  Seeing a splendid house I naturally began to reckon
my spondulics.  Full of this Pactolean vision, I went into my
treasurer's room.

The practice of the great masters in painting seems adverse to this
idea, since they have introduced the Ash more frequently than other
trees into their pictures; and it shows the futility of the attempt
to draw a distinction between picturesque and beautiful trees.Hingston with the solemnity of a cashier, then read the proceeds of
the lecture:

"Three cows, one with horns, and two without, but not a stumptail;
fourteen pigs, alive and grunting; seventeen hams, sugar cured; three
babies in arms, two of them cutting their teeth, and the other
sickening with the chicken-coop, or some such disease."  They give
rest and relief to the eye, after it has experienced the stimulating
effects of beautiful forms and colors, which would soon pall
upon the sense; and they are interesting to the imagination, by
leaving it free to dress the scene with the wreaths of fancy.
If I could find the
legs belonging to them--well, I won't say what I'd do now--but leave
all ladies in that pleasing state of expectation which is true
happiness.  Ladies and gentlemen, my lecture is done--if you refuse
to leave the hall, you'll be forcibly ejected.