By then it was eight o'clock. The air inside the Nautilus should have
been renewed four hours earlier, following daily practice on board.
But I didn't suffer very much, although Captain Nemo hadn't yet
made demands on the supplementary oxygen in his air tanks.

That night my sleep was fitful.  Hope and fear besieged me by turns.
I got up several times.  The Nautilus continued groping.
Near three o'clock in the morning, I observed that we encountered
the Ice Bank's underbelly at a depth of only fifty meters.
So only 150 feet separated us from the surface of the water.
Little by little the Ice Bank was turning into an ice field again.
The mountains were changing back into plains.

My eyes didn't leave the pressure gauge.  We kept rising on a diagonal,
going along this shiny surface that sparkled beneath our electric rays.
Above and below, the Ice Bank was subsiding in long gradients.
I feel sure, for example, your assertion that I and my fellow-countrymen
derive our opinions of German conduct wholly from corrupt and venal
newspapers, or usually from a single newspaper which doles out
mental poison in subservience to a single political party, was not
intended to be as insulting as it really sounded.

Your emotion doubtless led you to make charges which your sense of justice
and courtesy would, under other circumstances, condemn.

The thermometer marked 3 degrees centigrade.  It was as if a
comparative springtime had been locked up behind that Ice Bank,
whose distant masses were outlined on the northern horizon.

"Are we at the pole?"  I asked the captain, my heart pounding.

"I've no idea," he answered me.  "At noon we'll fix our position."

"But will the sun show through this mist?"  I said, staring at
the grayish sky.

"No matter how faintly it shines, it will be enough for me,"
the captain replied.

To the south, ten miles from the Nautilus, a solitary islet rose
to a height of 200 meters.  We proceeded toward it, but cautiously,
because this sea could have been strewn with reefs.

In an hour we had reached the islet.  Two hours later we had completed a
full circle around it.  It measured four to five miles in circumference.
A narrow channel separated it from a considerable shore,
perhaps a continent whose limits we couldn't see.  The existence
of this shore seemed to bear out Commander Maury's hypotheses.
In essence, this ingenious American has noted that between
the South Pole and the 60th parallel, the sea is covered
with floating ice of dimensions much greater than any found
in the north Atlantic.  From this fact he drew the conclusion
that the Antarctic Circle must contain considerable shores,
since icebergs can't form on the high seas but only along coastlines.
According to his calculations, this frozen mass enclosing the southernmost
pole forms a vast ice cap whose width must reach 4,000 kilometers.

Meanwhile, to avoid running aground, the Nautilus halted three
cable lengths from a strand crowned by superb piles of rocks.
The skiff was launched to sea.  Two crewmen carrying instruments,
the captain, Conseil, and I were on board.  It was ten o'clock
in the morning.  I hadn't seen Ned Land.  No doubt, in the presence
of the South Pole, the Canadian hated having to eat his words.

A few strokes of the oar brought the skiff to the sand,
where it ran aground.  Just as Conseil was about to jump ashore,
I held him back.

"Sir," I told Captain Nemo, "to you belongs the honor of first
setting foot on this shore."

"Yes, sir," the captain replied, "and if I have no hesitation
in treading this polar soil, it's because no human being until
now has left a footprint here."

So saying, he leaped lightly onto the sand.  His heart must
have been throbbing with intense excitement.  He scaled an
overhanging rock that ended in a small promontory and there,
mute and motionless, with crossed arms and blazing eyes,
he seemed to be laying claim to these southernmost regions.
After spending five minutes in this trance, he turned to us.

"Whenever you're ready, sir," he called to me.

I got out, Conseil at my heels, leaving the two men in the skiff.

Over an extensive area, the soil consisted of that igneous gravel
called "tuff," reddish in color as if made from crushed bricks.
The ground was covered with slag, lava flows, and pumice stones.
Its volcanic origin was unmistakable.  In certain localities thin smoke
holes gave off a sulfurous odor, showing that the inner fires still kept
their wide-ranging power.  Nevertheless, when I scaled a high escarpment,
I could see no volcanoes within a radius of several miles.
In these Antarctic districts, as is well known, Sir James Clark Ross
had found the craters of Mt.  Erebus and Mt.  Terror in fully active
condition on the 167th meridian at latitude 77 degrees 32'.

The vegetation on this desolate continent struck me as quite limited.
A few lichens of the species Usnea melanoxanthra sprawled over
the black rocks.  The whole meager flora of this region consisted
of certain microscopic buds, rudimentary diatoms made up of a type
of cell positioned between two quartz-rich shells, plus long purple
and crimson fucus plants, buoyed by small air bladders and washed
up on the coast by the surf.

The beach was strewn with mollusks:  small mussels, limpets, smooth
heart-shaped cockles, and especially some sea butterflies with oblong,
membrane-filled bodies whose heads are formed from two rounded lobes.
I also saw myriads of those northernmost sea butterflies three
centimeters long, which a baleen whale can swallow by the thousands
in one gulp.  I do not mean by this that Americans believe any
part of Germany is disloyal to the Government.

On the contrary, they believe the German people as a whole
are supporting the Government and its acts with devotion, and
that, therefore, the German people as a whole are responsible for
whatever acts the Government commits. But Americans recognise the reality
of Prussian leadership in the policy of your country. They do not
believe the German people wanted the war; but they do believe the
military Government, under Prussian control, wanted the war, planned
for it with infinite skill and efficiency for many years, and brought
it about when they believed the time was ripe.

These were auks, as agile and supple in water, where they are sometimes
mistaken for fast bonito, as they are clumsy and heavy on land.
They uttered outlandish calls and participated in numerous public
assemblies that featured much noise but little action.

Among other fowl I noted some sheathbills from the wading-bird family,
the size of pigeons, white in color, the beak short and conical, the eyes
framed by red circles.  Conseil laid in a supply of them, because when
they're properly cooked, these winged creatures make a pleasant dish.
In the air there passed sooty albatross with four-meter wingspans,
birds aptly dubbed "vultures of the ocean," also gigantic petrels
including several with arching wings, enthusiastic eaters of seal
that are known as quebrantahuesos,* and cape pigeons, a sort
of small duck, the tops of their bodies black and white--in short,
a whole series of petrels, some whitish with wings trimmed in brown,
others blue and exclusive to these Antarctic seas, the former "so oily,"
I told Conseil, "that inhabitants of the Faroe Islands simply fit
the bird with a wick, then light it up."