Produced by K Nordquist, David Cortesi, Renald Levesque
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive/American
Libraries.)


                             THE GHOST BREAKER

                    By PAUL DICKEY and CHARLES GODDARD

             [Illustration: FRENCH'S STANDARD LIBRARY EDITION]

                 SAMUEL FRENCH, 25 West 45th St., New York


TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

Two minor typos were corrected and a Table of Contents and
List of Illustrations have been added.


                                 CONTENTS

                        (Supplied by Transcriber)

                    Cast List                   p.  3
                    ACT I                       p.  5
                    ACT II                      p. 19
                    ACT III                     p. 39
                    ACT IV                      p. 56
                    Stage Manager's Plot        p. 70
                    Carpenter's Plot            p. 71
                    Property Plot               p. 72
                    Electrician's Plot          p. 73

                              ILLUSTRATIONS

                        (Supplied by Transcriber)

                    Plate based on Act I        p. 17
                    Plate based on Act II       p. 24
                    Plate based on Act III      p. 48
                    Plate based on Act IV       p. 56

                    *       *       *       *       *


                                Pollyanna


The glad play, by Catherine Chisholm Cushing, after the novel by Eleanor
H. Porter. 5 males, 6 females. 2 interiors. Costumes, modern. Plays
2-1/4 hours. An orphan girl is thrust into the home of a maiden aunt. In
spite of the trials that beset her, she manages to find something to be
glad about, and brings light into sunless lives. Finally Pollyanna
straightens out the love affairs of her elders, and finds happiness for
herself in Jimmy. "Pollyanna" gives a better appreciation of people and
the world. It reflects the humor and humanity that gave the story such
wonderful popularity among young and old.

Produced in New York, and for two seasons on tour. Royalty, $25.00.
Price, 75 cents.


                            Martha By-the-Day


An optimistic comedy in 3 acts, by Julie M. Lippmann, author of the
"Martha" stories. 5 males. 5 females. 3 interiors. Costumes, modern.
Plays 2-1/2 hours.

Full of quaint humor, old-fashioned, homely sentiment, the kind that
people who see the play will recall and chuckle over tomorrow and the
next day.

Miss Lippmann has herself adapted her successful book for the stage and
has selected from her novel the most telling incidents, infectious
comedy and homely sentiment for the play, and the result is thoroughly
delightful. Royalty, $25. Price, 60 cents.


                                Seventeen


A comedy of youth, in 4 acts, by Booth Tarkington. 8 males, 6 females. 1
exterior. 2 interiors. Costumes, modern. Plays 2-1/2 hours.

It is the tragedy of William Sylvanus Baxter that he has ceased to be
sixteen and is not yet eighteen. Seventeen is not an age, it is a
disease.

In his heart William knows all the tortures and delights of love. But he
is still sent by his mother on errands of the most humiliating sort and
depends on his father for every nickel, the use of which he must justify
before he gets it.

"Silly" Bill fell in love with Lola, the "Baby-Talk Lady," a vapid
little flirt. To woo her in a manner worthy of himself (and of her) he
steals his father's evening clothes. When his wooings become a nuisance
to the neighborhood, his mother steals them back, and has them let out
to fit the middle-aged form of her husband, thereby keeping William at
home.

But when it comes to the "Baby-Talk Lady's" good-bye dance, not to be
present was unendurable. Now William again gets the dress suit, and how
he wears it at the party, and Genesis discloses the fact that the proud
garment is in reality his father's makes up the story of the play.

"Seventeen" is a work of exquisite human sympathy and delicious humor.
Royalty, $25.00. Price. 75 cents.

             SAMUEL FRENCH. 25 West 45th Street, New York City

              New and Explicit Descriptive Catalogue Mailed
                             Free on Request

                    *       *       *       *       *


                            The Ghost Breaker

                    A MELODRAMATIC FARCE IN FOUR ACTS

                                     BY

                     PAUL DICKEY AND CHARLES GODDARD

          Copyright, 1909, by Charles W. Goddard and Paul Dickey
               Copyright assigned, 1914, to Sanger & Jordan

                             ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

CAUTION: Professionals and amateurs are hereby warned that "THE GHOST
BREAKER," being fully protected under the copyright laws of the United
States, the British Empire, and the other countries of the Copyright
Union, is subject to a royalty, and anyone presenting the play without
the consent of the owners or their authorized agents will be liable to
the penalties by law provided. Applications for the amateur acting
rights must be made to Samuel French, 25 West 45th Street, New York,
N.Y.

                                 New York:
                               SAMUEL FRENCH
                                 Publisher
                            25 West 45th Street

                                  London:
                             SAMUEL FRENCH, LTD.
                            26 Southampton Street
                                  Strand

                    Royalty on this play payable to our
                            Los Angeles Office
                             SAMUEL FRENCH

                    *       *       *       *       *


                            "THE GHOST BREAKER"


                           _All Rights Reserved_

Especial notice should be taken that the possession of this book without
a valid contract for production first having been obtained from the
publisher, confers no right or license to professionals or amateurs to
produce the play publicly or in private for gain or charity.

In its present form this play is dedicated to the reading public only,
and no performance, representation, production, recitation, public
reading or radio broadcasting may be given by amateurs except by special
arrangement with Samuel French, 25 West 45th Street, New York.

This play may be presented by amateurs upon payment of a royalty of
twenty-five dollars for each performance, payable to Samuel French, 25
West 45th Street, New York, one week before the date when the play is
given.

Whenever the play is produced by amateurs the following notice must
appear on all programs, printing and advertising for the play: "Produced
by special arrangement with Samuel French of New York."

Attention is called to the penalty provided by law for any infringement
of the author's rights, as follows:

SECTION 4966:--Any person publicly performing or representing any
dramatic or musical composition for which copyright has been obtained,
without the consent of the proprietor of said dramatic or musical
composition, or his heirs and assigns, shall be liable for damages
thereof, such damages, in all cases to be assessed at such sum, not less
than one hundred dollars for the first and fifty dollars for every
subsequent performance, as to the court shall appear to be just. If the
unlawful performance and representation be wilful and for profit, such
person or persons shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be imprisoned for a period not exceeding one year.--U.S. Revised
Statutes: Title 60, Chap. 3.

                    *       *       *       *       *


                                 THE CAST

    PRINCESS MARIA THERESA OF ARAGON.
    WARREN JARVIS, _of Kentucky_.
    NITA, _the Princess' Maid_.
    HOUSE DETECTIVE, _Manhattan Hotel_.
    RUSTY SNOW, _Warren Jarvis' Colored Servant_.
    DETECTIVES, _from Police Headquarters_.
    HOTEL PORTER.
    STEWARD, _on S.S. Aquitania_.
    CARLOS, _Duke d'Alva_.
    DOLORES, _the Innkeeper's Daughter_.
    VARDOS, _Messenger to the Missing Prince_.
    DON ROBLEDO, _a Soldier of Fortune_.
    PEDRO, _the Innkeeper_.
    MAXIMO, _a Spanish Soldier_.
    GASPAR, _a Villager_.
    JOSE, _Chauffeur_.

                          TIME: _The Present_.

    ACT I. _A Room in the Hotel Manhattan, New
        York. Five A.M._

    ACT II. _A Cabin on Board S.S. Aquitania. Same
        Morning._

    ACT III. _An Old Tavern, Segura, Spain. Evening._

    ACT IV. _The Castle. Same Night._

                    *       *       *       *       *


                            THE GHOST BREAKER


                                  ACT I


SCENE: _Room 1121, Manhattan Hotel, New York City._

_At rise stage dark. Moonlight streams through the window. Small clock
strikes five. Pause. Tower clock strikes. Two gun-shots heard off stage
right. Door slams off stage. Footsteps heard coming along corridor,
growing hubbub and commotion._ PRINCESS _pokes head through curtains._
R. _door bursts open and_ WARREN JARVIS _enters hurriedly, in long coat
over evening dress, closing and bolting the door behind him._

_Princess._ Madre de Dios! (_Showing only her head._) (JARVIS _kicks in
door, shuts it, and throws his shoulder against it._) Who's there?

JARVIS. Sh! Don't make any noise.

PRINCESS. (_Winding her dressing gown closely about her and coming a
little way into the room_) What do you want?

JARVIS. Silence!

PRINCESS. (_Switches on lamp on right table_) How dare you enter!

JARVIS. Sh! Not a sound--do you understand?

VOICE OFF. (R.) What's the row?

SECOND VOICE. (R.) Somebody fired a pistol.

PRINCESS. What right--?

JARVIS. Quiet!

VOICE. Where'd he go? Look on the fire-escape.

SECOND VOICE. No, he's on this floor.

PRINCESS. What is it? What do you want here? What have you done?

JARVIS. (_Turning to her_) Now, it's all right. He must certainly belong
to that unfortunate class of the community, for whom "strait-jackets
and a spare diet," are usually prescribed.

"By this report, Col. Johnson has put weapons into the hands of infidelity
to annoy and harass that very portion of the republican community,
which furnishes the only hope, and pledge, that our free institutions
will continue permanent

."

* * * * *

The following account of a Parisian Sabbath we find in the "Salem
Observer" of 1830:

PARISIAN SABBATH. There is little in the appearance of Paris on a Sabbath
morning to remind us that it is a day of rest; the markets are
thronged as on other days, carts and drays and all sorts of vehicles,
designed for the transportation of merchandise are in motion; buying
and selling and manual labor proceed as usual; there is rest for
neither man nor beast.

In the afternoon the shops are usually closed; and labor is suspended,
and the remainder of the day is devoted to pleasure.

Few of those who go to church appear to have any other motive than
amusement.

They walk about the aisles, gazing at the pictures, and listening
to the solemn music of the mass and go away when they are tired.

Those whom I have seen really engaged in worship appeared to belong
to the lower classes; and with the exception of those few, the
persons you see in church are merely idle spectators, attracted
thither by curiosity, or to pass an idle half hour before they go
to promenade in the gardens.

--_Wheaton's Travels_.

* * * * *

In the "Salem Observer" of Dec. 10, 1829, is the following notice
on the Sunday-mail question:-- 
SUNDAY MAILS.

The following resolution on the subject of stopping the mails on
Sundays, was passed at a recent session of the Salem Baptist
Association in Kentucky:--
"_Resolved_, That we as an Association cordially approve the Report
and resolution, as presented to the Senate of the United States,
by Col.

R.M.

Johnson, Chairman of the Committee upon the subject of the petition
to stop the mail on the Sabbath: and sincerely advise all friends
of civil and religious liberty, to refuse to subscribe any petition
that has the least tendency to influence the legislative powers to
act upon _religious matters_; for we consider an association of
_civil_ and _ecclesiastical_ power or an union of _Church_ and
_State_, as one of the greatest calamities which could befal our
country, and that it should be resisted in every possible shape in
which it may be presented

."

* * * * *
A great change has taken place in some of our towns within a few years
in reference to the Sunday mail. Twenty-five years ago it was rare to
see a person belonging to one of the Evangelical sects at the post-office
at the time of the opening of the mail on Sunday noon; whereas now
it is not uncommon to see deacons and numerous other members of
such churches hurry from their several places of worship to get
their letters and papers with as much eagerness as "heretics."

Sunday papers moreover are now bought by the same class. The same change
too is observable in the use of horse-cars on Sunday.

Few men are governed by the conscientious scruples once held about
riding to and from church, especially if the day happens to be hot
or stormy.

This may or may not be an improvement; it depends upon the point
of view from which we look at it.

One of the most radical men we ever knew, one who thought "Sunday should
be abolished" and a "new Bible made by men of modern ideas, and
reasonable views introduced, and the old one discarded," said he
was brought to these views by having been forced when young to
attend church and engage in religious exercises, and told that he
must conform to the established belief and never ask any questions.

It will be said that this man was an exception to the general rule.
Perhaps so, for one taking such an extreme view; but we must all
know cases somewhat similar.

A careful inquiry will show that if we look around among the clergy
even, we shall find that the most radical preachers of the day were
brought up in the Orthodox ranks.

Who would wish to re-establish the gloomy Puritan Sabbath, with its
barren meeting-house, without fires or music, and its tedious,
uninteresting sermon, running on to "fifteenthly," gauged by an
hour-glass turned over perhaps once or twice during the discourse?

Speaking of the change of habits in New England, even, it is noticeable
how much more prevalent colds and other slight indispositions are
now to what they used to be on Sunday.

The very thought of going to church makes some people cough or have
a headache.

Theatres or concerts never seem to affect these people in the same way.
Even the weather, which keeps people in-doors on Sunday, never
keeps them in on other days.

Our own view of the subject is that while we should be glad to see
more interest taken in public worship than there is at present, we
think people should have the right of spending their Sundays in
their own way,--always, of course, provided they do not interfere
with the rights and feelings of others.

It seems to us that the only way to have Sunday properly observed
is for those who are influential to make some little personal
sacrifices, if need be, to attend the Sunday services, and do all
they can to promote the most cheerful views of religion and make
the services interesting.

Let those people who lament the decay of religious observances read the
following quotation from the "Salem Gazette" of 1830.

Those who can recollect how it was at that date must see that
notwithstanding a perhaps much smaller attendance now upon public worship,
there is every reason to believe that, at least as far as the native
population is concerned, Sunday is really more quiet than it was
then.

After reading this article we shall perhaps be prepared to say that
"tythingmen" may have been needed just after the Revolution.

THE TIMES WE LIVE IN. The dreadful tragedy performed in this town last
April, and the subsequent arrests, developments, confessions, trials,
&c., by keeping the thoughts and conversation of the community
continually directed to that enormity, have led to the general but
very erroneous notion, that there must have been a great deterioration
of the public morals.

--If the words of the aged are to be received as true, the very reverse
is the fact.

The revolutionary war left the whole country as well depraved in morals
as exhausted in resources.

This was particularly the case with such towns as Salem, which had
been largely exposed to the irresistibly corrupting influence of
privateering.

At that time, when the population of Salem was not half so great
as it is at present, more riot, debauchery, and vice, obtruded
themselves upon the sight in a week, than could now be discovered
by diligent search in a month.

The corruption of manners was so general, that almost none escaped
from its contaminating influence.

Mechanics and other laboring men would leave their business in the
day, and their families in the evening, to spend their time, dancing
and drinking, in the dens of pollution which then abounded in
"Naugus-Hole" and "Button-Hole."

Merchants, professional men, &c. passed a great part of their time
in taverns, drinking and gambling.

Quarrelling and fighting there were not uncommon, and well-worn packs of
cards were always lying about the bar-room tables, (though seldom
long unemployed,) ready for the use of visitors,--the common game
on these occasions being All-Fours, and the common stake a bowl of
punch or a mug of flip.

Pastimes like the above named, were current in every class of
society.

When the regular hours of drinking approached, the workmen left
their labour to play at cards, the loser "treating the shop's crew." In
a large establishment a boy would be kept running with his jug
nearly the whole time, the contents being freely shared amongst
master, journeymen, boys, and numerous visitors.

At this time, and long afterward, infamous houses were kept open day and
night, in the quarters of the town named in the preceding paragraph.

The fiddles were kept in constant motion, and if any thought of stopping
them they did not dare to attempt it.

The most flagrant disorders and outrages were continually occurring,
so that a timid man would go far out of his way to avoid passing near
those places.

The churches on Sunday were not nearly so well attended as they now
are.

The proportion of persons who made the Sabbath a day of recreation,
was much greater.

The time was spent in riding into the country, walking about the
fields and pastures, and visiting friends in town.

But little order was preserved in the streets on that day. People in
passing to meeting thro' Prison Lane, (as County-street was then called)
and its environs, encountered frequent and large groups of men and boys,
noisily engaged in gambling with props, pitching coppers, &c. occasionally
enlivened by the uproar of a quarrel.

The doctrines of Tom Paine and his French coadjutors, were much
more in vogue then than now.

Infidelity stalked over the land with a giant stride, to which the mincing
pace of the fooleries of Fanny Wright can bear no comparison; and virtue
and good order were almost put out of countenance. Intemperance,
habitual or occasional, was so common, as to be hardly considered
a matter of reproach; and the kindred vices abounded, which usually
follow in its train.

The state of society has been continually improving since. The bad habits
of that time have been discarded one after another, by all who would
maintain a reputable standing; and open immorality now places a man
at once in the lowest rank of society.
Intemperance has been diminished in a surprising degree.

Debauchery has been compelled to retreat to lurking holes and
corners, instead of obtruding its "horrid front" to the public gaze.

Education has been improved, and universally diffused; and public
worship is more generally attended.

--Terrible crimes have indeed been committed amongst us, and may
be again, but the habits and manners which lead to crime, are less
prevalent at the present time than they have been for fifty years
before.

It seems to us to be clearly a mistake for those of ultra-liberal notions
to suppose that all who cannot assent to their views of Sunday
must of necessity be either Pharisees or hypocrites,--quite as great
a mistake as that of the ultra-conservatives, who condemn as wicked
all who do not believe in a puritanical observance of Sunday.

Whatever we may think or say or do, people nowadays will not be
forced to attend church.

Among all denominations the services are more attractive than they
once were, and every year there is less and less of the repulsive
kinds of doctrine preached.

But in spite of this, while many men regard attendance on divine
service as both a pleasure and a privilege, there are others, and
they not few, whom no influence or persuasion can induce to attend
Sunday worship.

Such persons must be left to spend the day as they please.

A very large proportion of those who do not attend church services
are people of culture and character, from whom church-goers have
nothing to fear as regards a disturbance of their worship.

Generally this class are interested in having Sunday kept as a day
of quiet and rest, and their non-attendance at church is no evidence
that they have any desire to secularize Sunday.

An eminent writer has said: "We live in a transition period, when
the old faiths which comforted nations, and not only so, but made
nations, seem to have spent their force....

There is faith in chemistry, in meat and wine, in wealth, in
machinery, in the steam-engine, galvanic battery, turbine-wheels,
sewing-machines, and in public opinion; but not in divine causes....

A silent revolution has loosed the tension of the old religious
sects, and in place of the gravity and permanence of those societies
of opinion, they run into freak and extravagance....

In creeds never was such levity: witness the heathenisms in
Christianity,--the periodic revivals, the millennium mathematics,
the peacock ritualism, the retrogression to popery, the maundering
of Mormons, the squalor of mesmerism, the deliration of rappings,
the rat-and-mouse revelation, thumps in table-drawers, and black
art ...

By the irresistible maturing of the general mind the Christian
traditions have lost their hold."

If these statements are true, we have a sufficient answer to the
question so often asked: "Why do not people go to church as they
once did?"

They do not go because they have lost their faith in churches and
worship,--at least such have as are appealed to from those holding
liberal and reasonable views.

There are no doubt men who consider the too often expensive ways
in which churches are supported as altogether beyond their means.

The demands of civilization upon individuals in these restless
times, when there are so many organizations, secret, secular, and
religious, are indeed too great for small incomes, especially as
the cost of food is continually increasing, and as society in other
ways makes so many secular demands upon them.

Public worship is after all, in the view of many persons, not a
necessity, but only a luxury which can easily be dispensed with.

It might perhaps have been better for the whole community if churches
had undertaken to do the work which is now in the hands of many
charitable and secret societies; then those who take so much interest
in these outside, often expensive, organizations would have had all
their interest in the churches.

But the latter were for years so divided on doctrines of belief
that their whole attention has for the most part been directed to
other matters than their legitimate work, which has thus been thrown
into the hands of outside agencies.

In these times it seems difficult to maintain religious societies except
where the element of fear is dominant in the creed, where some remarkable
preacher takes the attention, or where the ritual or fashion attracts.
Do not the papers often speak of "fashionable" churches?

One thing which prevents many people from attending public worship
on Sunday is the increasing tendency towards ritualism,--or perhaps,
we should say, making the services less instructive than formerly,
and more devotional or emotional.

This is seen not only in the Episcopal Church, but also among many
other denominations.

Even Congregational Orthodox--descendants of the Pilgrim
Fathers--introduce prayer-books and responsive services, and make
their church buildings more ecclesiastical in appearance, to look
as much as possible like Episcopal churches.

All these things to many minds are not edifying, to say the least,
and consequently such persons absent themselves from service.

Those too who are impressed by emotional religion join the
Episcopalians, so that for the time there is an apparent increase
in the attendance at the Episcopal churches, gained from churches
of other denominations; and especially too as fashion decrees
nowadays that "it is the proper thing to do" to go to the Episcopal
Church, whether you believe in its doctrines or not.

So that at length there are a great many people who think when
church-going gets to be a matter of fashion, there is quite as much
real religion to be found outside as inside the church; consequently
they lose their interest.

All these causes must be taken together; of course no one thing alone
accounts for the change in regard to church attendance.

We quote the following remarks from a recent English paper ("The
Unitarian Herald"); they have a direct bearing on our subject, and
are worthy of consideration by those who neglect public worship or
favor a more secular Sunday.

Among other things, the speaker (the Rev.

John Page Hopps) says:

"So far as we can see, the old orthodox believers were right when
they called public worship 'a means of grace;' and if human
experience is of any value, it is an undoubted fact that a great
multitude which no man could number _have_ felt the grace-giving
influence of it.

It is as true as ever that man cannot 'live by bread alone,' but
that he needs also the 'word that proceedeth from the mouth of God;'
and if it is true, as we believe, that the word of God does come
home with special force and pathos when worship is joined in by
kindred souls, the argument for public worship, from this point of
view, seems complete.

And yet, half in jest and half in earnest, and sometimes altogether
in earnest, we hear it said that a man can worship God in the fields
quite as well as in the church.

'Perhaps he can,' said a wise man once, 'but _does_ he?'

I wonder whether we shall go on in this direction until we hear it said
that a man can worship God playing at lawn-tennis as in attending
public worship?

Thus there may actually come into existence a cant of the absentee which
shall be as really cant as the cant of the devotee; for the use
of the word 'worship' in such instances is a glaring case of
exaggeration tinged with self-deception, which is the very essence
of cant.

Besides, one of the surest notes of the worshipping spirit is an increase
of sympathy and love,--sympathy that suggests fellowship, and love that
suggests anything but selfish isolation.

"The irregularity also of attendance upon public worship might be cited
as an instance of neglect or levity which 'personal consecration'
alone can cure.

In days gone by, attendance upon public worship was a habit, and nothing
that could be avoided was allowed to interfere with it.

Twice on the Sunday, too, was the rule, and not, as now, the decided
exception.

But with many it is now becoming once every other Sunday, or scarcely
that; with so little of 'personal consecration' in the matter that
the need for an umbrella may decide the doubter not to go.

"Do we not, again, listen too much merely for delight?

and does not the question, 'How did you like the sermon,' or 'How did you
like the service,' indicate that we join in the service and listen to
a sermon in an entirely wrong spirit? The critical or self-regarding
spirit has its uses, but it may be fatal to 'personal consecration'
in public worship.

How often does an entire service depend upon our own temper, our
own mood, our own spirit?

And how often is it true that a congregation has as much to do with
the making of a minister as the minister has to do with the making
of a congregation?

"'If I neglect public worship, then,' a man should say to himself,
'the community is injured, the brotherhood is weakened, the young
are confused.

It is a grave responsibility.'
"But now we must not shrink from the question: How far or how long
ought these considerations to hold the man who has lost delight in
public worship or faith in that to which it bears witness?

When should doubt make worship impossible, or unbelief make worship
wrong for the honest soul?

When should 'personal consecration' say to a man, not _stay_, but
_depart_?

It is a grave question, and every one must shape his answer for
himself.

All I would say is: Give worship the benefit of the doubt: ay!

give fellow-worshippers the benefit of the doubt. Continue with them
as long as you can; if not as a full believer, then as a devout inquirer,
a gentle seeker, a sympathetic friend.

Why not?
That is possible with us; for the very bond of our union is sympathetic
regard for one another's freedom. It is also specially possible with
us because our teachings do not, at all events, outrage the reason
and shock the moral sense.

Even an agnostic might listen to us and hope that our Gospel is
true.

"Special dangers call for special safeguards, special consideration,
special wariness.

It is an age of splendid advance in science, of restless energy in
business, of stupendous activity in politics, of daring questioning
everywhere.

All that makes against public worship; and yet all that makes public
worship a greater necessity and demonstrates 'the pressing need of personal
consecration' to it. God only knows what we should do without it and the
blessed Sunday!

"'Dear old commemorative day, For weary man designed To help him
on life's troubled way, To give his spirit freer play, To soothe
his harassed mind!

"'A day of worship and of grace, One calm, sweet day in seven, To
grant a little breathing space To strengthen man life's work to
face, And lift his life to heaven.'"

In conclusion, let us add to the above speech the following remarks,
which we heartily approve,-- 
"Mr.

Preston (London) testified to the falling off of attendance at public
worship, and he attributed this largely to the parents not taking
their children with them in early years, as of old times.

He deprecated the going to public worship to have the brains tickled
in hearing a particular man, and maintained that this was in no
sense 'public worship.'

He emphasized strongly the fact that those who say they can worship in
the fields do not, in fact, worship at all. He urged that in worship the
musical and devotional services should become more prominent, and the
sermon become frequently but subsidiary."

Benjamin H. Ticknor. Thomas B. Ticknor. George F.

Godfrey.

[Illustration]
A LIST OF BOOKS

PUBLISHED BY

TICKNOR AND COMPANY

BOSTON.

* * * * *
_AMERICAN-ACTOR SERIES_ (THE). Edited by LAURENCE HUTTON. A series of
12mo.

volumes by the best writers, embracing the lives of the most famous
and popular American Actors.

Illustrated. Six volumes in three.

Sold only in sets. Per set, $5.00.

Vol. I. Edwin Forrest. By Lawrence Barrett. The Jeffersons.

By William Winter.

Vol. II.

The Elder and the Younger Booth. By Mrs. Asia Booth Clarke.
Charlotte Cushman.

By Clara Erskine Clement.

Vol. III. Mrs. Duff. By Joseph N. Ireland. Fechter. By Kate Field.

Also a limited edition on large paper, especially adapted to the use of
collectors and bibliophiles, for extending, extra illustrating, etc. 6
vols.

Per vol., $5.00.

_AMERICAN ARCHITECT_.

See last page.

_ARCHITECTURE_.

See MONOGRAPH.

_ARNOLD'S_ (EDWIN) The Light of Asia. Beautiful illustrated edition.
8vo.
$6.00. In antique morocco, or tree-calf, $10.00.

_ARNOLD'S_ (GEORGE) Poems. Edited, with a Biographical Sketch of the Poet,
by WILLIAM WINTER. With Portrait. 16mo. $1.50. Half-calf, $3.00. Morocco
antique or tree-calf, $4.00.

_AUSTIN'S_ (JANE G.)

Nantucket Scraps; Being Experiences of an Off-Islander,
in Season and out of Season, among a Passing People. 16mo.
$1.50.

(_Hangs
up--crosses and looks out window._) Well, good-bye, America. I don't
know when I'll see your shores again. (_Shuts trunk and sits on it._) If
Rusty gets here before that Exalted Cousin returns, I'll be all right.
Hm--ouch!--I wonder what the game is? (_Knock at door._) Go away--we're
all very ill. (JARVIS, _uncertain who it is, starts to hide. Door opens
very cautiously. Enter_ RUSTY _carrying bundle of trays taken in first
act_.)

RUSTY. (_Looking over shoulder_) I knows where I'm goin', all right.

JARVIS. Come on in, Rusty.

RUSTY. (_Crosses to back of trunk_) How did you get on board?

JARVIS. I came in that trunk.

RUSTY. You came in that trunk?

JARVIS. Did you see any signs of the police?

RUSTY. No, sir.

JARVIS. Are you sure?

RUSTY. Yes, sir.

JARVIS. Did you look?

RUSTY. No, sir. (_Handle of door_ R. _rattles._ JARVIS _to open door._
Princess _enters._)

RUSTY. How de do, Mrs. Princess?

PRINCESS. How do you do, Rusty? (_Exclamation_ C.R.) Oh, there you are!
You're all right, aren't you?

JARVIS. (_Rubbing sore places_) Yes, I'm all right.

PRINCESS. But your hand--you must have that attended to at once.

JARVIS. That's all right. I'll see the ship's surgeon.

PRINCESS. Do, please.

JARVIS. (R.) You can go now, Rusty. Oh, listen! What is the number of
your stateroom?

RUSTY. Number Seven twenty-nine.

JARVIS. Seven twenty-nine. Now get this: Go there, lock yourself in, and
don't talk to anyone. You're deaf and dumb--understand?--deaf and dumb.

RUSTY. I got you first. (_Exit upper deck._)

PRINCESS. There is something I must tell you. My cousin, the Duke
D'Alva, is on board this boat.

JARVIS. (_Whimsically_) He professes to love you devotedly.

PRINCESS. You overheard?

JARVIS. (_Pointing to trunk_) The trunk. It wasn't my idea, you know.
(_With feeling--yet knowledge_) You are afraid of him? Why?

PRINCESS. Well, he is very powerful--and I may be driven into his hands.

JARVIS. You mean--you might have to marry him?

PRINCESS. (_Looking nervously toward door_ C.) Yes, if you fail.

JARVIS. (_Breath being taken away_) If I fail--Say, hold on a minute!
Things are coming too fast for me. I--you--how do I----

PRINCESS. (_Interrupting_) He may come back any minute--and I don't dare
tell him what happened at the Manhattan Hotel--but he will want to know
who you are and why you are with me.

JARVIS. That's what I want to know. You forget I am completely in the
dark.

PRINCESS. (_Looking out of window_) The police can't be on board now.
(_Down stage._)

JARVIS. (_Going to window beside her, and then back again_) You can't
tell until you see who goes ashore with the pilot. They may be working
on Rusty as a clue, but it won't lead them to anything so long as they
don't connect him with me. We'll take no chances until we get past the
danger line. Now let's get down to business. What is the matter--and
what am I to do?

PRINCESS. (_Hesitating_) I hardly know how to begin--it seems absurd in
this broad daylight to talk of ghosts--but the fact is, my castle is
haunted.

JARVIS. (_Laughing_) Spooks?

[Illustration: "THE GHOST BREAKER" _See Page 34_]

PRINCESS. (_Very seriously_) Call it anything you like, but the
castle is haunted, just the same. My grandfather was one of the
wealthiest nobles in Spain. When he died my father went to take
possession of his estate in Segura. He found the town full of weird
stories of uncanny happenings--the castle was deserted, everyone had
fled and all told of something in armor that stalked the halls at night.

JARVIS. O-o-o-o-o-o-o-h!

PRINCESS. My father laughed at the silly natives and said he would go
into the castle and show them how foolish their fears were. He went, and
was never seen again.

JARVIS. (_Naturally deeply interested_) What happened to him?

PRINCESS. No one knows. He disappeared--vanished utterly, without
leaving a single clue--and the treasure's gone.

JARVIS. (_More interested at word Treasure_) Treasure--what treasure?

PRINCESS. My grandfather is known to have converted all his wealth into
Spanish gold. It amounted to about a million dollars in your money.

JARVIS. How long ago was that?

PRINCESS. Fifteen years ago. Since then two other men have
disappeared--just as my father did--and now, the Duke tells me that my
brother has entered the castle. You see it runs in the blood. Up to a
week ago my brother had sent me a cable every day, then suddenly the
messages ceased. All this week not a word. Now I know--my brother has
entered the castle, and--well, that is the end.

JARVIS. Why did you leave Spain?

PRINCESS. A part of the legend was that a plan had been made showing
just where the treasure was located--but this plan could never be found.
Only by accident I learned that this plan had been hidden in the back of
a locket and the locket, I discovered, had been sold and was in
America. It was to find this locket that I left my brother and came
here.

JARVIS. Then my work now is to find your brother and solve the mystery?
All right! We'll explain to the Duke that you are taking me to Spain for
no other purpose than to solve the mystery. In America we've had
trust-breakers and strike-breakers, and now why not Jarvis, the Ghost
Breaker?

PRINCESS. Why, yes, why not? Carlos would believe almost anything of you
Americans.

JARVIS. (_Whimsically_) And you will tell him you have made me
a--er--what is it? A vassal?

PRINCESS. (_Almost shyly_) I think not--not just yet.

JARVIS. By the way, your--er--just how should a perfectly good vassal
address his Princess?

PRINCESS. (_Hesitatingly_) Highness--is correct.

JARVIS. Highness--tell me, your Highness, a vassal doesn't amount to
much, does he? I thought he was a piker.

PRINCESS. (_Mystified_) A piker--a man who carries a pike?

JARVIS. (_Trying to explain_) No, no--a piker is a tin horn.

PRINCESS. Tin horn?

JARVIS. Well, a sort of pawn in this game of chess--along with your
kings and queens and castles and things. (_Seriously, yet playfully_)
Could a good, hard-working, reliable vassal work his way up to be a Duke
or a Lord, or something like that?

PRINCESS. (_Almost playing with him_) You're an ambitious vassal, aren't
you? I'm afraid you wouldn't be content with being anything less than a
king.

JARVIS. (_Meaningly_) A king--a prince--or a bandit.

PRINCESS. A bandit? And why a bandit?

JARVIS. A king might command--a prince request--a bandit seize.

PRINCESS. Seize what?

JARVIS. (_Daringly_) That which a mere vassal can only admire. (_Knock
at door. Both brought back to earth._)

PRINCESS. There he is now.

JARVIS. Hooray!

PRINCESS. What shall I call you?

JARVIS. (_Whispering_) Oh, any old thing--Warren, Mr. Warren. (_Pause._
PRINCESS _crosses to door, hesitates a moment, then opens it._)

PRINCESS. Come in.

(_Enter_ DUKE. _Stops at sight of_ JARVIS.)

DUKE. Oh, I'm intruding. (_Spoken as though he expected_ JARVIS _to
go._)

PRINCESS. Allow me to present Mr. Warren, whom I am bringing from
America to solve the mystery of the castle. My cousin, Duke D'Alva.
(_She crosses_ L.)

JARVIS. (_Cross to_ DUKE--_easily_) Glad to know You. (PRINCESS _back_
R.)

DUKE. (_Patronizingly_) I am honored. Interesting task you have
undertaken. May I ask if that is your regular profession?

JARVIS. That is my business, solving mysteries, looking up the family
skeleton, hunting out spooks. What we call in America a Ghost Breaker!

DUKE. Ghost Breaker? A strange calling. I indeed never heard of anything
more extraordinary.

JARVIS. It is not surprising, your Excellency. We are living in an age
of specialists--and like every other profession, this calls for its own
peculiar training.

PRINCESS. (_Interrupting_) I am so glad you are here, cousin--you will
be able to tell Mr. Warren, so much better than I, all the
circumstances.

DUKE. I'll be delighted to throw any light I can on the mystery, but
first tell me--(_To_ PRINCESS)--why did you leave your brother to come
to America?

PRINCESS. (_Takes locket from reticule_) This little locket is what
brought me to America.

DUKE. (_Crosses to her, holding out hand to take it_) May I see it?

PRINCESS. (_Takes out memo._) No, Carlos, you may see the locket--no one
must see the memorandum.

DUKE. Memorandum?

PRINCESS. Yes.

JARVIS. (_Seated on trunk--to_ DUKE) A wise precaution.

DUKE. (_Picking up locket_) Curious old piece of work--and you came all
the way to America for this?

PRINCESS. Yes.

DUKE. You were very fortunate to find it so soon. (_Cross_ R.)

PRINCESS. I knew where to go to find it--and yet I was nearly too late.
Think of it, after that dear old locket had lain in an antique shop for
ten years, suddenly in one day there came two inquiries for it. (JARVIS
_sits looking at_ CARLOS.) Mine was the second. A distinguished-looking
gentleman had been there in the morning, described it roughly to the old
man and got him to hunt for it. He had just found it when I came in. I
doubled the distinguished-looking gentleman's offer and got it.
(_Another look at_ DUKE.) Who do you suppose wanted that locket, Carlos?

DUKE. (R._, being cornered and with effort to throw it off lightly_) I
see that it has already occurred to you that I am the
distinguished-looking gentleman whose offer you doubled.

PRINCESS. (_With curiosity_) But how did you learn about the memorandum,
Carlos? (JARVIS _sits on trunk._)

DUKE. I didn't, Cousin. I had not the slightest suspicion that the
locket contained the supposed secret. I was merely following my pet
hobby, trying to recover some of those precious heirlooms which have
been scattered to the four winds. (_Quickly_) You would be surprised,
Mr. Warren, to see the collection I have already rescued and which some
day may be yours, Maria.

JARVIS. (_Breaking in impatiently_) Well, so much for the treasure. Now
let's hear about the ghost. What's your opinion of this, your
Excellency? Do you put any stock in ghosts?

DUKE. Yes, Mr. Warren, I am convinced there are such things.

JARVIS. You believe that this castle is haunted?

DUKE. I know it.

JARVIS. You think this ghost is dangerous to encounter--that it is the
cause of the deaths and disappearances in the castle?

DUKE. I do.

JARVIS. Well, what do you think about that? Ghosts---- That's a pretty
broad term, your Excellency. Can you tell me just what you believe this
ghost is?

DUKE. There are certain occult forces in this world, Mr. Warren, that
science cannot fathom, and some of them are manifested in that castle
now. A priest might call it a demon or a fiend; a psychologist, perhaps
a returning spirit. I can't say--but I know there is something real, a
malignant force which lurks in that castle, and while it haunts those
halls, it is madness for any man to expose himself there.

JARVIS. Have you ever seen this ghost?

PRINCESS. My brother has.

JARVIS. What?

PRINCESS. Twice.

JARVIS. Good night!

PRINCESS. So has my father, and the others when they disappeared. No one
has seen it three times and lived.

JARVIS. (_Interrupting and looking at_ DUKE) In just what way do you
connect this spook with the treasure?

DUKE. Spook? I see no connection. What do you mean?

JARVIS. Oh, there is always money where the ghost walks.

DUKE. I don't know what your experience has been, Mr. Warren. You are
evidently a brave man--but you have yet to encounter a real ghost.

JARVIS. Brave! It takes no bravery to fight a coward. That is what this
ghost is--it's a coward like every other ghost. I tell you that men are
not half so afraid of spirits as spirits are afraid of men. Face the
supernatural--and it is beaten to a frazzle before the fight begins.
Spooks--horse-thieves--and peevish wild-cats can all be tamed by the
same little charm.

PRINCESS. (_Mystified_) Charm?

DUKE. (_Leaning forward_) What is it?

JARVIS. I'd hate to tell you. It's part of my system. (_Taking out
pistol._)

DUKE. (_Scornfully_) I had been hoping, Mr. Warren, that you had some
subtle method of handling this problem, but you evidently propose to
meet the forces of the supernatural with firearms. I--I may tell you
that this specter has been shot at before without the slightest effect.

JARVIS. (_Smiling_) Quite likely, your Excellency. I have seen rifle
fire that had not the slightest effect on a wild-cat for the very
reason that the firing was wilder than the cat.

DUKE. (_As though pitying him_) I am sorry for you Mr. Warren. You will
find the ghost more real than the treasure.

PRINCESS. (_Rising_) But the treasure is real, Carlos. Would I have
crossed the ocean for this locket unless I knew? Why, with this paper
anybody--a total stranger--could walk right up to the very stone that
hides it----

JARVIS. (_Meaningly_) Pretty dangerous paper to have around. Look out
somebody does not get there ahead of you.

DUKE. (_Meaningly to_ JARVIS) Yes, it is a dangerous paper--if it leads
anyone into the castle.

JARVIS. (_Laughingly_) Well, your Excellency, I'd go a long way for the
fun of unravelling a good mystery with a little spice of danger thrown
in.

DUKE. You needn't have gone so far, Mr. Warren. You are leaving a very
unusual case behind you in New York. The papers are full of it. Have you
read them? (_Picking up newspaper._) It will interest you too, Cousin.
You were at the Manhattan last night, I believe.

PRINCESS. Yes! (JARVIS _and_ PRINCESS _look at each other and_ DUKE
_reads from newspaper._)

JARVIS. Why, no---- (_Glancing at trunk._) I was so wrapped up in my
baggage I really didn't have a chance. (_Looks at_ PRINCESS.)

DUKE. "Pistol duel in Manhattan Hotel. Colonel James Marcum, a prominent
and wealthy Kentuckian, nearly met his death at five o'clock this
morning in a pistol duel in his room at the Manhattan Hotel." (_Glancing
down a little further_) "At a late hour the police had no clue to the
identity of his assailant, except the remarkable fact that the person is
still hiding somewhere in the hotel."

JARVIS. (_Interrupting_) He's probably a long way from the hotel by
this time.

DUKE. (_Looking at paper_) They say that he couldn't have gotten out
without being seen.

JARVIS. That's the theory of the police or reporters.

DUKE. What do you think?

JARVIS. He might have escaped in a thousand ways--but that work is
hardly in my line. That belongs to the "Gum-shoes."

DUKE. Gum-shoes?

JARVIS. Yes, ordinary detectives. (_Enter_ NITA.)

NITA. Excuse, Madame----

PRINCESS. No, Nita! Not just yet. I'll call you when I want you.

JARVIS. We are keeping you from getting settled, I am afraid. (_Cross
toward door._) So, if you will excuse me, I'll see you at luncheon,
perhaps. Hooray! I am glad to have made your acquaintance, your
Excellency.

DUKE. Thank you, Mr. Warren, I find you most interesting. I shall be
glad to hear more of your remarkable profession. (WARREN _crosses to
door and opens it, disclosing two detectives and steward._)

DETECTIVE. Are you Miss M. T. Ar--ra--gan?

PRINCESS. (L.C.) Yes!

DETECTIVE. You was at the Manhattan Hotel last night?

PRINCESS. Yes.

DETECTIVE. The lock on your door was broken?

PRINCESS. Yes.

DETECTIVE. (_Removes hat_) I am from headquarters, Madame, and I have
orders to clear up one or two little matters with that affair at the
hotel last night.

DUKE. Orders, orders! To break in here--what headquarters?

DETECTIVE. Police headquarters.

DUKE. Do you know whom you are addressing?

DETECTIVE. Say--that will be about all from you!

PRINCESS. Yes, Carlos. Please let me attend to this matter. Won't you
come in, gentlemen?

DETECTIVE. Thanks. (_Realizing they are already in the room_) That's
all, Steward. (_Exit_ STEWARD; _enter_ DETECTIVES, _closing door._
JARVIS _slips wounded hand into coat pocket._)

JARVIS. Yes, we were just discussing that mystery, Inspector.

DUKE. You are, I take it, one of the--er--gum-shoes? (JARVIS _laughs and
goes up stage._)

DETECTIVE. (_Glaring angrily for a moment, walks over toward him and
shouts in his face_) Gum-shoe! Say, are you trying to be funny?

DUKE. Well, sir, you are talking rather loud and with undue asperity. I
presume I have offended you.

DETECTIVE. _You presume!_ That's a hot one! Say, who are you, anyhow?

DUKE. I am Carlos Hernando Duke D'Alva. I have other titles, but they
would hardly interest you.

DETECTIVE. Dook de Alver--and then some, eh? Ain't that nice? Well, if
you was the Archbishop of Canterbury I'd run yer in and take yer 'shore
if yer give me any more lip! (_To_ PRINCESS, _sucks his teeth
contemptuously and turns his back on_ DUKE. _Produces notebook from
pocket and addresses_ PRINCESS.) As you was saying when we was
interrupted, you was in the hotel when the shooting occurred. Did you
hear it?

PRINCESS. Yes, I heard two shots.

DETECTIVE. Did you hear anything else?

PRINCESS. Yes, I heard some people running near my door.

DETECTIVE. Any one come in?

PRINCESS. Yes, my maid was frightened and came in.

DETECTIVE. Aha! How did the lock on your door get broken?

PRINCESS. It was broken when I came. I explained all that at the hotel.

DETECTIVE. Um--all right. What about the colored man who came to your
room and carried away a large bundle.

PRINCESS. That was my servant. I sent for him. They were purchases I
made too late to put in my trunk. They are here, unopened; you may
examine them if you wish.

DETECTIVE. That's all right, Miss, but what do you know about this?
(_Produces knife from pocket--walks slowly to her, examining it._) The
initial on it is "W."

PRINCESS. Did I leave that? Thank you. I'm so glad you found it.

DETECTIVE. Then it's yours? Who is W? Your name is Aragon, I believe.

PRINCESS. I am Maria Theresa of Aragon.

DETECTIVE. But who is W?

PRINCESS. Why, er, it isn't W--you had it upside down. It is M--Maria
Theresa.

DETECTIVE. That's all right, ma'am. Now there's just one thing more.

DUKE. (_Cross and touch_ DETECTIVE _on arm_) You will pardon me, but I
wish to inform you that this man's name is Warren----

DETECTIVE. (_Crossing toward him_) Say! Who's conducting this inquiry,
you er me?

DUKE. But, my dear man----

DETECTIVE. I am not your dear man. Cut that! You get out of here.
(_Forces him toward door._)

PRINCESS. Yes, do go, Carlos. Leave us to attend to this matter. I am
sure we can finish this better without you.

DUKE. I merely wished to point out----

DETECTIVE. (_Interrupting and hustling_ DUKE _out_) You hear what the
lady says. (SECOND DETECTIVE _cross to_ DUKE.) Cut it, or out yer goes,
and if ye butt in again I'll fan yer. Do you hear? (SECOND DETECTIVE
_slaps_ DUKE _on arm, motions him to door_ R.)

DUKE. (_At door_) Infernal outrage! I shall report this to the King!

DETECTIVE. To the King, huh? Did you get that, Tom? Well, what do you
know about that? (SECOND DETECTIVE _closes door._)

JARVIS. Don't be disturbed, gentlemen; he's quite harmless. You heard
him talking about the King--he suffers from Regalmania. He has grandiose
ideas.

DETECTIVE. (_Aside_) What does that mean, Tom?

SECOND DETECTIVE. (_With gesture to head_) Wheels.

DETECTIVE. You mean he is crazy?

JARVIS. Yes, he is at times; but he is not at all dangerous.

DETECTIVE. You lookin' out for him?

JARVIS. Yes, that's my job.

DETECTIVE. Sorry I had to be rough with him like that, Miss, but you saw
he was gumming the game. I'm going back to New York in the pilot boat
shortly and there wasn't no time to waste. Now just one question more.
How do you account for the blood on that knob of your door?

PRINCESS. Blood, on my door---- Why, I----

JARVIS. I think I can explain that, Inspector.

DETECTIVE. Go ahead, then.

JARVIS. (_Cross_ C.) Allow me.

PRINCESS. Certainly.

JARVIS. The colored man, the one you were talking about, the one who
brought the bundle, that bundle there, carelessly broke the blade of
that knife and cut his hand. That was it, wasn't it? You see the large
blade is snapped off near the handle.

DETECTIVE. Where is this colored man now?

PRINCESS. He is in stateroom 729.

DETECTIVE. All right, I will just take a look at him. 729? Sorry to
bother you. They was the Chief's orders. Good-bye. (_Exit._)

PRINCESS. But his hand isn't cut.

JARVIS. (_Cross to 'phone_) No, not yet--but it soon will be. Hello,
give me 729. (_Pause._) Hello, hello, hello, Rusty? Damn it all, answer
me, do you hear me? (_Pause._) Yes, I know I did, but I am telling you
to talk now. Do just what I tell you and do it quick. Take your knife
and cut your left hand. What? No, no, you a--damned fool, don't cut it
off, but just enough to make it bleed a little and then tie it up with a
handkerchief. Never mind. Do it quick, and remember, don't answer
questions. You're deaf and dumb again. (_Hangs up receiver and turns to_
PRINCESS.) By gee, you're game! You certainly buffaloed that Detective.
Then your cousin Carlos broke in at the psychological moment to scatter
their gum-shoe wits. (_Laugh._)

PRINCESS. They believe he's crazy.

JARVIS. That's just it. Now they won't listen to him. Yes, he'll be
crazy, all right. Do you think you can handle him?

PRINCESS. Yes, you have your hand dressed.

JARVIS. Then I'll hunt up the ship's surgeon--and be back directly. Gee,
you're game! (_Cross to door_ R. DUKE _enters at door_ R. JARVIS
_turns._) Crazy! That's funny! (JARVIS _exits, laughing._)

DUKE. (_Showing suppressed emotion, stands_ R.C. _glaring at_ PRINCESS)
Well!

PRINCESS. Well!

DUKE. Well, I'm waiting!

PRINCESS. For what, Carlos?

DUKE. For some explanation. Who is this man Warren?

PRINCESS. He is a professional ghost breaker, as he explained.

DUKE. How did you find him?

PRINCESS. I met him quite by accident.

DUKE. What do you know about him?

PRINCESS. Why, he is as well known in America as you are in Spain.

DUKE. Indeed! (_Cross to center._) Well, he will be better known when I
turn him over to the police.

PRINCESS. Why, Carlos, what do you mean?

DUKE. I think you know that which I mean, Maria. (DETECTIVE _sticks head
in door._)

DETECTIVE. It's all right, Madame, but you might have told us that your
nigger was a dummy.

DUKE. (_To_ PRINCESS) One moment, gentlemen, one moment. (DETECTIVES
_enter._) If this person is famous, these gentlemen should know him. Do
you know Warren, the Ghost Breaker?

DETECTIVE. The what?

DUKE. The Ghost Breaker!

DETECTIVE. (_Both grinning_) He's off again, Tom. (_Enter_ JARVIS.)

DUKE. Now we'll see. Is this man Warren, the Ghost Breaker? (_Warren
winks at_ DETECTIVES.)

DETECTIVE. (_To_ SECOND DETECTIVE) He's hip, all right.

JARVIS. Agree with anything he says.

DUKE. (_Furiously_) Answer my question--is this man Warren, the Ghost
Breaker?

DETECTIVE. Now, that's all right, Dook. Sure he's a Ghost Breaker, ain't
he, Tom?

SECOND DETECTIVE. Surest thing you know.

DUKE. Sacristi, am I, Carlos Hernando D'Alva, to be mocked at by two
grinning, bull-necked scullions? (_Ship's officer appears in door._)

SHIP'S OFFICER. Hurry up, there, if you're going ashore with the pilot!

DETECTIVES. (_As they go through door_) You're all right, Dook, old boy!
Ghost Breaker! Ha, ha! (_They exit._)

DUKE. (_Crossing toward door_) I'll see the Captain.

JARVIS. (_Back against door_) I think not just yet!

                                 CURTAIN


                                 ACT III


SCENE: _The main room of an Old Spanish tavern, Segura, Spain. Singing
and mandolins heard from Wine Room._

AT RISE, MAXIMO, _an old discharged Spanish veteran, and_ GASPAR, _a
villager, discovered playing cards at table down_ C. When he heard
that the contractors were about to sign, he insisted on getting out of
his sick-bed and going to the meeting, to make sure everything was
being properly arranged.

The success of the strikers will cause a slight increase in the price
of ready-made clothes, but few are likely to begrudge this when they
realize what an increase of comfort it means to the poor workers

.

* * * * *

Austria and Hungary are not getting along as well as they might.

There are two reasons for this unfriendly feeling.

One is that Austria has asked Hungary to pay a larger proportion
of the common expenses of the two countries.

It was arranged that Hungary should pay thirty per cent. of these
expenses, and Austria the other seventy per cent., because Austria
was much larger and wealthier than the sister land.

Since these arrangements were made Hungary has become exceedingly
prosperous, and Austria now asks her to pay thirty-seven per cent.
of the expenses instead of the former thirty per cent.

Hungary will not listen to any arguments on the subject, and threatens
to separate herself from Austria.

These two countries are governed by one sovereign, and, like Sweden
and Norway, or the various States of our own country, have each their
own local government, but are united on all matters of foreign affairs,
national defences, tariff, etc.

[Illustration]

The Hungarians and Austrians are, however, people of very different
races, and, in spite of the years they have been joined under one
federal government, they have never grown to like each other.

The Hungarians are Magyars, and were originally of Asiatic origin. They
are a fierce, fiery race.

The Austrians come of the same stock as the Germans, and are of a much
milder temperament.

Hungary is a conquered country.

In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries it was a very great kingdom,
but in the sixteenth century its power declined, and, the king having
died, Turkey and Austria fought for the possession of the crown,
Austria eventually gaining the day.

Ferdinand I., a prince of the Austrian House of Hapsburg, was declared
King of Hungary, and ever since then the Emperor of Austria has been
crowned King of Hungary.

The Hungarians have never felt satisfied with the Austrian rule, and
have frequently revolted. The last rising was in 1848, under Louis
Kossuth. This rebellion was put down with the help of the Russians.

Last June a great patriotic celebration took place in Hungary, and
this possibly roused the national feeling so strongly in the hearts
of the Hungarians that it has made them a little more restless than
usual.

This celebration was called the Banderium, and was to celebrate the
thousandth year of Hungary's existence as a kingdom.

The nobles of Hungary met together in Buda-Pesth, the capital city
of the country, and went in procession to the Houses of Parliament,
and swore allegiance to the battered golden crown which Pope Sylvester
II.
had given to the first King of Hungary, one thousand years before.

It was said to have been a most wonderful and stirring sight to see these
nobles "dressed in the clothes their ancestors had worn, carrying
the banners under which their grandfathers had fought, weeping with
emotion around a battered golden crown," a relic of the days when
their fatherland was great and powerful.

The description given by Mr.

Richard Harding Davis in _Scribner's Magazine_ for March, and from
which we quote the above statement, gives a living picture of this
grand festival.

There can be little doubt that such an occasion must have roused the
patriotism of these people to fever heat.

Whether this be true or not, it is certain that the Hungarians have
been harder to manage, and that their dislike of the Austrians has
been steadily gaining strength.

We spoke of a second cause of disagreement. It arises from a measure
that was intended to conciliate the Hungarians.

This measure was an imperial edict, ordering that every official,
in the districts where Hungarian is spoken, must be able to speak
both the German and Hungarian language within five years.

This has given great offence to the German-speaking part of the
population; they cannot see why they should be forced to learn
Hungarian, and the Hungarians insist that no officials can properly
govern a people unless they can speak their language.

These two questions have set Hungary and Austria at variance with each
other, and it is feared that Hungary may not be satisfied until
she has severed herself from Austria, and once more become an
independent kingdo

m
_to window_.) You
little cat, I'll trim those claws! (VILLAGERS _laugh_. MAXIMO _nudges_
GASPAR.)

GASPAR. Sh! sh! sh! Look out!

ROBLEDO. (_To them_) Well, what are you laughing at?

MAXIMO. Why, why---- (_Stammering._)

GASPAR. A jest in the wine room, Senor.

ROBLEDO. Huh! Lucky for you! Get out of my way! (_Pushes them aside and
swaggers through door_ R.)

DOLORES. Gaspar! Maximo! Come here quickly!

MAXIMO. (_Crossing to_ DOLORES) What is it?

GASPAR. What is the matter? (_Crossing to_ DOLORES.)

DOLORES. A light! A light in the castle!

GASPAR. I thought I saw it a while ago.

MAXIMO. I don't see it.

DOLORES. But I tell you I did see it. (_She runs_ R.C., _calling_)
Father--Father--come quickly.

PEDRO. (_Entering_ R.) What is it? What are you looking at? (_Cross_ C.)

DOLORES. (L.C., _pointing out window_) A light--a light in the castle.
I saw it!

PEDRO. (_Going to window_) Nombre de Dios. (MAXIMO _and_ GASPAR _back
to_ L.C.)

DOLORES. (C. _to_ GASPAR _and_ MAXIMO) Well, why don't you do something?
Are you going to stand there like scared sheep, and let a man, your
Prince, signal to you in vain?

ROBLEDO. Who's the little devil tearing to pieces now? (C. _cross to_
DOLORES.)

DOLORES. You, Don Robledo, sword-fighter, toreador, fire-eater, hero of
a hundred duels--you--Don Robledo--coward! (_He chucks_ DOLORES _under
the chin. She throws his hand off._) I asked you to go into the castle
and rescue your Prince. I ask you now to answer the signal that I just
saw in the tower window. Perhaps your Prince has just crawled to that
tower window where he can see our lights. Perhaps he has burned
something, a scrap of paper, in the hope that some of you gentlemen
would notice it and come to his assistance, but he doesn't know what
cowards you are or he wouldn't have wasted his matches. Don
Robledo--coward!

ROBLEDO. Coward, never! A fair fight in the open and I'll meet the best
man that walks the earth. (_Turns to_ VILLAGERS.) Any two or three! (_To
table_ L.)

DOLORES. I don't ask you to kill one or two or three of these poor
whimpering sheep! I ask you to dare something. (DUKE _enters_ C.) I ask
you and these gentlemen--(_Point to_ VILLAGERS)--to go to the aid of
your Prince--and there isn't a man among you who dares! God, how I could
love such a man!

DUKE. (_Down_ C., _sarcastically to_ DOLORES) A pretty speech, Senorita!

ROBLEDO. (_Seeing_ DUKE, _removes hat and bows_) Your Excellency!

GASPAR. The Duke D'Alva! (VILLAGERS _remove hats and bow to_ DUKE.)

PEDRO. His Excellency!

VILLAGERS. The Duke, His Excellency, etc.

DUKE. Charming sentiments you express for your fellow townsmen, whose
healthy common-sense prevents them from rushing to a fool's death.
Still, all fools are not dead yet. One of them will be here tonight. And
you, Senorita, will doubtless be pleased to look upon him, as he has
come all the way from America for the privilege of entering the castle
and playing your hero.

DOLORES. (_To_ ROBLEDO) And did her Highness have to go all the way to
America to find him?

DUKE. Yes, he's from America, where all the fools come from. (_Everybody
laughs but_ DOLORES. _To_ ROBLEDO) A word with you alone, Senor.

(ROBLEDO _looks at_ GASPAR _and_ MAXIMO. PEDRO, _scared, motions_
VILLAGERS _off to_ R. PEDRO, MAXIMO _and_ VILLAGERS _exit door_ R.)

DOLORES. Can I get your Excellency anything?

DUKE. Don't mind me. I'll look out for myself. Her Highness will be here
very soon and will doubtless remain here for the night. I drove ahead to
prepare you.

DOLORES. Yes, your Excellency! (_Bowing--exit door_ R.)

DUKE. (_Half sits on table_ L., _watches_ DOLORES _off_. _To_ ROBLEDO)
You've got work before you--Robledo.

ROBLEDO. (_Center_) I'm ready, Excellency.

DUKE. (_Rising, across to_ ROBLEDO) Yes, but this American may be
dangerous.

ROBLEDO. In what way?

DUKE. Unless he is stopped he will go into that castle tonight--and I
look upon you to stop him. He is coming here to solve the mystery and
to find the Prince. I shall endeavor to stop him, but if I fail,
Robledo, it rests with you.

ROBLEDO. I can assure your Excellency I will convince the American that
his presence in the castle tonight is quite unnecessary. Have you any
instructions?

DUKE. Any way you please, Robledo--means are of no consequence in this
world. What I want is results. Only don't underestimate your man. He
will shoot, and I think he will shoot quick.

ROBLEDO. Good! (_Enter_ PEDRO _door_ R. _with tray and bottles and two
glasses. Cross and put them on table up_ C.)

DUKE. (_Taking coin from pocket_) Here, take this and have them drink to
my health and that of her Highness! (ROBLEDO _bows and exits_ R.)

PEDRO. Is there anything else your Excellency desires?

DUKE. Yes, hot water, soap and towels. (_Looks at hands._)

PEDRO. This way, your Excellency. (_Exit_ DUKE _and_ PEDRO _upstairs and
off_ L.)

ROBLEDO. (_Heard off stage_ R.) To his Gracious Excellency, the Duke
D'Alva!

VILLAGERS. (_Off stage_) The Duke! The Duke! The Duke!

(_Enter_ DOLORES R., _crossing to window_ L.)

ROBLEDO. Louder, you beggars, louder, or I'll give you something to yell
for!

VILLAGERS. (_Much louder_) The Duke! The Duke! Long live the Duke! The
Duke! etc.

(_Lights seen of automobile approaching._)

DOLORES. Her Highness! (_Calls_) Father! Father!

PEDRO. (_Entering_) What is it, Dolores?

DOLORES. Quick! Her Highness is here!

PEDRO. Her Highness! (_He bustles downstairs._) Her Highness! (_Calls
off_ R.) Her Highness!

(VILLAGERS _enter door_ R. _Enter_ PRINCESS, NITA _and_ JOSE _in motor
clothes_. PRINCESS _comes_ C. JOSE _door_ L. NITA _left center up
stage_. DOLORES L.C. PEDRO _right center_, C. VILLAGERS _in door_ R.,
_bowing low_.)

PEDRO. Your Highness does my humble inn great honor---- (VILLAGERS
_bow_.)

PRINCESS. Thank you. (_She nods to_ VILLAGERS, _extends her hand to_
DOLORES, _who carries it to her lips, curtseying_.)

DOLORES. Your gracious Highness, we are ill prepared for this great
favor. Your exalted cousin gave but short warning of your coming.

PRINCESS. My child, any place to remove the dust of travel will do for
the present. Jose, I shall want the car later.

NITA. (L.C.) Your Highness is not thinking of going on to the castle
tonight?

PRINCESS. I must have news.

With Critical Essays and Notes. 1 vol. 12mo. $2.00.

_WINCKELMANN'S_ (JOHN) The History of Ancient Art. Translated by Dr.

G.H.

LODGE. With 78 copperplate Engravings. 2 vols. 8vo. $9.00. Half-calf,
$18.00.

Morocco antique or tree-calf, $25.00.

_WINTER'S_ (WILLIAM) English Rambles, and other Fugitive Pieces in
Prose and Verse. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

---- Poems.

New revised edition. 1 vol. 16mo.

Cloth, $1.50. Half-calf, $3.00. Morocco antique or tree-calf,
$4.00.

---- The Trip to England.

With Illustrations by JOSEPH JEFFERSON. 16mo.
$2.00.

Half-calf, $4.00. Morocco antique or tree-calf, $5.00.

_WOODS'S_ (REV. LEONARD) History of the Andover Theological Seminary.
1 vol. 8vo. $3.50.

* * * * *
=MR. HOWELLS'S LATEST NOVELS.=

=Indian Summer. The Rise of Silas Lapham. A Woman's Reason. A Modern
Instance.

Dr. Breen's Practice. A Fearful Responsibility.= Each in 1 vol.
12mo. $1.50.

The 6 volumes in a neat box, $9.00.

"There has been no more rigidly artistic writing done in America
since Hawthorne's time."

--_The Critic (N.Y.)_.

=MR. HOWELLS'S COMEDIES.= Each in 1 vol. 16mo. $1.25.

=Out of the Question.

A Counterfeit Presentment.= 
=MR.

HOWELLS'S PLAYS.= Each in 1 vol. 32mo. 50 cents.

=The Register.

The Sleeping-Car.
The Parlor-Car.

The Elevator.=
=MR.

HOWELLS'S POEMS.= Printed on imported hand-made paper. White parchment
covers. Enlarged edition. $2.00.

=THREE VILLAGES.= 1 vol.

Little-Classic size. $1.25.

=CHOICE AUTOBIOGRAPHIES.= 8 vols. 16mo. $1.25 each.

=TICKNOR & COMPANY'S NEW BOOKS,=
SPRING OF 1886.

The prices named below are subject to revision on publication.

_ROMANCE AND REVERIE._ By EDGAR FAWCETT. 1 vol. 12mo.

Printed on fine hand-made paper, with gilt top. $2.00. A volume of poems,
by the author of "Song and Story."

"Mr. Fawcett was the man of whom Longfellow expected more than
from any of the other young American authors, both as a poet and
novelist."--_American Queen._

"The _Revue des Deux Mondes_ gives high praise to Mr.

Fawcett's poetry, and compares his briefer lyrics to the famous
'Emaux et Camées' of Théophile Gautier."

--_Beacon._

_STORIES AND SKETCHES._ By JOHN BOYLE O'REILLY, editor of the
_Pilot_, author of "Moondyne," Songs, Legends, Ballads etc. 1 vol.
12mo. $1.50.

The great popularity of the author, and the intrinsic merit and
interest of his writings, will ensure a warm reception to this
collection of his latest and best works.

MOROZ' KRASNYI-NOS' (Red-Nosed Frost). Russian: Sostavil' Nikolai
Alekseevich' Nekrasov'.

Translated in the original meters from the Russian of N.A. NEKRASOV.

_CHRISTIAN SYMBOLS AND STORIES OF THE SAINTS._ By CLARA ERKSINE
CLEMENT.

Assisted by KATHERINE E. CONWAY. 1 vol. Large 12mo., with many full
page illustrations. $2.50.

This is a revised version of the greater part of the author's "Hand-book
of Legendary Art,"--of which seventeen large editions have been
exhausted.

The clear and beautiful explanation of the expressive symbols by
which men's minds are helped to reverent contemplation of the
mysteries of revealed religion, leaves nothing to be desired.

The "Stories of the Saints" will be illustrated by numerous full page
engravings from the rarest and finest works of the great masters of
Christian Art--prominence being given to scenes from the life of
the Blessed Virgin, and pictures of the Evangelists, and the Founders
and notable Saints of the Religious Orders.

_MONOGRAPHS OF AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE._
No. II. THE HARTFORD CAPITOL. R.M.

Upjohn, Architect.

No. III. AMES MEMORIAL BUILDINGS, NORTH EASTON.

H.H. Richardson, Architect.

Gelatine Plates (from nature), 13 × 16.

Each in portfolio. $5.00.

The remarkable success of the first Monograph shows the demand
existing for artistic work of this high grade; and an equal sale
may be predicted for the portfolio that illustrates the beautiful
marble Gothic building of the Connecticut State Capitol.

This possesses perhaps even a higher interest than the Harvard Law
School, because it is a great public building, and not an appendage
of an institution.

_The American Architect_ says: "The execution of the work is all that
could be asked. It would be hard to offer a more encouraging example
of the kind of work to be expected in this series."
_JOHN BODEWIN'S TESTIMONY._ By MARY HALLOCK FOOTE, Author of "The Led
Horse Claim," &c. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

"Mrs. Foote's first novel raised her to a level on which she is only to
be compared with our best women novelists. To make this comparison
briefly, Miss Woolson observes keenly, Mrs.

Burnett writes charmingly, and Mrs.
Foote feels intensely."--_The Critic._
_NEXT DOOR._ By CLARA LOUISE BURNHAM, Author of "Dearly Bought,"
"A Sane Lunatic," &c. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

One of the brightest, prettiest, and most charming tales yet offered
to the public. The scene is in Boston, the time the present, the plot
exciting, the characters lifelike, while the style is graceful and
skilful.

_POETS AND PROBLEMS._ By GEORGE WILLIS COOKE, Author of "Emerson;
His Life, Writings and Philosophy." 1 vol. 12mo. $2.00.

Mr.

Cooke brings to his work the most inexhaustible and painstaking
patience, the most thorough devotion to the labor he has undertaken,
and the deepest mental sympathy with his subjects.

His present work embraces Tennyson, Ruskin, and Browning.

_THE OLDEN-TIME SERIES._ 16mo.

Per vol., 50 cents.

There appears to be, from year to year, a growing popular taste for
quaint and curious reminiscences of "Ye Olden Time," and to meet
this, Mr.

Henry M. Brooks has prepared a series of interesting handbooks. The materials
have been gleaned chiefly from old newspapers of Boston and Salem,
sources not easily accessible, and while not professing to be
history, the volumes will contain much material for history, so
combined and presented as to be both amusing and instructive.

The titles of some of the volumes indicate their scope and their
promise of entertainment:--"Curiosities of the Old Lottery," "Days
of the Spinning Wheel," "Some Strange and Curious Punishments,"
"Quaint and Curious Advertisements," "Literary Curiosities,"
"New-England Sunday," etc.

_THE IMPERIAL ISLAND--ENGLAND'S CHRONICLE IN STONE._ By JAMES F.
HUNNEWELL.
1 vol. 8vo.

Richly illustrated. $3.50.

This admirable and impressive work is a companion to the same
author's well-known "Historical Monuments of France," and contains
a vivid record of the life of Merrie England, as exemplified by her
august castles and palaces, abbeys and cathedrals.

=LIFE AND WORKS OF MRS.

CLEMMER.=
_AN AMERICAN WOMAN'S LIFE AND WORK._ A Memorial of Mary Clemmer,
by EDMUND HUDSON, with Portrait.

_POEMS OF LIFE AND NATURE._
_HIS TWO WIVES._
_MEN, WOMEN, AND THINGS._ Revised and augmented.

The whole in four 12mo. volumes, tastefully bound, forming a beautiful,
uniform set of the selected works, together with the memorial
biography of this popular and lamented writer.

_THE SAUNTERER._ By CHARLES GOODRICH WHITING. 1 vol. 16mo. $1.25.

A rare and choice collection of charming little essays and poems
about nature, some of which have won the highest possible commendation
from Stedman and other eminent critics.

The author has for many years been connected with the editorial staff of
"The Springfield Republican."

_THE LOST NAME._ By MRS. MADELEINE VINTON DAHLGREN, author of
"A Washington Winter," "South-sea Sketches," etc. 1 vol. 12mo.
$1.50.

The remarkable success of Mrs.

Dahlgren's previous portrayals of society make it certain that her
forthcoming work will be full of life and purpose, and therefore
sure to attract and interest.

_ITALIAN POETS._ By W.D. HOWELLS. 12mo. $1.50.

Biographical and Critical Notices of the masters of Italian poetry.

_A SEA CHANGE_; or, Love's Stowaway.

A Comic opera. By W.D. HOWELLS. 1 vol.
16mo.

Little-Classic size.

_THE VIRGINIA CAMPAIGN OF GENERAL POPE IN 1862._ Being Volume II.
of Papers read before the Military Historical Society of Massachusetts.

With Maps and Plans. 1 vol. 8vo. $3.00.

_THE YOUNG PEOPLE'S TENNYSON._ Students' Edition. 1 vol. 16mo. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by W.J. Rolfe. Beautifully illustrated.
75 cents.

_SELECT POEMS OF TENNYSON._ Second Part. Students' Edition. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by W.J. Rolfe. 1 vol. 16mo.

Beautifully illustrated. 75 cents.

_SONGS AND BALLADS OF THE OLD PLANTATIONS, BY UNCLE REMUS._ By JOEL
CHANDLER HARRIS. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

"Uncle Remus's" legends have created a strong demand for his songs,
which will be eagerly welcomed.

_A ROMANTIC YOUNG LADY._ By ROBERT GRANT, author of "The Confessions
of a Frivolous Girl," "An Average Man," etc. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

This is the latest and one of the strongest works of the successful
delineator of modern society life and manners. It will be read eagerly
and enjoyably by thousands of lovers of the best fiction.

_A NEW AND ENLARGED CONCORDANCE TO THE HOLY SCRIPTURES._ By Rev.
J.B.R.
WALKER.

This monumental work of patient industry and iron diligence is
indispensable to all students of the Bible, to which it is the key
and introduction.

Many errors and omissions in the plans of the older Concordances
have been avoided in this one, which also bears reference to the
Revised Bible, as well as to the King-James version.

=JUST PUBLISHED.=

_THE STORY OF MARGARET KENT._ By HENRY HAYES. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50. 6th
thousand.

A new and thrilling novel of literary life in New York, written
with masterly skill.

One of the most exacting of reviewers says that it will "convince
and touch thoughtful and sensitive readers"; and another, a
well-known novelist and poet, says: "The plot and situations are
original and natural.

It is out of the common run, and sparkles with life--real life--and
deep feeling."

_AMERICAN WHIST._ By G.W.P. 1 vol. 16mo. Sixth Edition, Revised. $1.00.

A new and fully revised and much-enlarged edition of this foremost
classic, best teacher, and wisest companion as to the most enjoyable
game of cards.

After running through several successful editions during the past five
years, this invaluable book is now to be brought out improved in many
ways, and will be indispensable to all who play Whist.

_CLEOPATRA._ By HENRY GRÉVILLE.

Original Copyright Edition, with new Portrait. 1 vol. 16mo. $1.25.

"Cleopatra" is a brilliant new novel by the author of "Dosia" and
"Dosia's Daughter," who is acknowledged as foremost among the
European novelists of to-day.

The remarkable success that has attended Henry Gréville's previous
works, foreshadows the popular demand for "Cleopatra," her latest
(and in many respects, her best) novel.

_EVERY-DAY RELIGION._ By REV.

JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE, D.D., Author of "Self-Culture," "The Ideas
of Paul," &c., &c. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

An admirable group of terse, strong, and practical discourses on
the religion of the home, the office, the work-shop, and the field.

It tells how, amid the cares and annoyances of this workaday world,
one may grow towards a noble and peaceful life.

It will be an invaluable companion, an indispensable "guide,
philosopher, and friend."

The eminent success of JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE in works of this high
class is shown by the great popularity of his "Self-Culture," which
is now in its eleventh edition.

_EDGE-TOOLS OF SPEECH._ By MATURIN M.

BALLOU, Author of "A Treasury of Thought," "Due South," &c., &c. 1
vol. 8vo. $3.50.

"A great new work, in which are preserved the choicest expressions
and opinions of the great thinkers and writers of all ages, from
Confucius to Ruskin.

These pungent apothegms and brilliant _memorabilia_ are all carefully
classified by topics; so that the choicest work of many years of
patient labor in the libraries of America and Europe is condensed
into perfect form and made readily available.

It will be indispensable to all writers and speakers, and should be in
every library"--_Traveller._

_TWO COLLEGE GIRLS._ By HELEN DAWES BROWN. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

One of the most important of recent books.

It is a capital study of girl-students from Boston, New York, and
Chicago, exemplifying the most piquant characteristics of the
respective phases of civilization and social criteria of the three
cities.

It is suited alike to old and young, being rich in beautiful passages
of tender pathos, strong, simple and vivid, and full of sustaining
interest.

Nothing has been published since "Little Women" that will so strike
the popular taste.

_LIGHT ON THE HIDDEN WAY._ With an Introduction by JAMES FREEMAN
CLARKE.
1 vol. 16mo. $1.00.

A remarkable and thrilling romance of immortality, illustrating by
an account of personal experiences the relations between the seen
and the unseen.

All readers of the literature of the supernatural in books like
"The Little Pilgrim," &c., will be profoundly interested in this
strange record of the nearness of the spiritual and material worlds.

_THE PRELATE._ By ISAAC HENDERSON. 12mo. $1.50.

A story of the American colony and native society in Rome.

The situations in this powerful book are among the most intense and dramatic
of anything that has been offered by an American author for years.

_INDIAN SUMMER._ By W.D.

HOWELLS, Author of "The Rise of Silas Lapham," &c.
1 vol. 12 mo. $1.50.

"Mr.

Howells's new story is in his pleasantest vein, full of his quiet
humor clothed in the neatest expressions.

It is international; the contrast of American and foreign ways runs
through it, and Mr.

Howells has added the contrast of the old and the new Americanism.

The hero is a Western journalist, a Mugwump, much given to banter
of the American sort."

--_The Nation._
_A STROLL WITH KEATS._ By FRANCES CLIFFORD BROWN. 1 vol. Illustrated.
Square 16mo. $1.50.

One of the choicest gems of art in illustration, consisting of
illuminated pages, in beautiful designs, illustrating some of the
finest verses of the great English poet.

_THE SPHINX'S CHILDREN AND OTHER PEOPLE'S._ By ROSE TERRY COOKE,
Author of "Somebody's Neighbors," &c. 1 vol. 12mo. $1.50.

This volume of short stories, reprinted from the author's contributions
to the _Atlantic_, _Harpers_, _The Galaxy_, &c., will be found like
"Somebody's Neighbors," to show "that profound insight into Puritan
character, and that remarkable command of Yankee dialect, in which
Mrs.
Cooke has but one equal, and no superior. These exquisite chronicles are
full of high local color, pathos and piquancy, and their perusal
is attended with alternate tears and smiles.

Their narration is vigorous and spirited, sparkling in all points,
and outlined with rare dramatic skill."

_THE LIFE AND GENIUS OF GOETHE._ The Lectures at the Concord School of
Philosophy for 1885. Edited by F.B. SANBORN and W.T. HARRIS. 1 vol.
12mo.
With 2 portraits. $2.00.

"A work of exceptional interest, containing fifteen of the lectures
concerning Goethe which were read at the Concord School of Philosophy
last summer.

                                 Prof.

                                  Hewett furnishes an account of the newly-discovered Goethe manuscripts
for the introduction to the volume.

Among the writers are Drs.
Bartol and Hedge, Mrs. Howe, Mrs. Cheney, Mrs. Sherman of Chicago,
Mr.
Soldan of St. Louis, Mr. Snider of Cincinnati, Mr. Partridge of Brooklyn,
N.Y., Mr. Davidson of New Jersey, Prof. White of Ithaca, N.Y., and
Messrs.

Emery, Harris, and Sanborn of Concord, the last named the
editor."

--_Traveller._
_LIFE AND LETTERS OF HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW._ Edited by Rev.

Samuel Longfellow. 2 vols. 12mo. $6.00.

With new steel engraved Portraits and many wood Engravings.

_Also a limited edition de Luxe, with Proof Portraits._
The biography of the foremost American poet, written by his brother, is
probably the most important work of the kind brought out in the
United States for years.

It is rich in domestic, personal, and family interest, anecdotes,
reminiscences, and other thoroughly charming _memorabilia_.

THE =MEMORIAL HISTORY OF BOSTON=,

In Four Volumes. Quarto.

With more than 500 Illustrations by famous artists and engravers,
all made for this work.

Edited by JUSTIN WINSOR, LIBRARIAN OF HARVARD UNIVERSITY.

Among the contributors are:--

Gov. JOHN D. LONG, Hon. CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS, Rev. PHILLIPS BROOKS,
D.D., Rev. E.E. HALE, D.D., Hon.

ROBERT C. WINTHROP, Hon. J. HAMMOND TRUMBULL, Admiral G.H. PREBLE, Dr.
O.W.

JARVIS. Not till we have finished this job.

RUSTY. (_Putting pieces of table on fire--still at fireplace, back to
audience_) Tuesday--Wednesday--Thursday---- Ah can't wait no longer than
Saturday. (_Strikes match and lights fire. Glow from fire._)

JARVIS. (_Runs up steps at back, looking left_) That way leads through
those two long rooms to the postern gate.

RUSTY. (_Looking up_) That's where that black thing followed me.
(_Crosses to_ JARVIS L.C. _slowly_.)

JARVIS. Well, a black thing followed me, treading on my heels every step
I've taken.

RUSTY. Oh, I couldn't see where I was steppin'.

JARVIS. (_Looking about_) That goes to the Armory.

RUSTY. (L.C. JARVIS _on steps_) Ah seen eyes in there, and a cold,
grimy, green, slimy smell in there. Ain't that where that broad-faced
bird flew at me and I fell down them slippery stairs?

JARVIS. (_Laughing_) That broad-faced bird was an owl, Rusty--just a
common, ordinary owl. You know what an owl is.

RUSTY. O--ooh--ooh!

JARVIS. (_Sees door_ R.C.) Where can that door lead to? That's it.
(JARVIS _goes to the door in_ R.C. _Steps on trap and falls suddenly._)
Wow! That was a close one. (_Lantern goes out._)

RUSTY. (_Advancing_) Lord, Marse Warren, what is it? (_Starts up to
Jarvis._)

JARVIS. Get back! Give me that lantern. (RUSTY _hands lantern_.) Give me
your hand. Can you hold me? (RUSTY _holds out hand and_ JARVIS
_cautiously steps on trap door; it sinks and other end rises_.) God! I
thought so. Water and a long drop! No wonder people disappear in this
castle. Good Lord, what if her brother went down there? Rusty, whatever
happens, keep clear of this. If you step on this you will never see
Kentucky again for sure. (_Groan heard off left._)

RUSTY. Did you hear that groan? (_Wind changes to low moan._)

JARVIS. Groan---- There it is again. It sounded just like a man.

RUSTY. Ough! Ough!

JARVIS. Shut up! (_Crosses to_ L.C.)

RUSTY. Marse Warren--look out!

JARVIS. Listen! (_Crosses and stands moment at door. Wind moans._) I
guess it's the wind. (_He crosses to fireplace._) This place is getting
on my nerves.

RUSTY. (R.C.) That wasn't no wind, Marse Warren. Ah hope to die if that
wasn't a sure enough human groan. (_He looks at picture_ L.) And Ah want
to tell you som'pin' else. Have you ever been in church or somewhere and
all of a sudden a feelin' come over you that there was eyes a-starin' at
the back of your head? You just knowed it--until you couldn't stand it
no longer, and just turned around and see who it was?

JARVIS. Why, yes, Rusty, I have had that happen. Why?

RUSTY. That's just the way I feel now, like there was eyes a-lookin' at
me. (_Turns to picture._) You see that picture? Seems like that feller
was lookin' at me--like he'd step right out of the frame. (_He points to
armor on steps._) Or them two battleship boogies--just jump right down
here.

JARVIS. It's been a good many years since those boys jumped, Rusty.
(_Noise off stage of running._) Hark! Listen! (_He crosses to_ L.C.,
_pistol drawn; stands listening._) Somebody's running--coming this
way---- (_Dull thud at back._)

RUSTY. I want to go home!

JARVIS. What do you know about that?

RUSTY. I don't want to know nothin' about it.

JARVIS. I thought so.

RUSTY. What is it?

JARVIS. The man with a smoky lantern has been up those stairs.

RUSTY. You ain't goin' up there, is you?

JARVIS. I am not--because the Duke or some of his men are probably
waiting for me at the top of the stairs with a big long gun, and I'm no
book hero.

RUSTY. Suppose it's the Prince?

JARVIS. Well, suppose it is the Prince. He might blow my head off,
because he doesn't know what I came here for--and if it's someone else,
they'll blow my head off, because they do know.

RUSTY. (_Looks at ceiling and following supposed sounds with head_
R.C.) Sounds like somebody was runnin' round.

JARVIS. (C.) They're trying to scare us, Rusty. They're probably
watching every move we make. That's where that pounding comes from. Why
don't they shoot? They're trying to scare us, like they did the poor
boobs down in the village. (RUSTY _crosses to fireplace_.) They want to
get us out of here. They want to get us out of this room. Rusty, someone
was working in the room. Now, where was he working? Where was he----

RUSTY. (_Meanwhile has crossed to mantel and picked up hammer and
chisel_) Look here, Marse Warren--look y'ere! (_A few steps from
fireplace._)

JARVIS. (_Crossing to_ RUSTY) What is it, Rusty?

RUSTY. (_Handing them to_ JARVIS) Look at them.

JARVIS. Where did you find them, Rusty?

RUSTY. (_Pointing to mantel_) Up there.

JARVIS. Good boy, Rusty! Now I'll tell you something. These are his
tools. Someone was working in this room, so we've beaten him to it. Now,
where was he working? (_Hands on floor._) Mortar on floor. (_Hands on
mantel._) Mortar on the mantel----(_Puts down tools, looking up and
pointing._) Look at that! That's where he was working, Rusty, and we've
beat him to it--we've beat him!

(_Long pause. Both turn simultaneously and look at picture._ JARVIS
_draws revolver_. RUSTY _turns to_ JARVIS _and sees that he looks at
picture_.)

RUSTY. (_Scared voice_) Did you feel that, too?

(JARVIS _crosses slowly and cautiously to picture; feels all around
picture and lights a match to examine it; passes light all around
frame_.)

JARVIS. (_Backing away_) By God, that's weird! You could feel that just
as plain---- (_Backs to steps and sits on balustrade, over which figure
in armor is standing._) By God, that's weird! (_In awed voice. Figure
in armor raises sword slowly directly behind_ JARVIS.)

RUSTY. (_Looking at picture_) It sure is, Marse Warren, it sure is----
(RUSTY _turns just in time to see sword raised above Jarvis' head;
screams_) Look out! (_Ducks behind table in turret_ R. _Fight then takes
place between figure in armor and_ JARVIS. _Figure finally gets on trap_
R.C. _and disappears out of sight_.) Where is he? (_From behind
hiding-place._)

JARVIS. Water and a long drop. There's another of the Duke's men gone to
hell.

RUSTY. I knowed them battleship boogies was spooks.

JARVIS. (Picks up sword man in armor dropped; C.) We'll just take a look
at this other fellow. (_He goes to make a swipe at figure on other side
of stairs--sees_ RUSTY.) What's the matter? Are you scared?

RUSTY. You can't scare me--I'm scared already.

(JARVIS _makes feint at figure. No response; feints again, as though to
strike, meaning to draw man out if he is in armor; no response; goes up
steps, knocks armor over._)

JARVIS. I guess he's harmless. (_Drops sword at foot of steps._)

RUSTY. A--ah! (_Running up steps and picking up armor._) I'll just fix
him so he won't jump no more! (_Cross to trap._)

JARVIS. What are you going to do?

RUSTY. I'm going to sink this other battleship!

JARVIS. Hold on--wait a minute. I reckon we can use that. It takes a
thief to catch a thief, they say. We'll just outspook Mr. Ghost. Now,
come on, Rusty. Get into this hardware as fast as you can.

RUSTY. Marse Warren, I don't want to be no spook!

JARVIS. Listen! Somebody was working in this room. It's a cinch that the
treasure is here, and it's a bigger cinch he'll come back to get it when
we've gone.

RUSTY. You ain't going to leave me here alone?

JARVIS. Sure, I'm going to put you in this, so you can watch. I'm going
to make a bluff that we're both gone. You'll be as safe as a church in
this. No one would ever think of looking for one of us in this armor.
You watch, and when he starts to work, then yell your head off.

RUSTY. I'll yell so loud they will hear me in Kentucky.

JARVIS. You give your best yell, and then I'll nail him.

RUSTY. If you don't nail him--he'll nail me!

(_Business_ JARVIS _putting armor on_ RUSTY. _Breastplate, back and legs
are put on together; belt fastened around waist first, then legs; next
collar; then arms; last helmet; this done during the following
dialogue._)

RUSTY. Marse Warren, you must think a heap of Miss Princess to go
prowling around in this boogy house in the dark.

JARVIS. What makes you think that?

RUSTY. Marse Warren, I knowed you since you was a baby.

JARVIS. What's that got to do with it?

RUSTY. She 'gin you that jewelry that's hanging round your neck, didn't
she? She's kind of crazy about you, too, ain't she?

JARVIS. How do you know?

RUSTY. Aw--I know, all right.

JARVIS. But how do you know?

RUSTY. Waal, I'm goin' to tell you, and then you'll know how I know.
Just before them horses all jumped on me, when I was waitin' for you in
the road, I heard a window go up, slap, and there was the Princess
a-lookin' at the moon, just like a picture in the moonlight; just
a-lookin' at the moon, and she says--she says----

JARVIS. What did she say?

RUSTY. Well, no lady never talks that way at the moon unless she's in
love.

JARVIS. What did she say?

RUSTY. She says--looking at the moon, she says, "The world has begun all
over again for me." And then she went right on and says, "God be with
you, my American!" I'm the only American around here 'cept you, Marse
Warren.

JARVIS. You heard her say that? God bless you for that, Rusty! (_With
helmet in hand._) Here, put your head into this Stetson.

RUSTY. Oh! Oh!

JARVIS. What's the matter?

RUSTY. Full of spider webs.

(JARVIS _puts helmet on again_.)

JARVIS. Gloves--here. How do you feel?

RUSTY. All in. Do I look like a spook?

JARVIS. You're a wonderful sight! (_Pushing him away._) Now, Rusty, get
over here. Where is your sword? (JARVIS _down steps_; RUSTY _sneezes_.)
I never heard of a ghost sneezing before.

RUSTY. Marse Warren, I'm catching cold.

JARVIS. (_Up steps to_ RUSTY) Now, Rusty, keep your ears and eyes open.
Don't move a muscle. If any one comes, yell your head off, but don't
sneeze.

RUSTY. Marse Warren, I want to go home!

JARVIS. We haven't any home, Rusty.

RUSTY. Marse Warren, I don't ever expect to get out of this boogy house
nohow. (_Call is heard off stage_ L.)

JARVIS. Well, Rusty, there is something. (_Faint call heard; very
indistinct._) What's that? I'd almost swear that was a call or a groan.
(_Another call_; JARVIS _blows out lantern_.) There it is again. (_Light
is thrown on door as by someone carrying lantern. Pause._) Hark! Listen!
There's a light, Rusty. It's coming this way. It's coming, Rusty! It's
coming back. Remember the high sign, Rusty, and don't sneeze.

(JARVIS _hides above door_ L. _Enter_ DOLORES _and the_ PRINCESS _and_
MAXIMO _carrying lantern_ D.L., _cautiously coming forward._)

DOLORES. No one here either, your Highness. (_Cross stage_ R.C.)

PRINCESS. (C.) We must go on, Dolores. We must find him before it's too
late. Oh, I never will forgive myself for sending him to this dreadful
place!

DOLORES. (_Cross to fire_) Look! Here is a fire. They've been in this
room. (MAXIMO _comes across at back with lighted lantern to_ R.C.)

PRINCESS. Perhaps they have already been killed.

JARVIS. Your Highness! (L.C.)

PRINCESS. Mr. Warren--Mr. Warren! Thank God you are still alive!

JARVIS. Your Highness--it's madness for you to come to this place. How
did you get here?

PRINCESS. (_Crossing toward him_) Heaven only knows. We have been
wandering through this dreadful place for hours, calling to you--trying
to find you before it was too late.

JARVIS. Too late? What do you mean?

PRINCESS. My brother is safe, thank God!

JARVIS. Where is he?

PRINCESS. On his way to get help from the King.

JARVIS. Where has he been?

PRINCESS. Right here in this castle, a prisoner--since the day he
entered.

JARVIS. A prisoner?

PRINCESS. Yes, he succeeded in making his escape tonight, and has gone
direct to the King for help.

JARVIS. How did you learn this?

DOLORES. (C.) From Robledo. Your bullet went straight, Senor. He is
dying. He confessed to the Holy Father. I promised to be with him at the
end. (_Weeps._)

JARVIS. (_Crosses to_ DOLORES, C.) The end---- (_Realizing_ DOLORES
_cared for Robledo._) Then--you---- I didn't know. I might have---- I'm
sorry.

DOLORES. 'Tis better so, Senor. My Prince still lives. (JARVIS _steps
back_ C.)

PRINCESS. (_Cross to_ DOLORES) Oh, Dolores, my poor child! Maximo, take
her back to the inn as quietly as possible. (_They exit._) Oh, Mr.
Warren, let us leave this dreadful place!

JARVIS. Not I, your Highness. You go with them, and wait for me at the
inn.

PRINCESS. You cannot persuade me again, Mr. Warren. I will remain.

JARVIS. Please.

PRINCESS. Return with us, then.

JARVIS. Your Highness, I promised to solve the mystery of this castle
and to find the treasure. My task is an easy one now.

PRINCESS. Then I will share it with you.

JARVIS. And you groped your way through this old castle to find me. You
are game.

PRINCESS. You faced death, perhaps, for me.

JARVIS. You're trembling--you're frightened--you're cold--your hands are
cold!

PRINCESS. Oh, I'm not----

(JARVIS _takes_ PRINCESS _to fire; she sits._)

JARVIS. Come over here. You must have been scared to death prowling
through the blackness.

PRINCESS. Every nerve of my body is on edge with the happenings of this
dreadful place!

JARVIS. Oh, don't cry! Go on, then--cry--cry--cry some more. Just
forget you are a Princess and cry, that's it. That's fine. I'll round up
this spook tonight for good, and then the vassal's task is done. His
fate is in your hands, Highness. What's to become of him? (_Love
scene._) Don't send me away. I've loved you from the first, and I shall
always love you. I'm no Prince or Duke. I know I'm just a plain American
citizen, a man--and all the man in me cries out that I love you! Don't
send me away.

PRINCESS. You must go.

JARVIS. You're going to send me away?

PRINCESS. Yes, you must leave Spain. Your life would never be safe here.
(DUKE _sneezes from behind picture_.)

PRINCESS. What was that? (_She goes to lower end of fireplace_; JARVIS
R.C.)

JARVIS. Oh, see, that--that's Rusty.

PRINCESS. That would frighten anyone.

JARVIS. I figured that I might need a ghost myself, but Rusty disobeyed
orders. Rusty, I told you not to sneeze.

RUSTY. Dat was somebody else, Marse Warren! I didn't sneeze!

PRINCESS. Mr. Warren.

JARVIS. Don't move. Your Highness, I've got your ghost at last.
(_Pointing gun at picture._) There is somebody behind that picture! Come
out, or I'll shoot you full of holes.

DUKE. (_Lights at window change to red._ DUKE _coming out_) Don't shoot.

JARVIS. (C.) Your Excellency, you're a long way from Madrid.

DUKE. Madrid---- You fool, you have fallen right into the trap.
(_Crosses_ C.) What I have done has been for your sake, Maria. I
purposely deceived him, so that I might get here ahead of him and
watch. See, there are his tools. (_Crosses_ R.) And you yourself
interrupted him at his work. (_Points over mantel._)

JARVIS. That's an unlucky gesture. How did you know the treasure was
there?

DUKE. That's where you were working.

JARVIS. You forgot I have never seen the memorandum.

DUKE. Until you stole it. Can't you see, Maria?

PRINCESS. Yes, one of you two stole the locket.

JARVIS. Which one of us two? (_Walking over to_ DUKE.) You can't lie
yourself out of this. Twice tonight you tried to have me murdered. Why
didn't you have the nerve to come out in the open? I told you all ghosts
were cowards--but you haven't got the courage of a rabbit. If it weren't
for her, I'd blow your damned head off, and send you down after that
other poor devil! You've got him to answer for, sooner or later. Now,
see here--give me that locket---- No, give her the locket--or, by the
living God, I'll break your---- Come on!

PRINCESS. (_Light outside and first border and foots change to amber_)
Carlos!

DUKE. (_Cross to_ C. _and_ PRINCESS; _gives locket_) You play a good
game, Mr. Warren. Are all Americans like you?

JARVIS. They all play the game in Kentucky.

DUKE. (_Cross to door_ L.) And I thought all Americans were fools.

JARVIS. I saw that from the first, and it helped.

DUKE. Mr. Warren, take her advice, and return to Kentucky. (_Exit_ L.)

JARVIS. Say, hold on----

PRINCESS. (_Stopping_ JARVIS C.) What kind of a place is Kentucky?

JARVIS. God's good country, lady. Must I go back alone?

PRINCESS. You must go, but you need not go alone.

JARVIS. You mean----? Say it! Say it!

PRINCESS. I love you! (_They embrace._)

                               SLOW CURTAIN


(_Second Curtain_)


(RUSTY _comes down steps and off_ L.)

                    *       *       *       *       *


                           STAGE MANAGER'S PLOT


Act I--

Manhattan Hotel at five o'clock in the morning. Stage dimly lighted by
night lamp from side of bed. Theresa is sleeping. Modern, up-to-date
hotel room. Furniture dark and a general atmosphere of the best.

Act II--

Stateroom on S.S. "Aquitania," with doors leading off to bath and
bedroom of the suite. White walls, dark plush hangings and gold
furniture. Dark carpet. Atmosphere of a liner just before leaving dock.

Act III--An old Spanish tavern on the outskirts of Segura with a
suggestion of past refinement, but now in a condition of decay. Mandolin
and guitar heard in wine room at opening, with singing.

ACT IV--

An old Spanish castle, deserted, crumbling, covered with the dust of
ages. Wind effect, etc., to create an atmosphere of spookiness at rise.

The House Detective in the First Act doubles Pedro, the innkeeper, in
the Third Act.

Hotel Porter in First Act doubles Vardos in Third Act. Also can do the
fight in armor.

Steward in Second Act doubles Jose in Third Act.

Maximo and Gaspar are unimportant characters in the opening of the Third
and can be played by extras.

The best results in this play are obtained from a fast, snappy tempo
throughout.


                             If any person turns Quaker, he shall be banished, and not suffered
to return but on pain of death.

No Roman
  Catholic priest shall abide
    in the dominion;
    he shall be
    banished, and suffer death on
    his return.

  Some years ago, a
    law-book which had belonged
    to Jonathan
    Trumbull, containing the early statutes of Connecticut, was in the
possession of a Boston gentleman,[1] who informs us that at the end
of the volume, in manuscript, were found reports of "Brother
Jonathan's" adjudications of small cases which he tried as "justice
of the peace."

Among them
  was one where "His
    Majesty's tythingman" entered a complaint
    against Jona and Susan
    Smith for a "profanation of the
    Sabbath;" namely,
    "That on the
    ---- day of
    ---- during Divine Service on the Lord's Day _they did smile_."

The culprits
  were adjudged to be guilty of
    the offence, and severally
    fined "five shillings and costs."
    This book was
    shown to the late Professor Agassiz, who
        examined it with great interest and
    then made the following remark: "I find here
    evidence of the
    difference
    between the Calvinism of Switzerland and the Calvinism of America.

                              I was brought up in that faith.

I went
    to meeting in the
    morning, I
    danced with the
    parson's
    daughter on
    the green in
    the afternoon, and
      I played whist with the
    parson in the evening."
    
    [1] Edward Atkinson,
      Esq.

    The legislature
    of Massachusetts
    in the year 1760
    passed the following laws in relation to
    Sunday and to the proper
    observance
    of Saturday
      evening:--
      "Whereas
      it is the Duty
      of all Persons,
      upon the Lord's-Day
      carefully to apply themselves publickly and privately to Religion
and Piety, the Prophanation of the Lord's-Day is highly offensive
to Almighty God; of evil Example and tends to the Grief and Disturbance
of all pious and religiously disposed persons.

Therefore
    that the
    Prophanation of the said Day may
    be fully prevented:
      Be it further
      enacted, That no Person whatsoever shall
      keep open their
      Shops &c. &c.--do
    or exercise
    any Labour nor any Sport, Game Play or Recreation on the Lord's
Day or any part thereof &c.

&c. under
    penalties of
    not exceeding
    twenty shillings for
    every offence."
    Travelling was also prohibited, and it was
    enacted,--
      "That if any Person
      or Persons
      shall be recreating,
    disporting
    or unnecessarily walking
      or loitering, or
      if any Persons
      shall unnecessarily assemble themselves in any of the Streets,
Lanes, Wharves, High-Ways, Commons, Fields, Pastures or Orchards
of any Town or Place within this Province upon the Lord's Day, or
any Part thereof, every Person so offending shall forfeit and pay
the sum of five shillings and upon a second Conviction bound for
good behaviour,...

                             If any Persons being able of Body and not otherwise necessarily
prevented shall for the space of one Month together absent themselves
from the Publick Worship of God on the Lord's Day, they shall forfeit
and pay the sum of ten shillings.

"And whereas many Persons are of opinion that the Sabbath or Time
of religious Rest, begins on Saturday evening, therefore to prevent
all unnecessary Disturbance of Persons of such Opinion, as well as
to encourage in all others a due and seasonable Preparation for the
religious Duties of the Lord's Day: Be it further enacted, That no
Person shall keep open any Shop, Ware-House or Work-House or hawk
or sell any Provisions or Wares in Streets or Lanes of any Town or
District, or be present at any Concert of Musick, Dancing or other
Publick Diversion on the Evening next preceding the Lord's-Day, on
Pain of forfeiting ten Shillings for each Offence, &c."

Wardens were to be appointed in all the towns and districts to see that
these laws were duly enforced. All existing laws on the Sabbath were
at that time repealed, but some of the laws then passed are still
in force.

The following is from Felt's "Annals of Salem:"-- 
1676.

April 20th. "Ordered by ye Selectmen yt the three Constables doe
attend att ye three great doores of ye meeting house every Lord's
day att ye end of sermon, boath forenoone and afternoone and to
keep ye doors fast and suffer none to goe out before ye whole
exercise bee ended, unless itt be such as they conceive have necessary
occasion and to take notice of any such as shall presume to goe
forth as above said and present their names as ye law directs.

Ordered that all ye boys of ye towne are and shall bee appointed
to sitt upon ye three paire of staires in ye meeting house on the
Lord's day and Wm.

We strongly recommend it for high school production.

First produced in New York, then toured the country. Two companies now
playing it in England. Royalty, $25.00. Price, 75 cents.


                               A Full House


Farcical comedy in 3 acts. By Fred Jackson. 7 males, 7 females. 1
interior. Modern costumes. Plays 2-1/2 hours. This newest and funniest
farce was written by Fred Jackson, the well-known story writer, and is
backed up by the prestige of an impressive New York success and the
promise of unlimited fun presented in the most attractive form. A
cleverer farce has not been seen for many a long day. "A Full House" is
a house full of laughs. Royalty, $25. Price, 75 cents.


SAMUEL FRENCH. 25 West 45th Street, New York City
  New and Explicit Descriptive Catalogue Mailed
                Free on Request


                           The Famous Mrs. Fair


A play in 4 acts. By James Forbes, author of "The Commuters", "The
Traveling Salesman", etc. 3 males, 10 females. 2 interiors. Costumes
modern. Plays 2-1/2 hours.

Mrs. Fair was a major abroad and won a medal for bravery. Her husband
was displeased when Mrs. Fair came home to a fame which lifted her out
of his life. The dissatisfaction grew as she became absorbed in public
functions. Mr. Forbes traces the widening of the rift between husband
and wife with great skill in the first two acts. These are light comedy.
In the third the mood becomes serious and we find that Mrs. Fair's
absence from home has set the husband to philandering and the daughter
to intimacy with a gay set. Indeed, only through the joint efforts of
husband and wife to save the girl from danger, is harmony again
established.

A true comedy, written with keen insight. Royalty, $35.00. Price, 75
cents.


                          Nothing But the Truth


Comedy in 3 acts. By James Montgomery. 5 males, 6 females. Costumes,
modern. 2 interiors. Plays 2-1/2 hours.

Is it possible to tell the absolute truth--even for twenty-four hours?
It is--at least Bob Bennett, hero or "Nothing But the Truth",
accomplished the feat. The bet he made with his business partners, and
the trouble he got into is the subject of William Collier's tremendous
comedy hit. "Nothing But the Truth" can be whole-heartedly recommended
as one of the most sprightly, amusing and popular comedies. Royalty,
$25.00. Price, 60 cents.


                            On the Hiring Line


Comedy in 3 acts, by Harvey O'Higgins and Harriet Ford. 5 males, 4
females. 1 interior. Costumes, modern. Plays 2-1/4 hours.

Sherman Fessenden, unable to induce servants to remain at his Jersey
home, hits upon the expedient of engaging detectives as domestics.

His second wife, an actress, weary of the country, has succeeded in
discouraging every other cook and butler against remaining long,
believing that she will convince her husband that country life is dead.
So she is deeply disappointed when she finds she cannot discourage the
new servants.

The sleuths, believing they are called to report on those living with
the Fessendens, warn Fessenden that his wife has been receiving
love-notes from an actor friend, and that his daughter is planning to
elope with a supposed thief.

One sleuth causes an uproar making a mess of the situations he has
witnessed. Fessenden, however, has learned a lesson and is willing to
leave the servant problem to his wife.

Enjoyed long runs in New York and Chicago. Royalty, $25.00. Price, 75
cents.


It was caught in the gale, driven ashore, and is
  now a total wreck.
                 

                             If such storms are repeated, we shall have to tell our European
cousins how they manage tornadoes and cyclones out West.

In the State of Kansas, tornadoes are more dreaded than fires, and the
Kansas children are taught a tornado drill as our Eastern children
are taught a fire drill.

According to the statements we receive, the citizens take to the
prairies the moment a tornado strikes a Kansas town.

As the children cannot run as fast as the grown-ups, they have often
been caught and injured by the terrible storms before they could
escape.

To prevent such accidents in the future, some one decided to build tornado
caves under the schoolhouses.
To
that result you might even add brilliant, pathetic and humorous, but the
answer even then would be just what it was before--the play which Miss
Jean Webster has made from her book, 'Daddy Long-Legs'. To attempt to
describe the simplicity and beauty of 'Daddy Long-Legs' would be like
attempting to describe the first breath of Spring after an exceedingly
tiresome and hard Winter."

Enjoyed a two-years' run in New York and was then toured for over three
years. Royalty, $25.00. Price, 75 cents.


                              To the Ladies


A hilarious comedy in 3 acts, by George S. Kaufman and Marc Connelly. 11
males, 3 females. 3 interiors. Costumes, modern. Plays 2-1/2 hours.

The authors of "Dulcy" have divulged a secret known to every woman--and
to some men, though the men don't admit it.

They had always considered that cyclones were American institutions, and
never expected that they would follow the example of American people and
find their way to Paris.

This storm was a regular Westerner, sweeping down everything in its path,
blowing houses over, and destroying things generally.

Having spent part of its rage in France, it rushed across the English
Channel, raising such a gale there that many vessels were wrecked,
both on the English and French shores.

                            The storm crossed England and reached the Irish Channel, where it
again played havoc with the shipping.

Admiral Lord Nelson's flag-ship, the _Foudroyant_, was anchored off
Liverpool. It had been touring up and down the coast as a show-ship.
The storm put an end to its journeyings forever.Costumes, modern. Plays 2-1/2
hours.

"Three Live Ghosts" is brim full of fun and humor and is sure to keep
audiences in gales of laughter. The New York critics described it as the
most ingenious and amusing comedy of the season, genuinely funny. It
played a fall season in New York, then toured the big cities. A lively
comedy of merit. Royalty, $25.00. Price, 75 cents.


             SAMUEL FRENCH, 25 West 45th Street, New York City
               New and Explicit Descriptive Catalogue Mailed
                              Free on Request

                    *       *       *       *       *


                                 FRENCH'S

                        Standard Library Edition


                            Includes Plays by

Clyde Fitch
William Gillette
Augustus Thomas
George Broadhurst
Edward E. This
victory means
a great deal to the
workers. Their
period of
labor will
be reduced from fifteen
hours a day to ten,
and by the
new scale
of wages they
will be able to
earn from $10 to $18
a week, instead
of from
$5 to $10 as
formerly.

The leader of the
strike,
Meyer Shoenfeld,
has been working
so hard in the
interests of
his fellow-laborers that
he is quite ill.
At one of the last
meetings of
the strikers he
broke down in
the midst of a
speech he was making, and was unable to continue.Rose
Israel Zangwill
Henry Bernstein
Harold Brighouse
Channing Pollock
Harry Durant
Winchell Smith
Margaret Mayo
Edward Peple
A. E. W. Mason
Charles Klein
Henry Arthur Jones
A. E. Thomas
Fred. Ballard
Cyril Harcourt
Carlisle Moore
Ernest Denny
Laurence Housman
Harry James Smith
Edgar Selwyn
Augustin McHugh
Robert Housum
Charles Kenyon
C. We told you on page 222 that Guatemala and Costa Rica would be glad
to enter the federation, but could not do so without the full consent
of their congresses.

Word has reached us that Guatemala has signed the treaty which makes her
a part of the new Republic.
Send a four-cent stamp for our new catalogue
                        describing thousands of plays.

                                  SAMUEL FRENCH

                      Oldest Play Publisher in the World

           25 West 45th Street                     NEW YORK CITY