This E-text was created by Doug Levy,  _littera scripta manet_


WHAT KATY DID AT SCHOOL

by SUSAN COOLIDGE


CONTENTS.

    I. CONIC SECTION.

   II. A NEW YEAR AND A NEW PLAN.

  III. ON THE WAY.

   IV. THE NUNNERY.

    V. ROSES AND THORNS.

   VI. THE S. S. U. C.

  VII. INJUSTICE.

 VIII. CHANGES.

   IX. THE AUTUMN VACATION.

    X. A BUDGET OF LETTERS.

   XI. CHRISTMAS BOXES.

  XII. WAITING FOR SPRING.

 XIII. PARADISE REGAINED.


WHAT
   KATY
      DID
        AT
          SCHOOL.


CHAPTER I.  CONIC SECTION.

It was just after that happy visit of which I told at the end of "What
Katy Did," that Elsie and John made their famous excursion to Conic
Section; an excursion which neither of them ever forgot, and about
which the family teased them for a long time afterward.

The summer had been cool; but, as often happens after cool summers,
the autumn proved unusually hot.  It seemed as if the months had been
playing a game, and had "changed places" all round; and as if September
were determined to show that he knew how to make himself just as
disagreeable as August, if only he chose to do so.  All the last half
of Cousin Helen's stay, the weather was excessively sultry.  She felt
it very much, though the children did all they could to make her
comfortable, with shaded rooms, and iced water, and fans.  Every
evening the boys would wheel her sofa out on the porch, in hopes of
coolness; but it was of no use: the evenings were as warm as the days,
and the yellow dust hanging in the air made the sunshine look thick
and hot.  A few bright leaves appeared on the trees, but they were
wrinkled, and of an ugly color.  Clover said she thought they had been
_boiled_ red like lobsters.  Altogether, the month was a trying one,
and the coming of October made little difference: still the dust
continued, and the heat; and the wind, when it blew, had no refreshment
in it, but seemed to have passed over some great furnace which had
burned out of it all life and flavor.

In spite of this, however it was wonderful to see how Katy gained and
improved.  Every day added to her powers.  First she came down to
dinner, then to breakfast.  She sat on the porch in the afternoons;
she poured the tea.  It was like a miracle to the others, in the
beginning, to watch her going about the house;  but they got used
to it surprisingly soon,--one does to pleasant things.  One person,
however, never got used to it, never took it as a matter of course;
and that was Katy herself.  She could not run downstairs, or out into
the garden; she could not open the kitchen door to give an order,
without a sense of gladness and exultation which was beyond words.
The wider and more active life stimulated her in every way.  Her
cheeks grew round and pink, her eyes bright.  Cousin Helen and papa
watched this change with indescribable pleasure; and Mrs. Worrett,
who dropped in to lunch one day, fairly screamed with surprise at
the sight of it.

"To think of it!" she cried, "why, the last time I was here you looked
as if you had took root in that chair of yours for the rest of your
days, and here you are stepping around as lively as I be.  Well, well!
wonders will never cease.  It does my eyes good to see you, Katherine.
I wish your poor aunt were here to-day; that I do.  How pleased she'd
be?"

It is doubtful whether Aunt Izzie would have been so pleased, for the
lived-in look of the best parlor would have horrified her extremely;
but Katy did not recollect that just then.  She was touched at the
genuine kindness of Mrs. Worrett's voice, and took very willingly
her offered kiss.  Clover brought lemonade and grapes, and they all
devoted themselves to making the poor lady comfortable.  Just before
she went away she said,

"How is it that I can't never get any of you to come out to the Conic
Section?  I'm sure I've asked you often enough.  There's Elsie, now,
and John, they're just the age to enjoy being in the country.  Why
won't you send 'em out for a week?  Johnnie can feed chickens, and
chase 'em, too, if she likes," she added, as Johnnie dashed just then
into view, pursuing one of Phil's bantams round the house.  "Tell her
so, won't you, Katherine?  There is lots of chickens on the farm.  She
can chase 'em from morning to night, if she's a mind to."

Katy thanked her, but she didn't think the children would care to go.
She gave Johnnie the message, and then the whole matter passed out of
her mind.  The family were in low spirits that morning because of
Cousin Helen's having just gone away; and Elsie was lying on the sofa
fanning herself with a great palm-leaf fan.

"Oh, dear!" she sighed.  "Do you suppose it's every going to be cool
again?  It does seem as if I couldn't bear it any longer."

"Aren't you well, darling?" inquired Katy, anxiously.

"Oh, yes! well enough," replied Elsie.  "It's only this horrid heat,
and never going away to where it's cooler.  I keep thinking about the
country, and wishing I were there feeling the wind blow.  I wonder
if papa wouldn't let John and me go to Conic Section, and see Mrs.
Worrett.  Do you think he would, if you asked him?"

"But," said Katy, amazed, "Conic Section isn't exactly country, you
know.  It is just out of the city,--only six miles from here.  And
Mrs. Worrett's house is close to the road, papa said.  Do you think
you'd like it, dear?  It _can't_ be very much cooler than this."

"Oh, yes! it can," rejoined Elsie, in a tone which was a little fretful.
"It's _always_ cooler on a farm.  There's more room for the wind, and--
oh, every thing's pleasanter!  You can't think how tired I am of this
hot house.  Last night I hardly slept at all; and, when I did, I
dreamed that I was a loaf of brown bread, and Debby was putting me
into the oven to bake.  It was a horrid dream.  I was so glad to wake
up.  Won't you ask papa if we may go, Katy?"

"Why, of course I will, if you wish it so much.  Only"--Katy stopped
and did not finish her sentence.  A vision of fat Mrs. Worrett had
risen before her, and she could not help doubting if Elsie would find
the farm as pleasant as she expected.  But sometimes the truest
kindness is in giving people their own unwise way, and Elsie's eyes
looked so wistful that Katy had no heart to argue or refuse.

Dr. Carr looked doubtful when the plan was proposed to him.

"It's too hot," he said.  "I don't believe the girls will like it."

"Oh, yes! we will, papa; indeed we will," pleaded Elsie and John, who
had lingered near the door to learn the fate of their request.

Dr. Carr smiled at the imploring faces, but he looked a little
quizzical.  "Very well," he said, "you may go.  Mr. Worrett is coming
into town to-morrow, on some bank business.  I'll send word by him;
and in the afternoon, when it is cooler, Alexander can drive you out."

"Goody!  Goody!" cried John, jumping up and down, while Elsie put her
arms round papa's neck and gave him a hug.

"And Thursday I'll send for you," he continued.

"But, papa," expostulated Elsie, "That's only two days.  Mrs. Worrett
said a week."

"Yes, she said a week," chimed in John; "and she's got ever so many
chickens, and I'm to feed 'em, and chase 'em as much as I like.  Only
it's too hot to run much," she added reflectively.

"You won't really send for us on Thursday, will you, papa?" urged
Elsie, anxiously.  "I'd like to stay ever and ever so long; but Mrs.
Worrett said a week."

"I shall send on Thursday," repeated Dr. Carr, in a decided tone.
Then, seeing that Elsie's lip was trembling, and her eyes were full
of tears, he continued: "Don't look so woeful, Pussy.  Alexander shall
drive out for you; but if you want to stay longer, you may send him
back with a note to say what day you would like to have him come
again.  Will that do?"

"Oh, yes!" said Elsie, wiping her eyes; "that will do beautifully,
papa.  Only, it seems such a pity that Alexander should have to go
twice when it's so hot; for we're perfectly sure to want to stay
a week."

Papa only laughed, as he kissed her.  All being settled the children
began to get ready.  It was quite an excitement packing the bags, and
deciding what to take and what not to take.  Elsie grew bright and gay
with the bustle.  Just to think of being in the country,--the cool
green country,--made her perfectly happy, she declared.  The truth
was, she was a little feverish and not quite well, and didn't know
exactly how she felt or what she wanted.

The drive out was pleasant, except that Alexander upset John's gravity,
and hurt Elsie's dignity very much, by inquiring, as they left the
gate, "Do the little misses know where it is that they want to go?"
Part of the way the road ran through woods.  They were rather boggy
woods; but the dense shade kept off the sun, and there was a spicy
smell of evergreens and sweet fern.  Elsie felt that the good time
had fairly begun and her spirits rose with every turn of the wheels.

By and by they left the woods, and came out again into the sunshine.
The road was dusty, and so were the fields, and the ragged sheaves
of corn-stalks, which dotted them here and there, looked dusty too.
Piles of dusty red apples lay on the grass, under the orchard trees.
Some cows going down a lane toward their milking shed, mooed in a
dispirited and thirsty way, which made the children feel thirsty also.

"I want a drink of water awfully," said John.  "Do you suppose it's
much farther?  How long will it be before we get to Mrs. Worrett's,
Alexander?"

"'Most there, miss," replied Alexander, laconically.

Elsie put her head out of the carriage, and looked eagerly round.
Where was the delightful farm?  She saw a big, pumpkin-colored house
by the roadside, a little farther on; but surely that couldn't be
it.  Yes: Alexander drew up at the gate, and jumped down to lift.
them out.  It really was!  The surprise quite took away her breath.

She looked about.  There were the woods, to be sure, but half a mile
away across the fields.  Near the house, there were no trees at all;
only some lilac bushes at one side; there was no green grass either.
A gravel path took up the whole of the narrow front yard; and, what
with the blazing color of the paint and the wide-awake look of the
blindless windows, the house had somehow the air of standing on
tip-toe and staring hard at something,--the dust in the road,
perhaps; for there seemed to be nothing to stare at.

Elsie's heart sank indescribably, as she and John got very slowly out
of the carryall, and Alexander, putting his arm over the fence, rapped
loudly at the front door.  It was some minutes before the rap was
answered.  Then a heavy step was heard creaking through the hall, and
somebody began fumbling at an obstinate bolt, which would not move.
Next, a voice which they recognized as Mrs. Worrett's called:
"Isaphiny, Isaphiny, come and see if you can open this door."

"How funny!"  whispered Johnnie, beginning to giggle.

"Isaphiny" seemed to be upstairs; for presently they heard her running
down, after which a fresh rattle began at the obstinate bolt.  But still
the door did not open, and at length Mrs. Worrett put her lips to the
keyhole, and asked,--

"Who is it?"

The voice sounded so hollow and ghostly, that Elsie jumped, as she
answered: "It's I, Mrs. Worrett,--Elsie Carr.  And Johnnie's here,
too."

"Ts, ts, ts!" sounded from within, and then came a whispering; after
which Mrs. Worrett put her mouth again to the keyhole, and called out:
"Go round to the back, children.  I can't make this door open anyway.
It's swelled up with the damp."

"Damp!" whispered Johnnie; "why, it hasn't rained since the third week
in August; papa said so yesterday."

"That's nothing, Miss Johnnie," put in Alexander, overhearing her.
"Folks hereaway don't open their front doors much,--only for weddings
and funerals and such like.  Very likely this has stood shut these
five years.  I know the last time I drove Miss Carr out, before she
died, it was just so; and she had to go round to the back, as you're
a-doing now."

John's eyes grew wide with wonder; but there was no time to say any
thing, for they had turned the corner of the house, and there was
Mrs. Worrett waiting at the kitchen door to receive them.  She looked
fatter than ever, Elsie thought; but she kissed them both, and said
she was real glad to see a Carr in her house at last.

"It was too bad," she went on, "to keep you waiting so.  But the fact
is I got asleep and when you knocked, I waked up all in a daze, and
for a minute it didn't come to me who it must be.  Take the bags right
upstairs, Isaphiny; and put them in the keeping-room chamber.  How's
your pa, Elsie,--and Katy?  Not laid up again, I hope."

"Oh, no; she seems to get better all the time."

"That's right," responded Mrs. Worrett, heartily.  "I didn't know but
what, with hot weather, and company in the house, and all,--there's a
chicken, Johnnie," she exclaimed, suddenly interrupting herself, as
a long-legged hen ran past the door.  "Want to chase it right away?
"Remain here; be immovable, be silent," replied the young advocate.

"The inertia of a people is all-powerful; that is its true wisdom,
that its strength. Observe them closely, and in silence; and you
will make them tremble."
"They surely will not dare to appear here again," said the Comte du
Lude.

"I should like to look once more at the tall scoundrel in red," said
Grand-Ferre, who had lost nothing of what had occurred.

"And that good gentleman, the Cure," murmured old Father Guillaume Leroux,
looking at all his indignant parishioners, who were talking together
in a low tone, measuring and counting the archers, ridiculing their
dress, and beginning to point them out to the observation of the
other spectators.

Cinq-Mars, still leaning against the pillar behind which he had first
placed himself, still wrapped in his black cloak, eagerly watched
all that passed, lost not a word of what was said, and filled his
heart with hate and bitterness.

Violent desires for slaughter and revenge, a vague desire to strike,
took possession of him, despite himself; this is the first impression
which evil produces on the soul of a young man.

Later, sadness takes the place of fury, then indifference and scorn,
later still, a calculating admiration for great villains who have
been successful; but this is only when, of the two elements which
constitute man, earth triumphs over spirit.

Meanwhile, on the right of the hall near the judges' platform, a group
of women were watching attentively a child about eight years old, who
had taken it into his head to climb up to a cornice by the aid of
his sister Martine, whom we have seen the subject of jest with the
young soldier, Grand-Ferre.

The child, having nothing to look at after the court had left the hall,
had climbed to a small window which admitted a faint light, and which
he imagined to contain a swallow's nest or some other treasure
for a boy; but after he was well established on the cornice, his hands
grasping the bars of an old shrine of Jerome, he wished himself
anywhere else, and cried out:
"Oh, sister, sister, lend me your hand to get down!"

"What do you see there?" asked Martine.

"Oh, I dare not tell; but I want to get down," and he began to cry.

"Stay there, my child; stay there!" said all the women. "Don't be
afraid; tell us all that you see."
"Well, then, they've put the Cure between two great boards that
squeeze his legs, and there are cords round the boards."
"Ah! that is the rack," said one of the townsmen. "Look again, my little
friend, what do you see now?"
The child, more confident, looked again through the window, and
then, withdrawing his head, said:
"I can not see the Cure now, because all the judges stand round
him, and are looking at him, and their great robes prevent me from
seeing.

There are also some Capuchins, stooping down to whisper to him."
Curiosity attracted more people to the boy's perch; every one was
silent, waiting anxiously to catch his words, as if their lives
depended on them.

"I see," he went on, "the executioner driving four little pieces of
wood between the cords, after the Capuchins have blessed the hammer
and nails.

Ah, heavens! Sister, how enraged they seem with him, because he will not
speak. Mother! mother! give me your hand, I want to come down!"
Instead of his mother, the child, upon turning round, saw only men's
faces, looking up at him with a mournful eagerness, and signing
him to go on.

He dared not descend, and looked again through the window, trembling.

"Oh! I see Father Lactantius and Father Barre themselves forcing in
more pieces of wood, which squeeze his legs. Oh, how pale he is! he
seems praying. There, his head falls back, as if he were dying! Oh,
take me away!"
And he fell into the arms of the young Advocate, of M. du Lude, and
of Cinq-Mars, who had come to support him.

"Deus stetit in synagoga deorum: in medio autem Deus dijudicat--"
chanted strong, nasal voices, issuing from the small window, which
continued in full chorus one of the psalms, interrupted by blows
of the hammer--an infernal deed beating time to celestial songs.

One might have supposed himself near a smithy, except that the blows
were dull, and manifested to the ear that the anvil was a man's
body.

"Silence!" said Fournier, "He speaks. The chanting and the blows stop."

A weak voice within said, with difficulty, "Oh, my fathers, mitigate
the rigor of your torments, for you will reduce my soul to
despair, and I might seek to destroy myself!"
At this the fury of the people burst forth like an explosion,
echoing along the vaulted roofs; the men sprang fiercely upon the
platform, thrust aside the surprised and hesitating archers; the
unarmed crowd drove them back, pressed them, almost suffocated them
against the walls, and held them fast, then dashed against the doors
which led to the torture chamber, and, making them shake beneath
their blows, threatened to drive them in; imprecations resounded
from a thousand menacing voices and terrified the judges within.

"They are gone; they have taken him away!" cried a man who had climbed
to the little window.

The multitude at once stopped short, and changing the direction of their
steps, fled from this detestable place and spread rapidly through the
streets, where an extraordinary confusion prevailed.

Night had come on during the long sitting, and the rain was pouring
in torrents. The darkness was terrifying. The cries of women slipping
on the pavement or driven back by the horses of the guards; the
shouts of the furious men; the ceaseless tolling of the bells which
had been keeping time with the strokes of the question; the roll of
distant thunder--all combined to increase the disorder.
[Torture ('Question') was regulated in scrupulous detail by Holy
Mother The Church: The ordinary question was regulated for minor
infractions and used for interrogating women and children. For
more serious crimes the suspect (and sometimes the witnesses) were
put to the extraordinary question by the officiating priests.

D.W.]
If the ear was astonished, the eyes were no less so. A few dismal
torches lighted up the corners of the streets; their flickering gleams
showed soldiers, armed and mounted, dashing along, regardless
of the crowd, to assemble in the Place de St. Pierre; tiles were
sometimes thrown at them on their way, but, missing the distant
culprit, fell upon some unoffending neighbor. The confusion was
bewildering, and became still more so, when, hurrying through all
the streets toward the Place de St. Pierre, the people found it
barricaded on all sides, and filled with mounted guards and archers.
Carts, fastened to the posts at each corner, closed each entrance,
and sentinels, armed with arquebuses, were stationed close to the
carts. In the centre of the Place rose a pile composed of enormous
beams placed crosswise upon one another, so as to form a perfect
square; these were covered with a whiter and lighter wood; an
enormous stake arose from the centre of the scaffold. A man clothed
in red and holding a lowered torch stood near this sort of mast,
which was visible from a long distance. A huge chafing-dish, covered
on account of the rain, was at his feet.

At this spectacle, terror inspired everywhere a profound silence; for
an instant nothing was heard but the sound of the rain, which fell
in floods, and of the thunder, which came nearer and nearer.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, accompanied by MM. du Lude and Fournier and all
the more important personages of the town, had sought refuge from
the storm under the peristyle of the church of Ste.-Croix, raised
upon twenty stone steps. The pile was in front, and from this height
they could see the whole of the square. The centre was entirely
clear, large streams of water alone traversed it; but all the windows
of the houses were gradually lighted up, and showed the heads of
the men and women who thronged them.

The young D'Effiat sorrowfully contemplated this menacing
preparation.
Brought up in sentiments of honor, and far removed from the black
thoughts which hatred and ambition arouse in the heart of man, he
could not conceive that such wrong could be done without some
powerful and secret motive. The audacity of such a condemnation seemed
to him so enormous that its very cruelty began to justify it in his
eyes; a secret horror crept into his soul, the same that silenced the
people. He almost forgot the interest with which the unhappy Urbain
had inspired him, in thinking whether it were not possible that
some secret correspondence with the infernal powers had justly
provoked such excessive severity; and the public revelations of the
nuns, and the statement of his respected tutor, faded from his memory,
so powerful is success, even in the eyes of superior men! so strongly
does force impose upon men, despite the voice of conscience!

The young traveller was asking himself whether it were not probable
that the torture had forced some monstrous confession from the
accused, when the obscurity which surrounded the church suddenly
ceased.

Its two great doors were thrown open; and by the light of an infinite
number of flambeaux, appeared all the judges and ecclesiastics,
surrounded by guards. Among them was Urbain, supported, or rather
carried, by six men clothed as Black Penitents--for his limbs, bound
with bandages saturated with blood, seemed broken and incapable of
supporting him. It was at most two hours since Cinq-Mars had seen
him, and yet he could hardly recognize the face he had so closely
observed at the trial. All color, all roundness of form had disappeared
from it; a livid pallor covered a skin yellow and shining like ivory;
the blood seemed to have left his veins; all the life that remained
within him shone from his dark eyes, which appeared to have grown twice
as large as before, as he looked languidly around him; his long,
chestnut hair hung loosely down his neck and over a white shirt,
which entirely covered him--or rather a sort of robe with large
sleeves, and of a yellowish tint, with an odor of sulphur about it;
a long, thick cord encircled his neck and fell upon his breast.

He looked like an apparition; but it was the apparition of a martyr.

Urbain stopped, or, rather, was set down upon the peristyle of the church;
the Capuchin Lactantius placed a lighted torch in his right hand,
and held it there, as he said to him, with his hard
inflexibility:

"Do penance, and ask pardon of God for thy crime of magic."
The unhappy man raised his voice with great difficulty, and with
his eyes to heaven said:

"In the name of the living God, I cite thee, Laubardemont, false
judge, to appear before Him in three years. They have taken away
my confessor, and I have been fain to pour out my sins into the
bosom of God Himself, for my enemies surround me. I call that God
of mercy to witness I never have dealt in magic.

I have known no mysteries but those of the Catholic religion, apostolic
and Roman, in which I die; I have sinned much against myself, but never
against God and our Lord--"
"Cease!" cried the Capuchin, affecting to close his mouth ere he
could pronounce the name of the Saviour. "Obdurate wretch, return
to the demon who sent thee!"
He signed to four priests, who, approaching with sprinklers in their
hands, exorcised with holy water the air the magician breathed, the
earth he touched, the wood that was to burn him. During this ceremony,
the judge-Advocate hastily read the decree, dated the 18th of August,
1639, declaring Urbain Grandier duly attainted and convicted of the
crime of sorcery, witchcraft, and possession, in the persons of sundry
Ursuline nuns of Loudun, and others, laymen, etc.

The reader, dazzled by a flash of lightning, stopped for an instant,
and, turning to M. de Laubardemont, asked whether, considering the
awful weather, the execution could not be deferred till the next
day.

"The decree," coldly answered Laubardemont, "commands execution within
twenty-four hours. Fear not the incredulous people; they will soon
be convinced."
All the most important persons of the town and many strangers were
under the peristyle, and now advanced, Cinq-Mars among them.

"The magician never has been able to pronounce the name of the
Saviour, and repels his image."
Lactantius at this moment issued from the midst of the Penitents,
with an enormous iron crucifix in his hand, which he seemed to hold
with precaution and respect; he extended it to the lips of the
sufferer, who indeed threw back his head, and collecting all his
strength, made a gesture with his arm, which threw the cross
from the hands of the Capuchin.

"You see," cried the latter, "he has thrown down the cross!"
A murmur arose, the meaning of which was doubtful.

"Profanation!" cried the priests.

The procession moved toward the pile.

Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, gliding behind a pillar, had eagerly watched
all that passed; he saw with astonishment that the cross, in falling
upon the steps, which were more exposed to the rain than the
platform, smoked and made a noise like molten lead when thrown
into water. While the public attention was elsewhere engaged,
he advanced and touched it lightly with his bare hand, which was
immediately scorched.

Seized with indignation, with all the fury of a true heart, he took
up the cross with the folds of his cloak, stepped up to Laubardemont,
and, striking him with it on the forehead, cried:
"Villain, I brand thee with the mark of this red-hot iron!"

The crowd heard these words and rushed forward.

"Arrest this madman!" cried the unworthy magistrate.

He was himself seized by the hands of men who cried, "Justice! justice,
in the name of the King!"
"We are lost!" said Lactantius; "to the pile, to the pile!"

The Penitents dragged Urbain toward the Place, while the judges and
archers reentered the church, struggling with the furious citizens;
the executioner, having no time to tie up the victim, hastened to
lay him on the wood, and to set fire to it. But the rain still fell
in torrents, and each piece of wood had no sooner caught the flame
than it became extinguished. In vain did Lactantius and the other
canons themselves seek to stir up the fire; nothing could overcome
the water which fell from heaven.

Meanwhile, the tumult which had begun in the peristyle of the church
extended throughout the square. The cry of "Justice!" was repeated
and circulated, with the information of what had been discovered;
two barricades were forced, and despite three volleys of musketry,
the archers were gradually driven back toward the centre of the
square. In vain they spurred their horses against the crowd; it
overwhelmed them with its swelling waves. Half an hour passed in this
struggle, the guards still receding toward the pile, which they
concealed as they pressed closer upon it.

"On! on!"

cried a man; "we will deliver him; do not strike the soldiers, but
let them fall back.

See, Heaven will not permit him to die! The fire is out; now, friend,
one effort more! That is well! Throw down that horse! Forward! On!"

The guard was broken and dispersed on all sides. The crowd rushed to
the pile, but no more light was there: all had disappeared, even
the executioner. They tore up and threw aside the beams; one of them
was still burning, and its light showed under a mass of ashes and
ensanguined mire a blackened hand, preserved from the fire by a
large iron bracelet and chain. A woman had the courage to open it;
the fingers clasped a small ivory cross and an image of St.
Magdalen.

"These are his remains," she said, weeping.

"Say, the relics of a martyr!" exclaimed a citizen, baring his
head.

CHAPTER VI

THE DREAM
Meanwhile, Cinq-Mars, amid the excitement which his outbreak had
provoked, felt his left arm seized by a hand as hard as iron, which,
drawing him from the crowd to the foot of the steps, pushed him
behind the wall of the church, and he then saw the dark face of old
Grandchamp, who said to him in a sharp voice:
"Sir, your attack upon thirty musketeers in a wood at Chaumont was
nothing, because we were near you, though you knew it not, and,
moreover, you had to do with men of honor; but here 'tis different.

Your horses and people are at the end of the street; I request you to
mount and leave the town, or to send me back to Madame la Marechale,
for I am responsible for your limbs, which you expose so freely."

Cinq-Mars was somewhat astonished at this rough mode of having a
service done him, was not sorry to extricate himself thus from the
affair, having had time to reflect how very awkward it might be for
him to be recognized, after striking the head of the judicial
authority, the agent of the very Cardinal who was to present him
to the King.

He observed also that around him was assembled a crowd of the lowest
class of people, among whom he blushed to find himself. He therefore
followed his old domestic without argument, and found the other three
servants waiting for him. Despite the rain and wind he mounted, and
was soon upon the highroad with his escort, having put his horse to a
gallop to avoid pursuit.

He had, however, hardly left Loudun when the sandy road, furrowed
by deep ruts completely filled with water, obliged him to slacken
his pace.

The rain continued to fall heavily, and his cloak was almost
saturated. He felt a thicker one thrown over his shoulders; it was
his old valet, who had approached him, and thus exhibited toward
him a maternal solicitude.

"Well, Grandchamp," said Cinq-Mars, "now that we are clear of the riot,
tell me how you came to be there when I had ordered you to remain at
the Abbe's."
"Parbleu, Monsieur!" answered the old servant, in a grumbling tone, "do
you suppose that I should obey you any more than I did Monsieur le
Marechal? When my late master, after telling me to remain in his tent,
found me behind him in the cannon's smoke, he made no complaint,
because he had a fresh horse ready when his own was killed, and
he only scolded me for a moment in his thoughts; but, truly, during
the forty years I served him, I never saw him act as you have in
the fortnight I have been with you. Ah!" he added with a sigh, "things
are going strangely; and if we continue thus, there's no knowing
what will be the end of it."
"But knowest thou, Grandchamp, that these scoundrels had made the
crucifix red hot?--a thing at which no honest man would have been
less enraged than I."
"Except Monsieur le Marechal, your father, who would not have done at
all what you have done, Monsieur."
"What, then, would he have done?"
"He would very quietly have let this cure be burned by the other
cures, and would have said to me, 'Grandchamp, see that my horses
have oats, and let no one steal them'; or, 'Grandchamp, take care
that the rain does not rust my sword or wet the priming of my
pistols'; for Monsieur le Marechal thought of everything, and never
interfered in what did not concern him.

That was his great principle; and as he was, thank Heaven, alike good
soldier and good general, he was always as careful of his arms as
a recruit, and would not have stood up against thirty young gallants
with a dress rapier."

Cinq-Mars felt the force of the worthy servitor's epigrammatic
scolding, and feared that he had followed him beyond the wood of
Chaumont; but he would not ask, lest he should have to give
explanations or to tell a falsehood or to command silence, which
would at once have been taking him into confidence on the subject.

As the only alternative, he spurred his horse and rode ahead of his old
domestic; but the latter had not yet had his say, and instead of keeping
behind his master, he rode up to his left and continued the
conversation.

"Do you suppose, Monsieur, that I should allow you to go where you
please? No, Monsieur, I am too deeply impressed with the respect
I owe to Madame la Marquise, to give her an opportunity of saying
to me:
'Grandchamp, my son has been killed with a shot or with a sword;
why were you not before him?'

Or, 'He has received a stab from the stiletto of an Italian, because
he went at night beneath the window of a great princess; why did you
not seize the assassin?' This would be very disagreeable to me,
Monsieur, for I never have been reproached with anything of the
kind.

Once Monsieur le Marechal lent me to his nephew, Monsieur le Comte, to
make a campaign in the Netherlands, because I know Spanish. I
fulfilled the duty with honor, as I always do. When Monsieur le Comte
received a bullet in his heart, I myself brought back his horses,
his mules, his tent, and all his equipment, without so much as a
pocket-handkerchief being missed; and I can assure you that the
horses were as well dressed and harnessed when we reentered
Chaumont as if Monsieur le Comte had been about to go a-hunting.

And, accordingly, I received nothing but compliments and agreeable
things from the whole family, just in the way I like."

"Well, well, my friend," said Henri d'Effiat, "I may some day,
perhaps, have these horses to take back; but in the mean time
take this great purse of gold, which I have well-nigh lost two or
three times, and thou shalt pay for me everywhere. The money wearies
me."
"Monsieur le Marechal did not so, Monsieur.

He had been superintendent of finances, and he counted every farthing
he paid out of his own hand. I do not think your estates would have
been in such good condition, or that you would have had so much
money to count yourself, had he done otherwise; have the goodness,
therefore, to keep your purse, whose contents, I dare swear, you
do not know."

"Faith, not I."

Grandchamp sent forth a profound sigh at his master's disdainful
exclamation.

"Ah, Monsieur le Marquis! Monsieur le Marquis! When I think that the
great King Henri, before my eyes, put his chamois gloves into his
pocket to keep the rain from spoiling them; when I think that
Monsieur de Rosni refused him money when he had spent too much;
when I think--"
"When thou dost think, thou art egregiously tedious, my old friend,"
interrupted his master; "and thou wilt do better in telling me what
that black figure is that I think I see walking in the mire behind
us."

but she could not hide the fact that
their ways puzzled and did not please her; and the children detected
this, as children always will.  She and Mr. Page were very polite.
They praised the housekeeping, and the excellent order or every
thing, and said there never were better children in the world than
John and Dorry and Phil.  But, through all, Katy perceived the hidden
disapproval; and she couldn't help feeling glad when the visit ended,
and they went away.

With their departure, matters went back to their old train, and Katy
forgot her disagreeable feelings.  Papa seemed a little grave and
preoccupied; but the doctors often are when they have bad cases to
think of, and nobody noticed it particularly, or remarked that several
letters came from Mrs. Page, and nothing was heard of their contents,
except that "Cousin Olivia sent her love."  So it was a shock, when
one day papa called Katy into the study to tell of a new plan.  She
knew at once that it was something important when she heard his voice:
it sounded so grave.  Beside, he said "My daughter," he began, "I want
to talk to you about something which I have been thinking of.  How
would you and Clover like going away to school together?"

"To school?  To Mrs. Knight's?"

"No, not to Mrs. Knight's.  To a boarding-school at the East, where
Lilly Page has been for two years.  Didn't you hear Cousin Olivia
speak of it when she was here?"

"I believe I did.  But, papa, you won't really?"

"Yes, I think so," said Dr. Carr, gently.  "Listen, Katy, and don't
feel so badly, my dear child.  I've thought the plan over carefully;
and it seems to me a good one, though I hate to part from you.  It
is pretty much as your cousin says: these home-cares, which I can't
take from you while you are at home, are making you old before your
time.  Heaven knows I don't want to turn you into a silly giggling
miss; but I should like you to enjoy your youth while you have it,
and not grow middle-aged before you are twenty."

"What is the name of the school?" asked Katy.  Her voice sound a good
deal like a sob.

"The girls call it 'The Nunnery.'  It is at Hillsover, on the
Connecticut River, pretty cold, I fancy; but the air is sure to be
good and bracing.  That is one thing which has inclined me to the
plan.  The climate is just what you need."

"Hillsover?  Isn't there a college there too?"

"Yes:  Arrowmouth College.  I believe there is always a college where
there is a boarding-school; though why, I can't for the life of me
imagine.  That's neither here nor there, however.  I'm not afraid
of your getting into silly scrapes, as girls sometimes do."

"College scrapes?  Why, how could I.  We don't have any thing to do
with the college, do we?" said Katy, opening her candid eyes with such
a wondering stare that Dr. Carr laughed and replied: "No, my dear, not
a thing."

"The term opens the third week in April," he went on.  "You must begin
to get ready at once.  Mrs. Hall has just fitted out Cecy: so she can
tell you what you will need.  You'd better consult her, to-morrow."

"But, papa," cried Katy, beginning to realize it, "what are _you_
going to do?  Elsie's a darling, but she's so very little.  I don't
see how you can possibly manage.  I'm sure you'll miss us, and so
will the children."

"I rather think we shall," said Dr. Carr, with a smile, which ended
in a sigh; "but we shall do very well, Katy; never fear.  Miss Finch
will see to us."

"Miss Finch?  Do you mean Mrs. Knight's sister-in-law?"

"Yes.  Her mother died in the summer; so she has no particular home
now, and is glad to come for a year and keep house for us.  Mrs.
Knight says she is a good manager; and I dare say she'll fill your
place sufficiently well, as far as that goes.  We can't expect her
to be _you_, you know: that would be unreasonable."  And Dr. Carr
put his arm round Katy, and kissed her so fondly that she was quite
overcome and clung to him, crying,--

"O papa! don't make us go.  I'll frisk, and be as young as I can, and
not grow middle-aged or any thing disagreeable, if only you'll let us
stay.  Never mind what Cousin Olivia says; she doesn't know.  Cousin
Helen wouldn't say so, I'm sure."

"On the contrary, Helen thinks well of the plan; only she wishes the
school were nearer," said Dr. Carr.  "No, Katy, don't coax.  My mind
is made up.  It will do you and Clover both good, and once you are
settled at Hillsover, you'll be very happy, I hope."

When papa spoke in this decided tone, it was never any use to urge
him.  Katy knew this, and ceased her pleadings.  She went to find
Clover and tell her the news, and the two girls had a hearty cry
together.  A sort of "clearing-up shower" it turned out to be; for
when once they had wiped their eyes, every thing looked brighter,
and they began to see a pleasant side to the plan.

"The travelling part of it will be very nice," pronounced Clover.
"We never went so far away from home before."

Elsie, who was still looking very woeful, burst into tears afresh at
this remark.

"Oh, don't darling!" said Katy.  "Think how pleasant it will be to
send letters, and to get them from us.  I shall write to you every
Saturday.  Run for the big atlas,--there's a dear, and let us see
where we are going."

Elsie brought the atlas; and the three heads bent eagerly over it,
as Clover traced the route of the journey with her forefinger.  How
exciting it looked!  There was the railroad, twisting and curving over
half-a-dozen States.  The black dots which followed it were towns and
villages, all of which they should see.  By and by the road made a
bend, and swept northward by the side of the Connecticut River and
toward the hills.  They had heard how beautiful the Connecticut
valley is.

"Only think! we shall be close to it," remarked Clover; "and we shall
see the hills.  I suppose they are very high, a great deal higher than
the hill at Bolton."

"I hope so," laughed Dr. Carr, who came into the room just then.  The
hill at Bolton was one of his favorite jokes.  When mamma first came
to Burnet, she had paid a visit to some friends at Bolton, and one
day, when they were all out walking, they asked her if she felt strong
enough to go to the top of the hill.  Mamma was used to hills, so she
said yes, and walked on, very glad to find that there was a hill in
that flat country, but wondering a little why they did not see it.  At
last she asked where it was, and, behold, they had just reached the
top!  The slope had been so gradual that she had never found out that
they were going uphill at all.  Dr. Carr had told this story to the
children, but had never been able to make them see the joke very
clearly.  In fact, when Clover went to Bolton, she was quite struck
with the hill: it was so much higher than the sand-bank which bordered
the lake at Burnet.

There was a great deal to do to make the girls ready for school by
the third week in April.  Mrs. Hall was very kind, and her advice was
sensible; though, except for Dr. Carr, the girls would hardly have had
furs and flannels enough for so cold a place as Hillsover.  Every
thing for winter as well as for summer had to be thought of; for it
had been arranged that the girls should not come home for the autumn
vacation, but should spend it with Mrs. Page.  This was the hardest
thing about the plan.  Katy begged very hard for Christmas; but when
she learned that it would take three days to come and three days to
go, and that the holidays lasted less than a week, she saw it was of
no use, and gave up the idea, while Elsie tried to comfort herself by
planning a Christmas-box.  The preparations kept them so busy that
there was no time for any thing else.  Mrs. Hall was always wanting
them to go with her to shops, or Miss Petingill demanding that they
should try on linings, and so the days flew by.  At last all was
ready.  The nice half-dozens of pretty underclothes came home from
the sewing-machine woman's, and were done up by Bridget, who dropped
many a tear into the bluing water, at the thought of the young ladies
going away.  Mrs. Hall, who was a good packer, put the things into
the new trunks.  Everybody gave the girls presents, as if they had
been brides starting on a wedding journey.

Papa's was a watch for each.  They were not new, but the girls thought
them beautiful.  Katy's had belonged to her mother.  It was large and
old-fashioned, with a finely wrought case.  Clover's, which had been
her grandmother's, was larger still.  It had a quaint ornament on the
back,--a sort of true-love knot, done in gold of different tints.  The
girls were excessively pleased with these watches.  They wore them with
guard-chains of black watered ribbon, and every other minute they
looked to see what the time was.

Elsie had been in papa's confidence, so her presents were watch cases,
embroidered on perforated paper.  Johnnie gave Katy a case of pencils,
and Clover a pen-knife with a pearl handle.  Dorry and Phil clubbed to
buy a box of note-paper and envelopes, which the girls were requested
to divide between them.  Miss Petingill contributed a bottle of ginger
balsam, and a box of opodeldoc salve, to be used in case of  possible
chilblains.  Old Mary's offering was a couple of needle-books, full of
bright sharp needles.

"I wouldn't give you scissors," she said; "but you can't cut love--or,
for the matter of that, any thing else--with a needle."

Miss Finch, the new housekeeper, arrived a few days before they
started: so Katy had time to take her over the house and explain all
the different things she wanted done and not done, to secure papa's
comfort and the children's.  Miss Finch was meek and gentle.  She
seemed glad of a comfortable home.  And Katy felt that she would be
kind to the boys, and not fret Debby, and drive her into marrying
Alexander and going away,--an event which Aunt Izzie had been used to
predict.  Now that all was settled, she and Clover found themselves
looking forward to the change with pleasure.  There was something new
and interesting about it which excited their imaginations.

The last evening was a melancholy one.  Elsie had been too much
absorbed in the preparations to realize her loss; but, when it came
to locking the trunks, her courage gave way altogether.  She was in
such a state of affliction that everybody else became afflicted too;
and there is no knowing what would have happened, had not a parcel
arrived by express and distracted their attention.  The parcel was
from Cousin Helen, whose things, like herself, had a knack of coming
at the moment when most wanted.  It contained two pretty silk
umbrellas--one brown, and one dark-green, with Katy's initials on
one handle and Clover's on the other.  Opening these treasures,
and exclaiming over them, helped the family through the evening
wonderfully; and next morning there was such a bustle of getting
off that nobody had time to cry.

After the last kisses had been given, and Philly, who had climbed on
the horse-block, was clamoring for "one more,--just one more," Dr.
Carr, looking at the sober faces, was struck by a bright idea, and,
calling Alexander, told him to hurry old Whitey into the carryall,
and drive the children down to Willett's Point, that they might wave
there handkerchiefs to the boat as she went by.  This suggestion
worked like a charm on the spirits of the party.  Phil began to caper,
and Elsie and John ran in to get their hats.  Half an hour later, when
the boat rounded the point, there stood the little crew, radiant with
smiles, fluttering the handkerchiefs and kissing their hands as
cheerfully as possible.  It was a pleasant last look to the two
who stood beside papa on the deck; and, as they waved back their
greetings to the little ones, and then looked forward across the
blue water to the unknown places they were going to see, Katy and
Clover felt that the new life opened well, and promised to be very
interesting indeed.


CHAPTER III.  ON THE WAY.


The journey from Burnet to Hillsover was a very long one.  It took the
greater part of three days, and as Dr. Carr was in a hurry to get back
to his patients, they travelled without stopping; spending the first
night on the boat, and the second on a railroad train.  Papa found
this tiresome; but the girls, to whom every thing was new, thought it
delightful.  They enjoyed their state-room, with its narrow shelves of
beds, as much as if it had been a baby house, and they two children
playing in it.  To tuck themselves away for the night in a car-section
seemed the greatest fun in the world.  When older people fretted, they
laughed.  Every thing was interesting, from the telegraph poles by the
wayside to the faces of their fellow-passengers.  It amused them to
watch people, and make up stories about them,--where they were going,
and what relation they could be to each other.  The strange people,
in their turn, cast curious glances toward the bright, happy-faced
sisters; but Katy and Clover did not mind that, or, in fact, notice
it.  They were too much absorbed to think of themselves, or the
impression they were making on others.

It was early on the third morning that the train, puffing and shrieking,
ran into the Springfield depot.  Other trains stood waiting; and there
was such a chorus of snorts and whistles, and such clouds of smoke,
that Katy was half frightened.  Papa, who was half asleep, jumped up,
and told the girls to collect their bags and books; for they were to
breakfast here, and to meet Lilly Page, who was going on to Hillsover
with them.

"Do you suppose she is here already?" asked Katy, tucking the railway
guide into the shawl-strap, and closing her bag with a snap.

"Yes: we shall meet her at the Massasoit.  She and her father were to
pass the night there."

The Massasoit was close at hand, and in less then five minutes the
girls and papa were seated at a table in its pleasant dining-room.
They were ordering their breakfast, when Mr. Page came in, accompanied
by his daughter,--a pretty girl, with light hair, delicate, rather
sharp features, and her mother's stylish ease of manner.  Her
travelling dress was simple, but had the finish which a French
dressmaker knows how to give to a simple thing; and all its
appointments--boots, hat, gloves, collar, neck ribbon--were so
perfect, each in its way, that Clover, glancing down at her own
gray alpaca, and then at Katy's, felt suddenly countrified and
shabby.

"Well, Lilly, here they are: here are your cousins," said Mr. Page,
giving the girls a cordial greeting.  Lilly only said, "How do you
do?"  Clover saw her glancing at the gray alpacas, and was conscious
of a sudden flush.  But perhaps Lilly looked at something inside
the alpaca; for after a minute her manner changed, and became more
friendly.

"Did you order waffles?" she asked.

"Waffles? no, I think not," replied Katy.

"Oh! why not?  Don't you know how celebrated they are for waffles at
this hotel?  I thought everybody knew _that_."  Then she tinkled her
fork against her glass, and, when the waiter came, said, "Waffles,
please," with an air which impressed Clover extremely.  Lilly seemed
to her like a young lady in a story,--so elegant and self-possessed.
She wondered if all the girls at Hillsover were going to be like her?

The waffles came, crisp and hot, with delicious maple syrup to eat on
them; and the party made a satisfactory breakfast.  Lilly, in spite
of all her elegance, displayed a wonderful appetite.  "You see," she
explained to Clover, "I don't expect to have another decent thing to
eat till next September,--not a thing; so I'm making the most of this."
Accordingly she disposed of nine waffles, in quick succession, before
she found time to utter any thing farther, except "Butter, please,"
or, "May I trouble you for the molasses?"  As she swallowed the last
morsel, Dr. Carr, looking at his watch, said that it was time to start
for the train; and they set off.  As they crossed the street, Katy was
surprised to see that Lilly, who had seemed quite happy only a minute
before, had begun to cry.  After they reached the car, her tears
increased to sobs: she grew almost hysterical.

"Oh! don't make me go, papa," she implored, clinging to her father's
arm.  "I shall be so homesick!  It will kill me; I know it will.
Please let me stay.  Please let me go home with you."

"Now, my darling," protested Mr. Page, "this is foolish; you know it
is."

"I can't help it," blubbered Lilly.  "I ca--n't help it.  Oh! don't
make me go.  Don't, papa dear.  I ca--n't bear it."

Katy and Clover felt embarrassed during this scene.  They had always
been used to considering tears as things to be rather ashamed of,--
to be kept back, if possible; or, if not, shed in private corners,
in dark closets, or behind the bed in the nursery.  To see the stylish
Lilly crying like a baby in the midst of a railway carriage, with
strangers looking on, quite shocked them.  It did not last long,
however.  The whistle sounded; the conductor shouted, "All aboard!"
and Mr. Page, giving Lilly a last kiss, disengaged her clinging arms,
put her into the seat beside Clover, and hurried out of the car.
Lilly sobbed loudly for a few seconds; then she dried her eyes,
lifted her head, adjusted her veil and the wrists of her three-
buttoned gloves, and remarked,--

"I always go on in this way.  Ma says I am a real cry-baby; and I
suppose I am.  I don't see how people can be calm and composed when
they're leaving home, do you?  You'll be just as bad to-morrow, when
you come to say good-by to your papa."

"Oh! I hope not," said Katy.  "Because papa would feel so badly."

Lilly stared.  "I shall think you real cold-hearted if you don't,"
she said, in an offended tone.

Katy took no notice of the tone; and before long Lilly recovered from
her pettishness, and began to talk about the school.  Katy and Clover
asked eager questions.  They were eager to hear all that Lily could
tell.

"You'll adore Mrs. Florence," she said.  "All the girls do.  She's the
most fascinating woman!  She does just what she likes with everybody.
Why, even the students think her perfectly splendid, and yet she's
just as strict as she can be."

"Strict with the students?" asked Clover, looking puzzled.

"No; strict with us girls.  She never lets any one call, unless it's
a brother or a first cousin; and then you have to have a letter from
you parents, asking permission.  I wanted ma to write and say that
George Hickman might call on me.  He isn't a first cousin exactly,
but his father married pa's sister-in-law's sister.  So it's just as
good.  But ma was real mean about it.  She says I'm too young to have
gentlemen coming to see me!  I can't think why.  Ever so many girls
have them, who are younger than I."

"Which Row are you going to room in?" she went on.

"I don't know.  Nobody told us that there were any rows."

"Oh, yes!  Shaker Row and Quaker Row and Attic Row.  Attic Row is the
nicest, because it's highest up, and furthest away from Mrs. Florence.
My room is in Attic Row.  Annie Silsbie and I engaged it last term.
You'll be in Quaker Row, I guess.  Most of the new girls are."

"Is that a nice row?" asked Clover, greatly interested.

"Pretty nice.  It isn't so good as Attic, but it's ever so much better
than Shaker;  Because there you're close to Mrs. Florence, and can't
have a bit of fun without her hearing you.  I'd try to get the end
room, if I were you.  Mary Andrews and I had it once.  There is a
splendid view of Berry Searles's window."

"Berry Searles?"

"Yes; President Searles, you know; his youngest son.  He's an elegant
fellow.  All the girls are cracked about him,--perfectly cracked!  The
president's house is next door to the Nunnery, you know; and Berry
rooms at the very end of the back building, just opposite Quaker Row.
It used to be such fun!  He'd sit at his window, and we'd sit at ours,
in silent study hour, you know; and he'd pretend to read, and all the
time keep looking over the top of his book at us, and trying to make
us laugh.  Once Mary did laugh right out; and Miss Jane heard her, and
came in.  But Berry is just as quick as a flash, and he ducked down
under the window-sill; so she didn't see him.  It was such fun!"

"Who's Miss Jane?" asked Katy.

"The horridest old thing.  She's Mrs. Florence's niece, and engaged
to a missionary.  Mrs. Florence keeps her on purpose to spy us girls,
and report when we break the rules.  Oh, those rules!  Just wait till
you come to read 'em over.  They're nailed up on all the doors,--
thirty-two of them, and you can't help breaking 'em if you try ever
so much."

"What are they? what sort of rules?" cried Katy and Clover in a breath.

"Oh! about being punctual to prayers, and turning you mattress, and
smoothing over the under-sheet before you leave your room, and never
speaking a word in the hall, or in private study hour, and hanging
your towel on your own nail in the wash-room, and all that."

"Wash-room? what _do_ you mean?" said Katy, aghast.

"At the head of Quaker Row, you know.  All the girls wash there,
except on Saturdays when they go to the bath-house.  You have your
own bowl and soap-dish, and a hook for you towel.  Why, what's the
matter?  How big your eyes are!"

"I never heard any thing so horrid!" cried Katy, when she had recovered
her breath.  "Do you really mean that girls don't have wash-stands in
their own rooms?"

"You'll get used to it.  All the girls do," responded Lilly.

"I don't want to get used to it," said Katy, resolving to appeal to
papa; but papa had gone into the smoking-car, and she had to wait.
Meantime Lilly went on talking.

"If you have that end room in Quaker Row, you'll see all the fun that
goes on at commencement time.  Mrs. Searles always has a big party,
and you can look right in, and watch the people and the supper-table,
just as if you were there.  Last summer, Berry and Alpheus Seccomb got
a lot of cakes and mottoes from the table and came out into the yard,
and threw them up one by one to Rose Red and her room-mate.  They
didn't have the end room, though; but the one next to it."

"What a funny name!--Rose Red," said Clover.

"Oh! her real name is Rosamond Redding; but the girls call her Rose
Red.  She's the greatest witch in the school; not exactly pretty, you
know, but sort of killing and fascinating.  She's always getting into
the most awful scrapes.  Mrs. Florence would had expelled her long
ago, if she hadn't been such a favorite; and Mr. Redding's daughter,
beside.  He's a member of Congress, you know, and all that; and Mrs.
Florence is quite proud of having Rose in her school.

"Berry Searles is so funny!" she continued.  "His mother is a horrid
old thing, and always interfering with him.  Sometimes when he has a
party of fellows in his room, and they're playing cards, we can see
her coming with her candle through the house; and when she gets to his
door, she tries it, and then she knocks, and calls out, 'Abernathy, my
son!'  And the fellows whip the cards into their pockets, and stick
the bottles under the table, and get out their books and dictionaries
like a flash; and when Berry unlocks the door, there they sit, studying
away; and Mrs. Searles looks so disappointed!  I thought I should die
one night, Mary Andrews and I laughed so."

I verily believe that if Dr. Carr had been present at this conversation,
he would have stopped at the next station, and taken the girls back to
Burnet.  But he did not return from the smoking-car till the anecdotes
about Berry were finished, and Lilly had begun again on Mrs. Florence.

"She's a sort of queen, you know.  Everybody minds her.  She's tall,
and always dresses beautifully.  Her eyes are lovely; but, when she
gets angry, they're perfectly awful.  Rose Red says she'd rather face
a mad bull any day than Mrs. Florence in a fury; and Rose ought to
know, for she's had more reprimands than any girl in school."

"How many girls are there?" inquired Dr. Carr.

"There were forty-eight last term.  I don't know how many there'll be
this, for they say Mrs. Florence is going to give up.  It's she who
makes the school so popular."

All this time the train was moving northward.  With every mile the
country grew prettier.  Spring had not fairly opened; but the grass
was green, and the buds on the tress gave a tender mist-like color
to the woods.  The road followed the river, which here and there
turned upon itself in long links and windings.  Ranges of blue hills
closed the distance.  Now and then a nearer mountain rose, single and
alone, from the plain.  The air was cool, and full of brilliant zest,
which the Western girls had never before tasted.  Katy felt as if she
were drinking champagne.  She and Clover flew from window to window,
exclaiming with such delight that Lilly was surprised.

"I can't see what there is to make such a fuss about," she remarked.
"That's only Deerfield.  It's quite a small place."

"But how pretty it looks, nestled in among the hills!  Hills are
lovely, Clover, aren't they?"

"These hills are nothing.  You should see the White Mountains," said
the experienced Lilly.  "Ma and I spent three weeks at the Profile
House last vacation.  It was perfectly elegant."

In the course of the afternoon, Katy drew papa away to a distant seat,
and confided her distress about the wash-stands.

"Don't you think it is horrid, papa?  Aunt Izzie always said that it
isn't lady-like not to take a sponge-bath every morning; but how can
we, with forty-eight girls in the room?  I don't see what we are going
to do."

"I fancy we can arrange it; don't be distressed, my dear," replied Dr.
Carr.  And Katy was satisfied; for when papa undertook to arrange
things, they were very apt to be done.

It was almost evening when they reached their final stopping place.

"Now, two miles in the stage, and then we're at the horrid old
Nunnery," said Lilly.  "Ugh! look at that snow.  It never melts here
till long after it's all gone at home.  How I do hate this station!
I'm going to be awfully homesick: I know I am."

But just then she caught sight of the stagecoach, which stood waiting;
and her mood changed, for the stage was full of girls who had come by
the other train.

"Hurrah! there's Mary Edwards and Mary Silver," she exclaimed; "and I
declare, Rose Red!  O you precious darling! how do you do?"  Scrambling
up the steps, who plunged at a girl with waving hair, and a rosy,
mischievous face; and began kissing her with effusion.

Rose Red did not seem equally enchanted.

"Well, Lilly, how are you?" she said, and then went on talking to a
girl who sat by her side, and whose hand she held; while Lilly rushed
up and down the line, embracing and being embraced.  She did not
introduce Katy and Clover; and, as papa was outside, on the driver's
box, they felt a little lonely, and strange.  All the rest were
chattering merrily, and were evidently well acquainted: they were
the only ones left out.

Clover watched Rose Red, to whose face she had taken a fancy.  It made
her think of a pink carnation, or of a twinkling wild rose, with saucy
whiskers of brown calyx.  Whatever she said or did seemed full of a
flavor especially her own.  Here eyes, which were blue, and not very
large, sparkled with fun and mischief.  Her cheeks were round and
soft, like a baby's; when she laughed, two dimples broke their pink,
and, and made you want to laugh too.  A cunning white throat supported
this pretty head, as a stem supports a flower; and, altogether, she
was like a flower, except that flowers don't talk, and she talked all
the time.  What she said seemed droll, for the girls about here were
in fits of laughter; but Clover only caught a word now and then, the
stage made such a noise.

Suddenly Rose Red leaned forward, and touched Clover's hand.

"What's your name?" she said.  "You've got eyes like my sister's.  Are
you coming to the Nunnery?"

"Yes," replied Clover, smiling back.  "My name is Clover,--Clover Carr."

"What a dear little name!  It sounds just as you look!"

"So does your name,--Rose Red," said Clover, shyly.

"It's a ridiculous name," protested Rose Red, trying to pout.  Just
then the stage stopped.

"Why?  Who's going to the hotel?" cried the school-girls, in a chorus.

"I am," said Dr. Carr, putting his head in at the door, with a smile
which captivated every girl there.  "Come, Katy; come, Clover.  I've
decided that you sha'n't begin school till to-morrow."

"Oh, my!  Don't I wish he was my pa!" cried Rose Red.  Then the stage
moved on.

"Who are they?  What's their name?" asked the girls.  "They look nice."

"They're sort of cousins of mine, and they come from the West," replied
Lilly, not unwilling to own the relationship, now that she perceived
that Dr. Carr had made a favorable impression.

"Why on earth didn't you introduce them, then?  I declare that was
just like you, Lilly Page," put in Rose Red, indignantly.  "They
looked so lonesome that I wanted to pat and stroke both of 'em.  That
little one has the sweetest eyes!"

Meantime Katy and Clover entered the hotel, very glad of the reprieve,
and of one more quiet evening alone with papa.  They needed to get
their ideas straightened out and put to rights, after the confusions
of the day and Lilly's extraordinary talk.  It was very evident that
the Nunnery was to be quite different from their expectations; but
another thing was equally evident,--it would not be dull!  Rose Red
by herself, and without any one to help her, would be enough to
prevent that!


CHAPTER IV.  THE NUNNERY.


The night seemed short; for the girls, tired by their journey, slept
like dormice.  About seven o'clock, Katy was roused by the click of a
blind, and, opening her eyes, saw Clover standing in the window, and
peeping out through the half-opened shutters.  When she heard Katy
move, she cried out,--

"Oh, do come!  It's so interesting!  I can see the colleges and the
church, and, I guess, the Nunnery; only I am not quite sure, because
the houses are all so much alike."

Katy jumped up and hurried to the window.  The hotel stood on one side
of a green common, planted with trees.  The common had a lead-colored
fence, and gravel paths, which ran across it from corner to corner.
Opposite the hotel was a long row of red buildings, broken by one or
two brown ones, with cupolas.  These were evidently the colleges, and
a large gray building with a spire was as evidently the church; but
which one of the many white, green-blinded house which filled the
other sides of the common, was the Nunnery, the girls could not tell.
Clover thought it was one with a garden at the side; but Katy thought
not, because Lilly had said nothing of a garden.  They discussed the
point so long that the breakfast bell took them by surprise, and they
were forced to rush through their dressing as fast as possible, so as
not to keep papa waiting.

When breakfast was over, Dr. Carr told them to put on their hats, and
get ready to walk with him to the school.  Clover took one arm, and
Katy the other, and the three passed between some lead-colored posts,
and took one of the diagonal paths which led across the common.

"That's the house," said Dr. Carr, pointing.

"It isn't the one you picked out, Clover," said Katy.

"No," replied Clover, a little disappointed.  The house papa indicated
was by no means so pleasant as the one she had chosen.

It was a tall, narrow building, with dormer windows in the roof, and a
square porch supported by whitewashed pillars.  A pile of trunks stood
in the porch.  From above came sounds of voices.  Girls' heads were
popped out of upper widows at the swinging of the gate, and, as the
door opened, more heads appeared looking over the balusters from the
hall above.

The parlor into which they were taken was full of heavy, old-fashioned
furniture, stiffly arranged.  The sofa and chairs were covered with
black haircloth, and stood closely against the wall.  Some books lay
upon the table, arranged two by two; each upper book being exactly at
a right angle with each lower book.  A bunch of dried grasses stood
in the fire-place.  There were no pictures, except one portrait in
oils, of a forbidding old gentleman in a wig and glasses, sitting with
his finger majestically inserted in a half-open Bible.  Altogether, it
was not a cheerful room, nor one calculated to raise the spirits of
new-comers; and Katy, whose long seclusion had made her sensitive on
the subject of rooms, shrank instinctively nearer papa as they went in.

Two ladies rose to receive them.  One, a tall dignified person, was
Mrs. Florence.  The other she introduced as "my assistant principal,
Mrs. Nipson."  Mrs. Nipson was not tall.  She had a round face,
pinched lips, and half-shut gray eyes.

"This lady is fully associated with me in the management of the school,"
explained Mrs. Florence.  "When I go, she will assume entire control."

"Is that likely to be soon?" inquired Dr. Carr, surprised, and not
well pleased that the teacher of whom he had heard, and with whom he
had proposed to leave his children, was planning to yield her place
to a stranger.

"The time is not yet determined," replied Mrs. Florence.  Then she
changed the subject, gracefully, but so decidedly that Dr. Carr had
no chance for further question.  She spoke of classes, and discussed
what Katy and Clover were to study.  Finally, she proposed to take
them upstairs to see their room.  Papa might come too, she said.

"I dare say that Lilly Page, who tells me that she is a cousin of
yours, has described the arrangements of the house," she remarked
to Katy.  "The room I have assigned to you is in the back building.
'Quaker Row,' the girls call it."  She smiled as she spoke; and Katy,
meeting her eyes for the fist time, felt that there was something in
what Lilly had said.  Mrs. Florence _was_ a sort of queen.

They went upstairs.  Some girls who were peeping over the baluster
hurried away at their approach.  Mrs. Florence shook her head at them.

"The first day is always one of license," she said, leading the way
along an uncarpeted entry to a door at the end, from which, by a
couple of steps, they went down into a square room; round three sides
of which, ran a shelf, on which stood rows of wash-bowls and pitchers.
Above were hooks for towels.  Katy perceived that this was the much-
dreaded wash-room.

"Our lavatory," remarked Mrs. Florence blandly.

Opening from the wash-room was a very long hall, lighted at each end
by a window.  The doors on either side were numbered "one, two, three,"
and so on.  Some of them were half open; as they went by, Katy and
Clover caught glimpses of girls and trunks, and beds strewed with
things.  At No. 6 Mrs. Florence paused.

"Here is the room which I propose to give you," she said.

Katy and Clover looked eagerly about.  It was a small room, but the
sun shone in cheerfully at the window.  There was a maple bedstead
and table, a couple of chairs, and a row of hooks; that was all,
except that in the wall was set a case of black-handled drawers,
with cupboard-doors above them.

"These take the place of a bureau, and hold your clothes," explained
Mrs. Florence, pulling out one of the drawers.  "I hope, when once
you are settled, you will find yourselves comfortable.  The rooms
are small; but young people do not require so much space as older
ones.  Though, indeed, your elder daughter, Dr. Carr, looks more
advanced and grown-up that I was prepared to find her.  What did
you say was her age?"

"She is past sixteen; but she has been so long confined to her room by
the illness of which I wrote, that you may probably find her behind
in some respects, which reminds me" (this was very adroit of papa!)
"I am anxious that she should keep up the system to which she has
been accustomed at home,--among other things, sponge-baths of cold
water every morning; and, as I see that the bedrooms are not furnished
with wash-stands, I will ask your permission to provide one for the
use of my little girls.  Perhaps you will kindly tell me where I would
look for it?"

Mrs. Florence was not pleased, but she could not object; so she
mentioned a shop.  Katy's heart gave a bound of relief.  She thought
No. 6, with a wash-stand, might be very comfortable.  Its bareness
and simplicity had the charm of novelty.  Then there was something
very interesting to her in the idea of a whole house full of girls.

They did not stay long, after seeing the room, but went off on a
shopping excursion.  Shops were few and far between at Hillsover; but
they found a neat little maple wash-stand and rocking-chair, and papa
also bought a comfortable low chair, with a slatted back and a cushion.
This was for Katy.

"Never study till your back aches," he told her: "when you are tired,
lie flat on the bed for half an hour, and tell Mrs. Florence that it
was by my direction."

"Or Mrs. Nipson," said Katy, laughing rather ruefully.  She had taken
no fancy to Mrs. Nipson, and did not enjoy the idea of a divided
authority.

A hurried lunch at the hotel followed, and then it was time for Dr.
Carr to go away.  They all walked to the school together, and said
good-by upon the steps.  The girls would not cry, but they clung very
tightly to papa, and put as much feeling into their last kisses as
would have furnished forth half a dozen fits of tears.  Lilly might
have thought them cold-hearted, but papa did not; he knew better.

"That's my brave girls!" he said.  Then he kissed them once more, and
hurried away.  Perhaps he did not wish them to see that his eyes too
were a little misty.

As the door closed behind them, Katy and Clover realized that they
were alone among strangers.  The sensation was not pleasant; and they
felt forlorn, as they went upstairs, and down Quaker Row, toward No. 6.

"Aha! so you're going to be next door," said a gay voice, as they
passed No. 5, and Rose Red popped her head into the hall.  "Well,
I'm glad," she went on, shaking hands cordially; "I sort of thought
you would, and yet I didn't know; and there are some awful stiffies
among the new girls.  How do you both do?"

"Oh! are we next door to you?" cried Clover, brightening.

"Yes.  It's rather good of me not to hate you; for I wanted the end
room myself, and Mrs. Florence wouldn't give it to me.  Come in, and
let me introduce you to my room-mate.  It's against the rules, but
that's no matter: nobody pretends to keep rules the first day."

They went in.  No.5 was precisely like No. 6, in shape, size and
furniture; but Rose had unpacked her trunk, and decorated the room
with odds and ends of all sorts.  The table was covered with books
and boxes; colored lithographs were pinned on the walls; a huge blue
rosette ornamented the head-board of the bed; the blinds were tied
together with pink ribbon; over the top of the window was a festoon
of hemlock boughs, fresh and spicy.  The effect was fantastic, but
cheery; and Katy and Clover exclaimed, with one voice, "How pretty!"

The room-mate was a pale, shy girl, with a half-scared look in her
eyes, and small hands which twisted uneasily together when she moved
and spoke.  Her name was Mary Silver.  She and Rose were so utterly
unlike, that Katy thought it odd they should have chosen to be
together.  Afterward she understood it better.  Rose liked to protect,
and Mary to be protected; Rose to talk, and Mary to listen.  Mary
evidently considered Rose the most entertaining creature in the
world; she giggled violently at all her jokes, and then stopped
short and covered her mouth with her fingers, in a frightened way,
as if giggling were wrong.

"Only think, Mary," began Rose, after introducing Katy and Clover,
"these young ladies have got the end room.  What do you suppose was
the reason that Mrs. Florence did not give it to us?  It's very
peculiar."

Mary laughed her uneasy laugh.  She looked as if she could tell the
reason, but did not dare.

"Never mind," continued Rose.  "Trials are good for one, they say.
It's something to have nice people in the room, if we can't be there
ourselves.  You are nice, aren't you?" turning to Clover.

"Very," replied Clover, laughing.

"I thought so.  I can almost always tell without asking; still, it is
something to have it on the best authority.  We'll be good neighbors,
won't we?  Look here!" and she pulled one of the black-handled drawers
completely out and laid it on the bed.  "Do you see? your drawers are
exactly behind ours.  At any time in silent study hour, if I have
something I want to say, I'll rap and pop a note into your drawer,
and you can do the same to me.  Isn't it fun?"

Clover said, "Yes;" but Katy, though she laughed, shook her head.

"Don't entice us into mischief," she said.

"Oh, gracious!" exclaimed Rose.  "Now, are you going to be good,--
you two?  If you are, just break the news at once, and have it over.
I can bear it."  She fanned herself in such a comical way that no one
could help laughing.  Mary Silver joined, but stopped pretty soon in
her sudden manner.

"There's Mary, now," went on Rose: "she's a Paragon.  But, if any more
are coming into the entry, just give me fair notice, and I pack and
move up among the sinners in Attic Row.  Somehow, you don't look like
Paragons either,--you especially," nodding to Clover.  "Your eyes are
like violets; but so are Sylvia's--that's my sister,--and she's the
greatest witch in Massachusetts.  Eyes are dreadfully deceitful things.
As for you,"--to Katy,--"you're so tall that I can't take you in all
at once; but the piece I see doesn't look dreadful a bit."

Rose was sitting in the window as she made these remarks; and, leaning
forward suddenly, she gave a pretty, blushing nod to some one below.
Katy glanced down, and saw a handsome young man replacing the cap he
had lifted from his head.

"That's Berry Searles," said Rose.  "He's the president's son, you
know.  He always comes through the side yard to get to his room.
That's it,--the one with the red curtain.  It's exactly opposite
your window: don't you see?"

"So it is!" exclaimed Katy, remembering what Lilly had said.  "Oh!
was that the reason?"--she stopped, afraid of being rude.

"The reason we wanted the room?" inquired Rose, coolly.  "Well, I
don't know.  It hadn't occurred to me to look at it in that light.
Mary!" with sudden severity, "is it possible that you had Berry
Searles in your mind when you were so pertinacious about that room?"

"Rose!  How can you?  You know I never thought of such a thing,"
protested poor Mary.

"I hope not; otherwise I should feel it my duty to consult with Mrs.
Florence on the subject," went on Rose, with an air of dignified
admonition.  "I consider myself responsible for you and your morals,
Mary.  Let us change this painful subject." She looked gravely at
the three girls for a moment; then her lips began to twitch, the
irresistible dimples appeared in her cheeks, and, throwing herself
back in her chair, she burst into a fit of laughter.

"O Mary, you blessed goose!  Some day or other you'll be the death of
me!  Dear, dear! how I am behaving!  It's perfectly horrid of me.  And
I didn't mean it.  I'm going to be real good this term; I promised
mother.  Please forget it, and don't take a dislike to me, and never
come again," she added, coaxingly, as Katy and Clover rose to go.

"Indeed we won't," replied Katy.  As for sensible Clover, she was
already desperately in love with Rose, on that very first day!

After a couple of hours of hard work, No. 6 was in order, and looked
like a different place.  Fringed towels were laid over the wash-stand
and the table.  Dr. Carr's photograph and some pretty chromos
ornamented the walls; the rocking-chair and the study-chair stood by
the window; the trunks were hidden by chintz covers, made for the
purpose by old Mary.  On the window-sill stood Cousin Helen's vase,
which Katy had brought carefully packed among her clothes.

"Now," she said, tying the blinds together with a knot of ribbon in
imitation of Rose Red's, "when we get a bunch of wild flowers for my
vase, we shall be all right."

A tap at the door.  Rose entered.

"Are you done?" she asked; "may I come in and see?"

"Oh, this is pretty!" she exclaimed, looking about: "how you can tell
in one minute what sort of a girl one is, just by looking at her room!
I should know you had been neat and dainty and housekeepery all your
days.  And you would see in a minute that I'm a Madge Wildfire, and
that Ellen Gray is a saint, and Sally Satterlee a scatterbrain, and
Lilly Page an affected little hum-- oh, I forgot, she is your cousin,
isn't she?  How dreadfully rude of me!" dimpling at Clover, who
couldn't help dimpling back again.

"Oh, my!" she went on, "a wash-stand, I declare!  Where did you get it?"

"Papa bought it," explained Katy: "he asked Mrs. Florence's permission."

"How bright of him!  I shall just write to my father to ask for
permission too."  Which she did; and the result was that it set the
fashion of wash-stands, and so many papas wrote to "ask permission,"
that Mrs. Florence found it necessary to give up the lavatory system,
and provide wash-stands for the whole house.  Katy's request had been
the opening wedge.  I do not think this fact made her more popular
with the principals.

"By the way, where is Lilly?" asked Katy; "I haven't seen her to-day."

"Do you want to know?  I can tell you.  She's sitting on the edge of
one chair, with her feet on the rung of another chair, and her head
on the shoulder of her room-mate (who is dying to get away and arrange
her drawers); and she's crying"--

"How do you know?  Have you been up to see her?"

"Oh! I haven't seen her.  It isn't necessary.  I saw her last term,
and the term before.  She always spends the first day at school in
that way.  I'll take you up, if you'd like to examine for yourselves."

Katy and Clover, much amused, followed as she led the way upstairs.
Sure enough, Lilly was sitting exactly as Rose had predicted.  Her
face was swollen from crying.  When she saw the girls, her sobs
redoubled.

"Oh! isn't it dreadful?" she demanded.  "I shall die, I know I shall.
Oh! why did pa make me come?"

"Now, Lilly, don't be an idiot," said the unsympathizing Rose.  Then
she sat down and proceeded to make a series of the most grotesque
faces, winking her eyes and twinkling her fingers round the head of
"Niobe," as she called Lilly, till the other girls were in fits of
laughter, and Niobe, though she shrugged her shoulders pettishly and
said, "Don't be so ridiculous, Rose Red," was forced to give way.
First she smiled, then a laugh was heard; afterward she announced
that she felt better.

"That's right, Niobe," said Rose.  "Wash your face now, and get ready
for tea, for the bell is just going to ring.  As for you, Annie, you
might as well put your drawers in order," with a wicked wink.  Annie
hurried away with a laugh, which she tried in vain to hide.

"You heartless creature!" cried the exasperated Lilly.  "I believe
you're made of marble; you haven't one bit of feeling.  Nor you
either, Katy.  You haven't cried a drop."

"Given this problem," said the provoking Rose: "when the nose without
is as red as a lobster, what must be the temperature of the heart
within, and _vice versa?_"

The tea-bell rang just in time to avert a fresh flood of tears from
Lilly.  She brushed her hair in angry haste, and they all hurried
down by a side staircase which, as Rose explained, the school-girls
were expected to use.  The dining-room was not large; only part of
the girls could be seated at a time; so they took turns at dining
at the first table, half one week and half the next.

Mrs. Nipson sat at the tea-tray, with Mrs. Florence beside her.  At
the other end of the long board sat a severe-looking person, whom
Lilly announced in a whisper as "that horrid Miss Jane."  The meal
was very simple,--tea, bread and butter, and dried beef:--it was
eaten in silence; the girls were not allowed to speak, except to
ask for what they wanted.  Rose Red indeed, who sat next to Mrs.
Florence, talked to her, and even ventured once or twice on daring
little jokes, which caused Clover to regard her with admiring
astonishment.  No one else said any thing, except "Butter, please,"
or "Pass the bread."  SHAFTER, of Townsend, Vermont, recently a
graduate of the Wesleyan University at Middletown, Connecticut, makes
the following statement:

"Some of the events of the Southampton, Va. insurrection were narrated
to me by Mr. Benjamin W. Britt, from Riddicksville, N.C. Mr. Britt
claimed the honor of having shot a black on that occasion, for the
crime of disobeying Mr. Britt's imperative 'Stop.' And Mr.
Ashurst, of Edenton, Georgia, told me that a neighbor of his 'fired
at a likely negro boy of his mother,' because the said boy encroached
upon his premises."

Mr. DAVID HAWLEY, a class leader in the Methodist Episcopal Church
at St. Albans, Licking county, Ohio, who moved from Kentucky to
Ohio in 1831, certifies as follows:--

"About the year 1825, a slave had escaped for Canada, but was
arrested in Hardin county.

On his return, I saw him in Hart county--his wrists tied together
before, his arms tied close to his body, the rope then passing behind
his body, thence to the neck of a horse on which rode the master,
with a club about three feet long, and of the size of a hoe handle;
which, by the appearance of the slave, had been used on his head,
so as to wear off the hair and skin in several places, and the blood
was running freely from his mouth and nose; his heels very much
bruised by the horse's feet, as his master had rode on him because
he _would_ not go fast enough.

Such was the slave's appearance when passing through where I resided.
Such cases were not unfrequent."

The following is furnished by Mr. F.A. HART, of Middletown, Connecticut,
a manufacturer, and an influential member of the Methodist Episcopal
Church. It occurred in 1824, about twenty-five miles this side of
Baltimore, Maryland.--
"I had spent the night with a Methodist brother; and while at
breakfast, a person came in and called for help.

We went out and found a crowd collected around a carriage. Upon
approaching we discovered that a slave-trader was endeavoring to
force a woman into his carriage. He had already put in three children,
the youngest apparently about eight years of age. The woman was
strong, and whenever he brought her to the side of the carriage,
she resisted so effectually with her feet that he could not get
her in. The woman becoming exhausted, at length, by her frantic
efforts, he thrust her in with great violence, _stamped her down
upon the bottom with his feet_!

shouted to the driver to go on; and away they rolled, the miserable
captives moaning and shrieking, until their voices were lost in the
distance."

Mr. SAMUEL HALL, a teacher in Marietta College, Ohio, writes as
follows:-- 
"Mr.

ISAAC C. FULLER is a member of the Methodist Episcopal Church in Marietta.
He was a fellow student of mine while in college, and now resides
in this place. He says:--In 1832, as I was descending the Ohio with a
flat boat, near the 'French Islands,' so called, below Cincinnati,
I saw two negroes on horseback.

The horses apparently took fright at something and ran. Both jumped
over a rail fence; and one of the horses, in so doing, broke one of
his fore-legs, falling at the same time and throwing the negro who
was upon his back. A white man came out of a house not over two hundred
yards distant, and came to the spot. Seizing a stake from the fence,
he knocked the negro down five or six times in succession.

"In the same year I worked for a Mr. Nowland, eleven miles above Baton
Rouge, La. at a place called 'Thomas' Bend.'

He had an overseer who was accustomed to flog more or less of the
slaves every morning.

I heard the blows and screams as regularly as we used to hear the college
bell that summoned us to any duty when we went to school. This overseer
was a nephew of Nowland, and there were about fifty slaves on his
plantation. Nowland himself related the following to me. One of his
slaves ran away, and came to the Homo Chitto river, where he found
no means of crossing.

Here he fell in with a white man who knew his master, being on a journey
from that vicinity. He induced the slave to return to Baton Rouge,
under the promise of giving him a pass, by which he might escape,
but, in reality, to betray him to his master.

This he did, instead of fulfilling his promise. Nowland said that he
took the slave and inflicted five hundred lashes upon him, cutting
his back all to pieces, and then thew on hot embers. The slave was
on the plantation at the time, and told me the same story.

He also rolled up his sleeves, and showed me the scars on his arms,
which, in consequence, appeared in places to be callous to the bone.

I was with Nowland between five and six months."

Rev. JOHN RANKIN, formerly of Tennessee, now pastor of the Presbyterian
Church of Ripley, Ohio, has furnished the following statement:--

"The Rev. LUDWELL G. GAINES, now pastor of the Presbyterian Church
of Goshen, Clermont county, Ohio, stated to me, that while a resident
of a slave state, he was summoned to assist in taking a man who
had made his black woman work naked several days, and afterwards
murdered her.

The murderer armed himself, and threatened to shoot the officer who
went to take him; and although there was ample assistance at hand,
the officer declined further interference."

Mr. RANKIN adds the following:--

"A Presbyterian preacher, now resident in a slave state, and therefore
it is not expedient to give his name, stated, that he saw on board
of a steamboat at Louisville, Kentucky, a woman who had been forced
on board, to be carried off from all she counted dear on earth.
She ran across the boat and threw herself into the river, in order
to end a life of intolerable sorrows. She was drawn back to the
boat and taken up. The brutal driver beat her severely, and she
immediately threw herself again into the river.

She was hooked up again, chained, and carried off."

Testimony of M. WILLIAM HANSBOROUGH, of Culpepper county, Virginia,
the "owner" of sixty slaves.

"I saw a slave taken out of prison by his master, on a hot summer's
day, and driven, by said master, on the road before him, till he
dropped down dead."

The above statement was made by Mr. Hansborough to Lindley Coates,
of Lancaster county, Pa. a distinguished member of the Society of
Friends, and a member of the late Convention in Pa. for altering
the State Constitution. The letter from Mr. C. containing this
testimony of Mr. H. is now before us.

Mr. TOBIAS BOUDINOT, a member of the Methodist Church in St. Albans,
Licking county, Ohio, says:

"In Nicholasville, Ky. in the year 1823, he saw a slave fleeing before
the patrol, but he was overtaken near where he stood, and a man
with a knotted cane, as large as his wrist, struck the slave a
number of times on his head, until the club was broken and he made
tame; the blood was thrown in every direction by the violence of
the blows."

The Rev.

WILLIAM DICKEY, of Bloomingburg, Fayette county, Ohio, wrote a letter
to the Rev.

John Rankin, of Ripley, Ohio thirteen years since, containing a description
of the cutting up of a slave with a broad axe; beginning at the
feet and gradually cutting the legs, arms, and body into pieces!

This diabolical atrocity was committed in the state of Kentucky, in
the year 1807. The perpetrators of the deed were two brothers,
Lilburn and Isham Lewis, NEPHEWS OF PRESIDENT JEFFERSON.

The writer of this having been informed by Mr.

Dickey, that some of the facts connected with this murder were not
contained in his letter published by Mr.

Rankin, requested him to write the account _anew_, and furnish
the additional facts. This he did, and the letter containing it was
published in the "Human Rights" for August, 1837. We insert it
here, slightly abridged, with the introductory remarks which
appeared in that paper.

"Mr. Dickey's first letter has been scattered all over the country,
south and north; and though multitudes have affected to disbelieve
its statements, _Kentuckians_ know the truth of them quite too well
to call them in question.

The story is fiction or fact--if _fiction_, why has it not been
nailed to the wall?

Hundreds of people around the mouth of Cumberland River are personally
knowing to these facts.
_There_ are the records of the court that tried the wretches.

--_There_ their acquaintances and kindred still live. All over that
region of country, the brutal butchery of George is a matter of
public notoriety.

It is quite needless, perhaps, to add, that the Rev. Wm.
Dickey is a Presbyterian clergyman, one of the oldest members of the
Chilicothe Presbytery, and greatly respected and beloved by the
churches in Southern Ohio.

He was born in South Carolina, and was for many years pastor of a
church in Kentucky."
REV. WM. DICKEY'S LETTER.

"In the county of Livingston, KY. near the mouth of Cumberland River,
lived Lilburn Lewis, a sister's son of the celebrated Jefferson. He was
the wealthy owner of a considerable gang of negroes, whom he drove
constantly, fed sparingly, and lashed severely.

The consequence was, that they would run away. Among the rest was an
ill-thrived boy of about seventeen, who, having just returned from
a skulking spell, was sent to the spring for water, and in returning
let fall an elegant pitcher: it was dashed to shivers upon the
rocks. This was made the occasion for reckoning with him.

It was night, and the slaves were all at home. The master had them
all collected in the most roomy negro house, and a rousing fire put on.
When the door was secured, that none might escape, either through _fear
of him_ or _sympathy with George_, he opened to them the design
of the interview, namely, that they might be effectually advised
to _stay at home and obey his orders_.

All things now in train, he called up George, who approached his master
with unreserved submission.

He bound him with cords; and by the assistance of Isham Lewis, his
youngest brother, laid him on a broad bench, the _meat-block_.
He then proceeded to _hack off George at the ankles_!

It was with the _broad axe_! In vain did the unhappy victim _scream
and roar_!

for he was completely in his master's power; not a hand among so
many durst interfere; casting the feet into the fire, he lectured
them at some length.

--He next _chopped him off below the knees_!

George _roaring out_ and praying his master to begin at the _other
end_!

He admonished them again, throwing the legs into the fire--then, above
the knees, tossing the joints into the fire--the next stroke severed
the thighs from the body; these were also committed to the flames--and
so it may be said of the arms, head, and trunk, until all was in
the fire!

He threatened any of them with similar punishment who should in
future disobey, run away, or disclose the proceedings of that
evening.

Nothing now remained but to consume the flesh and bones; and for this
purpose the fire was brightly stirred until two hours after midnight;
when a coarse and heavy back-wall, composed of rock and clay, covered
the fire and the remains of George. It was the Sabbath--this put an
end to the _amusements_ of the evening. The negroes were now
permitted to disperse, with charges to keep this matter among
themselves, and never to whisper it in the neighbourhood, under
the penalty of a like punishment.

"When he returned home and retired, his wife exclaimed, 'Why, Mr.
Lewis, where have you been, and what were you doing?' She had heard a
strange _pounding_ and dreadful _screams_, and had smelled something
like fresh meat _burning_.

The answer he returned was, that he had never enjoyed himself
at a ball so well as he had enjoyed himself that night.

"Next morning he ordered the hands to rebuild the back-wall, and he
himself superintended the work, throwing the pieces of flesh that
still remained, with the bones, behind, as it went up--thus hoping
to conceal the matter.

But it _could not be hid_--much as the negroes seemed to hazard, they
did _whisper the horrid deed_. The neighbors came, and in his presence
tore down the wall; and finding the _remains_ of the boy, they
apprehended Lewis and his brother, and testified against them.

They were committed to jail, that they might answer at the coming court
for this shocking outrage; but finding security for their appearance
at court, THEY WERE ADMITTED TO BAIL!

"In the interim, other articles of evidence leaked out. That of
Mrs.
Lewis hearing a pounding, and screaming and her smelling fresh meat
burning, for not till now had this come out. He was offended with her
for disclosing these things, alleging that they might have some weight
against him at the pending trial.

"In connection with this is another item, full of horror. Mr.s.
Lewis, or her girl, in making her bed one morning after this,
found, under her bolster, a keen BUTCHER KNIFE!

The appalling discovery forced from her the confession that she
considered her life in jeopardy.

Messrs.
Rice and Philips, whose wives were her sisters, went to see her and
to bring her away if she wished it.

Mr. Lewis received them with all the expressions of _Virginia hospitality_.
As soon as they were seated they said, 'Well, Letitia, we supposed
that you might be unhappy here, and afraid for your life; and we
have come to-day to take you to your father's, if you desire it.' She
said, 'Thank you, kind brothers, I am indeed afraid for my life.'--We
need not interrupt the story to tell how much surprised he affected
to be with this strange procedure of his brothers-in-law, and with
this declaration of his wife.

But all his professions of fondness for her, to the contrary notwithstanding,
they rode off with her before his eyes.--He followed and overtook,
and went with them to her father's; but she was locked up from him,
with her own consent, and he returned home.

"Now he saw that his character was gone, his respectable friends
believed that he had massacred George; but, worst of all, he saw
that they considered the life of the harmless Letitia was in danger
from his perfidious hands.

It was too much for his chivalry to sustain.

The proud Virginian sunk under the accumulated load of public odium.

He proposed to his brother Isham, who had been his accomplice in the
George affair, that they should finish the play of life with a still
deeper tragedy. The plan was, that they should shoot one another.
Having made the hot-brained bargain, they repaired with their guns
to the grave-yard, which was on an eminence in the midst of his
plantation.

It was inclosed with a railing, say thirty feet square.
One was to stand at one railing, and the other over against him at the
other. They were to make ready, take aim, and count deliberately 1,
2, 3, and then fire. Lilburn's will was written, and thrown down
open beside him.

They cocked their guns and raised them to their faces; but the peradventure
occurring that one of the guns might miss fire, Isham was sent for a
rod, and when it was brought, Lilburn cut it off at about the length of
two feet, and was showing his brother how the survivor might do,
provided one of the guns should fail; (for they were determined
upon going together;) but forgetting, perhaps, in the perturbation
of the moment that the gun was cocked, when he touched trigger with
the rod the gun fired, and he fell, and died in a few minutes--and
was with George in the eternal world, where _the slave is free from
his master_.

But poor Isham was so terrified with this unexpected occurrence and so
confounded by the awful contortions of his brother's face, that he
had not nerve enough to follow up the play, and finish the plan as was
intended, but suffered Lilburn to go alone. The negroes came running
to see what it meant that a gun should be fired in the grave-yard.

                         There lay their master,
                                               dead!

They ran for the neighbors. Isham still remained on the spot. The
neighbors at the first charged him with the murder of his brother.
But he, though as if he had lost more than half his mind, told the
whole story; and the course of range of the ball in the dead man's
body agreeing with his statement, Isham was not farther charged
with Lilburn's death.

"The Court sat--Isham was judged to be guilty of a capital crime
in the affair of George. He was to be hanged at Salem. The day was
set.

My good old father visited him in the prison--two or three times talked
and prayed with him; I visited him once myself. We fondly hoped that
he was a sincere penitent. Before the day of execution came, by some
means, I never knew what, Isham was _missing_.

About two years after, we learned that he had gone down to Natchez,
and had married a lady of some refinement and piety. I saw her letters
to his sisters, who were worthy members of the church of which I
was pastor.

The last letter told of his death.

He was in Jackson's army, and fell in the famous battle of New
Orleans."
"I am, sir, your friend,
"WM. DICKEY."

PERSONAL NARRATIVES-PART III.

NARRATIVE AND TESTIMONY OF REV. FRANCIS HAWLEY.

Mr. Hawley is the pastor of the Baptist Church in Colebrook, Litchfield
county, Connecticut. He has resided fourteen years in the slave states,
North and South Carolina.

His character and standing with his own denomination at the south, may
be inferred from the fact, that the Baptist State Convention of North
Carolina appointed him, a few years since, their general agent to
visit the Baptist churches within their bounds, and to secure their
co-operation in the objects of the Convention.

Mr. H. accepted the appointment, and for some time traveled in that
capacity.

"I rejoice that the Executive Committee of the American Anti-Slavery
Society have resolved to publish a volume of facts and testimony
relative to the character and workings of American slavery.

Having resided fourteen years at the south, I cheerfully comply with
your request, to give the result of my observation and experience.

"And I would here remark, that one may reside at the south for years,
and not witness extreme cruelties; a northern man, and one who
is not a slaveholder, would be the last to have an opportunity
of witnessing the infliction of cruel punishments."

PLANTATIONS.

"A majority of the large plantations are on the banks of rivers, far
from the public eye.

A great deal of low marshy ground lies in the vicinity of most of
the rivers at the south; consequently the main roads are several
miles from the rivers, and generally no _public_ road passes the
plantations. A stranger traveling on the _ridge_, would think
himself in a miserably poor country; but every two or three miles
he will see a road turning off and leading into the swamp; taking
one of those roads, and traveling from two to six miles, he will
come to a large gate; passing which, he will find himself in a
clearing of several hundred acres of the first quality of land;
passing on, he will see 30, or 40, or more slaves--men, women, boys
and girls, at their task, every one with a hoe; or, if in cotton
picking season, with their baskets.

The next day but one, as Katy
and Clover sat together in silent study hour, their lower drawer was
pushed open very noiselessly and gently, till it came out entirely,
and lay on the floor, and in the aperture thus formed appeared Roses's
saucy face flushed with mischief.  She was crawling through from her
own room!

"Such fun!" she whispered; "I never thought of this before!  We can
have parties in study hours, and all sorts of things."

"Oh, go back, Rosy!" whispered Clover in agonized entreaty, though
laughing all the time.

"Go back?  Not at all!  I'm coming in," answered Rose, pulling herself
through a little farther.  But at that moment the door opened: there
stood Miss Jane!  She had caught the buzz of voices, as she passed in
the hall, and had entered to see what was going on.

Rose, dreadfully frightened, made a rapid movement to withdraw.  But the
space was narrow, and she had wedged herself, and could move neither
backward nor forward.  She had to submit to being helped through by
Miss Jane, in a series of pulls, while Katy and Clover sat by, not
daring to laugh or to offer assistance.  When Rose was on her feet,
Miss Jane released her with a final shake, which she seemed unable
to refrain from giving.

"Go to your room," she said; "I shall report all of you young ladies
for this flagrant act of disobedience."

Rose went, and in two minutes the drawer, which Miss Jane had replaced,
opened again, and there was this note:--


   "If I'm never heard of more, give my love to my family, and
    mention how I died.  I forgive my enemies; and leave Clover
    my band bracelet.
               "My blessings on you both.
                        "With the deepest regard,
                            "Your afflicted friend, R. R."


Mrs. Florence was very angry on this occasion, and would listen to no
explanations, but gave Katy and Clover a "disobedience mark" also.
This was very unfair, and Rose felt dreadfully about it.  She begged
and entreated; but Mrs. Florence only replied: "There is blame on both
sides, I have no doubt."

"She's entirely changed from what she used to be," declared Rose.  "I
don't know what's the matter; I don't like her half so much as I did."

The truth was, that Mrs. Florence had secretly determined to give up
her connection with the school at midsummer; and, regarding it now
rather as Mrs. Nipson's school than her own, she took no pains to
study character or mete out justice carefully among scholars with
whom she was not likely to have much to do.


CHAPTER VI.  THE S. S. U. C.


It was Saturday afternoon; and Clover, having finished her practising,
dusting, and mending, had settle herself in No. 6 for a couple of hours
of quiet enjoyment.  Every thing was in beautiful order to meet Miss
Jane's inspecting eye; and Clover, as she sat in the rocking chair,
writing-case in lap, looked extremely cosy and comfortable.

A half-finished letter to Elsie lay in the writing-case; but Clover
felt lazy, and instead of writing was looking out of window in a dreamy
way, to where Berry Searles and some other young men were playing
ball in the yard below.  She was not thinking of them or of any thing
else in particular.  A vague sense of pleasant idleness possessed her,
and it was like the breaking of a dream when the door opened and Katy
came in, not quietly after her wont, but with a certain haste and
indignant rustle as if vexed by something.  When she saw Clover at
the window, she cried out hastily, "O Clover, don't'!"

"Don't what?" asked Clover, without turning her head.

"Don't sit there looking at those boys."

"Why? why not?  They can't see me.  The blinds are shut."

"No matter for that.  It's just as bad as if they could see you.  Don't
do it.  I can't bear to have you."

"Well, I won't then," said Clover good-humoredly, facing round with
her back to the window.  "I wasn't looking at them either,--not
exactly.  I was thinking about Elsie and John, and wondering--But
what's the matter, Katy?  What makes you fire up so about it?  You've
watched the ball-playing yourself plenty of times."

"I know I have, and I didn't mean to be cross, Clovy.  The truth is
I am all put out.  These girls with incessant talk about the students
make me absolutely sick.  It is so unladylike, and so bad, especially
for the little ones.  Fancy that mite of a Carrie Steele informing me
that she is "in love" with Harry Crosby.  In love!  A baby like that!
She has no business to know that there is such a thing."

"Yes," said Clover laughing: "she wrote his name on a wintergreen
lozenge, and bored a hole and hung it round her neck on a blue ribbon.
But it melted and stuck to her frock, and she had to take it off."

"Whereupon she ate it," added Rose, who came in at that moment.

The girls shouted, but Katy soon grew grave.  "One can't help
laughing," she said, "but isn't it a shame to have such things going
on?  Just fancy our Elsie behaving so, Clover!  Why, papa would have
a fit.  I declare, I've a great mind to get up a society to put down
flirting."

"Do!" said Rose.  "What fun it would be!  Call it 'The Society for
the Suppression of Young Men.'  I'll join."

"You, indeed!" replied Katy, shaking her head.  "Didn't I see Berry
Searles throw a bunch of syringa into your window only this morning?"

"Dear me! did he?  I shall have to speak to Mary again.  It's quite
shocking to have her go on so.  But really and truly do let us have
a Society.  It would be so jolly.  We could meet on Saturday
afternoons, and write pieces and have signals and a secret, as
Sylvia's Society did when she was at school.  Get one up, Katy,--
that's a dear."

"But," said Katy, taken aback by having her random idea so suddenly
adopted, "if I did get one up, it would be in real earnest, and it
would be a society against flirting.  And you know you can't help
it, Rosy."

"Yes, I can.  You are doing me great injustice.  I don't behave like
those girls in Attic Row.  I never did.  I just bow to Berry and the
rest whom I really know,--never to anybody else.  And you must see,
Katherine darling, that it would be the height of ingratitude if I
didn't bow to the boys who made mud pies for me when I was little,
and lent me their marbles, and did all sorts of kind things.  Now
wouldn't it?"--coaxingly.

"Per--haps," admitted Katy, with a smile.  "But you're such a witch!"

"I'm not,--indeed I'm not.  I'll be a pillar of society if only you'll
provide a Society for me to be a pillar of.  Now, Katy, do--ah, do, do!"

When Rose was in a coaxing mood, few people could resist her.  Katy
yielded, and between jest and earnest the matter was settled.  Katy
was to head the plan and invite the members.

"Only a few at first," suggested Rose.  "When it is proved to be a
success, and everybody wants to join, we can let in two or three more
as a great favor.  What shall the name be?  We'll keep it a secret,
whatever it is.  There's no fun in a society without a secret."

What should the name be?  Rose invented half a dozen, each more absurd
than the last.  "The Anti-Jane Society" would sound well, she insisted.
Or, no!--the "Put-him-down-Club" was better yet!  Finally they settled
upon "The Society for the Suppression of Unladylike Conduct."

"Only we'll never use the whole name," said Rose: "We'll say, 'The
S. S .U. C.'  That sounds brisk and snappy, and will drive the whole
school wild with curiosity.  What larks!  How I long to begin!"

The next Saturday was fixed upon for the first meeting.  During the
week Katy proposed the plan to the elect few, all of whom accepted
enthusiastically.  Lilly Page was the only person who declined.  She
said it would be stupid; that for her part she didn't set up to be
"proper" or better than she was, and that in any case she shouldn't
wish to be mixed up in a Society of which "Miss Agnew" was a member.
The girls did not break their hearts over this refusal.  They had
felt obliged to ask her for relationship's sake, but everybody was
a little relieved that she did not wish to join.

No. 6 looked very full indeed that Saturday afternoon when the S. S.
U. C. came together for the first time.  Ten members were present.
Mary Silver and Louisa were two; and Rose's crony, Esther Dearborn,
another.  The remaining four were Sally Alsop and Amy Erskine; Alice
Gibbons, one of the new scholars, whom they all liked, but did not
know very well; and Ellen Gray, a pale, quiet girl, with droll blue
eyes, a comical twist to her mouth, and a trick of saying funny
things in such a demure way that half the people who listened never
found out that they were funny.  All Rose's chairs had been borrowed
for the occasion.  Three girls sat on the bed, and three on the floor.
With a little squeezing, there was plenty of room for everybody.

Katy was chosen President, and requested to take the rocking-chair as
a sign of office.  This she did with much dignity, and proceeded to
read the Constitution and By-Laws of the Society, which had been drawn
up by Rose Red, and copied on an immense sheet of blue paper.

They ran thus:--


CONSTITUTION FOR THE SOCIETY FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF UNLADYLIKE
    CONDUCT, KNOWN TO THE UNINITIATED AS THE S. S. U. C.


ARTICLE I.

     The object of this Society is twofold: it combines
     having a good time with the Pursuit of VIRTUE.


ARTICLE II.

     The good time is to take place once a week in No. 6
     Quaker Row, between the hours of four and six P. M.


ARTICLE III.

     The nature of the good time is to be decided upon by
     a Committee to be appointed each Saturday by the members
     of the Society.


ARTICLE IV.

     VIRTUE is to be pursued at all times and in all seasons,
     by the members of the Society setting their faces against
     the practice of bowing and speaking to young gentlemen
     who are not acquaintances; waving of pocket handkerchiefs,
     signals from windows, and any species of conduct which
     would be thought unladylike by nice people anywhere, and
     especially by the mammas of the Society.


ARTICLE V.

     The members of the Society pledge themselves to use their
     influence against these practices, both by precept and
     example.

             In witness whereof we sign.

                             Katherine Carr, President.
                             Rosamond Redding, Secretary.
                             Clover E. Carr.
                             Mary L. Silver.
                             Esther Dearborn.
                             Sally P. Alsop.
                             Amy W. Erskine.
                             Alice Gibbons.
                             Ellen Whitworth Gray.


Next followed the By-Laws.  Katy had not been able to see the necessity
of having any By-Laws, but Rose had insisted.  She had never heard of
a Society without them, she said, and she didn't think it would be
"legal" to leave them out.  It had cost her some trouble to invent
them, but at last they stood thus:--


BY-LAW NO. 1.

The members of the S. S. U. C. will observe the following signals:--

  1st. The Grip.--This is given by inserting the first and middle
    finger of the right hand between the thumb and fourth finger of
    the respondent's left, and describing a rotatory motion in the
    air with the little finger.  N. B. Much practice is necessary
    to enable members to exchange this signal in such a manner as
    not to attract attention.

  2nd. The Signal of Danger.--This signal is for use when Miss Jane,
    or any other foe-woman, heaves into sight.  It consists in
    rubbing the nose violently, and at the same time giving three
    stamps on the floor with the left foot.  It must be done with
    an air of unconsciousness.

  3rd. The Signal for Consultation.--This signal is for use when
    immediate communication is requisite between members of the
    Society.  It consists of a pinch on the back of the right
    hand, accompanied by the word "Holofernes" pronounced in a
    low voice.


BY-LAW NO. 2.

  The members of the S. S. U. C.  pledge themselves to inviolable
    secrecy about all Society proceedings.


BY-LAW NO. 3

  The members of the S. S. U. C. will bring their Saturday corn-
    balls to swell the common entertainment.


BY-LAW NO. 4.

  Members having boxes from home are at liberty to contribute such
    part of the contents as they please to the aforementioned
    common entertainment.


Here the By-Laws ended.  There was much laughter over them, especially
over the last.

"Why did you put that in, Rosy?" asked Ellen Gray: "it strikes me as
hardly necessary."

"Oh," replied Rose, "I put that in to encourage Silvery Mary there.
She's expecting a box soon, and I knew that she would pine to give
the Society a share, but would be too timid to propose it; so I
thought I would just pave the way."

"How truly kind!" laughed Clover.

"Now," said the President, "the entertainment of the meeting will
begin by the reading of 'Trailing Arbutus,' a poem by C. E. C."

Clover had been very unwilling to read the first piece, and had only
yielded after much coaxing from Rose, who had bestowed upon her in
consequence the name of Quintia Curtia.  She felt very shy as she
stood up with her paper in hand, and her voice trembled perceptibly;
but after a minute she grew used to the sound of it, and read steadily.


                           TRAILING ARBUTUS.

                    I always think, when looking
                       At its mingled rose and white,
                    Of the pink lips of children
                       Put up to say good-night.


                    Cuddled its green leaves under,
                       Like babies in their beds,
                    Its blossoms shy and sunny
                       Conceal their pretty heads.


                    And when I lift the blanket up,
                       And peep inside of it,
                    They seem to give me smile for smile,
                       Nor be afraid a bit.


                    Dear little flower, the earliest
                       Of all the flowers that are;
                    Twinkling upon the bare, brown earth,
                       As on the clouds a star.


                    How can we fail to love it well,
                       Or prize it more and more!
                    It is the first small signal
                       That winter time is o'er;


                    That spring has not forgotten us,
                       Though late and slow she be,
                    But is upon her flying way,
                       And we her face shall see.


This production caused quite a sensation among the girls.  They had
never heard any of Clover's verses before, and thought these wonderful.

"Why!" cried Sally Alsop, "it is almost as good as Tupper!"  Sally
meant this for a great compliment, for she was devoted to the
"Proverbial Philosophy."

"A Poem by E.D." was the next thing on the list.  Esther Dearborn rose
with great pomp and dignity, cleared her throat, put on a pair of eye-
glasses, and began.


                              MISS JANE.

                   Who ran to catch me on the spot,
                   If I the slightest rule forgot,
                   Believing and excusing not?
                                                 Miss Jane.

                   Who lurked outside my door all day
                   In hopes that I would disobey,
                   And some low whispered word would say?
                                                 Miss Jane.

                   Who caught our Rose-bud half way through
                   The wall which parted her from two
                   Friends, and that small prank made her rue?
                                                 Miss Jane.

                   Who is our bane, our foe, our fear?
                   Who's always certain to appear
                   Just when we do not think her near?
                                                 Miss Jane.


--"Who down the hall is creeping now
   With stealthy step, but knowing not how
   Exactly to discover"--

broke in Rose, improvising rapidly.  Next moment came a knock at the
door.  It was Miss Jane.

"Your drawers, Miss Carr,--your cupboard,"--she said, going across
the room and examining each in turn.  There was no fault to be found
with either, so she withdrew, giving the laughing girls a suspicious
glance, and remarking that it was a bad habit to sit on beds,--it
always injured them.

"Do you suppose she heard?" whispered Mary Silver.

"No, I don't think she did," replied Rose.  "Of course she suspected
us of being in some mischief or other,--she always does that.  Now,
Mary, it's you turn to give us an intellectual treat.  Begin."

Poor Mary shrank back, blushing and protesting.

"You know I can't," she said, "I'm too stupid."

"Rubbish!" cried Rose,  "You're the dearest girl that ever was."  She
gave Mary's shoulder a reassuring pat.

"Mary is excused this time," put in Katy.  "It is the first meeting,
so I shall be indulgent.  But, after this, every member will be
expected to contribute something for each meeting.  I mean to be
very strict."

"Oh, I never, never can!" cried Mary.  Rose was down on her at once.
"Nonsense! hush!" she said.  "Of course you can.  You shall, if I
have to write it for you myself!"

"Order!" said the President, rapping on the table with a pencil.
"Rose has something to read us."

Rose stood up with great gravity.  "I would ask for a moment's delay,
that the Society may get out its pocket-handkerchiefs," she said.
"My piece is an affecting one.  I didn't mean it, but it came so.  We
cannot always be cheerful."  Here she heaved a sigh, which set the
S. S. U. C. to laughing, and began.


                           A SCOTCH POEM.

                  Wee, crimson-tippet Willie Wink,
                    Wae's me, drear, dree, and dra,
                  A waeful thocht, a fearsome flea,
                    A wuther wind, and a'.

                  Sair, sair thy mither sabs her lane,
                    Her een, her mou, are wat;
                  Her cauld kail hae the corbies ta'en,
                    And grievously she grat.

                  Ah, me, the suthering of the wind!
                    Ah, me, the waesom mither!
                  Ah, me the bairnies left ahind,
                    The shither, hither, blither!


"What _does_ it mean?" cried the girls, as Rose folded up the paper
and sat down.

"Mean?" said Rose, "I'm sure I don't know.  It's Scotch, I tell you!
It's the kind of thing that people read, and then they say, 'One of
the loveliest gems that Burns ever wrote!'  I thought I'd see if I
couldn't do one too.  Anybody can, I find: it's not at all difficult."

All the poems having been read, Katy now proposed that they should
play "Word and Question."  She and Clover were accustomed to the
game at home, but to some of the others it was quite new.

Each girl was furnished with a slip of paper and a pencil, and was
told to write a word at the top of the paper, fold it over, and pass
it to her next left-hand neighbor.

"Dear me!  I don't know what to write," said Mary Silver.

"Oh, write any thing," said Clover.  So Mary obediently wrote "Any
thing," and folded it over.

"What next?" asked Alice Gibbons.

"Now a question," said Katy.  "Write it under the word, and fold over
again.  No, Amy, not _on_ the fold.  Don't you see, if you do, the
writing will be on the wrong side of the paper when we come to read?"

The questions were more troublesome than the words, and the girls sat
frowning and biting their pencil-tops for some minutes before all were
done.  As the slips were handed in, Katy dropped them into the lid of
her work-basket, and thoroughly mixed and stirred them up.

"Now," she said, passing it about, "each draw one, read, and write a
rhyme in which the word is introduced and the question answered.  It
needn't be more than two lines, unless you like.  Here, Rose, it's
your turn first."

"Oh, what a hard game!" cried some of the girls; but pretty soon they
grew interested, and began to work over their verses.

"I should uncommonly like to know who wrote this abominable word,"
said Rose, in a tone of despair.  "Clover, you rascal, I believe it
was you."

Clover peeped over her shoulder, nodded, and laughed.

"Very well then!" snatching up Clover's slip, and putting her own in
its place, "you can just write on it yourself,--I shan't!  I never
heard of such a word in my life!  You made it up for the occasion,
you know you did!"

"I didn't! it's in the Bible," replied Clover, setting to work
composedly on the fresh paper.  But when Rose opened Clover's slip
she groaned again.

"It's just as bad as the other!" she cried.  "Do change back again,
Clovy,--that's a dear."

"No, indeed!" said Clover, guarding her paper: "you've changed once,
and now you must keep what you have."

Rose made a face, chewed her pencil awhile, and then began to write
rapidly.  For some minutes not a word was spoken.

"I've done!" said Esther Dearborn at last, flinging her paper into the
basket-lid.

"So have I!" said Katy.

One by one the papers were collected and jumbled into a heap.  Then
Katy, giving all a final shake, drew out one, opened it, and read.


  WORD.--Radishes.
  QUESTION.--How do you like your clergymen done?

     How do I like them done?  Well, that depends.
       I like them _done_ on sleepy, drowsy Sundays;
     I like them under-done on other days;
       Perhaps a little _over_-done on Mondays.
     But always I prefer them old as pa,
     And not like radishes, all red and raw.


"Oh, _what_ a rhyme! cried Clover.

"Well,--what is one to do?" said Ellen Gray.  Then she stopped and bit
her lip, remembering that no one was supposed to know who wrote the
separate papers.

"Aha! it's your, is it, Ellen?" said Rose.  "You're an awfully clever
girl, and an ornament to the S. S. U. C.  Go on, Katy."

Katy opened the second slip.


  WORD.--Anything.
  QUESTION.--Would you rather be a greater fool than you seem, or seem
           a greater fool than you are?

           I wouldn't seem a fool for anything, my dear,
           If I could help it; but I can't, I fear.


"Not bad," said Rose, nodding her head at Sally Alsop, who blushed
crimson.

The third paper ran,--


  WORD.--Mahershahalhashbaz.
  QUESTION.--Does your mother know you're out?

Rose and Clover exchanged looks.


                 Why, of course my mother knows it,
                   For she sent me out herself.
                 She told me to run quickly, for
                   It wasn't but a mile;
                 But I found it was much farther,
                   And my feet grew tired and weary,
                 And I couldn't hurry greatly,
                   So I took a long, long while.
                 Beside, I stopped to read your word,
                 A stranger one I never heard!
                 I've met with _Pa_-pistical,
                             That's pat;
                 But _Ma-hershahalhashbaz,
                             What's that?


"Oh, Clovy, you bright little thing!" cried Rose, in fits of laughter.
But Mary Silver looked quite pale.

"I never heard of any thing so awful!" she said.  "If that word had
come to me, I should have fainted away on the spot,--I know I should!"

Next came--


  WORD.--Buttons.
  QUESTION.--What is the best way to make home happy?

          To me 'tis quite clear I can answer this right:
          Sew on the buttons, and sew them on tight.


"I suspect that is Amy's," said Esther: "she's such a model for mending
and keeping things in order."

"It's not fair, guessing aloud in this way," said Sally Alsop.  Sally
always spoke for Amy, and Amy for Sally.  "Voice and Echo" Rose called
them: only, as she remarked, nobody could tell which was Echo and
which Voice.

The next word was "Mrs. Nipson," and the question, "Do you like
flowers?"


    Do I like flowers?  I will not write a sonnet,
      Singing their beauty as a poet might do:
    I just detest those on Aunt Nipson's bonnet,
      Because they are like her,--all gray and blue,
      Dusty and pinched, and fastened on askew!
    And as for heaven's own buttercups and daisies,
    I am not good enough to sing their praises.


Nobody knew who wrote this verse.  Katy suspected Louisa, and Rose
suspected Katy.

The sixth slip was a very brief one.


  WORD.--When?
  QUESTION.--Are you willing?

     If I wasn't willing, I would tell you;
     But when--  Oh, dear, I _can't!_


"What an extraordinary rhyme!" began Clover, but Rose spied poor Mary
blushing and looking distressed, and hastily interposed,--

"It's very good, I'm sure.  I wish I'd written it.  Go on, Katy."

So Katy went on.


  WORD.--Unfeeling.
  QUESTION.--Which would you rather do, or go fishing?

     I don't feel up to fishing or such;
     And so, if you please, I'd rather do--which?


"I don't seem to see the word in that poem," said Rose.  "The
distinguished author will please write another."

"The distinguished author" made no reply to this suggestion; but,
after a minute or two, Esther Dearborn, "quite disinterestedly," as
she stated, remarked that, after all, to "don't feel" was pretty much
the same as unfeeling.  There was a little chorus of groans at this,
and Katy said she should certainly impose a fine if such dodges and
evasions were practised again.  This was the first meeting, however,
and she would be merciful.  After this speech she unfolded another
paper.  It ran,--


  WORD.--Flea.
  QUESTION.--What would you do, love?

     What would I do, love?  Well, I do not know.
     How can I tell till you are more explicit?
     If 'twere a rose you held me, I would smell it;
     If 'twere a mouth you held me, I would kiss it;
     If 'twere a frog, I'd scream than furies louder'
     If 'twere a flea, I'd fetch the Lyons Powder.


Only two slips remained.  One was Katy's own.  She knew it by the way
in which it was folded, and had almost instinctively avoided and left
it for the last.  Now, however, she took courage and opened it.  The
word was "Measles," and the question, "Who was the grandmother of
Invention?"  These were the lines:--


     The night was horribly dark,
     The measles broke out in the Ark:
     Little Japher, and Shem, and all the young Hams,
     Were screaming at once for potatoes and clams.
     And "What shall I do," said poor Mrs. Noah,
     "All alone by myself in this terrible shower:
     I know what I'll do: I'll step down in the hold,
     And wake up a lioness grim and old,
     And tie her close to the children's door,
     And giver her a ginger-cake to roar
     At the top of her voice for an hour or more;
     And I'll tell the children to cease their din,
     Or I'll let that grim old party in,
     To stop their squeazles and likewise their measles."--
     She practised this with the greatest success.
     She was every one's grandmother, I guess.


"That's much the best of all!" pronounced Alice Gibbons.  "I wonder
who wrote it?"

"Dear me! did you like it so much?" said Rose, simpering, and doing
her best to blush.

"Did you really write it?" said Mary; but Louisa laughed, and
exclaimed, "No use, Rosy! you can't take us in,--we know better!"

"Now for the last,"  said Katy.  "The word is 'Buckwheat,' and the
question, 'What is the origin of dreams?'"


     When the nuns are sweetly sleeping,
     Mrs. Nipson comes a-creeping,
     Creeping like a kitty-cat from door to door;
     And she listens to their slumbers,
     And most carefully she numbers,
     Counting for every nun a nunlet snore!
     And the nuns in sweet forgetfulness who lie,
     Dreaming of buckwheat cakes, parental love, and--pie;
     Moan softly, twist and turn, and see
     Black cats and fiends, who frolic in their glee;
     And nightmares prancing wildly do abound
     While Mrs. Nipson makes her nightly round.


"Who did write that?" exclaimed Rose.  Nobody answered.  The girls
looked at each other, and Rose scrutinized them all with sharp
glances.

"Well! I never saw such creatures for keeping their countenances,"
she said.  "Somebody is as bold as brass.  Didn't you see how I
blushed when my piece was read?"

"You monkey!" whispered Clover, who at that moment caught sight of the
handwriting on the paper.  Rose gave her a warning pinch, and the both
subsided into an unseen giggle.

"What!  The tea-bell!" cried everybody.  "We wanted to play another
game."

"It's a complete success!" whispered Rose, ecstatically, as they went
down the hall.  "The girls all say they never had such a good time in
their lives.  I'm so glad I didn't die with the measles when I was
little!"

"Well," demanded Lilly, "so the high and mighty Society has had a
meeting!  How did it go off?"

"_De_licious!" replied Rose, smacking her lips as at the recollection
of something very nice.  "But you mustn't ask any questions, Lilly.
Outsiders have nothing to do with the S. S. U. C.  Our proceedings
are strictly private."  She ran downstairs with Katy.

"I think you're real mean!" called Lilly after them.  Then she said
to herself, "They're just trying to tease.  I know it was stupid."


CHAPTER VII.  INJUSTICE.


Summer was always slow in getting to Hillsover, but at last she
arrived, and woods and hills suddenly put on new colors and became
beautiful.  The sober village shared in the glorifying process.
Vines budded on piazzas.  Wistaria purpled white-washed walls.  The
brown elm boughs which hung above the Common turned into trailing
garlands of fresh green.  Each walk revealed some change, or ended
in some delightful discovery, trilliums, dog-tooth violets, apple-
trees in blossom, or wild strawberries turning red.  The wood
flowers and mosses, even the birds and bird-songs, were new to our
Western girls.  Hillsover, in summer, was a great deal prettier than
Burnet, and Katy and Clover began to enjoy school very much indeed.

Toward the end of June, however, something took place which gave them
quite a different feeling,--something so disagreeable that I hate to
tell about it: but, as it really happened, I must.

It was on a Saturday morning.  They had just come upstairs, laughing,
and feeling very merry; for Clover had written a droll piece for the
S. S. U. C. meeting, and was telling Katy about it, when, just at the
head of the stairs, they met Rose Red.  She was evidently in trouble,
for she looked flushed and excited, and was under escort of Miss
Barnes, who marched before her with the air of a policeman.  As she
passed the girls, Rose opened her eyes very wide, and made a face
expressive of dismay.

"What's the matter?" whispered Clover.  Rose only made another grimace,
clawed with her fingers at Miss Barnes's back, and vanished down the
entry which led to Mrs. Florence's room.  They stood looking after her.

"Oh, dear!" sighed Clover, "I'm so afraid Rose is in a scrape."

They walked on toward Quaker Row.  In the wash-room was a knot of
girls, with their heads close together, whispering.  When they saw
Katy and Clover, they became silent, and gazed at them curiously.

"What has Rose Red gone to Mrs. Florence about?" asked Clover, too
anxious to notice the strange manner of the girls.  But at that moment
she caught sight of something which so amazed her that she forgot her
question.  It was nothing less than her own trunk, with "C. E. C." at
the end, being carried along the entry by two men.  Miss Jane followed
close behind, with her arms full of clothes and books.  Katy's well-
know scarlet pin-cushion topped the pile; in Miss Jane's hand were
Clover's comb and brush.

"Why, what does this mean?" gasped Clover, as she and Katy darted after
Miss Jane, who had turned into one of the rooms.  It was No. 1, at the
head of the row,--a room which no one had wanted, on account of its
smallness and lack of light.  The window looked out on a brick wall
not ten feet away; there was never a ray of sun to make it cheerful;
and Mrs. Nipson had converted it into a store-room for empty trunks.
The trunks were taken away now, and the bed was strewn with Katy's
and Clovers possessions.

"Miss Jane, what is the matter?  What are you moving our things for?"
exclaimed the girls in great excitement.

Miss Jane laid down her load of dress, and looked them sternly.

"You know the reason as well as I do," she said icily.

"No, I don't.  I haven't the least idea what you mean!" cried Katy.
"Oh, please be careful!" as Miss Jane flung a pair of boots on top of
Cousin Helen's vase, "you'll break it!  Dear, dear!  Clover, there's
your Cologne bottle tipped over, and all the Cologne spilt!  What does
it mean?  Is our room going to be painted, or what?"

"Your room," responded Miss Jane, "is for the future to be this,--No.
1.  Miss Benson and Miss James will take No. 6; and, it is to be hoped,
will conduct themselves more properly than you have done."

"Than we have done!" cried Katy, hardly believing her ears.

"Do not repeat my words in that rude way!" said Miss Jane, tartly.
"Yes, than you have done!"

"But what have we done?  There is some dreadful mistake!  Do tell us
what you mean, Miss Jane!  We have done nothing wrong, so far as I
know!"

"Indeed!" replied Miss Jane, sarcastically.  "Your ideas of right and
wrong must be peculiar!  I advise you to say no more on the subject,
but be thankful that Mrs. Florence keeps you in the school at all,
instead of dismissing you.  Nothing but the fact that your home is
at such a distance prevents her from doing so."

Katy felt as if all the blood in her body were turned to fire as she
heard these words, and met Miss Jane's eyes.  Her old, hasty temper,
which had seemed to die out during years of pain and patience, flashed
into sudden life, as a smouldering coal flashes, when you least expect
it, into flame.  She drew herself up to her full height, gave Miss Jane
a look of scorching indignation, and, with a rapid impulse, darted out
of the room and along the hall towards Mrs. Florence's door.  The girls
she met scattered from her path right and left.  She looked so tall
and moved so impetuously that she absolutely frightened them.

"Come in," said Mrs. Florence, in answer to her sharp, quivering knock.
Katy entered.  Rose was not there, and Mrs. Florence and Mrs. Nipson
sat together, side by side, in close consultation.

"Mrs. Florence," said Katy, too much excited to feel in the least
afraid, "will you please tell me why our things are being changed
to No. 1?"

Mrs. Florence flushed with anger.  She looked Katy all over for a
minute before she answered, then she said, in a sever voice,  "It
is done by my orders, and for good and sufficient reasons.  What
those reasons are, you know as well as I."

"No, I don't!" replied Katy, as angry as Mrs. Florence.  "I haven't
the least idea what they are, and I insist on knowing!"

"I cannot answer questions put in such an improper manner," said Mrs.
Florence, with a wave of the hand which meant that Katy was to go.
But Katy did not stir.

"I am sorry if my manner was improper," she said, trying to speak
quietly, "but I think I have a right to ask what this means.  If we
are accused of doing wrong, it is only fair to tell us what it is."

Mrs. Florence only waved her hand again; but Mrs. Nipson, who had been
twisting uneasily in her chair, said, "Excuse me, Mrs. Florence, but
perhaps it would better--would satisfy Miss Carr better--if you were
to be explicit."

"It does not seem to me that Miss Carr can be in need of any
explanation," replied Mrs. Florence.  "When a young lady writes
underhand notes to young gentlemen, and throws them from her window,
and they are discovered, she must naturally expect that persons of
correct ideas will be shocked and disgusted.  Your note to Mr.
Abernathy Searles, Miss Carr, was found by his mother while mending
his pocket, and was handed by her to me.  After this statement you
will hardly be surprised that I do not consider it best to permit
you to room longer on that side of the house.  I did not suppose I
had a girl in my school capable of such conduct."

For a moment Katy was too much stunned to speak.  She took hold of a
chair to steady herself, and her color changed so quickly from red to
pale and back again to red, that Mrs. Florence and Mrs. Nipson, who
sat watching her, might be pardoned for thinking that she looked
guilty.  As soon as she recovered her voice, she stammered out, "But
I didn't!  I never did!  I haven't written any note!  I wouldn't for
the world!  Oh, Mrs. Florence, please believe me!"

"I prefer to believe the evidence of my eyes," replied Mrs. Florence,
as she drew a paper from her pocket.  "Here is the note!  I suppose
you will hardly deny your own signature."

Katy seized the note.  It was written in a round, unformed hand, and
ran thus:--


"Dear Berry,--I saw you last night on the green.  I think you are
splendid.  All the nuns think so.  I look at you very often out of
my window.  If I let down a string, would you tie a cake to it, like
that kind which you threw to Mary Andrews last term?  Tie two cakes,
please; one for me and one for my room-mate.  The string will be at
the end of the Row.
            "Miss Carr."


In spite of her agitation, Katy could hardly keep back a smile as she
read this absurd production.  Mrs. Florence saw the smile, and her
tone was more severe than ever, as she said,--

"Give that back to me, if you please,  It will be my justification
with your father if he objects to your change of room."

"But, Mrs. Florence," cried Katy, "I never wrote that note.  It isn't
my handwriting; it isn't my--  Oh, surely you can't think so!  It's
too ridiculous."

"Go to your room at once," said Mrs. Florence, "and be thankful that
your punishment is such a mild one.  If your home were not so distant,
I should write to ask your father to remove you from the school;
instead of which, I merely put you on the other side of the entry,
out of reach of farther correspondence of this sort."

"But _I_ shall write him, and he will take us away immediately," cried
Katy, stung to the quick by this obstinate injustice.  "I will not
stay, neither shall Clover, where our word is disbelieved, and we are
treated like this.  Papa knows!  Papa will never doubt us a moment
when we tell him that this isn't true."

With these passionate words she left the room.  I do not think that
either Mrs. Florence or Mrs. Nipson felt very comfortable after she
was gone.

That was a dreadful afternoon.  The girls had no heart to arrange No.
1, or do any thing toward making it comfortable, but lay on the bed
in the midst of their belongings, crying, and receiving visits of
condolence from their friends.  The S. S. U. C. meeting was put off.
Katy was in no humor to act as president, or Clover to read her funny
poem.  Rose and Mary Silver sat by, kissing them at intervals, and
declaring that it was a shame, while the other members dropped in one
by one to re-echo the same sentiments.

"If it had been anybody else!" said Alice Gibbons; "but Katy of all
persons!  It is too much!"

"So I told Mrs. Florence," sobbed Rose Red.  "Oh, why was I born so
bad?  If I'd always been good, and a model to the rest of you, perhaps
she'd have believed me instead of scolding harder than ever."

The idea of Rose as a "model" made Clover smile in the midst of her
dolefulness.

"It's an outrageous thing," said Ellen Gray, "if Mrs. Florence only
knew it, you two have done more to keep the rest of us steady than
any girls in school."

"So they have," blubbered Rose, whose pretty face was quite swollen
with crying.  "I've been getting better and better every day since
they came."  She put her arms round Clover as she spoke, and sobbed
harder than ever.

It was in the midst of this excitement that Miss Jane saw fit to come
in and "inspect the room."  When she saw the crying girls and the
general confusion of every thing, she was very angry.

"I shall mark you both for disorder," she said.  "Get off the bed,
Miss Carr.  Hang your dresses up at once, Clover, and put your shoes
in the shoe-bag.  I never saw any thing so disgraceful.  All these
things must be in order when I return, fifteen minutes from now, or
I shall report you to Mrs. Florence."

"It's of no consequence what you do.  We are not going to stay,"
muttered Katy.  But soon she was ashamed of having said this.  Her
anger was melting, and grief taking its place.  "Oh, papa! papa!
Elsie! Elsie!" she whispered to herself, as she slowly hung up the
dresses; and, unseen by the girls, she hid her face in the folds of
Clover's gray alpaca, and shed some hot tears.  Till then she had
been too angry to cry.

This softer mood followed her all through the evening.  Clover and
Rose sat by, talking over the affair and keeping their wrath warm
with discussion.  Katy said hardly a word.  She felt too weary and
depressed to speak.

"Who could have written the note?" asked Clover again and again.  It
was impossible to guess.  It seemed absurd to suspect any of the older
girls; but then, as Rose suggested, the absurdity as well as the
signature might have been imitated to avoid detection.

"I know one thing" remarked Rose, "and that is that I should like to
kill Mrs. Searles.  Horrid old thing!--peeping and prying into pockets.
She has no business to be alive at all."

Rose's ferocious speeches always sounded specially comical when taken
in connection with her pink cheeks and her dimples.

"Shall you write to papa to-night, Katy?" asked Clover.

Katy shook her head.  She was too heavy-hearted to talk.  Big tears
rolled down unseen and fell upon the pillow.  After Rose was gone,
and the candle out, she cried herself to sleep.

Waking early in the dim dawn, she lay and thought it over, Clover
slumbering soundly beside her meanwhile.  "Morning brings counsel,"
says the old proverb.  In this case it seemed true.  Katy, to her
surprise, found a train of fresh thoughts filling her mind, which were
not there when she fell asleep.  She recalled her passionate words
and feelings of the day before.  Now that the mood had passed, they
seemed to her worse than the injury which provoked them.  Quick-
tempered and generous people often experience this.  It was easier
for Katy to forgive Mrs. Florence, because it was needful also that
she should forgive herself.

"I said I would write to papa to take us away," she thought  "Why
did I say that?  What good would it do?  It wouldn't make anybody
disbelieve this hateful story.  They'd only think I wanted to get
away because I was found out.  And papa would be so worried and
disappointed.  It has cost him a great deal to get us ready and send
us here, and he wants us to stay a year.  If we went home now, all
the money would be wasted.  And yet how horrid it is going to be
after this!  I don't feel as if I could ever bear to see Mrs.
Florence again.  I must write.

"But then," her thoughts flowed on, "home wouldn't seem like home if
we went away from school in disgrace, and knew that everybody here
was believing such things.  Suppose, instead, I were to write to
papa to come on and make things straight.  He'd find out the truth,
and force Mrs. Florence to see it.  It would be very expensive,
though; and I know he oughtn't to leave home again so soon. Oh,
dear!  How hard it is to know what to do!"

"What would Cousin Helen say?" she continued, going in imagination
to the sofa-side of the dear friend who was to her like a second
conscience.  She shut her eyes and invented a long talk,--her
questions, Cousin Helen's replies.  But, as everybody knows, it is
impossible to play croquet by yourself and be strictly impartial to
all the four balls.  Katy found that she was making Cousin Helen
play (that is, answer) as she herself wished, and not, as something
whispered, she would answer were she really there.

"It is just the 'Little Scholar' over again," she said, half aloud,
"I can't see.  I don't know how to act."  She remembered the dream
she once had, of a great beautiful Face and a helping hand.  "And
it was real," she murmured, "and just as real, and just as near,
now as then."

The result of this long meditation was that, when Clover woke up,
she found Katy leaning over, ready to kiss her for good morning,
and looking bright and determined.

"Clovy," she said, "I've been thinking; and I'm not going to write
to papa about this affair at all!"

"Aren't you?  Why not?" asked Clover, puzzled.

"Because it would worry him, and be of no use.  He would come on and
take us right away, I'm sure; but Mrs. Florence and all the teachers,
and a great many of the girls, would always believe that this horrid,
ridiculous story is true.  I can't bear to have them.  Let's stay,
instead, and convince them that it isn't.  I think we can."

"I would a great deal rather go home," said Clover.  "It won't ever
be nice here again.  We shall have this dark room, and Miss Jane will
be  more unkind than ever, and the girls will think you wrote that
note, and Lilly Page will say hateful things!"  She buttoned her
boots with a vindictive air.

"Never mind," said Katy, trying to feel brave.  "I don't suppose it
will be pleasant, but I'm pretty sure it's right.  And Rosy and all
the girls we really care for know how it is."

"I can't bear it," sighed Clover, with tears in her eyes.  "It is so
cruel that they should say such things about you."

"I mean that they shall say something quite different before we go
away," replied Katy, stroking her hair.  "Cousin Helen would tell
us to stay, I'm pretty sure.  I was thinking about her just now,
and I seemed to hear her voice in the air, saying over and over,
'Live it down!  Live it down!  Live it down!'"  She half sang this,
and took two or three dancing steps across the room.

"What a girl you are!" said Clover, consoled by seeing Katy look
so bright.

Mrs. Florence was surprised that morning, as she sat in her room, by
the appearance of Katy.  She looked pale, but perfectly quiet and
gentle.

"Mrs. Florence," she said, "I've come to say that I shall not write
to my father to take us away, as I told you I should."

Mrs. Florence bowed stiffly, by way of answer.

"Not," went on Katy, with a little flash in her eyes, "that he would
hesitate, or doubt my word one moment, if I did.  But he wished us
to stay here a year, and I don't want to disappoint him.  I'd rather
stay.  And, Mrs. Florence, I'm sorry I was angry, and felt that you
were unjust."

"And to-day you own that I was not?"

"Oh, no!" replied Katy, "I can't do that.  You _were_ unjust, because
neither Clover nor I wrote that note.  We wouldn't do such a horrid
thing for the world, and I hope some day you will believe us.  But I
oughtn't to have spoken so."

Katy's face and voice were so truthful as she said this, that Mrs.
Florence was almost shaken in her opinion.

"We will say no more about the matter," she remarked, in a kinder
tone.  "If your conduct is perfectly correct in future, it will go
far to make this forgotten."

Few things are more aggravating than to be forgiven when one has done
no wrong.  Katy felt this as she walked away from Mrs. Florence's
room.  But she would not let herself grow angry again.  "Live it
down!" she whispered, as she went into the school-room.

She and Clover had a good deal to endure for the next two or three
weeks.  They missed their old room with its sunny window and pleasant
outlook.  They missed Rose, who, down at the far end of Quaker Row,
could not drop in half so often as had been her custom.  HENRY H.
LOOMIS, a member of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary in the
city of New York, says, in a recent letter--
"The Rev. Mr. Hart, recently my pastor, in Otsego county, New York, and
who has spent some time at the south as a teacher, stated to me that
in the neighborhood in which he resided a slave was set to watch
a turnip patch near an academy, in order to keep off the boys who
occasionally trespassed on it.

Attempting to repeat the trespass in presence of the slave, they were
told that his 'master forbad it.' At this the boys were enraged, and
hurled brickbats at the slave until his face and other parts were
much injured and wounded--but nothing was said or done about it
as an injury to the slave.

"He also said, that a slave from the same neighborhood was found out
in the woods, with his arms and legs burned almost to a cinder, up as
far as the elbow and knee joints; and there appeared to be but little
more said or thought about it than if he had been a brute. It was
supposed that his master was the cause of it--making him an example of
punishment to the rest of the gang!"
The following is an extract of a letter dated March 5, 1839, from
Mr.
JOHN CLARKE, a highly respected citizen of Scriba, Oswego county,
New York, and a member of the Presbyterian church.

The 'Mrs. Turner' spoken of in Mr. C.'s letter, is the wife of Hon.
Fielding S. Turner, who in 1803 resided at Lexington, Kentucky, and
was the attorney for the Commonwealth.

                                    Soon after that, he removed to New Orleans, and was for many years
Judge of the Criminal Court of that city.

Having amassed an immense fortune, he returned to Lexington a few
years since, and still resides there.

Mr. C. the writer, spent the winter of 1836-7 in Lexington. He says,

"Yours of the 27th ult. is received, and I hasten to state the facts
which came to my knowledge while in Lexington, respecting the
occurrences about which you inquire.

Mrs. Turner was originally a Boston lady. She is from 35 to 40
years of age, and the wife of Judge Turner, formerly of New Orleans,
and worth a large fortune in slaves and plantations. I repeatedly
heard, while in Lexington, Kentucky, during the winter of 1836-7,
of the wanton cruelty practised by this woman upon her slaves, and
that she had caused several to be _whipped to death_; but I never
heard that she was suspected of being deranged, otherwise than by
the indulgence of an ungoverned temper, until I heard that her
husband was attempting to incarcerate her in the Lunatic Asylum.

The citizens of Lexington, believing the charge to be a false one,
rose and prevented the accomplishment for a time, until, lulled
by the fair promises of his friends, they left his domicil, and in
the dead of night she was taken by force, and conveyed to the asylum.

This proceeding being judged illegal by her friends, a suit was instituted
to liberate her. I heard the testimony on the trial, which related
only to proceedings had in order to getting her admitted into the
asylum; and no facts came out relative to her treatment of her
slaves, other than of a general character.

"Some days after the above trial, (which by the way did not come to
an ultimate decision, as I believe) I was present in my brother's
office, when Judge Turner, in a long conversation with my brother
on the subject of his trials with his wife, said, '_That woman has
been the immediate cause of the death of_ six _of my servants, by
her severities_!

"I was repeatedly told, while I was there, that she drove a colored boy
from the second story window, a distance of 15 to 18 feet, on to
the pavement, which made him a cripple for a time.

"I heard the trial of a man for the murder of his slave, by whipping,
where the evidence was to my mind perfectly conclusive of his guilt;
but the jury were two of them for convicting him of manslaughter,
and the rest for acquitting him; and as they could not agree were
discharged--and on a subsequent trial, as I learned by the papers,
the culprit was acquitted."

Rev. THOMAS SAVAGE, of Bedford, New Hampshire, in a recent letter,
states the following fact:

"The following circumstance was related to me last summer, by my
brother, now residing as a physician, at Rodney, Mississippi; and
who, though a pro-slavery man, spoke of it in terms of reprobation,
as an act of capricious, wanton cruelty.

The planter who was the actor in it I myself knew; and the whole transaction
is so characteristic of the man, that, independent of the strong
authority I have, I should entertain but little doubt of its
authenticity.

He is a wealthy planter, residing near Natchez, eccentric, capricious
and intemperate.

On one occasion he invited a number of guests to an elegant entertainment,
prepared in the true style of southern luxury. From some cause, none
of the guests appeared. In a moody humor, and under the influence,
probably, of mortified pride, he ordered the overseer to call the
people (a term by which the field hands are generally designated,)
on to the piazza.

The order was obeyed, and the people came. 'Now,' said he, 'have them
seated at the table.

Accordingly they were seated at the well-furnished, glittering table,
while he and his overseer waited on them, and helped them to the
various dainties of the feast.

'Now,' said he, after awhile, raising his voice, 'take these rascals, and
give them twenty lashes a piece. I'll show them how to eat at my table.'
The overseer, in relating it, said he had to comply, though reluctantly,
with this brutal command."

Mr. HENRY P. THOMPSON, a native and still a resident of Nicholasville,
Kentucky, made the following statement at a public meeting in Lane
Seminary, Ohio, in 1833. He was at that time a slaveholder.

"_Cruelties_, said he, _are so common_, I hardly know what to relate.
But one fact occurs to me just at this time, that happened in the
village where I live. The circumstances are these. A colored man, a
slave, ran away.

As he was crossing Kentucky river, a white man, who suspected
him, attempted to stop him. The negro resisted. The white man procured
help, and finally succeeded in securing him. He then wreaked his vengeance
on him for resisting--flogging him till he was not able to walk. They
then put him on a horse, and came on with him ten miles to
Nicholasville.

When they entered the village, it was noticed that he sat upon his
horse like a drunken man.

It was a very hot day; and whilst they were taking some refreshment,
the negro sat down upon the ground, under the shade.

When they ordered him to go, he made several efforts before he could
get up; and when he attempted to mount the horse, his strength was
entirely insufficient.

One of the men struck him, and with an oath ordered him to get on the
horse without any more fuss. The negro staggered back a few steps,
fell down, and died. I do not know that any notice was ever taken of
it."

Rev. COLEMAN S. HODGES, a native and still a resident of Western
Virginia, gave the following testimony at the same meeting.

"I have frequently seen the mistress of a family in Virginia, with whom
I was well acquainted, beat the woman who performed the kitchen
work, with a stick two feet and a half long, and nearly as thick
as my wrist; striking her over the head, and across the small of
the back, as she was bent over at her work, with as much spite as
you would a snake, and for what I should consider no offence at all.

There lived in this same family a young man, a slave, who was in the
habit of running away.

He returned one time after a week's absence. The master took him into
the barn, stripped him entirely naked, tied him up by his hands so
high that he could not reach the floor, tied his feet together, and put
a small rail between his legs, so that he could not avoid the blows,
and commenced whipping him. He told me that he gave him five hundred
lashes. At any rate, he was covered with wounds from head to foot.
Not a place as big as my hand but what was cut. Such things as these
are perfectly common all over Virginia; at least so far as I am
acquainted. Generally, planters avoid punishing their slaves before
strangers."

Mr. CALVIN H. TATE, of Missouri, whose father and brothers were
slaveholders, related the following at the same meeting.

The plantation on which it occurred, was in the immediate neighborhood
of his father's.

"A young woman, who was generally very badly treated, after receiving
a more severe whipping than usual, ran away. In a few days she came
back, and was sent into the field to work. At this time the
garment next her skin was stiff like a scab, from the running of
the sores made by the whipping. Towards night, she told her master
that she was sick, and wished to go to the house. She went, and as
soon as she reached it, laid down on the floor exhausted. The
mistress asked her what the matter was? She made no reply. She asked
again; but received no answer. 'I'll see,' said she, 'if I can't
make you speak.'

So taking the tongs, she heated them red hot, and put them upon the
bottoms of her feet; then upon her legs and body; and, finally, in a
rage, took hold of her throat. This had the desired effect. The
poor girl faintly whispered, 'Oh, misse, don't--I am most gone;'
and expired."

Extract of a letter from Rev. C.S. RENSHAW, pastor of the Congregational
Church, Quincy, Illinois.

"Judge Menzies of Boone county, Kentucky, an elder in the
Presbyterian Church, and a slaveholder, told me that _he knew_ some
overseers in the tobacco growing region of Virginia, who, to make
their slaves careful in picking the tobacco, that is taking the
worms off; (you know what a loathsome thing the tobacco worm is)
would make them _eat_ some of the worms, and others who made them
eat every worm they missed in picking."

"Mrs. NANCY JUDD, a member of the Non-Conformist Church in Osnaburg,
Stark county, Ohio, and formerly a resident of Kentucky, testifies
that she knew a slaveholder, 
"Mr.

Brubecker, who had a number of slaves, among whom was one who would
frequently avoid labor by hiding himself; for which he would get
severe floggings without the desired effect, and that at last Mr.
B.

would tie large cats on his naked body and whip them to make them
tear his back, in order to break him of his habit of hiding."

Rev. HORACE MOULTON, a minister of the Methodist Episcopal Church
in Marlborough, Massachusetts, says:
"Some, when other modes of punishment will not subdue them, _cat-haul_
them; that is, take a cat by the nape of the neck and tail, or by
its hind legs, and drag the claws across the back until satisfied;
this kind of punishment, as I have understood, poisons the flesh
much worse than the whip, and is more dreaded by the slave."

Rev. ABEL BROWN, Jr. late pastor of the first Baptist Church, Beaver,
Pennsylvania, in a communication to Rev. C.P. Grosvenor, Editor of
the Christian Reflector, says:

"I almost daily see the poor heart-broken slave making his way to
a land of freedom.

A short time since, I saw a noble, pious, distressed, spirit-crushed
slave, a member of the Baptist church, escaping from a (professed
Christian) bloodhound, to a land where he could enjoy that of which
he had been robbed during forty years.

His prayers would have made us all feel.

I saw a Baptist sister of about the same age, her children had been
torn from her, her head was covered with fresh wounds, while her
upper lip had scarcely ceased to bleed, in consequence of a blow
with the poker, which knocked out her teeth; she too, was going to
a land of freedom.

Only a very few days since, I saw a girl of about eighteen, with a child
as white as myself, aged ten months; a Christian master was raising
her child (as well his own perhaps) to sell to a southern market.

She had heard of the intention, and at midnight took her only treasure
and traveled twenty miles on foot through a land of strangers--she
found friends."

Rev. HENRY T. HOPKINS, pastor of the Primitive Methodist Church in
New York City, who resided in Virginia from 1821 to 1826, relates
the following fact:

"An old colored man, the slave of Mr. Emerson; of Portsmouth, Virginia,
being under deep conviction for sin, went into the back part of his
master's garden to pour out his soul in prayer to God.

For this offence he was whipped thirty-nine lashes."

Extract of a letter from DOCTOR F. JULIUS LEMOYNE, of Washington,
Pennsylvania, dated Jan. 9, 1839.

"Lest you should not have seen the statement to which I am going to
allude, I subjoin a brief outline of the facts of a transaction which
occurred in Western Virginia, adjacent to this county, a number
of years ago--a full account of which was published in the "Witness"
about two years since by Dr.

Mitchell, who now resides in Indiana county, Pennsylvania. A slave
boy ran away in cold weather, and during his concealment had his
legs frozen; he returned, or was retaken.
After some time the flesh decayed and _sloughed_--of course was
offensive--he was carried out to a field and left there without
bed, or shelter, _deserted to die_.

His only companions were the house dogs which he called to him.

After several days and nights spent in suffering and exposure, he
was visited by Drs.

McKitchen and Mitchell in the field, of their own accord, having
heard by report of his lamentable condition; they remonstrated
with the master; brought the boy to the house, amputated both legs,
and he finally recovered."

Hon. JAMES K. PAULDING, the Secretary of the Navy of the U. States,
in his "Letters from the South" published in 1817, relates the
following:

"At one of the taverns along the road we were set down in the same
room with an elderly man and a youth who seemed to be well acquainted
with him, for they conversed familiarly and with true republican
independence--for they did not mind who heard them. From the tenor of
his conversation I was induced to look particularly at the elder.

He was telling the youth something like the following detested tale.
He was going, it seems, to Richmond, to inquire about a draft for seven
thousand dollars, which he had sent by mail, but which, not having
been acknowledged by his correspondent, he was afraid had been
stolen, and the money received by the thief. 'I should not like
to lose it,' said he, 'for I worked hard for it, and sold many a
poor d----l of a black to Carolina and Georgia, to scrape it
together.'

He then went on to tell many a perfidious tale. All along the road it
seems he made it his business to inquire where lived a man who
might be tempted to become a party in this accursed traffic, and
when he had got some half dozen of these poor creatures, _he tied
their hands behind their backs_, and drove them three or four hundred
miles or more, bare-headed and half naked through the burning
southern sun.

Fearful that _even southern humanity_ would revolt at such an
exhibition of human misery and human barbarity, he gave out that they
were runaway slaves he was carrying home to their masters. On one
occasion a poor black woman exposed this fallacy, and told the
story of her being _kidnapped_, and when he got her into a wood out
of hearing, he beat her, to use his own expression, 'till her back
was white.'

It seems he married all the men and women he bought, himself, because
they would sell better for being man and wife! But, said the youth,
were you not afraid, in traveling through the wild country and
sleeping in lone houses, these slaves would rise and kill you?

'To be sure I was,' said the other, 'but I always fastened my door,
put a chair on a table before it, so that it might wake me in
falling, and slept with a loaded pistol in each hand.

It was a bad life, and I left it off as soon as I could live without
it; for many is the time I have separated wives from husbands, and
husbands from wives, and parents from children, but then I made
them amends by marrying them again as soon as I had a chance, that
is to say, I made them call each other man and wife, and sleep
together, which is quite enough for negroes.

I made one bad purchase though,' continued he. 'I bought a young mulatto
girl, a lively creature, a great bargain.

                   She had been the favorite of her master,
                    who had lately married. The
                    difficulty was to get her to
                    go, for the poor creature loved
                    her master. However, I
                    swore most bitterly I was only going to take to take her to her
mother's at ---- and she went with me, though she seemed to doubt
me very much.

But when she discovered, at last, that we were out of the state,
I thought she would go mad, and in fact, the next night she drowned
herself in the river close by.

I lost a good five hundred dollars by this foolish trick.'" Vol.
I. p. 121.

Mr. ---- SPILLMAN, a native, and till recently, a resident of
Virginia, now a member of the Presbyterian church in Delhi, Hamilton
co., Ohio, has furnished the two following facts, of which he had
personal knowledge.

"David Stallard, of Shenandoah co., Virginia, had a slave, who run
away; he was taken up and lodged in Woodstock jail.

Stallard went with another man and took him out of the jail--tied
him to their horses--and started for home.

The day was excessively hot, and they rode so fast, dragging the
man by the rope behind them, that he became perfectly
exhausted--fainted--dropped down, and died.

"Henry Jones, of Culpepper co., Virginia, owned a slave, who ran
away.
Jones caught him, tied him up, and for two days, at intervals,
continued to flog him, and rub salt into his mangled flesh, until
his back was literally cut up.

The slave sunk under the torture; and for some days it was supposed
he must die. He, however, slowly recovered; though it was some
weeks before he could walk."

Mr. NATHAN COLE, of St.

Louis, Missouri, in a letter to Mr. Arthur Tappan, of New-York, dated
July 2, 1834, says,--
"You will find inclosed an account of the proceedings of an inquest
lately held in this city upon the body of a slave, the details of
which, if published, not one in ten could be induced to believe
true.[11] It appears that the master or mistress, or both, suspected
the unfortunate wretch of hiding a bunch of keys which were missing;
and to extort some explanation, which, it is more than probable,
the slave was as unable to do as her mistress, or any other
person, her master, Major Harney, an officer of our army, had whipped
her for three successive days, and it is supposed by some, that she
was kept tied during the time, until her flesh was so lacerated and
torn that it was impossible for the jury to say whether it had
been done with a whip or hot iron; some think both--but she was
tortured to death.

It appears also that the husband of the said slave had become suspected
of telling some neighbor of what was going on, for which Major Harney
commenced torturing him, until the man broke from him, and ran into
the Mississippi and drowned himself.
Don't you pity the Symposiums?"

But next day a big package of peppermints appeared in the Symposium
basket, so neither Society could boast advantage over the other.  They
were pretty nearly equal, too, in the quantity of wreath made,--the
Craters measuring nine hundred yards, and the Symposiums nine hundred
and two.  As for the Halls, which they were taken over to see the
evening before Commencement, it was impossible to say which was most
beautifully trimmed.  Each faction preferred its own, and President
Searles said that both did the young ladies credit.

They all sat in the gallery of the church on Commencement Day, and
heard the speeches.  It was very hot, and the speeches were not exactly
interesting, being on such subjects as "The Influence of a Republic on
Men of Letters," and "The Abstract Law of Justice, as applied to Human
Affairs;" but the music, and the crowd, and the spectacle of six hundred
ladies all fanning themselves at once, were entertaining, and the girls
would not have missed them for the world.  Later in the day another
diversion was afforded them by the throngs of pink and blue ladies
and white-gloved gentlemen who passed the house, on their way to the
President's Levee; but they were not allowed to enjoy this amusement
long, for Miss Jane, suspecting what was going on, went from room to
room, and ordered everybody summarily off to bed.

With the close of Commencement Day, a deep sleep seemed to settle
over Hillsover.  Most of the Professors' families went off to enjoy
themselves at the mountains or the sea-side, leaving their houses shut
up.  This gave the village a drowsy and deserted air.  There were no
boys playing balls on the Common, or swinging on the College fence;
no look of life in the streets.  The weather continued warm, the
routine of study and excercise grew dull, and teachers and scholars
alike were glad when the middle of September arrived, and with it
the opening of the autumn vacation.


CHAPTER IX.  THE AUTUMN VACATION.


The last day of the term was one of confusion.  Every part of the
house was given over to trunks and packing.  Mrs. Nipson sat at her
desk making out bills, and listening to requests about rooms and
room-mates.  Miss Jane counted books and atlases, taking note of
each ink-spot and dog-eared page.  The girls ran about, searching
for missing articles, deciding what to take home and what to leave,
engaging each other for the winter walks.  All rules were laid aside.
The sober Nunnery seemed turned into a hive of buzzing bees.  Bella
slid twice down the baluster of the front stairs without being
reproved, and Rose Red threw her arm round Katy's waist and waltzed
the whole length of Quaker Row.

"I'm so happy that I should like to scream!" she announced, as their
last whirl brought them up against the wall.  "Isn't vacation just
lovely?  Katy, you don't look half glad."

"We're not going home, you know," replied Katy, in rather a doleful
tone.  She and Clover were not so enraptured at the coming of vacation
as the rest of the girls.  Spending a month with Mrs. Page and Lilly
was by no means the same thing as spending it with papa and the
children.

Next morning, however, when the big stage drove up, and the girls
crowded in; when Mrs. Nipson stood in the door-way, blandly waving
farewell, and the maids flourished their dusters out of the upper
windows, they found themselves sharing the general excitement, and
joining heartily in the cheer which arose as the stage moved away.
The girls felt so happy and good-natured that some of them even
kissed their hands to Miss Jane.

Such a wild company is not often met with on a railroad train.  They
all went together as far as the Junction: and Mr. Gray, Ellen's father,
who had been put in charge of the party by Mrs. Nipson, had his hands
full to keep them in any sort of order.  He was a timid old gentleman,
and, as Rose suggested, his expression resembled that of a sedate hen
who suddenly finds herself responsible for the conduct of a brood of
ducklings.

"My dear, my dear!" he feebly remonstrated, "would you buy any more
candy?  Do you not think so many pea-nuts may be bad for you?"

"Oh, no, sir!" replied Rose, "they never hurt me a bit.  I can eat
thousands!"  Then, as a stout lady entered the car, and made a motion
toward the vacant seat beside her, she rolled her eyes wildly, and
said, "Excuse me, but perhaps I had better take the end seat so as
to get out easily in case I have a fit."

"Fits!" cried the stout lady, and walked away with the utmost dispatch.
Rose gave a wicked chuckle, the girls tittered, and Mr. Gray visibly
trembled.

"Is she really afflicted in this way?" he whispered.

"Oh, no, papa! it's only Rose's nonsense!" apologized Ellen, who was
laughing as hard as the rest.  But Mr. Gray did not feel comfortable,
and he was very glad when they reached the Junction, and half of his
troublesome charge departed on the branch road.

At six o'clock they arrived in Springfield.  Half a dozen papas were
waiting for their daughters, trains stood ready, there was a clamor of
good-bys.  Mr. Page was absorbed by Lilly, who kissed him incessantly,
and chattered so fast that he had no eyes for any one else.  Louisa
was borne away by an uncle, with whom she was to pass the night, and
Katy and Clover found themselves left alone.  They did not like to
interrupt Lilly, so they retreated to a bench, and sat down feeling
rather left-out and home-sick; and, though they did not say so, I am
sure that each was thinking about papa.

It was only for a moment.  Mr. Page spied them, and came up with such
a kind greeting that the forlorn feeling fled at once.  They were to
pass the night at the Massasoit, it seemed; and he collected their
bags, and led the way across the street to the hotel, where rooms
were already engaged for them.

"Now for waffles," whispered Lilly, as they went upstairs; and when,
after a few minutes of washing and brushing, they came down again into
the dining-room, she called for so many things, and announced herself
"starved" in such a tragical tone, that two amused waiters at once
flew to the rescue, and devoted themselves to supplying her wants.
Waffle after waffle--each hotter and crisper than the last--did those
long-suffering men produce, till even Lilly's appetite gave out, and
she was forced to own that she could not swallow another morsel.
This climax reached, they went into the parlor, and the girls sat
down in the window to watch the people in the street, which, after
quiet Hillsover, looked as brilliant and crowded as Broadway.

There were not many persons in the parlor.  A grave-looking couple sat
at a table at some distance, and a pretty little boy in a velvet jacket
was playing around the room.  He seemed about five years old; and Katy,
who was fond of children, put out her hand as he went by, caught him,
and lifted him into her lap.  He did not seem shy, but looked her in
the face composedly, like a grown person.

"What is your name, dear?" she asked.

"Daniel D'Aubigny Sparks," answered the little boy,  His voice was prim
and distinct.

"Do you live at this hotel?"

"Yes, ma'am.  I reside here with my father and mother."

"And what do you do all day?  Are there some other little boys for you
to play with?"

"I do not wish to play with any little boys," replied Daniel D'Aubigny,
in a dignified tone: "I prefer to be with my parents.  To-day we have
taken a walk.  We went to see a beautiful conservatory outside the city.
There is a Victoria Regia there.  I had often heard of this wonderful
lily, and in the last number of the London 'Musee' there is a picture
of it, represented with a small negro child standing upon one of its
leaves.  My father said that he did not think this possible, but when
we saw the plant we perceived that the print was not an exaggeration.
Such is the size of the leaf, that a small negro child might very
easily supported upon it."

"Oh, my!" cried Katy, feeling as if she had accidentally picked up an
elderly gentleman or a college professor.  "Pray, how old are you?"

"Nearly nine, ma'am," replied the little fellow with a bow.

Katy, too much appalled for farther speech, let him slide off her lap.
But Mr. Page, who was much diverted, continued the conversation; and
Daniel, mounting a chair, crossed his short legs, and discoursed with
all the gravity of an old man.  The talk was principally about himself,
--his tastes, his adventures, his ideas about art and science.  Now and
then he alluded to his papa and mamma, and once to his grandfather.

"My maternal grandfather," he said, "was a remarkable man.  In his
youth he spent a great deal of time in France.  He was there at the
time of the French Revolution, and, as it happened, was present at
the execution of the unfortunate Queen Marie Antoinette.  This of
course was not intentional.  It chanced thus.  My grandfather was
in a barber's shop, having his hair cut.  He saw a great crowd going
by, and went out to ask what was the cause.  The crowd was so immense
that he could not extricate himself; he was carried along against
his will, and not only so, but was forced to the front and compelled
to witness every part of the dreadful scene.  He has often told my
mother that, after the execution, the executioner held up the queen's
head to the people: the eyes were open, and there was in them an
expression, not of pain, not of fear, but of great astonishment
and surprise."

This anecdote carried "great astonishment and surprise" into the
company who listened to it.  Mr. Page gave a sort of chuckle, and
saying, "By George!" got up and left the room.  The girls put their
heads out of the window that they might laugh unseen.  Daniel gazed
at their shaking shoulders with an air of wonder, while the grave
couple at the end of the room, who for some moments had been looking
disturbed, drew near and informed the youthful prodigy that it was
time for him to go to bed.

"Good-night, young ladies," said the small condescending voice.  Katy
alone had "presence of countenance" enough to return this salutation.
It was a relief to find that Daniel went to bed at all.

Next morning at breakfast they saw him seated between his parents,
eating bread and milk.  He bowed to them over the edge of the bowl.

"Dreadful little prig!  They should bottle him in spirits of wine as
a specimen.  It's the only thing he'll ever be fit for," remarked Mr.
Page, who rarely said so sharp a thing about anybody.

Louisa joined them at the station.  She was to travel under Mr. Page's
care, and Katy was much annoyed at Lilly's manner with her.  It grew
colder and less polite with every mile.  By the time they reached
Ashburn it was absolutely rude.

"Come and see me very soon, girls," said Louisa, as they parted in
the station.  "I long to have you know mother and little Daisy.  Oh,
there's papa!" and she rushed up to a tall, pleasant-looking man,
who kissed her fondly, shook hands with Mr. Page, and touched his
hat to Lilly, who scarcely bowed in return.

"Boarding-school is so horrid," she remarked, "you get all mixed up
with people you don't want to know,--people not in society at all."

"How can you talk such nonsense?" said her father: "the Agnews are
thoroughly respectable, and Mr. Agnew is one of the cleverest men I
know."

Katy was pleased when Mr. Page said this, but Lilly shrugged her
shoulders and looked cross.

"Papa is so democratic," she whispered to Clover, "he don't care a
bit who people are, so long as they are respectable and clever."

"Well, why should he?" replied Clover.  Lilly was more disgusted than
ever.

Ashburn was a large and prosperous town.  It was built on the slopes of
a picturesque hill, and shaded with fine elms.  As they drove through
the streets, Katy and Clover caught glimpses of conservatories and
shrubberies and beautiful houses with bay-windows and piazzas.

"That's ours," said Lilly, as the carriage turned in at a gate.  It
stopped, and Mr. Page jumped out.

"Here we are," he said.  "Gently, Lilly, you'll hurt yourself.  Well,
my dears, we're very glad to see you in our home at last."

This was kind and comfortable, and the girls were glad of it, for the
size and splendor of the house quite dazzled and made them shy.  They
had never seen any thing like it before.  The hall had a marble floor,
and busts and statues.  Large rooms opened on either side; and Mrs.
Page, who came forward to receive them, wore a heavy silk with a train
and laces, and looked altogether as if she were dressed for a party.

"This is the drawing-room," said Lilly, delighted to see the girls
looking so impressed.  "Isn't it splendid?"  And she led the way
into a stiff, chilly, magnificent apartment, where all the blinds
were closed, and all the shades pulled down, and all the furniture
shrouded in linen covers.  Even the picture frames and mirrors were
sewed up in muslin to keep off flies; and the bronzes and alabaster
ornaments on the chimney-piece and _etagere_ gleamed through the dim
light in a ghostly way.  Katy thought it very dismal.  She couldn't
imagine anybody sitting down there to read or sew, or do any thing
pleasant, and probably it was not intended that any one should do so;
for Mrs. Page soon showed them out, and led the way into a smaller
room at the back of the hall.

"Well, Katy," she said, "how do you like Hillsover?"

"Very well, ma'am," replied Katy; but she did not speak enthusiastically.

"Ah!" said Mrs. Page shaking her head, "it takes time to shake off
home habits, and to learn to get along with young people after living
with older ones and catching their ways.  You'll like it better as
you go on."

Katy privately doubted whether this was true, but she did not say so.
Pretty soon Lilly offered to show them upstairs to their room.  She
took them first into three large and elegant chambers, which she
explained were kept for grand company, and then into a much smaller
one in a wing.

"Mother always puts my friends in here," she remarked: "she says it's
plenty good enough for school-girls to thrash about in!"

"What does she mean?" cried Clover, indignantly, as Lilly closed the
door.  "We don't thrash!"

"I can't imagine," answered Katy, who was vexed too.  But pretty soon
she began to laugh.

"People are so funny!" she said.  "Never mind, Clovy, this room is
good enough, I'm sure."

"Must we unpack, or will it do to go down in our alpacas?" asked Clover.

"I don't know," replied Katy, in a doubtful tone.  "Perhaps we had
better change our gowns.  Cousin Olivia always dresses so much!  Here's
your blue muslin right on top of the trunk.  You might put on that, and
I'll wear my purple."

The girls were glad that they had done this, for it was evidently
expected, and Lilly had dressed her hair and donned a fresh white
pique.  Mrs. Page examined their dresses, and said that Clover's was
a lovely blue, but that ruffles were quite gone out, and every thing
must be made with basques.  She supposed they needed quantities of
things, and she had already engaged a dressmaker to work for them.

"Thank you," said Katy, "but I don't think we need any thing.  We had
our winter dresses made before we left home."

"Winter dresses! last spring!  My dear, what were you thinking of?
They must be completely out of fashion."

"You can't think how little Hillsover people know about fashions,"
replied Katy, laughing.

"But, my dear, for your own sake!" exclaimed Mrs. Page, distressed by
these lax remarks.  "I'll look over your things to-morrow and see what
you need."

Katy did not dare to say "No," but she felt rebellious.  When they were
half through tea, the door opened, and a boy came in.

"You are late, Clarence," said Mr. Page, while Mrs. Page groaned and
observed, "Clarence makes a point of being late.  He really deserves
to be made to go without his supper.  Shut the door, Clarence.  O
mercy! don't bang it in that way.  I wish you would learn to shut a
door properly.  Here are your cousins, Katy and Clover Carr.  Now
let me see if you can shake hands with them like a gentleman, and
not like a ploughboy."

Clarence, a square, freckled boy of thirteen, with reddish hair, and
a sort of red sparkle in his eyes, looked very angry at this address.
He did not offer to shake hands at all, but elevating his shoulders
said, "How d'you do?" in a sulky voice, and sitting down at the table
buried his nose without delay in a glass of milk.  His mother gave a
disgusted sigh.

"What a boy you are!" she said.  "Your cousins will think that you
have never been taught any thing, which is not the case; for I'm sure
I've taken twice the pains with you that I have with Lilly.  Pray
excuse him, Katy.  It's no use trying to make boys polite!"

"Isn't it?" said Katy, thinking of Phil and Dorry, and wondering what
Mrs. Page could mean.

"Hullo, Lilly!" broke in Clarence, spying his sister as it seemed for
the first time.

"How d'you do?" said Lilly, carelessly.  "I was wondering how long it
would be before you would condescend to notice my existence."

"I didn't see you."

"I know you didn't.  I never knew such a boy!  You might as well have
no eyes at all."

Clarence scowled, and went on with his supper.  His mother seemed
unable to let him alone.  "Clarence, don't take such large mouthfuls!
Clarence, pray use your napkin!  Clarence, your elbows are on the
table, sir!  Now, Clarence, don't try to speak until you have
swallowed all that bread,"--came every other moment.  Katy felt very
sorry for Clarence.  His manners were certainly bad, but it seemed
quite dreadful that public attention should be thus constantly called
to them.

The evening was rather dull.  There was a sort of put-in-order-for-
company air about the parlor, which made everybody stiff.  Mrs. Page
did not sew or read, but sat in a low chair looking like a lady in a
fashion plate, and asked questions about Hillsover, some of which were
not easy to answer, as, for example, "Have you any other intimate
friends among the school-girls beside Lilly?"  About eight o'clock a
couple of young, very young, gentlemen came in, at the sight of whom
Lilly, who was half asleep, brightened and became lively and talkative.
One of them was the Mr. Hickman, whose father married Mr. Page's
sister-in-law's sister, thus making him in some mysterious way a
"first cousin" of Lilly's.  He was an Arrowmouth student, and seemed
to have so many jokes to laugh over with Lilly that before long they
conversed in whispers.  The other youth, introduced as Mr. Eels, was
left to entertain the other three ladies, which duty he performed by
sucking the head of his cane in silence while they talked to him.  He
too was an Arrowmouth Sophomore.

In the midst of the conversation, the door, which stood ajar, opened
a little wider, and a dog's head appeared, followed by a tail, which
waggled so beseechingly for leave to come farther that Clover, who
liked dogs, put out her hand at once.  He was not pretty, being of a
pepper-and-salt color, with a blunt nose and no particular sort of a
tail, but looked good-natured; and Clover fondled him cordially, while
Mr. Eels took his cane out of his mouth to ask, "What kind of a dog
is that, Mrs. Page?"

"I'm sure I don't know," she replied; while Lilly, from the distance,
added affectedly, "Oh, he's the most dreadful dog, Mr. Eels.  My
brother picked him up in the street, and none of us know the least
thing about him, except that he's the commonest kind of dog,--a sort
of cur, I believe."

"That's not true!" broke in a stern voice from the hall, which made
everybody jump; and Katy, looking that way, was aware of a vengeful
eye glaring at Lilly through the crack of the door.  "He's a very
valuable dog, indeed,--half mastiff and half terrier, with a touch
of the bull-dog,--so there, Miss!"

The effect of this remark was startling.  Lilly gave a scream; Mrs.
Page rose, and hurried to the door; while the dog, hearing his master's
voice, rushed that way also, got before her, and almost threw her down.
Katy and Clover could not help laughing, and Mr. Eels, meeting their
amused eyes, removed the cane from his mouth, and grew conversible.

"That Clarence is a droll chap!" he remarked confidentially.  "Bright,
too!  He'd be a nice fellow if he wasn't picked at so much.  It never
does a fellow any good to be picked at,--now does it, Miss Carr?"

"No: I don't think it does."

"I say," continued Mr. Eels, "I've seen you young ladies up at
Hillsover, haven't I?  Aren't you both at the Nunnery?"

"Yes.  It's vacation now, you know."

"I was sure I'd seen you.  You had a room on the side next the
President's, didn't you?  I thought so.  We fellows didn't know
your names, so we called you 'The Real Nuns.'"

"Real Nuns?"

"Yes, because you never looked out of the window at us.  Real nuns and
sham nuns,--don't you see?"  Almost all the young ladies are sham nuns,
except you, and two pretty little ones in the story above, fifth
window from the end."

"Oh, I know!" said Clover, much amused. "Sally Alsop, you know, Katy,
and Amy Erskine.  They are such nice girls!"

"Are they?" replied Mr. Eels, with the air of one who notes down names
for future reference.  "Well, I thought so.  Not so much fun in them as
some of the others, I guess; but a fellow likes other things as well as
fun.  I know if my sister was there, I'd rather have her take the dull
line than the other."

Katy treasured up this remark for the benefit of the S. S. U. C.  Mrs.
Page came back just then, and Mr. Eels resumed his cane.  Nothing more
was heard of Clarence that night.

Next morning Cousin Olivia fulfilled her threat of inspecting the
girls' wardrobe.  She shook her head over the simple, untrimmed
merinos and thick cloth coats.

"There's no help for it," she said, "but it's a great pity.  You
would much better have waited, and had things fresh.  Perhaps it
may be possible to match the merino, and have some sort of basque
arrangement added on.  I will talk to Madame Chonfleur about it.
Meantime, I shall get one handsome thick dress for each of you, and
have it stylishly made.  That, at least, you really need."

Katy was too glad to be so easily let off to raise objections.
So that afternoon she and Clover were taken out to "choose their
material," Mrs. Page said, but really to sit by while she chose
it for them.  At the dressmaker's it was the same: they stood
passive while the orders were given, and every thing decided upon.

"Isn't it funny!" whispered Clover; "but I don't like it a bit,
do you?  It's just like Elsie saying how she'll have her doll's
things made."

"Oh, this dress isn't mine! it's Cousin Olivia's!" replied Katy.
"She's welcome to have it trimmed just as she likes!"

But when the suits came home she was forced to be pleased.  There was
no over-trimming, no look of finery: every thing fitted perfectly, and
had the air of finish which they had noticed and admired in Lilly's
clothes.  Katy almost forgot that she had objected to the dresses
as unnecessary.

"After all, it is nice to look nice," she confessed to Clover.

Excepting going to the dressmaker's there was not much to amuse the
girls during the first half of vacation.  Mrs. Page took them to drive
now and then, and Katy found some pleasant books in the library, and
read a good deal.  Clover meantime made friends with Clarence.  I think
his heart was won that first evening by her attentions to Guest the
dog, that mysterious composite, "half mastiff and half terrier, with
a touch of the bull-dog."  Clarence loved Guest dearly, and was
gratified that Clover liked him; for the poor animal had few friends
in the household.  In a little while Clarence became quite sociable
with her, and tolerably so with Katy.  They found him, as Mr. Eels
said, "a bright fellow," and pleasant and good-humored enough when
taken in the right way.  Lilly always seemed to take him wrong, and
his treatment of her was most disagreeable, snappish, and quarrelsome
to the last degree.

"Much you don't like oranges!" he said one day at dinner, in answer to
an innocent remark of hers.  "Much!  I've seen you eat two at a time,
without stopping.  Pa, Lilly says she don't like oranges!  I've seen
her eat two at a time, without stopping!  Much she doesn't!  I've seen
her eat two at a time, without stopping!"  He kept this up for five
minutes, looking from one person to another, and repeating, "Much she
don't!  Much!" till Lilly was almost crying from vexation, and even
Clover longed to box his ears.  Nobody was sorry when Mr. Page ordered
him to leave the room, which he did with a last vindictive "Much!"
addressed to Lilly.

"How can Clarence behave so?"  said Katy, when she and Clover were
alone.

"I don't know," replied Clover.  "He's such a nice boy, sometimes; but
when he isn't nice, he's the horridest boy I ever saw.  I wish you'd
talk to him, Katy, and tell him how dreadfully it sounds when he says
such things."

"No, indeed!  He'd take it much better from you.  You're nearer his
age, and could do it nicely and pleasantly, and not make him feel as
if he were being scolded.  Poor fellow, he gets plenty of that!"

Clover said no more about the subject, but she meditated.  She had a
good deal of tact for so young a girl, and took care to get Clarence
into a specially amicable mood before she began her lecture.  "Look
here, you bad boy, how could you tease poor Lilly so yesterday?
Guest, speak up, sir, and tell your massa how naughty it was!"

"Oh, dear! now you're going to nag!" growled Clarence, in an injured
voice.

"No, I'm not,--not the least in the world.  I'll promise not to.  But
just tell me,"--and Clover put her hand on the rough, red-brown hair,
and stroked it,--"just tell me why you 'go for to do' such things?
They're not a bit nice."

"Lilly's so hateful!" grumbled Clarence.

"Well,--she is sometimes, I know," admitted Clover, candidly. "But
because she is hateful is no reason why you should be unmanly."

"Unmanly!" cried Clarence, flushing.

"Yes.  I call it unmanly to tease and quarrel, and contradict like
that.  It's like girls.  They do it sometimes, but I didn't think
a boy would.  I thought he'd be ashamed!"

"Doesn't Dorry ever quarrel or tease?" asked Clarence, who liked to
hear about Clover's brothers and sisters.

"Not now, and never in that way.  He used to sometimes when he was
little, but now he's real nice.  He wouldn't speak to a girl as you
speak to Lilly for any thing in the world.  He'd think it wasn't
being a gentleman."

"Stuff about gentleman, and all that!" retorted Clarence.  "Mother
dings the word in my ears till I hate it!"

"Well, it is rather teasing to be reminded all the time, I admit; but
you can't wonder that your mother wants you to be a gentleman, Clarence.
It's the best thing in the world, I think.  I hope Phil and Dorry will
grow up just like papa, for everybody says he's the most perfect
gentleman, and it makes me so proud to hear them."

"But what does it mean any way!  Mother says it's how you hold your
fork, and how you chew, and how you put on your hat.  If that's all,
I don't think it amounts to much."

"Oh, that isn't all.  It's being gentle, don't you see?  Gentle and
nice to everybody, and just as polite to poor people as to rich ones,"
said Clover, talking fast, in her eagerness to explain her meaning,--
"and never being selfish, or noisy, or pushing people out of their
place.  Forks, and hats, and all that are only little ways of making
one's self more agreeable to other people.  A gentleman is a gentleman
inside,--all through!  Oh, I wish I could make you see what I mean!"

"Oh, that's it, is it?" said Clarence.  Whether he understood or not,
Clover could not tell; or whether she had done any good or not; but
she had the discretion to say no more; and certainly Clarence was not
offended, for after that day he grew fonder of her than ever.  Lilly
became absolutely jealous.  She had never cared particularly for
Clarence's affection, but she did not like to have any one preferred
above herself.

"It's pretty hard, I think," she told Clover.  "Clare does every thing
you tell him, and he treats me awfully.  It isn't a bit fair!  I'm his
sister, and you're only a second cousin."

All this time the girls had seen almost nothing of Louisa Agnew.  She
called once, but Lilly received the call with them, and so cool and
stiff that Louisa grew stiff also, and made but a short stay; and when
the girls returned the visit she was out.  A few days before the close
of vacation, however, a note came from her.


   "Dear Katy,--I am so sorry not to have seen more of you and
   Clover.  Won't you come and spend Wednesday with us?  Mamma
   sends her love, and hopes you will come early, so as to have
   a long day, for she wants to know you.  I long to show you
   the baby and every thing.  Do come.  Papa will see you home
   in the evening.  Remember me to Lilly.  She has so many
   friends to see during vacation that I am sure she will
   forgive me for stealing you for one day.
                        "Yours affectionately,
                                         "Louisa."


Katy thought this message very politely expressed, but Lilly, when she
heard it, tossed her head, and said she "really thought Miss Agnew
might let her name alone when she wrote notes."  Mrs. Page seemed to
pity the girls for having to go.  They must, she supposed, as it was
a schoolmate; but she feared it would be stupid for them.  The Agnews
were queer sort of people, not in society at all.  Mr. Agnew was
clever, people said; but, really, she knew very little about the
family.  Perhaps it would not do to decline.

Katy and Clover had no idea of declining.  They sent a warm little
note of acceptance, and on the appointed day set off bright and early
with a good deal of pleasant anticipation.  The vacation had been
rather dull at Cousin Olivia's.  Lilly was a good deal with her own
friends, and Mrs. Page with hers; and there never seemed any special
place where they might sit, or any thing in particular for then to do.

Louisa's home was at some distance from Mr. Page's, and in a less
fashionable street.  It looked pleasant and cosy as the girls opened
the gate.  There was a small garden in front with gay flower-beds;
and on the piazza, which was shaded with vines, sat Mrs. Agnew with
a little work-table by her side.  She was a pretty and youthful-
looking woman, and her voice and smile made them feel at home
immediately.

"There is no need of anybody to introduce you," she said.  "Lulu has
described you so often that I know perfectly well which is Katy and
which is Clover.  I am so glad you could come.  Won't you go right in
my bed-room by that long window and take off your things?  Lulu has
explained to you that I am lame and never walk, so you won't think
it strange that I do not show you the way.  She will be here in a
moment.  She ran upstairs to fetch the baby."

The girls went into the bed-room.  It was a pretty and unusual-looking
apartment.  The furniture was simple as could be, but bed and toilet
and windows were curtained and frilled with white, and the walls were
covered thick with pictures, photographs, and pen-and-ink sketches,
and water-color drawings, unframed most of them, and just pinned up
without regularity, so as to give each the best possible light.  It
was an odd way of arranging pictures; but Katy liked it, and would
gladly have lingered to look at each one, only that she feared Mrs.
Agnew would expect them and would think it strange that they did not
come back.

Just as they went out again to the piazza, Louisa came running
downstairs with her little sister in her arms.

"I was curling her hair," she explained, "and did not hear you come
in.  Daisy, give Katy a kiss.  Now another for Clover.  Isn't she a
darling?" embracing the child rapturously herself, "now isn't she a
little beauty?"

"Perfectly lovely?" cried the others, and soon all three were seated
on the floor of the piazza, with Daisy in the midst, passing her from
hand to hand as if she had been something good to eat.  She was used
to it, and submitted with perfect good nature to being kissed, trotted,
carried up and down, and generally made love to.  Mrs. Agnew sat by
and laughed at the spectacle.  When Baby was taken off for her noonday
nap, Louisa took the girls into the parlor, another odd and pretty
room, full of prints and sketches, and pictures of all sorts, some
with frames, others with a knot of autumn leaves or a twist of ivy
around them by way of a finish.  There was a bowl of beautiful autumn
roses on the table; and, though the price of one of Mrs. Page's damask
curtains would probably have bought the whole furniture of the room,
every thing was so bright and homelike and pleasant-looking that Katy's
heart warmed at the sight.  They were examining a portrait of Louisa
with Daisy in her lap, painted by her father, when Mr. Agnew came in.
The girls liked his face at once.  It was fine and frank; and nothing
could be prettier than to see him pick up his sweet invalid wife as
if she had been a child, and carry her into the dining-room to her
place at the head of the table.

Katy and Clover agreed afterward that it was the merriest dinner they
had had since they left home.  Mr. Agnew told stories about painters
and painting, and was delightful.  No less so was the nice gossip
upstairs in Louisa's room which followed dinner, or the afternoon
frolic with Daisy, or the long evening spent in looking over books
and photographs.  Altogether the day seemed only too short.  As they
went out of the gate at ten o'clock, Mr. Agnew following, lo! a dark
figure emerged from behind a tree and joined Clover.  It was Clarence!

"I thought I'd just walk this way," he explained, "the house has been
dreadfully dull all day without you."

Clover was immensely flattered, but Mrs. Page's astonishment next day
knew no bounds.

"Really," she said, "I have hopes of Clarence at last.  I never knew
him volunteer to escort anybody anywhere before in his life."

"I say," remarked Clarence, the evening before the girls went back to
school,--"I say, suppose you write to a fellow sometimes, Clover."

"Do you mean yourself by 'a fellow'?" laughed Clover.

"You don't suppose I meant George Hickman or that donkey of an Eels,
did you?" retorted Clarence.

"No, I didn't.  Well, I've no objection to writing to a fellow, if
that fellow is you, provided the fellow answers my letters.  Will
you?"

"Yes," gruffly, "but you mustn't show 'em to any girls or laugh at
my writing, or I'll stop.  Lilly says my writing is like beetle
tracks.  Little she knows about it though!  I don't write to her!
Promise, Clover!"

"Yes, I promise," said Clover, pleased at the notion of Clare's
proposing a correspondence of his own accord.  Next morning they all
left for Hillsover.  Clarence's friendship and the remembrance of
their day with the Agnews were the pleasantest things that the girls
carried away with them from their autumn vacation.


CHAPTER X.  A BUDGET OF LETTERS.


"Hillsover, October 21st.

Dearest Elsie,--I didn't write you last Saturday, because that was
the day we came back to school, and there hasn't been one minute since
when I could.  We thought perhaps Miss Jane would let us off from the
abstracts on Sunday, because it was the first day, and school was
hardly begun; and, if she had, I was going to write to you instead,
but she didn't.  She said the only way to keep girls out of mischief
was to keep them busy.  Rose Red is sure that something has gone wrong
with Miss Jane's missionary during the vacation,--she's so dreadfully
cross.  Oh, dear, how I do hate to come back and be scolded by her
again!

"I forget if I told you about the abstracts.  They are of the sermons
on Sunday, you know, and we have to give the texts, and the heads,
and as much as we can remember of the rest.  Sometimes Dr. Prince
begins: 'I shall divide my subject into three parts,' and tells what
they are going to be.  When he does that, most of the girls take out
their pencils and put them down, and then they don't listen any more.
Katy and I don't, for she says it isn't right not to listen some.
Miss Jane pretends that she reads all the abstracts through, but
she doesn't; for once Rose Red, just to try her, wrote in the middle
of hers, 'I am sitting by my window at this moment, and a red cow is
going down the street.  I wonder if she is any relation to Mrs.
Seccomb's cow?' and Miss Jane never noticed it, but marked her
'perfect' all the same.  Wasn't it funny?

"But I must tell you about our journey back.  Mr. Page came all the
way with us, and was ever so nice.  Clarence rode down in the carriage
to the depot.  He gave me a real pretty india-rubber and gold pencil
for a good-by present.  I think you and Dorry would like Clarence,
only just at first you might say he was rather rude and cross.  I did;
but now I like him ever so much.  Cousin Olivia gave Katy a worked
collar and sleeves, and me an embroidered pocket-handkerchief with
clover leaves in the corner.  Wasn't it kind?  I'm sorry I said in
my last letter that we didn't enjoy our vacation.  We didn't much;
but it wasn't exactly Cousin Olivia's fault.  She meant we should,
but she didn't know how.  Some people don't, you know.  And don't
tell any one I said so, will you?

"Rose Red got here in the train before we did.  She was so glad when we
came that she cried.  It was because she was home-sick waiting four
hours at the Nunnery without us, she said.  Rose is such a darling!
She had a splendid vacation, and went to three parties and a picnic.
It was the laughing-stock of the whole river.
Everybody joked about the by-law requiring members to pay ten per
cent.

of their wages, every month, into the treasury for the support of
the association, whereas all the members were outcast and tabooed,
and no one would employ them. Everybody was derisively grateful to
the association for taking all the worthless pilots out of the way and
leaving the whole field to the excellent and the deserving; and
everybody was not only jocularly grateful for that, but for a
result which naturally followed, namely, the gradual advance of wages
as the busy season approached. Wages had gone up from the low figure
of one hundred dollars a month to one hundred and twenty-five, and
in some cases to one hundred and fifty; and it was great fun to
enlarge upon the fact that this charming thing had been accomplished
by a body of men not one of whom received a particle of benefit
from it.

Some of the jokers used to call at the association rooms and have a
good time chaffing the members and offering them the charity of taking
them as steersmen for a trip, so that they could see what the
forgotten river looked like.
However, the association was content; or at least it gave no sign to
the contrary. Now and then it captured a pilot who was 'out of luck,'
and added him to its list; and these later additions were very
valuable, for they were good pilots; the incompetent ones had all
been absorbed before. As business freshened, wages climbed gradually
up to two hundred and fifty dollars--the association figure--and
became firmly fixed there; and still without benefiting a member
of that body, for no member was hired. The hilarity at the association's
expense burst all bounds, now.

There was no end to the fun which that poor martyr had to put up
with.

However, it is a long lane that has no turning. Winter approached,
business doubled and trebled, and an avalanche of Missouri, Illinois
and Upper Mississippi River boats came pouring down to take a chance
in the New Orleans trade. All of a sudden pilots were in great
demand, and were correspondingly scarce. The time for revenge was
come. It was a bitter pill to have to accept association pilots at
last, yet captains and owners agreed that there was no other way.
But none of these outcasts offered! So there was a still bitterer
pill to be swallowed:
they must be sought out and asked for their services. Captain ---- was
the first man who found it necessary to take the dose, and he had
been the loudest derider of the organization.

He hunted up one of the best of the association pilots and said--

'Well, you boys have rather got the best of us for a little while,
so I'll give in with as good a grace as I can.

I've come to hire you; get your trunk aboard right away. I want to leave
at twelve o'clock.'

'I don't know about that. Who is your other pilot?'
'I've got I. S----. Why?'
'I can't go with him. He don't belong to the association.'
'What!'

'It's so.'
'Do you mean to tell me that you won't turn a wheel with one of the
very best and oldest pilots on the river because he don't belong
to your association?'

'Yes, I do.'

'Well, if this isn't putting on airs!

I supposed I was doing you a benevolence; but I begin to think that I
am the party that wants a favor done. Are you acting under a law of the
concern?'
'Yes.'
'Show it to me.'
So they stepped into the association rooms, and the secretary soon
satisfied the captain, who said--
'Well, what am I to do? I have hired Mr. S---- for the entire season.'

'I will provide for you,' said the secretary. 'I will detail a pilot
to go with you, and he shall be on board at twelve o'clock.'
'But if I discharge S----, he will come on me for the whole season's
wages.'
'Of course that is a matter between you and Mr. S----, captain. We
cannot meddle in your private affairs.'
The captain stormed, but to no purpose. In the end he had to discharge
S----, pay him about a thousand dollars, and take an association
pilot in his place. The
             laugh was beginning to
                               turn the other way now. Every day, thenceforward, a new victim
fell; every day some outraged captain discharged a non-association
pet, with tears and profanity, and installed a hated association
man in his berth. In a very little while, idle non-associationists
began to be pretty plenty, brisk as business was, and much as their
services were desired. The laugh was shifting to the other side of
their mouths most palpably.Carr."

"P. S.--Cousin Helen has had a sharp attack, but is better."


"I wish papa would write longer letters," said Katy.  "He always sends
us money, but he don't send half enough words with it."  She folded
the letter, and fondled it affectionately.

"He's always so busy," replied Clover.  "Don't you remember how he
used to sit down at his desk and scrabble off his letters, and how
somebody always was sure to ring the bell before he got through?
I'm very glad to have some money, for now I can pay the sixty-two
cents I owe you.  It's my turn to read.  This is from Elsie, and a
real long one.  Put away the bills first, Katy, or they'll be lost.
That's right; now we'll begin together."


"Dear Clover,--You don't know how glad I am when my turn comes to get
a letter all to myself.  Of course I read papa's, and all the rest you
write to the family, but it never seems as if you were talking to me
unless you begin 'Dear Elsie.'  I wish some time you'd put in a little
note marked 'private,' just for me, which nobody else need see.  It
would be such fun!  Please do.  I should think you would have hated
staying at Cousin Olivia's.  When I read what she said about your
travelling dresses looking as if they had come out of the Ark, I was
too mad for any thing.  But I shouldn't think you'd want much to go
back to school either, though sometimes it must be splendid.  John
has named her old stockinet doll, which she used to call 'Scratch-
face,' 'Nippy,' after Mrs. Nipson; and I made her a muslin cap, and
Dorry drew a pair of black spectacles round her eyes.  She is a
perfect fright, and John plays all the time that dreadful things
happen to her.  She pricks her with pins, and pretends she has the
ear-ache, and lets her tumble down and hurt herself, till sometimes
I nearly feel sorry, though it's all make-believe.  When you wrote
us about only having pudding for dinner, I didn't a bit.  John put
her into the rag-closet that very day, and has been starving her to
death ever since, and  Phil says it serves her right.  You can't
think how awfully lonely I sometimes get without you.  If it wasn't
for Helen Gibbs, that new girl I told you about, I shouldn't know
what to do.  She is the prettiest girl in Miss McCrane's school.
Her hair curls just like mine, only it is four times as long and a
million times as thick, and her waist is really and truly not much
bigger round than a bed-post.  We're the greatest friends.  She says
she loves me just exactly as much as if I was her sister, but she
never had any real sisters.  She was quite mad the other day because
I said I couldn't love her quite so well as you and Katy; and all
recess-time she wouldn't speak to me, but now we've made up.  Dorry
is so awfully in love with her that I never can get him to come into
the room when she is here, and he blushes when we tease him about
her.  But this is a great secret.  Dorry and I play chess every
evening.  He almost always beats unless papa comes behind and helps
me.  Phil has learned too, because he always wants to do every thing
that we do.  Dorry gives him a castle, and a bishop, and a knight,
and four pawns, and then beats him in six moves.  Phil gets so mad
that we can't help laughing.  Last night he buttoned his king up
inside his jacket, and said, 'There! you can't checkmate me now,
any way!'

"Cecy has come home.  She is a young lady now.  She does her hair up
quite different, and wears long dresses.  This winter she is going to
parties, and Mrs. Hall is going to have a party for her on Thursday,
with real, grown-up young ladies and gentlemen at it.  Cecy has got
some beautiful new dresses,--a white muslin, a blue tarlatan, and a
pink silk.  The pink silk is the prettiest, I think.  Cecy is real
kind, and lets me see all her things.  She has got a lovely breast-
pin too, and a new fan with ivory sticks, and all sorts of things.
I wish I was grown up.  It must be so nice.  I was to tell you
something, only you mustn't tell any body except Katy.  Don't you
remember how Cecy used to say that she never was going out to drive
with young gentlemen, but was going to stay at home and read the
Bible to poor people?  Well, she didn't tell the truth, for she
has been out three times already with Sylvester Slack in his buggy.
When I told her she oughtn't to do so, because it was breaking a
promise, she only laughed, and said I was a silly little girl.  Isn't
it queer?

"I want to tell you what an awful thing I did the other night.  Maria
Avery invited me to tea, and papa said I might go.  I didn't want to
much, but I didn't know what to tell Maria, so I went.  You know how
poor they are, and how aunt Izzie used to say that they were 'touchy,'
so I thought I would take great care not to hurry home right after
tea, for fear they would think I wasn't having a good time.  So I
waited, and waited, and waited, and got so sleepy that I had to pinch
my fingers to keep awake.  At last I was sure that it must be almost
nine, so I asked Mr. Avery if he'd please take me home; and don't you
believe, when we got there, it was a quarter past ten, and papa was
coming for me!  Dorry said he guessed I must be enjoying myself to
stay so late.  I didn't tell anybody about it for three days, because
I knew they'd laugh at me, and they did.  Wasn't it funny?  And old
Mrs. Avery looked as sleepy as I felt, and kept yawning behind her
hand.  I told papa if I had a watch of my own I shouldn't make such
mistakes, and he laughed, and said, 'We'll see.'  Oh, do you suppose
that means he's going to give me one?

"We are so proud of Dorry's having taken two prizes at the examination
yesterday.  He took the second Latin prize, and the first Mathematics.
Dr. Pullman says he thinks Dorry is one of the most thorough boys he
ever saw.  Isn't that nice?  The prizes were books: one was the life
of Benjamin Franklin, and the other the Life of General Butler.  Papa
says he doesn't think much of the Life of Butler; but Dorry has begun
it, and says it is splendid.  Phil says when he takes a prize he wants
candy and a new knife; but he'll have to wait a good while unless he
studies harder than he does now.  He has just come in to tease me to
go up into the garret and help him to get down his sled, because he
thinks it is going to snow; but there isn't a sign of it, and the
weather is quite warm.  I asked him what I should say for him to you,
and he said, 'Oh, tell her to come home, and any thing you please.'
I said, 'Shall I give her your love, and say that you are very well?'
and he says, 'Oh, yes, Miss Elsie, I guess you'd think yourself mighty
well if your head ached as much as mine does every day.'  Don't be
frightened, however, for he's just as fat and rosey as can be; but
almost every day he says he feels sick about school-time.  When papa
was at Moorfield, Miss Finch believed him, and let him stay at home
two mornings.  I don't wonder at it, for you can think what a face he
makes up; but he got well so fast that she pays no attention to him
now.  The other day, about eleven o'clock, papa met him coming along
the road, shying stones at the birds, and making lots of noise.  He
told papa he felt so sick that his teacher had let him go home; but
papa noticed that his mouth looked sticky, so he opened his dinner-
basket, and found that the little scamp had eaten up all his dinner
on the road, corned beef, bread and butter, a great piece of mince
pie, and six pears.  Papa couldn't help laughing, but he made him
turn around and go right back to school again.

"I told you in my last about Johnnie's going to school with me now.
She is very proud of it, and is always talking about 'Elsie's and my
school.'  She is twice as smart as the other girls of her age.  Miss
McCrane has put her into the composition class, where they write
compositions on their slates.  The first subject was, 'A Kitten;' and
John's began, 'She's a dear, little, soft scratching thing, only you'd
better not pull her by the tail, but she's real cunning.'  All the
girls laughed, and Johnnie called out, 'Well, it's true, anyhow.'

"I can't write any more, for I must study my Latin.  Beside, this is
the longest letter that ever was.  I have been four days writing it.
Please send me one just as long.  Old Mary and the children send lots
of love, and papa says, 'Tell Katy if a pudding diet sets her to
growing again she must come home at once, for he couldn't afford it.'
Oh, dear, how I wish I could see you!  Please give my love to Rose
Red.  She must be perfectly splendid.
                            "Your affectionate
                                             Elsie."


"Oh, the dear little duck!  Isn't that just like her?" said Clover.
"I think Elsie has a real genius for writing, don't you?  She tells
all the little things, and is so droll and cunning.  Nobody writes
such nice letters.  Who's that from, Katy?"

"Cousin Helen, and it's been such a long time coming.  Just look at
this date!  September 22, a whole month ago!"  Then she began to read.


"Dear Katy,--It seems a long time since we have had a talk, but I
have been less well lately, so that it has been difficult to write.
Yesterday I sat up for the first time in several weeks, and to-day
I am dressed and beginning to feel like myself.  I wish you could see
my room this morning,--I often wish this,--but it is so particularly
pretty, for little Helen has been in with a great basket full of
leaves and flowers, and together we have dressed it to perfection.
There are four vases of roses, a bowl full of chrysanthemums, and
red leaves round all my pictures.  The leaves are Virginia creeper.
It doesn't last long, but is lovely while it lasts.  Helen also
brought a bird's nest which the gardener found in a hawthorn-tree
on the lawn.  It hangs on a branch, and she has tied it to one side
of my bookshelves.  On the opposite side is another nest quite
different,--a great, gray hornets' nest, as big as a band-box, which
came from the mountains a year ago.  I wonder if any such grow in the
woods about Hillsover.  In spite of the red leaves, the day is warm
as summer, and the windows stand wide open.  I suppose it is cooler
with you, but I know it is delicious cold.  Now that I think of it,
you must be in Ashburn by this time.  I hope you will enjoy every
moment of your vacation.

"Oct. 19th.  I did not finish my letter the day it as begun, dear
Katy, and the next morning it proved that I was not so strong as I
fancied, and I had to go to bed again.  I am still there, and, as
you see, writing with a pencil; but do not be worried about me, for
the doctor says I am mending, and soon I hope to be up and in my
chair.  The red leaves are gone, but the roses are lovely as ever,
for little Helen keeps bringing me fresh ones.  She has just been
in to read me her composition.  The subject was 'Stars,' and you
can't think how much she found to say about them,  She is a bright
little creature, and it is a great pleasure to teach her.  I am
hardly ever so sick that she cannot come for her lessons, and she
gets on fast.  We have made an arrangement that when she knows more
than I do she is to give me lessons, and I am not sure that the time
is so very far off.

"I must tell you about my Ben.  He is a new canary which was given me
in the summer, and lately he has grown so delightfully tame that I
feel as if it were not a bird at all, but a fairy prince come to live
with me and amuse me.  The cage door is left open always now, and he
flies in and out as he likes.  He is a restless, inquisitive fellow,
and visits any part of the room, trying each fresh thing with his
bill to see if it is good to eat, and then perching on it to see if
it good to sit upon.  He mistakes his own reflection in the looking-
glass for another canary, and sits on the pin-cushion twittering and
making love to himself for half an hour at a time.  To watch him is
one of my greatest amusements, especially just now when I am in bed so
much.  Sometimes he hides and keeps so still that I have not the least
idea where he is.  but the moment I call, 'Ben, Ben,' and hold out my
finger, wings begin to rustle, and out he flies and perches on my
finger.  He isn't the least bit in the world afraid, but sits on my
head or shoulder, eats out of my mouth, and kisses me with his beak.
He is on the pillow at this moment making runs at my pencil, of which
he is mortally jealous.  It is just so with my combs and brushes if I
attempt to do my hair; he cannot bear to have me do any thing but
play with him.  I do wish I could show him to you and Clover.

"Little Helen, my other pet, has just come in with a sponge cake which
she frosted herself.  She sends her love, and says when you come to
me next summer she will frost you each one just like it.  Good-by, my
Katy.  I had nothing to write about and have written it, but I never
like to keep silent too long, or let you feel as if you were forgotten
by your loving cousin,
            Helen."

"P.S.  Be sure to wear plenty of warm wraps for your winter walks.
And, Katy, dear, you must eat meat every day.  Mrs. Nipson will
probably give up her favorite pudding now that the cold weather
has begun; but, if not, write to papa."


"Isn't that letter Cousin Helen all over?"  said Katy, "So little
about her illness, and so bright and merry, and yet she has really
been sick.  Papa says 'a sharp attack.'  Isn't she the dearest person
in the world, next to papa I mean?"

"Yes, indeed.  There's nobody like her.  I do hope we can go to see
her next summer.  Now it's my turn.  I can't think who this letter
is from.  Oh, Clarence!  Katy, I can't let you see this.  I promised
I wouldn't show his letters to anybody, not even you!"

"Oh, very well.  But you've got another.  Dorry, isn't it?  Read that
first, and I'll go away and leave you in peace."

So Clover read:--


"Dear Clover,--Elsie says she is going to write you to-day; but I
won't stop because next Saturday I'm going out fishing with the
Slacks.  There are a great many trout now in Blue Brook.  Eugene caught
six the other day,--no, five, one was a minnow.  Papa has given me a
splendid rod, it lets out as tall as a house.  I hope I shall catch
with it.  Alexander says the trout will admire it so much that they
can't help biting; but he was only funning.  Elsie and I play chess
most every night.  She plays a real good game for a girl.  Sometimes
pa helps, and then she beats.  Miss Finch is well.  She don't keep
house quite like Katy did, and I don't like her so well as I do you,
but she's pretty nice.  The other day we had a nutting picnic, and
she gave me and Phil a loaf of Election cake and six quince turnovers
to carry.  The boys gave three cheers for her when they saw them.
Did Elsie tell you that I have invented a new machine?  It is called
'The Intellectual Peach Parer.'  There is a place to hold a book
while you pare the peaches.  It is very convenient.  I don't think
of any thing else to tell you.  Cecy has got home, and is going to
have a party next week.  She's grown up now, she says, and she wears
her hair quite different.  It's a great deal thicker than it used
to be.  Elsie says it's because there are rats in it; but I don't
believe her.  Elsie has got a new friend.  Her name is Helen Gibbs.
She's quite pretty.
                "Your affectionate brother,
                                     Dorry."

P.S.--John wants to put in a note."

John's note was written in a round hand, as easy to read as print.


"Dear Clover,--I am well, and hope you are the same.  I wish you would
write me a letter of my own.  I go to school with Elsie now.  We write
compossizions.  They are hard to write.  We don't go up into the loft
half so much as we used to when you ware at home.  Mrs. Worrett came
to dinner last week.  She says she ways two hundred and atey pounds.
I should think it would be dredful to way that.  I only way 76.  My
head comes up to the mark on the door where you ware mesured when you
ware twelve.  Isn't that tal?  Good-bye.  I send a kiss to Katy.
                                             Your loving
                                                      "John."


After they had finished this note, Katy went away, leaving Clover to
open Clarence's letter by herself.  It was not so well written or
spelt as Dorry's by any means.


"Dear Clover,--Don't forget what you promised.  I mene about not
showing this.  And don't tell Lilly I rote.  If you do, she'll be
as mad as hops.  I haven't been doing much since you went away.
School begun yesterday, and I am glad; for it's awfully dull now that
you girls have gone.  Mother says Guest has got flees on him, so she
won't let him come into the  house any more.  I stay out in the barn
with him insted. He is well, and sends you a wag of his tail.  Jim
and me are making him a colar.  It is black, with G.P. on it, for
Guest Page, you know.  A lot of the boys had a camping out last week.
I went.  It was real jolly; but ma wouldn't let me stay all night, so
I lost the best part. They roasted scullpins for supper, and had a
bon-fire.  The camp was on Harstnet Hill.  Next time you come I'll
take you out there.  Pa has gone to Mane on bizness.  He said I must
take care of the house, so I've borrowed Jim's gun, and if any robers
come I mean to shoot them.  I always go to sleep with a broom agenst
the door, so as to wake up when they open it.  This morning I thought
they had come, for the broom was gone, and the gun too; but it was
only Briget.  She opened the door, and it fell down; but I didn't wake
up, so she took it away, and put the gun in the closset.  I was mad,
I can tell you.

"This is only a short letter, but I hope you will answer it soon.
Give my love to Katy, and tell Dorry that if he likes I'll send him
my compas for his machenery, because I've got two.
                         "Your affectionate Cousin,
                                       "Clarence Page."


This was the last of the budget.  As Clover folded it up, she was
dismayed by the tinkle of the tea-bell.

"Oh, dear!" she cried, "there's tea, and I have not finished my letter
to Elsie.  Where has the afternoon gone!  How splendid it has been!  I
wish I could have four letters every day as long as I live."


CHAPTER XI.  CHRISTMAS BOXES.


October was a delightful month, clear and sparkling; but early in
November the weather changed, and became very cold.  Thick frosts
fell, every leaf vanished from the woods, in the gardens only
blackened stalks remained to show where once the summer flowers
had been.  In spite of the stove outside the door, No. 2 began to
be chilly; more than once Katy found her tooth-brush stiff with ice
in the morning.  It was a fore-taste of the what the winter was to
be, and the girls shivered at the prospect.

Toward the end of November Miss Jane caught a heavy cold.  Unsparing
of herself as of others, she went on hearing her classes as usual;
and nobody paid much attention to her hoarseness and flushed cheeks,
until she grew so much worse that she was forced to go to bed.  There
she stayed for nearly four weeks.  It made a great change in the
school; and the girls found it such a relief to have her sharp voice
and eyes taken away that I am afraid they were rather glad of her
illness than otherwise.

Katy shared in this feeling of relief.  She did not like Miss Jane; it
was pleasant not to have to see her or hear of her.  But as day after
day passed, and still she continued ill, Katy's conscience began to
prick.  One night she lay awake a long time, and heard Miss Jane
coughing violently.  Katy feared she was very sick, and wondered who
took care of her all night and all day.  None of the girls went near
her.  The servants were always busy.  And Mrs. Nipson, who did not
love Miss Jane, was busy too.

In the morning, while studying and practising, Katy caught herself
thinking over this question.  At last she asked Miss Marsh,--

"How is Miss Jane to-day?"

"About the same.  She is not dangerously ill, the doctor says; but
she coughs a great deal, and has some fever."

"Is anybody sitting with her?"

"Oh, no! there's no need of any one.  Susan answers the bell, and she
has her medicine on the table within reach."

It sounded forlorn enough.  Katy had lived in a sick-room so long
herself that she knew just how dreary it is for an invalid to be
left alone with "medicine within reach," and some one to answer a
bell.  She began to feel sorry for Miss Jane, and almost without
intending it went down the entry, and tapped at her door.  The "Come
in!" sounded very faint; and Miss Jane as she lay in bed looked weak
and dismal, and quite unlike the sharp, terrible person whom the
girls feared so much.  She was amazed at the sight of Katy, and
made a feeble attempt to hold up her head and speak as usual.

"What is it, Miss Carr?"

"I only came to see how you are," said Katy, abashed at her own daring,
"You coughed so much last night that I was afraid you were worse. Isn't
there something I could do for you?"

"Thank you," said Miss Jane, "you are very kind."  Think of Miss Jane's
thanking anybody, and calling anybody kind!

"I should be very glad.  Isn't there any thing?" repeated Katy,
encouraged.

"Well, I don't know: you might put another stick of wood on the fire,"
said Miss Jane, in an ungracious tone.  Katy did so; and seeing that
the iron cup on top of the stove was empty, she poured some water into
it.  Then she took a look about the room.  Books and papers were
scattered over the table; clean clothes from the wash lay on the
chairs; nothing was in its place; and Katy, who knew how particular
Miss Jane was on the subject of order, guessed at the discomfort
which this untidy state of affairs must have caused her.

"Wouldn't you like to have me put these away?" she asked, touching the
pile of clothes.

Miss Jane sighed impatiently, but she did not say no; so Katy, taking
silence for consent, opened the drawers, and laid the clothes inside,
guessing at the right places with a sort of instinct, and making as
little noise and bustle as possible.  Next she moved quietly to the
table, where she sorted and arranged the papers, piled up the books,
and put the pens and pencils in a small tray which stood there for
the purpose.  Lastly she began to dust the table with her pocket
handkerchief, which proceeding roused Miss Jane at once.

"Don't," she said, "there is a duster in the cupboard."

Katy could not help smiling, but she found the duster, and proceeded
to put the rest of the room into nice order, laying a fresh towel
over the bedside table, and arranging watch, medicine, and spoon
within reach.  Miss Jane lay and watched her.  I think she was as much
surprised at herself for permitting all this, as Katy was at being
permitted to do it.  Sick people often consent because they feel too
weak to object.  After all, it _was_ comfortable to have some one
come in and straighten the things which for ten days past had vexed
her neat eyes with their untidiness.

Lastly, smoothing the quilt, Katy asked if Miss Jane wouldn't like
to have her pillow shaken up?

"I don't care," was the answer.  It sounded discouraging; but Katy
boldly seized the pillow, beat, smoothed, and put it again in place.
Then she went out of the room as noiselessly as she could, Miss Jane
never saying, "Thank you," or seeming to observe whether she went
or stayed.

Rose Red and Clover could hardly believe their ears when told where
she had been.  They stared at her as people stare at Van Amburgh when
he comes safely out of the lion's den.

"My stars!" exclaimed Rose, drawing a long breath.  "You didn't really?
And she hasn't bitten your head off!"

"Not a bit," said Katy, laughing.  "What's more, I'm going again."

She was as good as her word.  After that she went to see Miss Jane very
often.  Almost always there was some little thing which she could do,
the fire needed mending, or the pitcher to be filled with ice-water, or
Miss Jane wanted the blinds opened or shut.  Gradually she grew used
to seeing Katy about the room.  One morning she actually allowed her
to brush her hair; and Katy's touch was so light and pleasant that
afterwards Miss Jane begged her to do it every day.

"What makes you such a good nurse?" she asked one afternoon, rather
abruptly.

"Being sick myself," replied Katy, gently.  Then in answer to farther
questioning, she told of her four years' illness, and her life
upstairs, keeping house and studying lessons all alone by herself.
Miss Jane did not say any thing when she got through; but Katy
fancied she looked at her in a new and kinder way.

So time went on till Christmas.  It fell on a Friday that year, which
shortened the holidays by a day, and disappointed many of the girls.
Only a few went home, the rest were left to pass the time as best they
might till Monday, when lessons were to begin again.

"It isn't much like merry Christmas," sighed Clover to herself, as
she looked up at the uncottoned space at the top of the window, and
saw great snow-flakes wildly whirling by.  No. 2 felt cold and dreary,
and she was glad to exchange it for the school-room, round whose warm
stove a cluster of girls was huddling.  Everybody was in bad spirits;
there was a tendency to talk about home, and the nice time which
people were having there, and the very bad time they themselves were
having at the Nunnery.

"Isn't it mis-e-ra-ble?  I shall cry all night, I know I shall, I am
so homesick," gulped Lilly, who had taken possession of her room-
mate's shoulder and was weeping ostentatiously.

"I declare, you're just Mrs. Gummidge in 'David Copperfield' over
again," said Rose.  "You recollect her, girls, don't you?  When the
porridge was burnt, you know,--'All of us felt the disappointment,
but Mrs. Gummidge felt it the most.'  The declarations of slaveholders,
that they treat their slaves well, will put no man in a quandary,
who keeps in mind this simple principle, that the state of mind
towards others, which leads one to inflict cruelties on them _blinds
the inflicter to the real nature of his own acts_.

To him, they do not _seem_ to be cruelties; consequently, when speaking
of such treatment toward such persons, he will protest that it is not
cruelty; though if inflicted upon himself or his friends, he would
indignantly stigmatize it as atrocious barbarity.

The objector equally overlooks another every-day fact of human
nature, which is this, that cruelties invariably cease to _seem_
cruelties when the _habit_ is formed though previously the mind
regarded them as such, and shrunk from them with horror.

The following fact, related by the late lamented THOMAS PRINGLE,
whose Life and Poems have published in England, is an appropriate
illustration.

Mr. Pringle states it on the authority of Captain W. F.
Owen, of the Royal Navy.

"When his Majesty's ships, the Leven and the Barracouta, employed in
surveying the coast of Africa, were at Mozambique, in 1823, the
officers were introduced to the family of Senor Manuel Pedro
d'Almeydra, a native of Portugal, who was a considerable merchant
settled on that coast; and it was an opinion agreed in by all, that
Donna Sophia d'Almeydra was the most superior woman they had seen
since they left England, Captain Owen, the leader of the expedition,
expressing to Senor d'Almeydra his detestation of slavery, the Senor
replied, 'You will not be long here before you change your
sentiments.

Look at my Sophia there. Before she would marry me, she made me promise
that I should give up the slave trade. When we first settled at
Mozambique, she was continually interceding for the slaves, and
she _constantly wept when I punished them_; and now she is among
the slaves front morning to night; she regulates the whole of my
slave establishment; she inquires into every offence committed by
them, pronounces sentence upon the offender, and _stands by and
sees them punished_.'

"To this, Mr.

Pringle, who was himself for six years a resident of the English
settlement at the Cape of Good Hope, adds, 'The writer of this
article has seen, in the course of five or six years, as great a
change upon English ladies and gentleman of respectability, as that
described to have taken place in Donna Sophia d'Almeydra; and one
of the individuals whom he has in his eye, while he writes this
passage, lately confessed to him this melancholy change, remarking
at the same time, 'how altered I am in my feelings with regard to
slavery.

I do not appear to myself the same person I was on my arrival in this
colony, and if I would give the world for the feelings I then had, I
could not recall them.'"

Slaveholders know full well that familiarity with slavery produces
indifference to its cruelties and reconciles the mind to them.

The late Judge Tucker, a Virginia slaveholder and professor of law in
the University of William and Mary, in the appendix to his edition of
Blackstone's Commentaries, part 2, pp. 56, 57, commenting on the
law of Virginia previous to 1792, which outlawed fugitive slaves,
says:
"Such are the cruelties to which slavery gives rise, such the horrors
to which the mind becomes _reconciled_ by its adoption."

The following facts from the pen of CHARLES STUART, happily illustrate
the same principle:

"A young lady, the daughter of a Jamaica planter, was sent at an
early age to school to England, and after completing her education,
returned to her native country.

"She is now settled with her husband and family in England. I visited
her near Bath, early last spring, (1834.) Conversing on the above
subject, the paralyzing effects of slaveholding on the heart, she
said:

"'While at school in England, I often thought with peculiar tenderness
of the kindness of a slave who had nursed and carried me about.

Upon returning to my father's, one of my first inquiries was about
him.

I was deeply afflicted to find that he was on the point of undergoing
a "law flogging for having run away." I threw myself at my father's
feet and implored with tears, his pardon; but my father steadily
replied, that it would ruin the discipline of the plantation, and
that the punishment must take place.

I wept in vain, and retired so grieved and disgusted, that for some
days after, I could scarcely bear with patience, the sight of my own
father.

But many months had not elapsed ere _I was as ready as any body_
to seize the domestic whip, _and flog my slaves without hesitation_.'

"This lady is one of the most Christian and noble minds of my
acquaintance.

She and her husband distinguished themselves several years ago, in
Jamaica, by immediately emancipating their slaves."

"A lady, now in the West Indies, was sent in her infancy, to her
friends, near Belfast, in Ireland, for education. She remained
under their charge from five to fifteen years of age, and grew up
every thing which her friends could wish.

At fifteen, she returned to the West Indies--was married--and after
some years paid her friends near Belfast, a second visit.

Towards white people, she was the same elegant, and interesting
woman as before; apparently full of every virtuous and tender
feeling; but towards the colored people she was like a tigress.
If Wilberforce's name was mentioned, she would say, 'Oh, I wish we had
the wretch in the West Indies, I would be one of the first to help
to tear his heart out!'

--and then she would tell of the manner in which the West Indian
ladies used to treat their slaves.
'I have often,' she said, 'when my women have displeased me, snatched
their baby from their bosom, and running with it to a well, have
tied my shawl round its shoulders and pretended to be drowning it:
oh, it was so funny to hear the mother's screams!'

--and then she laughed almost convulsively at the recollection."

Mr. JOHN M. NELSON, a native of Virginia, whose testimony is on a preceding
page, furnishes a striking illustration of the principle in his own case.
He says:

"When I was quite a child, I recollect it grieved me very much to
see one tied up to be whipped, and I used to intercede _with tears
in their behalf_, and _mingle my cries with theirs_, and feel almost
willing to take part of the punishment.

Yet such is the hardening nature of such scenes, that from this kind
of commiseration for the suffering slave, I became so blunted that
I could not only witness their stripes with composure, but _myself_
inflict them, and that without remorse.

When I was perhaps fourteen or fifteen years of age, I undertook to
correct a young fellow named Ned, for some supposed offence, I think
it was leaving a bridle out of its proper place; he being larger
and stronger than myself took hold of my arms and held me, in
order to prevent my striking him; this I considered the height of
insolence, and cried for help, when my father and mother both came
running to my rescue.

My father stripped and tied him, and took him into the orchard,
where switches were plenty, and directed me to whip him; when one
switch wore out he supplied me with others.

After I had whipped him a while, he fell on his knees to implore
forgiveness, and I kicked him in the face; my father said, 'don't
kick him but whip him,' this I did until his back was literally
covered with _welts_."

W.C. GILDERSLEEVE, Esq., a native of Georgia, now elder of the
Presbyterian church, Wilkes-barre, Penn. after describing the
flogging of a slave, in which his hands were tied together, and
the slave hoisted by a rope, so that his feet could not touch the
ground; in which condition one hundred lashes were inflicted,
says:
"I stood by and witnessed the whole without feeling the least
compassion; so _hardening_ is the influence of slavery that it _very
much destroys feeling for the slave_."

Mrs. CHILD, in her admirable "Appeal," has the following remarks:

"The ladies who remove from the free States into the slaveholding ones
almost invariably write that the sight of slavery was at first exceedingly
painful; but that they soon become habituated to it; and after a
while, they are very apt to vindicate the system, upon the ground
that it is extremely convenient to have such submissive servants.
This reason was actually given by a lady of my acquaintance, who is
considered an unusually fervent Christian.

Yet Christianity expressly teaches us to love our neighbor as
ourselves.

This shows how dangerous it is, for even the best of us, to become
_accustomed_ to what is wrong.

"A judicious and benevolent friend lately told me the story of one
of her relatives, who married a slave owner, and removed to his
plantation.

The lady in question was considered very amiable, and had a serene,
affectionate expression of countenance. After several years residence
among her slaves, she visited New England. 'Her history was written
in her face,' said my friend; 'its expression had changed into that
of a fiend. She brought but few slaves with her; and those few were
of course compelled to perform additional labor.

One faithful negro woman nursed the twins of her mistress, and did
all the washing, ironing, and scouring.

If, after a sleepless night with the restless babes, (driven from
the bosom of their mother,) she performed her toilsome avocations with
diminished activity, her mistress, with her own lady-like hands,
applied the cowskin, and the neighborhood resounded with the cries
of her victim.

The instrument of punishment was actually kept hanging in the entry,
to the no small disgust of her New England visitors. 'For my part,'
continued my friend, 'I did not try to be polite to her; for I was
not hypocrite enough to conceal my indignation.'"

The fact that the greatest cruelties may be exercised quite unconsciously
when cruelty has become a habit, and that at the same time, the
mind may feel great sympathy and commiseration towards other persons
and even towards irrational animals, is illustrated in the case of
Tameriane the Great.

In his Life, written by himself, he speaks with the greatest sincerity
and tenderness of his grief at having accidentally crushed an ant;
and yet he ordered melted lead to be poured down the throats of
certain persons who drank wine contrary to his commands.

He was manifestly sincere in thinking himself humane, and when speaking
of the most atrocious cruelties perpetrated by himself, it does not
seem to ruffle in the least the self-complacency with which he
regards his own humanity and piety. In one place he says, "I never
undertook anything but I commenced it placing my faith on God"--and
he adds soon after, "the people of Shiraz took part with Shah Mansur,
and put my governor to death; I therefore ordered _a general massacre
of all the inhabitants_."

It is one of the most common caprices of human nature, for the heart
to become by habit, not only totally insensible to certain forms of
cruelty, which at first gave it inexpressible pain, but even to find
its chief amusement in such cruelties, till utterly intoxicated
by their stimulation; while at the same time the mind seems to be
pained as keenly as ever, at forms of cruelty to which it has not
become accustomed, thus retaining _apparently_ the same general
susceptibilities.

Illustrations of this are to be found every where; one happens to lie
before us. Bourgoing, in his history of modern Spain, speaking of
the bull fights, the barbarous national amusement of the Spaniards,
says:
"Young ladies, old men, people of all ages and of all characters
are present, and yet the habit of attending these bloody festivals
does not correct their weakness or their timidity, nor injure the
sweetness of their manners.

I have moreover known foreigners, distinguished by the gentleness of
their manners, who experienced at first seeing a bull-fight such
very violent emotions as made them turn pale, and they became ill;
but, notwithstanding, this entertainment became afterwards an
irresistible attraction, without operating any revolution in their
characters."

Modern State of Spain, by J. F. Bourgoing, Minister Plenipotentiary
from France to the Court of Madrid, Vol ii., page 342.

It is the _novelty_ of cruelty, rather than the _degree_, which repels
most minds. Cruelty in a _new_ form, however slight, will often pain
a mind that is totally unmoved by the most horrible cruelties in
a form to which it is _accustomed_.

When Pompey was at the zenith of his popularity in Rome, he ordered
some elephants to be tortured in the amphitheatre for the amusement
of the populace; this was the first time they had witnessed the
torture of those animals, and though for years accustomed to witness
in the same place, the torture of lions, tigers, leopards, and
almost all sorts of wild beasts, as well as that of men of all
nations, and to shout acclamations over their agonies, yet, this
_novel form_ of cruelty so shocked the beholders, that the most
popular man in Rome was execrated as a cruel monster, and came near
falling a victim to the fury of those who just before were ready
to adore him.

We will now briefly notice another objection, somewhat akin to the
preceding, and based mainly upon the same and similar fallacies.

OBJECTION III.--'SLAVEHOLDERS ARE PROVERBIAL FOR THEIR KINDNESS,
HOSPITALITY, BENEVOLENCE, AND GENEROSITY.'
Multitudes scout as fictions the cruelties inflicted upon slaves,
because slaveholders are famed for their courtesy and hospitality.

They tell us that their generous and kind attentions to their guests,
and their well-known sympathy for the suffering, sufficiently prove
the charges of cruelty brought against them to be calumnies, of which
their uniform character is a triumphant refutation.

Now that slaveholders are proverbially hospitable to their guests, and
spare neither pains nor expense in ministering to their
accommodation and pleasure, is freely admitted and easily accounted
for. That those who make their inferiors work for them, without
pay, should be courteous and hospitable to those of their equals
and superiors whose good opinions they desire, is human nature in
its every-day dress.

The objection consists of a fact and an inference: the fact, that
slaveholders have a special care to the accommodation of their _guests;_
the inference, that therefore they must seek the comfort of their
_slaves_--that as they are bland and obliging to their equals, they
must be mild and condescending to their inferiors--that as the
wrongs of their own grade excite their indignation, and their woes
move their sympathies, they must be touched by those of their
chattels--that as they are full of pains-taking toward those whose
good opinions and good offices they seek, they will, of course,
show special attention to those to whose good opinions they are
indifferent, and whose good offices they can _compel_--that as they
honor the literary and scientific, they must treat with high
consideration those to whom they deny the alphabet--that as they
are courteous to certain _persons_, they must be so to "property"--eager
to anticipate the wishes of visitors, they cannot but gratify those
of their vassals--jealous for the rights of the Texans, quick to
feel at the disfranchisement of Canadians and of Irishmen, alive
to the oppressions of the Greeks and the Poles, they must feel
keenly for their _negroes!

_ Such conclusions from such premises do not call for serious refutation.
Even a half-grown boy, who should argue, that because men have
certain feelings toward certain persons in certain circumstances,
they must have the same feelings toward all persons in all
circumstances, or toward persons in opposite circumstances, of
totally different grades, habits, and personal peculiarities, might
fairly be set down as a hopeless simpleton: and yet, men of sense
and reflection on other subjects, seem bent upon stultifying
themselves by just such shallow inferences from the fact, that
slaveholders are hospitable and generous to certain persons in
certain grades of society belonging to their own caste.

On the ground of this reasoning, all the crimes ever committed may be
disproved, by showing, that their perpetrators were hospitable and
generous to those who sympathized and co-operated with them. To prove
that a man does not hate one of his neighbors, it is only necessary
to show that he loves another; to make it appear that he does not
treat contemptuously the ignorant, he has only to show that he bows
respectfully to the learned; to demonstrate that he does not disdain
his inferiors, lord it over his dependents, and grind the faces of
the poor, he need only show that he is polite to the rich, pays
deference to titles and office, and fawns for favor upon those above
him!

The fact that a man always smiles on his customers, proves that he
never scowls at those who dun him!

and since he has always a melodious "good morning!" for "gentlemen of
property and standing," it is certain that he never snarls at beggars.
He who is quick to make room for a doctor of divinity, will, of course,
see to it that he never runs against a porter; and he who clears the
way for a lady, will be sure never to rub against a market woman,
or jostle an apple-seller's board.

If accused of beating down his laundress to the lowest fraction, of
making his boot-black call a dozen times for his pay, of higgling
and screwing a fish boy till he takes off two cents, or of threatening
to discharge his seamstress unless she will work for a shilling a
day, how easy to brand it all as slander, by showing that he pays
his minister in advance, is generous in Christmas presents, gives
a splendid new-year's party, expends hundreds on elections, and
puts his name with a round sum on the subscription paper of the
missionary society.

Who can forget the hospitality of King Herod, that model of generosity
"beyond all ancient fame," who offered half his kingdom to a guest,
as a compensation for an hour's amusement.

--Could such a noble spirit have murdered John the Baptist? Incredible!
Joab too! how his soft heart was pierced at the exile of Absalom!

and how his bowels yearned to restore him to his home! Of course,
it is all fiction about his assassinating his nephew, Amasa, and Abner
the captain of the host!
Since David twice spared the life of Saul when he came to murder
him, wept on the neck of Jonathan, threw himself upon the ground
in anguish when his child sickened, and bewailed, with a broken
heart, the loss of Absalom--it proves that he did not coolly plot
and deliberately consummate the murder of Uriah!

As the Government of the United States generously gave a township
of land to General La Fayette, it proves that they have never
defrauded the Indians of theirs!

Then a rage for
tatting set in, followed by a fever of fancy-work, every one falling
in love with the same pattern at the same time, and copying and
recopying, till nobody could bear the sight of it.  At one time Clover
counted eighteen girls all at work on the same bead and canvas pin-
cushion.  Later there was a short period of _decalcomanie;_ and then
came the grand album craze, when thirty-three girls out of the thirty-
nine sent for blank books bound in red morocco, and began to collect
signatures and sentiments.  Here, also, there was a tendency toward
repetition.

Sally Austin added to her autograph these lines of her own composition:--


           When on this page your beauteous eyes you bend,
           Let it remind you of your absent friend.
                                       Sally J. Austin,
                                            Galveston, Texas.


The girls found this sentiment charming, at least a dozen borrowed it,
and in half the albums in the school you might read,--


             "When on this page your beauteous eyes," &c.


Esther Dearborn wrote in Clover's book: "The better part of Valor is
Discretion."  Why she wrote it, nobody knew, or why it was more
applicable to Clover than to any one else; but the sentiment proved
popular, and was repeated over and over again, above various neatly
written signatures.  There was a strife as to who should display the
largest collection.  Some of the girls sent home for autographs of
distinguished persons, which they pasted in their books.  Rose Red,
however, out-did them all.

"Did I ever show you mine?" she asked one day, when most of the girls
were together in the school-room.

"No, never!" cried a number of voices.  "Have you got one?  Oh, do let
us see it."

"Certainly, I'll get it right away, if you like," said Rose, obligingly.

She went to her room, and returned with a shabby old blank book in her
hand.  Some of the girls looked disappointed.

"The cover of mine isn't very nice," explained Rose.  "I'm going to
have it rebound one of these days.  You see it's not a new album at
all, nor a school album; but it's very valuable to me."  Here she
heaved a sentimental sigh.  "All my friends have written in it,"
she said.

The girls were quite impressed by the manner in which Rose said this.
But, when they turned over the pages of the album, they were even more
impressed.  Rose had evidently been on intimate terms with a circle of
most distinguished persons.  Half the autographs in the book were from
gentlemen, and they were dated all over the world.

"Just listen to this!" cried Louisa, and she read,--


   "Thou may'st forget me, but never, never shall I forget thee!"
                                             Alphonso of Castile.
    The Escurial, April 1st.


'Who's he?" asked a circle of awe-struck girls.

"Didn't you ever hear of him?  Youngest brother of the King of Spain,"
replied Rose carelessly.

"Oh, my! and just hear this," exclaimed Annie Silsbie.


   If you ever deign to cast a thought in my direction, Miss Rose,
   remember me always as
              Thy devoted servitor,
                       Potemkin Montmorency.

   St. Petersburg, July 10th.


"And this," shrieked Alice White.


      "They say love is a thorn, I say it is a dart,
       And yet I cannot tear thee from my heart."
                         Antonio, Count of Vallambrosa.


"Do you really and truly know a Count?" asked Bella, backing away
from Rose with eyes as big as saucers.

"Know Antonio de Vallambrosa!  I should think I did," replied Rose.
"Nobody in this country knows him so well, I fancy."

"And he wrote that for you?"

"How else could it get into my book, goosey?"

This was unanswerable; and Rose was installed from that time forward
in the minds of Bella and the rest as a heroine of the first water.
Katy, however, knew better; and the first time she caught Rose alone
she attacked her on the subject.

"Now, Rosy-Posy, confess.  Who wrote all those absurd autographs in
your book?"

"Absurd autographs!  What can you mean?"

"All those Counts and things.  No, it's no use.  You shan't wriggle
away till you tell me."

"Oh, Antonio and dear Potemkin, do you mean them?"

"Yes, of course I do."

"And you really want to know?"

"Yes."

"And will swear not to tell?"

"Yes."

"Well, then," bursting into a laugh, "I wrote every one of them myself."

"Did you really?  When?"

"Day before yesterday.  I thought Lilly needed taking down, she was
so set up with her autographs of Wendell Phillips and Mr. Seward, so
I just sat down and wrote a book full.  It only took me half an hour.
I meant to write some more: in fact, I had one all ready,--


                     'I am dead, or pretty near:
                      David's done for me I fear'
                                           Goliath of Gath.


but I was afraid even Bella wouldn't swallow that, so I tore out the
page.  I'm sorry I did now, for I really think the geese would have
believed it.  Written in his last moments, you know, to oblige an
ancestor of my own," added Rose, in a tone of explanation.

"You monkey!" cried Katy, highly diverted.  But she kept Rose's
counsel, and I daresay some of the Hillsover girls believe in that
wonderful album to this day.

It was not long after that a sad piece of news came for Bella.  Her
father was dead.  Their home was in Iowa, too far to allow of her
returning for the funeral; so the poor little girl stayed at school,
to bear her trouble as best she might.  Katy, who was always kind to
children, and had somewhat affected Bella from the first on account
of her resemblance to Elsie in height and figure, was especially
tender to her now, which Bella repaid with the gift of her whole
queer little heart.  Her affectionate demonstrations were rather of
the monkey order, and not un frequently troublesome; but Katy was never
otherwise than patient and gentle with her, though Rose, and even
Clover, remonstrated on what they called this "singular intimacy."

"Poor little soul!  It's so hard for her, and she's only eleven years
old," she told them.

"She has such a funny way of looking at you sometimes," said Rose, who
was very observant.  "It is just the air of a squirrel who has hidden
a nut, and doesn't want you to find out where, and yet can hardly help
indicating it with his paw.  She's got something on her mind, I'm sure."

"Half a dozen things, very likely," added Clover: "she's such a
mischief."

But none of them guessed what this "something" was.

Early in January Mrs. Nipson announced that in four weeks she proposed
to give a "Soiree," to which all young ladies whose records were
entirely free from marks during the intervening period would be
allowed to come.  This announcement created great excitement, and
the school set itself to be good; but marks were easy to get, and
gradually one girl after another lost her chance, till by the
appointed day only a limited party descended to join the festivities,
and nearly half the school was left upstairs to sigh over past sins.
Katy and Rose were among the unlucky ones.  Rose had incurred a mark
by writing a note in study-hour, and Katy by being five minutes late
to dinner.  They consoled themselves by dressing Clover's hair, and
making her look as pretty as possible, and then stationed themselves
in the upper hall at the head of the stairs to watch her career, and
get as much fun out of the occasion as they could.

Pretty soon they saw Clover below on Professor Seccomb's arm.  He was
a kingly, pleasant man, with a bald head, and it was a fashion among
the girls to admire him.

"Doesn't she look pretty?" said Rose.  "Just notice Mrs. Searles, Katy.
She's grinning at Clover like the Cheshire cat.  What a wonderful cap
that is of hers!  She had it when Sylvia was here at school, eight
years ago."

"Hush! she'll hear you."

"No, she won't.  There's Ellen beginning her piece.  I know she's
frightened by the way she plays.  Hark! how she hurries the time!"

"There, they are going to have refreshments, after all!" cried Esther
Dearborn, as trays of lemonade and cake-baskets appeared below on
their way to the parlor.  "Isn't it a shame to have to stay up here?"

"Professor Seccomb!  Professor!" called Rose, in a daring whisper.
"Take pity upon us.  We are starving for a piece of cake."

The Professor gave a jump; then retreated, and looked upward.  When
he saw the circle of hungry faces peering down, he doubled up with
laughter.  "Wait a moment," he whispered back, and vanished into the
parlor.  Pretty soon the girls saw him making his way through the
crowd with an immense slice of pound-cake in each hand.

"Here, Miss Rose," he said,--"catch it."  But Rose ran half-way
downstairs, received the cake, dimpled her thanks, and retreated to
the darkness above, whence sounds proceeded which sent the amused
Professor into the parlor convulsed with suppressed laughter.
Pretty soon Clover stole up the back stairs to report.

"Are you having a nice time?  Is the lemon-ade good?  Who have you
been talking with?" inquired a chorus of voices.

"Pretty nice.  Everybody is very old.  I haven't been talking to
anybody in particular, and the lemonade is only cream-of-tartar water.
I guess it's jollier up here with you," replied Clover.  "I must go
now: my turn to play comes next."  Down she ran.

"Except for the glory of the thing, I think we're having more fun than
she," answered Rose.

Next week came St. Valentine's Day.  Several of the girls received
valentines from home, and they wrote them to each other.  Katy and
Clover both had one from Phil, exactly alike, with the same purple
bird in the middle of the page, and "I love you" printed underneath;
and they joined in fabricating a gorgeous one for Rose, which was
supposed to come from Potemkin de Montmorencey, the hero of the album.
But the most surprising valentine was received by Miss Jane.  It
came with the others, while all the household were at dinner.  The
girls saw her redden and look angry, but she put the letter in her
pocket, and said nothing.

In the afternoon, it came out through Bella that "Miss Jane's letter
was in poetry, and that she was just mad as fire about it."  Just
before tea, Louisa came running down the Row, to No. 5, where Katy
was sitting with Rose.

"Girls, what do you think?  That letter which Miss Jane got this
morning was a valentine, the most dreadful thing, but so funny!"
she stopped to laugh.

"How do you know?" cried the other two.

"Miss Marsh told Alice Gibbons.  She's a sort of cousin, you know; and
Miss Marsh often tells her things.  She says Miss Jane and Mrs. Nipson
are furious, and are determined to find out who sent it.  It was from
Mr. Hardhack, Miss Jane's missionary,--or no, not from Mr. Hardhack,
but from a cannibal who had just eaten Mr. Hardhack up; and he sent
Miss Jane a lock of his hair, and the recipe the tribe cooked him by.
They found him 'very nice,' he said, and 'He turned out quite tender.'
That was one of the lines in the poem.  Did you ever hear of any thing
like it?  Who do you suppose could have sent it?"

"Who could it have been?" cried the others.  Katy had one moment's
awful misgiving; but a glance at Rose's face, calm and innocent as a
baby's, reassured her.  It was impossible that she could have done
this mischievous thing.  Katy, you see, was not privy to that entry
in Rose's journal, "Pay Miss Jane off," nor aware that Rose had just
written underneath, "Did it.  Feb. 14, 1869."

Nobody ever found out the author of this audacious valentine.  Rose
kept her own counsel, and Miss Jane probably concluded that "the
better part of valor was discretion," for the threatened inquiries
were never made.

And now it lacked but six weeks to the end of the term.  The girls
counted the days, and practised various devices to make them pass
more quickly.  Esther Dearborn, who had a turn for arithmetic, set
herself to a careful calculation of how many hours, minutes, and
seconds must pass before the happy time should come.  Annie Silsbie
strung forty-two tiny squares of card-board on a thread and each
night slipped one off and burned it up in the candle.  Others made
diagrams of the time, with a division for each day, and every night
blotted one out with a sense of triumph.  None of these devices made
the time hasten. It never moved more slowly than now, when life
seemed to consist of a universal waiting.

But though Katy's heart bounded at the thought of home till she could
hardly bear the gladness, she owned to Clover,--"Do you know, much as
I long to get away, I am half sorry to go!  It is parting with something
which we shall never have any more.  Home is lovely, and I would rather
be there than anywhere else; but, if you and I live to be a hundred,
we shall never be girls at boarding-school again."


CHAPTER XIII.  PARADISE REGAINED.


"Only seven days more to cross off," said Clover, drawing her pencil
through one of the squares on the diagram pinned beside her looking-
glass, "seven more, and then--oh, joy!--papa will be here, and we
shall start for home."

She was interrupted by the entrance of Katy, holding a letter and
looking pale and aggrieved.

"Oh, Clover," she cried, "just listen to this!  Papa can't come for
us.  Isn't it too bad?"  And she read:--


"Burnet, March 20.

"My dear Girls,--I find that it will not be possible for me to come
for you next week, as I intended.  Several people are severely ill,
and old Mrs. Barlow struck down suddenly with paralysis, so I cannot
leave.  I am sorry, and so will you be; but there is no help for it.
Fortunately, Mrs. Hall has just heard that some friends of hers are
coming westward with their family, and she has written to ask them
to take charge of you.  The drawback to this plan is, that you will
have to travel alone as far as Albany, where Mr. Peters (Mrs. Hall's
friend) will meet you.  I have written to ask Mr. Page to put you
on the train, and under the care of the conductor, on Tuesday morning.
I hope you will get through without embarassment.  Mr. Peters will
be at the station in Albany to receive you; or, if any thing should
hinder him, you are to drive at once to the Delavan House where they
are staying.  I enclose a check for your journey.  If Dorry were five
years older, I should send him after you.

"The children are most impatient to have you back.  Miss Finch has
been suddenly called away by the illness of her sister-in-law, so
Elsie is keeping house till you return.

"God bless you, my dear daughters, and send you safe.

                    "Yours affectionately,
                                     P. Carr."


"Oh, dear!" said Clover, with her lip trembling, "now papa won't see
Rosy."

"No," said Katy, "and Rosy and Louisa and the rest won't see him.
That is the worst of all.  I wanted them to so much.  And just think
how dismal it will be to travel with people we don't know.  It's too,
too bad, I declare."

"I do think old Mrs. Barlow might have put off being ill just one week
longer," grumbled Clover.  "It takes away half the pleasure of going
home."

The girls might be excused for being cross, for this was a great
disappointment.  There was no help for it, however, as papa said.
They could only sigh and submit.  But the journey, to which they
had looked forward so much, was no longer thought of as a pleasure,
only a disagreeable necessity, something which must be endured in
order that they might reach home.

Five, four, three days,--the last little square was crossed off, the
last dinner was eaten, the last breakfast.  There was much mourning
over Katy and Clover among the girls who were to return for another
year.  Louisa and Ellen Gray were inconsolable; and Bella, with a
very small pocket handkerchief held tightly in her hand, clung to
Katy every moment, crying, and declaring that she would not let her
go.  The last evening she followed her into No. 2 (where she was
dreadfully in the way of the packing), and after various odd
contortions and mysterious, half-spoken sentences, said:--

"Say, won't you tell if I tell you something?"

"What is it?" asked Katy, absently, as she folded and smoothed her
best gown.

"Something," repeated Bella, wagging her head mysteriously, and
looking more like a thievish squirrel than ever.

"Well, what is it?  Tell me."

To Katy's surprise, Bella burst into a violent fit of crying.

"I'm real sorry I did it," she sobbed,--"real sorry!  And now you'll
never love me any more."

"Yes, I will.  What is it?  Do stop crying, Bella dear, and tell me,"
said Katy, alarmed at the violence of the sobs.

"It was for fun, really and truly it was.  But I wanted some cake too,"
--protested Bella, sniffing very hard.

"What!"

"And I didn't think anybody would know.  Berry Searles doesn't care
a bit for us little girls, only for big ones.  And I knew if I said
"Bella," he'd never give me the cake.  So I said 'Miss Carr' instead."

"Bella, did you write that note?" inquired Katy, almost to much
surprised to speak.

"Yes.  And I tied a string to your blind, because I knew I could go in
and draw it up when you were practising.  But I didn't mean to do any
harm; and when Mrs. Florence was so mad, and changed your room, I was
real sorry," moaned Bella, digging her knuckles into her eyes.

"Won't you ever love me any more?" she demanded.  Katy lifted her into
her lap, and talked so tenderly and seriously that her contrition,
which was only half genuine, became real; and she cried in good
earnest when Katy kissed her in token of forgiveness.

"Of course you'll go at once to Mrs. Nipson," said Clover and Rose,
when Katy imparted this surprising discovery.

"No, I think not.  Why should I?  It would only get poor little Bella
into a dreadful scrape, and she's coming back again, you know.  Mrs.
Nipson does not believe that story now,--nobody does.  We had 'lived
it down,' just as I hope we should.  That is much better than having
it contradicted."

"I don't think so; and I should enjoy seeing that little wretch of a
Bella well whipped," persisted Rose.  But Katy was not to be shaken.

"To please me, promise that not a word shall be said about it," she
urged; and, to please her, the girls consented.

I think Katy was right in saying that Mrs. Nipson no longer believed
her guilty in the affair of the note.  She had been very friendly to
both the sisters of late; and when Clover carried in her album and
asked for an autograph, she waxed quite sentimental and wrote, "I
would not exchange the modest Clover for the most beautiful parterre,
so bring it back, I pray thee, to your affectionate teacher, Marianne
Nipson;" which effusion quite overwhelmed "the modest Clover," and
called out the remark from Rose,--"Don't she wish she may get you!"
Miss Jane said twice, "I shall miss you, Katy," a speech which, to
quote Rose again, made Katy look as "surprised as Balaam."  Rose
herself was not coming back to school.  She and the girls were half
broken-hearted at parting.  They lavished tears, kisses, promises of
letters, and vows of eternal friendship.  Neither of them, it was
agreed, was ever to love anybody else so well.  The final moment
would have been almost too tragical, had it not been for a last bit
of mischief on the part of Rose.  It was after the stage was actually
at the door, and she had her foot upon the step, that, struck by a
happy thought, she rushed upstairs again, collected the girls, and,
each taking a window, they tore down the cotton, flung open sashes,
and startled Mrs. Nipson, who stood below, by the simultaneous waving
therefrom of many white flags.  Katy, who was already in the stage,
had the full benefit of this performance.  Always after that, when
she thought of the Nunnery, her memory recalled this scene,--Mrs.
Nipson in the door-way, Bella blubbering behind, and overhead the
windows crowded with saucy girls, laughing and triumphantly flapping
the long cotton strips which had for so many months obscured the
daylight for them all.

At Springfield next morning she and Clover said good-by to Mr. Page
and Lilly.  The ride to Albany was easy and safe.  With every mile
their spirits rose.  At last they were actually on the way home.

At Albany they looked anxiously about the crowded depot for "Mr.
Peters."  Nobody appeared at first, and they had time to grow nervous
before they saw a gentle, careworn little man coming toward them in
company with the conductor.

"I believe you are the young ladies I have come to meet," he said.
"You must excuse my being late, I was detained by business.  There
is a great deal to do to move a family out West," he wiped his
forehead in a dispirited way.  Then he put the girls into a carriage,
and gave the driver a direction.

"We'd better leave your baggage at the office as we pass," he said,
"because we have to get off so early in the morning."

"How early?"

"The boat goes at six, but we ought to be on board by half-past five,
so as to be well settled before she starts."

"The boat?" said Katy, opening her eyes.

"Yes.  Erie Canal, you know.  Our furniture goes that way, so we
judged it best to do the same, and keep an eye on it ourselves.
Never be separated from your property, if you can help it, that's
my maxim.  It's the Prairie Belle,--one of the finest boats on the
Canal."

"When do we get to Buffalo?" asked Katy, with an uneasy recollection
of having heard that canal boats travel slowly.

"Buffalo?  Let me see.  This is Tuesday,--Wednesday, Thursday,--well,
if we're lucky we ought to be there Friday evening; so, if we're not
too late to catch the night boat on the lake, you'll reach home
Saturday afternoon."

Four days!  The girls looked at each other with dismay too deep for
words.  Elsie was expecting them by Thursday at latest.  What should
they do?

"Telegraph," was the only answer that suggested itself.  So Katy
scribbled a despatch, "Coming by canal.  Don't expect us till
Saturday," which she begged Mr. Peters to send; and she and Clover
agreed in whispers that it was dreadful, but they must bear it as
patiently as they could.

Oh, the patience which is needed on a canal!  The motion which is not
so much motion as standing still!  The crazy impulse to jump out and
help the crawling boat along by pushing it from behind!  How one grows
to hate the slow, monotonous glide, the dull banks, and to envy every
swift-moving thing in sight, each man on horseback, each bird flying
through the air.

Mrs. Peters was a thin, anxious woman, who spent her life anticipating
disasters of all sorts.  She had her children with her, three little
boys, and a teething baby; and such a load of bundles, and baskets,
and brown paper parcels, that Katy and Clover privately wondered how
she could possibly have got through the journey without their help.
Willy, the eldest boy, was always begging leave to go ashore and ride
the towing horses; Sammy, the second could only be kept quiet by means
of crooked pins and fish-lines of blue yarn; while Paul, the youngest,
was possessed with a curiosity as to the under side of the boat, which
resulted in his dropping his new hat overboard five times in three
days, Mr. Peters and the cabin-boy rowing back in a small boat each
time to recover it.  Mrs. Peters sat on deck with her baby in her lap,
and was in a perpetual agony lest the locks should work wrongly, or the
boys be drowned, or some one fail to notice the warning cry, "Bridge!"
and have their heads carried off from their shoulders.  Nobody did;
but the poor lady suffered the anguish of ten accidents in dreading
the one which never took place.  The berths at night were small and
cramped, restless children woke and cried, the cabins were close, the
decks cold and windy.  There was nothing to see, and nothing to do.
Katy and Clover agreed that they never wanted to see a canal boat
again.

They were very helpful to Mrs. Peters, amused the boys, and kept them
out of mischief; and she told her husband that she really thought she
shouldn't have lived through the journey if it hadn't been for the
Miss Carrs, they were such kind girls, and so fond of children.  But
the three days were terribly long.  At last they ended.  Buffalo was
reached in time for the lake boat; and once established on board,
feeling the rapid motion, and knowing that each stroke of the paddles
took them nearer home, the girls were rewarded for their long trial
of patience.

At four o'clock the next afternoon Burnet was in sight.  Long before
they touched the wharf Clover discovered old Whitey and the carryall,
and Alexander, waiting for them among the crowd of carriages.  Standing
on the edge of the dock appeared a well-known figure.

"Papa! papa!" she shrieked.  It seemed as if the girls could not wait
for the boat to stop, and the plank to be lowered.  How delightful it
was to feel papa again!  Such a sense of home and comfort and shelter
as came with his touch!

"I'll never go away from you again, never, never!" repeated Clover,
keeping tight hold of his hand as they drove up the hill.  Dr. Carr,
as he gazed at his girls, was equally happy,--they were so bright,
affectionate and loving.  No, he could  never spare them again, for
the boarding-school or any thing else, he thought.

"You must be very tired," he said.

"Not a bit.  I'm hardly ever tired now," replied Katy.

"Oh, dear! I forgot to thank Mr. Peters for taking care of us,"
said Clover.

"Never mind.  I did it for you," answered her father.

"Oh, that baby!" she continued: "how glad I am that it has gone to
Toledo, and I needn't hear it cry any more!  Katy!  Katy! there's
home!  We are at the gate!"

The girls looked eagerly out, but no children were visible.  They
hurried up the gravel path, under the locust boughs just beginning
to bud.  There, over the front door, was an arch of evergreens, with
"Katy" and "Clover" upon it in scarlet letters; and as they reached
the porch, the door flew open, and out poured the children in a
tumultuous little crowd.  They had been on the roof, looking through
a spy-glass after the boat.

"We never knew you had come till we heard the gate," explained John
and Dorry; while Elsie hugged Clover, and Phil, locking his arms
round Katy's neck, took his feet off the floor, and swung them in
and ecstasy of affection, until she begged for mercy.

"How you are grown!  Dorry, you're as tall as I am!  Elsie, darling,
how well you look!  Oh, isn't it delicious, delicious, delicious, to
be at home again!"  There was such a hubbub of endearments and
explanations that Dr. Carr could hardly make himself heard.

"Clover, your waist has grown as small as a pin.  You look just like
the beautiful princess in Elsie's story," said Johnnie.

"Take the girls into the parlor," repeated Dr. Carr: "it is cold out
here, with the door open."

"Take 'em upstairs!  You don't know what is upstairs!" shouted Phil,
whereupon Elsie frowned and shook her head at him.

The parlor was gay with daffodils and hyacinths, and vases of blue
violets, which smelt delightfully.  Cecy had helped to arrange them,
Elsie said.  And just at that moment Cecy herself came in.  Her hair
was arranged in a sort of pin-cushion of puffs, with a row of curls
on top, where no curls used to grow, and her appearance generally
was very fine and fashionable; but she was the same affectionate Cecy
as ever, and hugged the girls, and danced round them as she used to
do at twelve.  She had waited until they had had time to kiss once
all round, she said, and then she really couldn't wait any longer.

"Now come upstairs," suggested Elsie, when Clover had warmed her
feet, and the flowers had been admired, and everybody had said ten
times over how nice it was to have the girls back, and the girls
had replied that it was just as nice to come back.

So they all went upstairs, Elsie leading the way.

"Where are you going?" cried Katy: "that's the Blue Room."  But Elsie
did not pause.

"You see," she explained, with the door-knob in her hand, "papa and I
thought you ought to have a bigger room now, because you are grown-up
young ladies!  So we have fixed this for you, and your old one is going
to be the spare room instead."  The comparison is just, for while
Missouri has increased since 1810 in wealth and population, much
more rapidly than any of the Slave States, there are several Free
States whose relative advance has exceeded that of Illinois.

And isn't it a great deal pleasanter than the old room?"

"Oh, a great deal," cried the girls.  "It is delightful, every thing
about it."  All Katy's old treasures had been transferred from her old
quarters to this.  There was her cushioned chair, her table, her book-
shelf, the pictures from the walls.  There were some new things too,
--a blue carpet, blue paper on the walls, window curtains of fresh
chintz; and Elsie had made a tasteful pin-cushion for each bureau,
and Johnnie crocheted mats for the wash-stand.  Altogether, it was
as pretty a bower as two sisters just grown into ladies could desire.

"What are those lovely things hanging on either side of the bed?"
asked Clover.

They were two illuminated texts, sent as a "welcome home," by Cousin
Helen.  One was a morning text, and other an evening text, Elsie
explained.  The first thing a pilot did when he reached New Orleans
or St. Louis was to take his final and elaborate report to the association
parlors and hang it up there,--after which he was free to visit his
family. In these parlors a crowd was always gathered together,
discussing changes in the channel, and the moment there was a fresh
arrival, everybody stopped talking till this witness had told the
newest news and settled the latest uncertainty. Other craftsmen can
'sink the shop,' sometimes, and interest themselves in other
matters.The girls
thought they had never seen any thing so pretty.

Such a gay supper as they had that night!  Katy would not take her
old place at the tea-tray.  She wanted to know how Elsie looked as
housekeeper, she said.  So she sat on one side of papa, and Clover
on the other, and Elsie poured the tea, with a mixture of delight
and dignity which was worth seeing.

"I'll begin to-morrow," said Katy.

And with that morrow, when she came out of her pretty room and took
her place once more as manager of the household, her grown-up life
may be said to have begun.  So it is time that I should cease to
write about her.  Grown-up lives may be very interesting, but they
have no rightful place in a child's book.  If little girls will
forget to be little, and take it upon them to become young ladies,
they must bear the consequences, one of which is, that we can follow
their fortunes no longer.

   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .

Besides, the commerce of New York far surpasses that of Virginia, and
this is the branch of industry supposed to be affected most injuriously
by high tariffs, and New York has generally voted against them with
as much unanimity as Virginia.My little
goggle-eyed friends were discussing Katy and her conduct, as they did
then, but with less spirit; for one voice came seldom and faintly,
while the other, bold and defiant as ever, repeated over and over
again, "Katy didn't! Katy didn't!  She didn't, didn't, didn't"

"Katy did!" sounded faintly from the farther rush.

"She didn't, she didn't," chirped the undaunted partisan.  Silence
followed.  His opponent was either convinced or tired of the
discussion.

"Katy didn't."  Still, they made a show of keeping up the brag, until
one black day when every captain of the lot was formally ordered to
immediately discharge his outsiders and take association pilots in their
stead. And who was it that had the dashing presumption to do that?
!