On the following day I go to my peasants, and inquire whether that man
has arrived.  He has not been there; and in this way several men deceived
me.  And those also deceived me who said that they only required money
for a ticket in order to return home, and who chanced upon me again in
the street a week later.  Many of these I recognized, and they recognized
me, and sometimes, having forgotten me, they repeated the same trick on
me; and others, on catching sight of me, beat a retreat.  Thus I
perceived, that in the ranks of this class also deceivers existed.  But
these cheats were very pitiable creatures: all of them were but
half-clad, poverty-stricken, gaunt, sickly men; they were the very people
who really freeze to death, or hang themselves, as we learn from the
newspapers.


CHAPTER II.


When I mentioned this poverty of the town to inhabitants of the town,
they always said to me: "Oh, all that you have seen is nothing.  You
ought to see the Khitroff market-place, and the lodging-houses for the
night there.  There you would see a regular 'golden company.'" {21a}  One
jester told me that this was no longer a company, but a _golden
regiment_: so greatly had their numbers increased.  The jester was right,
but he would have been still more accurate if he had said that these
people now form in Moscow neither a company nor a regiment, but an entire
army, almost fifty thousand in number, I think.  [The old inhabitants,
when they spoke to me about the poverty in town, always referred to it
with a certain satisfaction, as though pluming themselves over me,
because they knew it.  I remember that when I was in London, the old
inhabitants there also rather boasted when they spoke of the poverty of
London.  The case is the same with us.] {21b}

And I wanted to have a sight of this poverty of which I had been told.
Several times I set out in the direction of the Khitroff market-place,
but on every occasion I began to feel uncomfortable and ashamed.  "Why am
I going to gaze on the sufferings of people whom I cannot help?" said one
voice.  "No, if you live here, and see all the charms of city life, go
and view this also," said another voice.  In December three years ago,
therefore, on a cold and windy day, I betook myself to that centre of
poverty, the Khitroff market-place.  This was at four o'clock in the
afternoon of a week-day.  As I passed through the Solyanka, I already
began to see more and more people in old garments which had not
originally belonged to them, and in still stranger foot-gear, people with
a peculiar, unhealthy hue of countenance, and especially with a singular
indifference to every thing around them, which was peculiar to them all.
A man in the strangest of all possible attire, which was utterly unlike
any thing else, walked along with perfect unconcern, evidently without a
thought of the appearance which he must present to the eyes of others.
All these people were making their way towards a single point.  Without
inquiring the way, with which I was not acquainted, I followed them, and
came out on the Khitroff market-place.  On the market-place, women both
old and young, of the same description, in tattered cloaks and jackets of
various shapes, in ragged shoes and overshoes, and equally unconcerned,
notwithstanding the hideousness of their attire, sat, bargained for
something, strolled about, and scolded.  There were not many people in
the market itself.  Evidently market-hours were over, and the majority of
the people were ascending the rise beyond the market and through the
place, all still proceeding in one direction.  I followed them.  The
farther I advanced, the greater in numbers were the people of this sort
who flowed together on one road.  Passing through the market-place and
proceeding along the street, I overtook two women; one was old, the other
young.