"We'll do it!" cried Mr. Winton. "The very first half day I can spare,
we'll do it. And you Douglas, you will want to come with us, of course."

"Why, 'of course,'" laughed Leslie.

"Because he started the expedition with his golden slippers. In January,
1829, the Sultan received a protocol from the three allied powers, declaring
that they took the Morea and the Cyc'lades under their protection, and that
the entry of any military force into Greece would be regarded as
an attack upon themselves.

The danger of open war with France and England, as well as the successes
and alarming advances of the Russians, now commanded by Marshal
Die'bitsch, who had meantime taken Adrianople, within one hundred
and thirty miles of the Turkish capital, induced the Sultan to
listen to overtures of peace; and on the 14th of September "the
peace of Adrianople" was signed by Turkey and Russia, by which the
former recognized the independence of Greece

.

* * * * *
VI. GREECE UNDER A CONSTITUTIONAL MONARCHY.

Though freed from her Turkish oppressors, Greece was severely agitated
by domestic discontents, jealousies, and even manifest turbulence.

Count Cä'po d'Is'tria, a Greek in the service of Russia, who had been
chosen, in 1828, president of the provisional government, aroused
suspicions that he designed to establish a despotism in his own
person, and he was assassinated in 1831.

A period of anarchy followed. The great powers had previously determined
to erect Greece into a monarchy, and had first offered the crown to Prince
Leopold, afterward King of Belgium, who, having accepted the offer,
soon after declined it on account of the unwillingness of the Greeks
to receive him, and their dissatisfaction with the territorial
boundaries prescribed for them.

Finally, the boundaries of the kingdom having been more satisfactorily
determined by a treaty between Turkey and the powers in 1832, the
crown was conferred on Otho, a Bavarian prince, who arrived at
Nauplia, the then capital of Greece, in 1833.

Athens became the seat of government in 1835.

Says a writer in the British Quarterly, "The Greeks neither elected
their own sovereign nor chose their national polity.

In a spirit of generous confidence they allowed the three protecting powers
to name a king for them, and the powers rewarded them by making the worst
selection they could. They gave the Greeks a boy of seventeen, with neither
a character to form nor an intellect to develop."
The treaty by which Otho was placed on the throne made no provision for
a constitution, but one was expected; and, after ten years of oppressive
subjection by the king and his Bavarian minions, both the people
and a revolted soldiery surrounded the palace, and demanded a
constitution.

"If I remember I have seen the slippers in
common earth quite a distance from the lake, while the moccasins demand
bog moss, water and swamp mists and dampness."

"I have seen slippers in the woods myself," said Leslie. "I think the
conservatory will do, so they shall go there right now. I have to be fair
to 'Minnie.'"

"Let me carry them for you," offered Douglas, arising.

"'Scuse us. Back in a second, Daddy," said Leslie. "I am interested,
excited and eager to make the test, yet in a sense I do not like it."

"But why?" asked Douglas.

"Can't you see?" countered Leslie.

"No," said Douglas.

"It's shifting my sense of possession," explained the girl. "The slippers
are no longer my beautiful gift from you. They are perishable things that
belong to an Indian squaw. In justice to her, I have to keep them in
perfect condition so that my work may not surpass hers with the
unspeakable art of flower freshness; while instead of thinking them the
loveliest thing in the world, I will now lie awake half the night, no
doubt, studying what I can possibly find that is more beautiful."

Douglas Bruce opened his slow lips, taking a step in her direction.

"Dinner is served," announced her father. He looked inquiringly toward his
daughter. She turned to Douglas.

"Unless you have a previous engagement, you will dine with us, won't you?"
she asked.

"I should be delighted," he said heartily.

When the meal was over and they had returned to the veranda, Leslie
listened quietly while the men talked, most of the time, but when she did
speak, what she said proved that she always had listened to and taken part
in the discussions of men, until she understood and could speak of
business or politics intelligently.

"Have you ever considered an official position, Douglas?" inquired Mr.
Winton. "I have an office within my gift, or so nearly so that I can
control it, and it seems to me that you would be a good man. Surely we
could work together in harmony."

"It never has appealed to me that I wanted work of that nature," answered
Douglas. "It's unusually kind of you to think of me, and make the offer,
but I am satisfied with what I am doing, while there is a steady increase
in my business that gives me confidence."

"What's your objection to office?" asked Mr. Winton.

"That it takes your time from your work," answered Douglas. "That it
changes the nature of your work. That if you let the leaders of a party
secure you a nomination, and the party elect you, you are bound to their
principles, at least there is a tacit understanding that you are, and if
you should happen to be afflicted with principles of your own, then you
have got to sacrifice them."

"'Afflict' is a good word in this instance," said Mr. Winton. "It is
painful to a man of experience to see you young fellows of such great
promise come up and 'kick' yourself half to death 'against the pricks' of
established business, parties, and customs, but half of you do it. In the
end all of you come limping in, poor, disheartened, defeated, and then
swing to the other extreme, by being so willing for a change you'll take
almost anything, and so the dirty jobs naturally fall to you."

"I grant much of that," Douglas said, in his deliberate way, "but happily
I have sufficient annual income from my father's estate to enable me to
live until I become acquainted in a strange city, and have time to
establish the kind of business I should care to handle. I am thinking of
practising corporation law; I specialized in that, so I may have the
pleasure before so very long of going after some of the men who do what
you so aptly term the 'dirty' jobs."

"A repetition of the customary chorus," said Mr. Winton, "differing only
in that it is a little more emphatic than usual. I predict that you will
become an office-holder, having party affiliations, inside ten years."

"Possibly," said Douglas. "But I'll promise you this: it will be a new
office no man ever before has held, in the gift of a party not now in
existence."

"Oh you dreamers!" cried Mr. Winton. "What a wonderful thing it is to be
young and setting out to reform the world, especially on a permanent
income. That's where you surpass most reformers."

"But I said nothing about reform," corrected Douglas. "I said I was
thinking of corporation law."

"I'm accustomed to it; while you wouldn't scare Leslie if you said
'reform,'" remarked Mr. Winton. "She's a reformer herself, you know."

"But only sweat-shops, child labour, civic improvement, preservation of
the wild, and things like that!" cried Leslie so quickly and eagerly, that
both men laughed.

"God be praised!" exclaimed her father.

"God be _fervently_ praised!" echoed her lover.

Before she retired Leslie visited the slippers.

"I'd like to know," she said softly, as she touched a bronze striped
calyx, "I'd like to know how I am to penetrate your location, and find and
fashion anything to outdo you and the squaw, you wood creatures you!" Then
she bent above the flowers and whispered: "Tuck this in the toe of your
slipper! Three times to-night it was in his eyes, and on his tongue, but
his slowness let the moment pass. I can 'bide a wee' for my Scotsman, I
can bide forever, if I must; for it's he only, and no other."

The moccasins soon had been ground to pulp and carried away on a non-skid
tire while at three o'clock in the morning a cross, dishevelled society
woman, in passing from her dressing room to her bed, stumbled over the
osier basket, kicking it from her way.


CHAPTER III


_S.O.S._


Mickey, his responsibility weighing upon him, slept lightly and awakened
early, his first thought of Peaches. He slipped into his clothing and
advancing peered at her through the grayness. His heart beat wildly.

"Aw you poor kid! You poor little kid!" he whispered to himself as he had
fallen into the habit of doing for company. "The scaring, the jolting, the
scouring, and everything were too much for you. You've gone sure! You're
just like them at the morgue. Aw Peaches! I didn't mean to hurt you,
Peaches! I was _trying_ to be good to you. Honest I was, Peaches! Aw----!"

As his fright increased Mickey raised his voice until his last wail
reached the consciousness of the sleeping child. She stirred slightly, her
head moving on the pillow. Mickey almost fell, so great was his relief. He
stepped closer, gazing in awe. The sheared hair had dried in the night,
tumbling into a hundred golden ringlets. The tiny clean face was white, so
white that the blue of the closed eyes showed darkly through the lids, the
blue veins streaked the temples and the little claws lying relaxed on the
sheet. Mickey slowly broke up inside. A big, hard lump grew in his throat.
He shut his lips tight and bored the tears from his eyes with his wiry
fists. He began to mutter his thoughts to regain self-control.

"Gee kid, but you had me scared to the limit!" he said. "I thought you
were gone, sure. Honest I did! Ain't I glad though! But you're the whitest
thing! You're like----I'll tell you what you're like. You're like the lily
flowers in the store windows at Easter. You're white like them, and your
hair is the little bit of gold decorating them. If I'd known it was like
that I wouldn't a-cut it if I'd spent a month untangling it. Honest I
wouldn't, kid! I'm awful sorry! Gee, but it would a-been pretty spread
over mother's pillow."

Mickey gazed, worshipped and rejoiced as he bent lower from time to time
to watch the fluttering breath.

"You're so clean now you just smell good; but I got to go easy. The dirt
covered you so I didn't see how sick you were. You'll go out like a
candle, that's what you'll do. I mustn't let even the wind blow cold on
you. I couldn't stand it if I was to hurt you. I'd just go and lay down
before the cars or jump down an elevator hole. Gee, I'm glad I found you!
I wouldn't trade you for the smartest dog that's being rode around in the
parks. Nor for the parks! Nor the trees! Nor the birds! Nor the buildings!
Nor the swimming places! Nor the automobiles! Nor nothing! Not nothing you
could mention at all! Not eating! Nor seeing! Nor having! Not no single
thing--nothing at all--Lily!

"Lily!" he repeated. "Little snow white lily! Peaches is a good name for
you if you're referring to sweetness, but it doesn't fit for colour. Least
I never saw none white. Lily fits you better. If you'd been a dog, I was
going to name you Partner. But you're mine just as much as if you was a
dog, so I'll name you if I want to. Lily! That's what God made you; that's
what I'm going to call you."

The God thought, evoked by creation, remained in Mickey's heart. He
glanced at the sky clearing from the graying mists of morning, while the
rumble of the streets came up to him in a dull roar.

"O God, I guess I been forgetting my praying some, since mother went. I'd
nothing but myself and I ain't worth bothering You about. But O God, if
You are going to do any _big_ things to-day, why not do some for Lily?
Can't be many that needs it more. If You saw her yesterday, You must see
if You'll look down now, that she's better off, she's worlds better off.
Wonder if You sent me to get her, so she would be better off. Gee, why
didn't You send one of them millyingaires who could a-dressed her up, fed
her and took her to the country where the sun would shine on her. Ain't
never touched her, I bet a liberty-bird. But if You did the sending, You
sent just me, so she's _my_ job, an' I'll do her! But I wish You'd help
me, or send me help, O God. It's an awful job to tackle all alone, for I'm
going to be scared stiff if she gets sick. I can tell by how I felt when I
thought she was gone. So if You sent me God, it's up to You to help me.
Come on now! If You see the sparrows when they fall, You jest good
naturedly ought to see Lily Peaches, 'cause she's always been down, and
she can't ever get up, unless we can help her. Help me all You can O God,
and send me help to help her all I can, 'cause she can use all the help
she can get, and then some! Amen!"

Mickey took one of Peaches' hands in his.

"I ain't the time now, but to-night I got to cut your nails and clean
them, then I guess you'll do to start on," he said as he squeezed the
hand. "Lily! Lily Peaches, wake up! It's morning now. I got to go out with
the papers to earn supper to-night. Wake up! I must wash you and feed you
'fore I go."

Peaches opened her eyes, drawing back startled.

"Easy now!" cautioned Mickey. "Easy now! Don't be scared. Nobody can 'get'
you here! What you want for breakfast, Flowersy-girl? Little Lily white."

An adorable smile illumined the tiny face at the first kindly awakening it
ever had known.

"_You_ won't let them 'get' me, will you?" she triumphed.

"You know it!" he answered conclusively. "Now I'll wash your face, cook
your breakfast, and fix you at the window where maybe you can see birds
going across. Think of that, Lily! Birds!"

"My name's Peaches!" said the child.

"So 'tis!" said Mickey. "But since you arrived to such bettered
conditions, you got to be a lady of fashion. Now Peaches, every single kid
in the Park is named _two_ names, these days. Fellow can't have a foot
race for falling over Mary Elizabeths, and Louisa Ellens. I can't do so
much just to start on, 'cause I can't earn the boodle; fast as I get it,
you're going to line up; but nachally, just at starting you must begin on
the things that are not expensive. Now names don't cost anything, so I can
be giving you six if I like, and you are a lily, so right now I'm naming
you Lily, but two's the style; keep your Peaches, if it suits you. Lily
just flies out of my mouth when I look at you."

This was wonderful. No cursing! No beating! No wailing over a lame-back
brat to feed. Mickey _liked_ to give her breakfast! Mickey named her for
the wonderful flower like granny had picked up before a church one day, a
few weeks ago and in a rare sober moment had carried to her. Mickey had
made her feel clean, so rested, and so fresh she wanted to roll over the
bed. With child impulse she put up her arms. Mickey stooped to them.

"You goin' to have two names too," she said. "You gotter be fash'nable. I
ist love you for everythin', washin', an' breakfast, an' the bed, an'
winder, an' off the floor; oh I just love you _sick_ for the winder, an'
off the floor. You going to be"--she paused in a deep study to think of a
word anywhere nearly adequate, then ended in a burst that was her best
emanation--"lovest! Mickey-lovest!"

She hugged him closely, then lifted her chin and pursed her lips. Mickey
pulled back, a dull colour in his face.

"Now nix on the mushing!" he said. "I'll stand for a hug once a day, but
nix on the smear!"

"You'd let a dog," she whimpered. "I ain't kissed nothin' since granny
sold the doll a lady gave me the time we went to the doctor's, an' took
the money to get drunk on, an' beat me more'n I needed for a change,
'cause I cried for it. I think you might!"

"Aw well, go on then, if you're going to bawl," said Mickey, "but put it
there!"

He stepped as far back as he could, leaned over, and swept the hair from
his forehead, which he brought in range of her lips. He had to brace
himself to keep from flinching at their cold touch and straightened in
relief.

"Now that's over!" he said briskly. "I'll wash you, and get your
breakfast."

"You do a lot of washin', don't you?" inquired Peaches.

"You want the sleep out of your eyes," coaxed Mickey.

He brought the basin and a cloth, washing the child's face and hands
gently as was in his power.

"Flowersy-girl," he said, "if you'd looked last night like you do this
morning, I'd never tackled getting you here in the world. I'd thought
you'd break sure."

"G'wan kid," she said. "I can stand a lot. I been knocked round somepin
awful. She dragged me by one hand or the hair when she was tight, and
threw me in a corner an' took the"--Peaches glanced over the bed, refusing
to call her former estate by the same name--"took the _place_ herself. You
ain't hurting me. You can jerk me a lot."

"I guess you've been jerked enough, Lily Peaches," he said. "I guess
jerkin' ain't going to help your back any. I think we better be easy with
it 'til we lay up the money to Carrel it. He put different legs on a dog,
course he can put a new back on you."

"Dogs doesn't count only with rich folks 'at rides 'em, an' feeds 'em
cake; but where'll you find 'nother girl 'at ull spare her back for me,
Mickey-lovest?" asked Peaches.

"Gee, Lily!" he cried. "I didn't _think_ of that--I wish I hadn't promised
you. Course he could _change_ the backs, but where'd I get one. I'll just
have to let him take mine."

"I don't want no boy's back!" flashed Peaches. "I won't go out an' sell
papers, an' wash you, an' feed you, an' let you stay here in this nice
bed. I don't want no new back, grand like it is here. --Search her well,
mistress Upstill, but show her no rudeness, for she hath the power
to avenge it in a parlous manner, having gone to school to my lord
Herbert of Raglan.

Not the less must thou search her well, else will I look upon thee as
no better than one of the malignants.'
The woman cast a glance of something very like hate, but mingled with
fear, upon Dorothy.

'I like not the business, captain Heywood,' she said.

'Yet the business must be done, mistress Upstill. And hark'ee, for every
paper thou findest upon her, I will give thee its weight in gold.

I care not what it is. Bring it hither, and the dame's butter-scales
withal.'

'I warrant thee, captain!' she returned. '--Come with me, mistress,
and show what thou hast about thee. But, good sooth, I would the sun
were up!'
She led the way to the rick-yard, and round towards the sunrise. It was
the month of August, and several new ricks already stood facing the east,
yellow, and beginning to glow like a second dawn. Between the two, mistress
Upstill began her search, which she made more thorough than agreeable.
Dorothy submitted without complaint.

At last, as she was giving up the quest in despair, her eyes or her
fingers discovered a little opening inside the prisoner bodice, and
there sure enough was a pocket, and in the pocket a slip of paper!

She drew it out in triumph.

'That is nothing,' said Dorothy: 'give it me.' And with flushed face she
made a snatch at it.

'Holy Mary!' cried dame Upstill, whose protestantism was of doubtful date,
and thrust the paper into her own bosom.

'That paper hath nothing to do with state affairs, I protest,'
expostulated Dorothy.

'I will give thee ten times its weight in gold for it.'

But mistress Upstill had other passions besides avarice, and was not
greatly tempted by the offer.

She took Dorothy by the arm, and said,

'An' thou come not quickly, I will cry that all the parish shall hear
me.'

'I tell thee, mistress Upstill, on the oath of a Christian woman, it is
but a private letter of mine own, and beareth nothing upon affairs.

Prithee read a word or two, and satisfy thyself.'
'Nay, mistress, truly I will pry into no secrets that belong not to me,'
said the searcher, who could read no word of writing or print either.
'This paper is no longer thine, and mine it never was. It belongeth to
the high court of parliament, and goeth straight to captain Heywood--whom
I will inform concerning the bribe wherewith thou didst seek to corrupt
the conscience of a godly woman.'
Dorothy saw there was no help, and yielded to the grasp of the dame,
who led her like a culprit, with burning cheek, back to her judge.

When Richard saw them his heart sank within him.

'What hast thou found?' he asked gruffly.

'I have found that which young mistress here would have had me cover with a
bribe of ten times that your honour promised me for it,' answered the
woman.

'She had it in her bosom, hid in a pocket little bigger than a crown-piece,
inside her bodice.'

'Ha, mistress Dorothy! is this true?'

asked Richard, turning on her a face of distress.

'It is true,' answered Dorothy, with downcast eyes--far more ashamed
however, of that which had not been discovered, and which might
have justified Richard's look, than of that which he now held in
his hand.

'Prithee,' she added, 'do not read it till I am gone.'
'That may hardly be,' returned Richard, almost sullenly. 'Upon this paper
it may depend whether thou go at all.'
'Believe me, Richard, it hath no importance,' she said, and her blushes
deepened. 'I would thou wouldst believe me.'
But as she said it, her conscience smote her.
Richard returned no answer, neither did he open the paper, but stood
with his eyes fixed on the ground.
Dorothy meantime strove to quiet her conscience, saying to herself:
'It matters not; I must marry him one day--an' he will now have
me.
Hath not the woman told him where the silly paper was hid?Mickey-lovest, please, please put
me back on the nice fine bed, an' do please give me some of that bread."

Mickey lifted her, crooning incoherent things. He wiped her face and
hands, combed her hair, and pushed the table against the bed. He broke
toast in a glass and poured milk over it. Then he cooked the egg and gave
her that, keeping only half the milk and one slice of bread. He made a
sandwich of more bread, and the cheese, put a banana with it, set a cup of
water in reach, and told her that was her lunch; to eat it when the noon
whistles blew. Then he laid all the picture books he had on the back of
the bed, put the money for his papers in his pocket, and locking her in,
ran down Sunrise Alley fast as he could.

He was one hour late. I get a bill and that's all there is to it. There
might be a freight out of Slopson to-morrow or the next day, and then
again, there might not. You could come near sending the whole of Slopson
by Parcels Post. I've heard about you kids and I've got word to
look after you.How would he make it? He had her now, he simply must succeed. The day was
half over before Mickey began to laugh for no apparent reason. He had
realized that she had not said what he had required of her, after all.

"Gee, I'm up against it," said Mickey. "I didn't s'pose she'd act like
that! I thought she'd keep on being like when she woke up. I never behaved
like that."

