Produced by David Widger


GUY DE MAUPASSANT

ORIGINAL SHORT STORIES

Translated by
ALBERT M. C. McMASTER, B.A.
A. E. HENDERSON, B.A.
MME. QUESADA and Others


VOLUME VII.


THE FALSE GEMS
FASCINATION
YVETTE SAMORIS
A VENDETTA
MY TWENTY-FIVE DAYS
"THE TERROR"
LEGEND OF MONT ST. MICHEL
A NEW YEAR'S GIFT
FRIEND PATIENCE
ABANDONED
THE MAISON TELLIER
DENIS
MY WIFE
THE UNKNOWN
THE APPARITION


THE FALSE GEMS

Monsieur Lantin had met the young girl at a reception at the house of the
second head of his department, and had fallen head over heels in love
with her.

She was the daughter of a provincial tax collector, who had been dead
several years. She and her mother came to live in Paris, where the
latter, who made the acquaintance of some of the families in her
neighborhood, hoped to find a husband for her daughter.

They had very moderate means, and were honorable, gentle, and quiet.

The young girl was a perfect type of the virtuous woman in whose hands
every sensible young man dreams of one day intrusting his happiness. Her
simple beauty had the charm of angelic modesty, and the imperceptible
smile which constantly hovered about the lips seemed to be the reflection
of a pure and lovely soul. Her praises resounded on every side. People
never tired of repeating: "Happy the man who wins her love! He could not
find a better wife."

Monsieur Lantin, then chief clerk in the Department of the Interior,
enjoyed a snug little salary of three thousand five hundred francs, and
he proposed to this model young girl, and was accepted.

He was unspeakably happy with her. She governed his household with such
clever economy that they seemed to live in luxury. She lavished the most
delicate attentions on her husband, coaxed and fondled him; and so great
was her charm that six years after their marriage, Monsieur Lantin
discovered that he loved his wife even more than during the first days of
their honeymoon.

He found fault with only two of her tastes: Her love for the theatre, and
her taste for imitation jewelry. Her friends (the wives of some petty
officials) frequently procured for her a box at the theatre, often for
the first representations of the new plays; and her husband was obliged
to accompany her, whether he wished it or not, to these entertainments
which bored him excessively after his day's work at the office.

After a time, Monsieur Lantin begged his wife to request some lady of her
acquaintance to accompany her, and to bring her home after the theatre.
She opposed this arrangement, at first; but, after much persuasion,
finally consented, to the infinite delight of her husband.

Now, with her love for the theatre, came also the desire for ornaments.
Her costumes remained as before, simple, in good taste, and always
modest; but she soon began to adorn her ears with huge rhinestones, which
glittered and sparkled like real diamonds. Around her neck she wore
strings of false pearls, on her arms bracelets of imitation gold, and
combs set with glass jewels.

Her husband frequently remonstrated with her, saying:

"My dear, as you cannot afford to buy real jewelry, you ought to appear
adorned with your beauty and modesty alone, which are the rarest
ornaments of your sex."

But she would smile sweetly, and say:

"What can I do? I am so fond of jewelry. It is my only weakness. We
cannot change our nature."

Then she would wind the pearl necklace round her fingers, make the facets
of the crystal gems sparkle, and say:

"Look! are they not lovely? One would swear they were real."

Monsieur Lantin would then answer, smilingly:

"You have bohemian tastes, my dear."

Sometimes, of an evening, when they were enjoying a tete-a-tote by the
fireside, she would place on the tea table the morocco leather box
containing the "trash," as Monsieur Lantin called it. She would examine
the false gems with a passionate attention, as though they imparted some
deep and secret joy; and she often persisted in passing a necklace around
her husband's neck, and, laughing heartily, would exclaim: "How droll you
look!" Then she would throw herself into his arms, and kiss him
affectionately.

One evening, in winter, she had been to the opera, and returned home
chilled through and through. The next morning she coughed, and eight days
later she died of inflammation of the lungs.

Monsieur Lantin's despair was so great that his hair became white in one
month. He wept unceasingly; his heart was broken as he remembered her
smile, her voice, every charm of his dead wife.

Time did not assuage his grief. Often, during office hours, while his
colleagues were discussing the topics of the day, his eyes would suddenly
fill with tears, and he would give vent to his grief in heartrending
sobs. Everything in his wife's room remained as it was during her
lifetime; all her furniture, even her clothing, being left as it was on
the day of her death. Here he was wont to seclude himself daily and think
of her who had been his treasure-the joy of his existence.

But life soon became a struggle. His income, which, in the hands of his
wife, covered all household expenses, was now no longer sufficient for
his own immediate wants; and he wondered how she could have managed to
buy such excellent wine and the rare delicacies which he could no longer
procure with his modest resources.

He incurred some debts, and was soon reduced to absolute poverty. One
morning, finding himself without a cent in his pocket, he resolved to
sell something, and immediately the thought occurred to him of disposing
of his wife's paste jewels, for he cherished in his heart a sort of
rancor against these "deceptions," which had always irritated him in the
past. The very sight of them spoiled, somewhat, the memory of his lost
darling.

To the last days of her life she had continued to make purchases,
bringing home new gems almost every evening, and he turned them over some
time before finally deciding to sell the heavy necklace, which she seemed
to prefer, and which, he thought, ought to be worth about six or seven
francs; for it was of very fine workmanship, though only imitation.

He put it in his pocket, and started out in search of what seemed a
reliable jeweler's shop. At length he found one, and went in, feeling a
little ashamed to expose his misery, and also to offer such a worthless
article for sale.

"Sir," said he to the merchant, "I would like to know what this is
worth."

The man took the necklace, examined it, called his clerk, and made some
remarks in an undertone; he then put the ornament back on the counter,
and looked at it from a distance to judge of the effect.

Monsieur Lantin, annoyed at all these ceremonies, was on the point of
saying: "Oh! I know well 'enough it is not worth anything," when the
jeweler said: "Sir, that necklace is worth from twelve to fifteen
thousand francs; but I could not buy it, unless you can tell me exactly
where it came from."

The widower opened his eyes wide and remained gaping, not comprehending
the merchant's meaning. There was a report of Duke Pasquier that
he was a man of profound egoism. Hence an argument arose, and was warmly
sustained, upon the excessive selfishness of those who, in a world
of troubles, and calls to action, and innumerable duties, husband
their strength for the sake of living on.

Can it be possible, the argument ran, for a truly generous heart to
continue beating up to the age of a hundred?

Duke Pasquier was not without his defenders, who likened him to the oak
of the forest--a venerable comparison.

The argument was conducted on both sides with spirit and earnestness,
lightened here and there by frisky touches of the polysyllabic
playful, reminding one of the serious pursuit of their fun by truant
boys, that are assured they are out of the eye of their master, and
now and then indulge in an imitation of him.

And well might it be supposed that the Comic idea was asleep, not
overlooking them!

It resolved at last to this, that either Duke Pasquier was a scandal
on our humanity in clinging to life so long, or that he honoured
it by so sturdy a resistance to the enemy.

As one who has entangled himself in a labyrinth is glad to get out
again at the entrance, the argument ran about to conclude with its
commencement.

Now, imagine a master of the Comic treating this theme, and particularly
the argument on it. Imagine an Aristophanic comedy of THE CENTENARIAN,
with choric praises of heroical early death, and the same of a
stubborn vitality, and the poet laughing at the chorus; and the
grand question for contention in dialogue, as to the exact age when
a man should die, to the identical minute, that he may preserve the
respect of his fellows, followed by a systematic attempt to make
an accurate measurement in parallel lines, with a tough rope-yarn
by one party, and a string of yawns by the other, of the veteran's
power of enduring life, and our capacity for enduring _him_, with
tremendous pulling on both sides.

Would not the Comic view of the discussion illumine it and the
disputants like very lightning?

There are questions, as well as persons, that only the Comic
can fitly touch.

Aristophanes would probably have crowned the ancient tree, with the
consolatory observation to the haggard line of long-expectant heirs
of the Centenarian, that they live to see the blessedness of coming
of a strong stock.

The shafts of his ridicule would mainly have been aimed at the
disputants.

For the sole ground of the argument was the old man's character, and
sophists are not needed to demonstrate that we can very soon have too
much of a bad thing.

A Centenarian does not necessarily provoke the Comic idea, nor does
the corpse of a duke. It is not provoked in the order of nature, until
we draw its penetrating attentiveness to some circumstance with
which we have been mixing our private interests, or our speculative
obfuscation.

Dulness, insensible to the Comic, has the privilege of arousing it; and
the laying of a dull finger on matters of human life is the surest
method of establishing electrical communications with a battery of
laughter--where the Comic idea is prevalent.

But if the Comic idea prevailed with us, and we had an Aristophanes to
barb and wing it, we should be breathing air of Athens.

Prosers now pouring forth on us like public fountains would be cut
short in the street and left blinking, dumb as pillar-posts, with letters
thrust into their mouths.

We should throw off incubus, our dreadful familiar--by some called
boredom--whom it is our present humiliation to be just alive enough
to loathe, never quick enough to foil.

There would be a bright and positive, clear Hellenic perception of facts.
The vapours of Unreason and Sentimentalism would be blown away
before they were productive. Where would Pessimist and Optimist
be? They would in any case have a diminished audience. Yet possibly
the change of despots, from good-natured old obtuseness to keen-edged
intelligence, which is by nature merciless, would be more than we could
bear. The rupture of the link between dull people, consisting in
the fraternal agreement that something is too clever for them, and a shot
beyond them, is not to be thought of lightly; for, slender though
the link may seem, it is equivalent to a cement forming a concrete
of dense cohesion, very desirable in the estimation of the statesman.

A political Aristophanes, taking advantage of his lyrical Bacchic licence,
was found too much for political Athens. I would not ask to have him
revived, but that the sharp light of such a spirit as his might be
with us to strike now and then on public affairs, public themes, to make
them spin along more briskly.

He hated with the politician's fervour the sophist who corrupted
simplicity of thought, the poet who destroyed purity of style, the
demagogue, 'the saw-toothed monster,' who, as he conceived, chicaned
the mob, and he held his own against them by strength of laughter,
until fines, the curtailing of his Comic licence in the chorus, and
ultimately the ruin of Athens, which could no longer support the
expense of the chorus, threw him altogether on dialogue, and brought
him under the law.

After the catastrophe, the poet, who had ever been gazing back at the men
of Marathon and Salamis, must have felt that he had foreseen it; and
that he was wise when he pleaded for peace, and derided military
coxcombry, and the captious old creature Demus, we can admit.

He had the Comic poet's gift of common-sense--which does not always
include political intelligence; yet his political tendency raised him
above the Old Comedy turn for uproarious farce.

He abused Socrates, but Xenophon, the disciple of Socrates, by his trained
rhetoric saved the Ten Thousand.
Aristophanes might say that if his warnings had been followed
there would have been no such thing as a mercenary Greek expedition
under Cyrus.

Athens, however, was on a landslip, falling; none could arrest it.
To gaze back, to uphold the old times, was a most natural conservatism,
and fruitless.

The aloe had bloomed. Whether right or wrong in his politics and his
criticisms, and bearing in mind the instruments he played on and the
audience he had to win, there is an idea in his comedies: it is
the Idea of Good Citizenship.

He is not likely to be revived.

He stands, like Shakespeare, an unapproachable. Swift says of him,
with a loving chuckle:

'But as for Comic Aristophanes, The dog too witty and too profane is.'

Aristophanes was 'profane,' under satiric direction, unlike his
rivals Cratinus, Phrynichus, Ameipsias, Eupolis, and others, if
we are to believe him, who in their extraordinary Donnybrook Fair
of the day of Comedy, thumped one another and everybody else with
absolute heartiness, as he did, but aimed at small game, and dragged
forth particular women, which he did not.

He is an aggregate of many men, all of a certain greatness.

We may build up a conception of his powers if we mount Rabelais upon
Hudibras, lift him with the songfulness of Shelley, give him a
vein of Heinrich Heine, and cover him with the mantle of the Anti-
Jacobin, adding (that there may be some Irish in him) a dash of
Grattan, before he is in motion.

But such efforts at conceiving one great one by incorporation of
minors are vain, and cry for excuse. Supposing Wilkes for leading man
in a country constantly plunging into war under some plumed Lamachus,
with enemies periodically firing the land up to the gates
of London, and a Samuel Foote, of prodigious genius, attacking him
with ridicule, I think it gives a notion of the conflict engaged
in by Aristophanes.

This laughing bald-pate, as he calls himself, was a Titanic
pamphleteer, using laughter for his political weapon; a laughter
without scruple, the laughter of Hercules.

He was primed with wit, as with the garlic he speaks of giving to
the game-cocks, to make them fight the better.

And he was a lyric poet of aerial delicacy, with the homely song
of a jolly national poet, and a poet of such feeling that the comic
mask is at times no broader than a cloth on a face to show the
serious features of our common likeness.

He is not to be revived; but if his method were studied, some of
the fire in him would come to us, and we might be revived.

Taking them generally, the English public are most in sympathy with
this primitive Aristophanic comedy, wherein the comic is capped by the
grotesque, irony tips the wit, and satire is a naked sword. They have
the basis of the Comic in them: an esteem for common-sense.

They cordially dislike the reverse of it.

They have a rich laugh, though it is not the _gros rire_ of the Gaul
tossing _gros sel_, nor the polished Frenchman's mentally digestive
laugh.

And if they have now, like a monarch with a troop of dwarfs, too many
jesters kicking the dictionary about, to let them reflect that
they are dull, occasionally, like the pensive monarch surprising
himself with an idea of an idea of his own, they look so.

And they are given to looking in the glass. They must see that something
ails them. How much even the better order of them will endure,
without a thought of the defensive, when the person afflicting
them is protected from satire, we read in Memoirs of a Preceding
Age, where the vulgarly tyrannous hostess of a great house of
reception shuffled the guests and played them like a pack of cards,
with her exact estimate of the strength of each one printed on them:
and still this house continued to be the most popular in England;
nor did the lady ever appear in print or on the boards as the comic
type that she was.

It has been suggested that they have not yet spiritually comprehended the
signification of living in society; for who are cheerfuller, brisker of
wit, in the fields, and as explorers, colonisers, backwoodsmen?

They are happy in rough exercise, and also in complete repose. The
intermediate condition, when they are called upon to talk to one
another, upon other than affairs of business or their hobbies,
reveals them wearing a curious look of vacancy, as it were the
socket of an eye wanting.

The Comic is perpetually springing up in social life, and, it oppresses
them from not being perceived.

Thus, at a dinner-party, one of the guests, who happens to have enrolled
himself in a Burial Company, politely entreats the others to inscribe
their names as shareholders, expatiating on the advantages accruing to
them in the event of their very possible speedy death, the salubrity
of the site, the aptitude of the soil for a quick consumption of
their remains, etc.; and they drink sadness from the incongruous man, and
conceive indigestion, not seeing him in a sharply defined light,
that would bid them taste the comic of him.

Or it is mentioned that a newly elected member of our Parliament celebrates
his arrival at eminence by the publication of a book on cab-fares,
dedicated to a beloved female relative deceased, and the comment on it is
the word 'Indeed.' But, merely for a contrast, turn to a not uncommon
scene of yesterday in the hunting-field, where a brilliant young rider,
having broken his collar- bone, trots away very soon after, against
medical interdict, half put together in splinters, to the most
distant meet of his neighbourhood, sure of escaping his doctor,
who is the first person he encounters.

'I came here purposely to avoid you,' says the patient. 'I came here purposely
to take care of you,' says the doctor. Off they go, and come to a
swollen brook. The patient clears it handsomely: the doctor tumbles
in. All the field are alive with the heartiest relish of every incident
and every cross-light on it; and dull would the man have been thought who
had not his word to say about it when riding home.

In our prose literature we have had delightful Comic writers. Besides
Fielding and Goldsmith, there is Miss Austen, whose Emma and Mr. Elton
might walk straight into a comedy, were the plot arranged for them.

Galt's neglected novels have some characters and strokes of shrewd
comedy.

In our poetic literature the comic is delicate and graceful above the
touch of Italian and French. Generally, however, the English elect
excel in satire, and they are noble humourists.

The national disposition is for hard-hitting, with a moral purpose
to sanction it; or for a rosy, sometimes a larmoyant, geniality,
not unmanly in its verging upon tenderness, and with a singular
attraction for thick-headedness, to decorate it with asses' ears
and the most beautiful sylvan haloes.

But the Comic is a different spirit.

You may estimate your capacity for Comic perception by being able
to detect the ridicule of them you love, without loving them less:
and more by being able to see yourself somewhat ridiculous in dear
eyes, and accepting the correction their image of you proposes.

Each one of an affectionate couple may be willing, as we say, to die for
the other, yet unwilling to utter the agreeable word at the right
moment; but if the wits were sufficiently quick for them to perceive
that they are in a comic situation, as affectionate couples must
be when they quarrel, they would not wait for the moon or the
almanac, or a Dorine, to bring back the flood-tide of tender feelings,
that they should join hands and lips.

If you detect the ridicule, and your kindliness is chilled by it,
you are slipping into the grasp of Satire.

If instead of falling foul of the ridiculous person with a satiric
rod, to make him writhe and shriek aloud, you prefer to sting him
under a semi- caress, by which he shall in his anguish be rendered
dubious whether indeed anything has hurt him, you are an engine of
Irony.

If you laugh all round him, tumble him, roll him about, deal him a
smack, and drop a tear on him, own his likeness to you and yours
to your neighbour, spare him as little as you shun, pity him as
much as you expose, it is a spirit of Humour that is moving you.

The Comic, which is the perceptive, is the governing spirit, awakening
and giving aim to these powers of laughter, but it is not to be
confounded with them: it enfolds a thinner form of them, differing
from satire, in not sharply driving into the quivering sensibilities,
and from humour, in not comforting them and tucking them up, or
indicating a broader than the range of this bustling world to them.

Fielding's Jonathan Wild presents a case of this peculiar distinction,
when that man of eminent greatness remarks upon the unfairness of a
trial in which the condemnation has been brought about by twelve men of
the opposite party; for it is not satiric, it is not humorous; yet
it is immensely comic to hear a guilty villain protesting that his
own 'party' should have a voice in the Law.

It opens an avenue into villains' ratiocination. {9} And the Comic
is not cancelled though we should suppose Jonathan to be giving
play to his humour.

I may have dreamed this or had it suggested to me, for on referring
to Jonathan Wild, I do not find it.

Apply the case to the man of deep wit, who is ever certain of his condemnation
by the opposite party, and then it ceases to be comic, and will be
satiric.

The look of Fielding upon Richardson is essentially comic. His method of
correcting the sentimental writer is a mixture of the comic and
the humorous. Parson Adams is a creation of humour. But both the conception
and the presentation of Alceste and of Tartuffe, of Celimene and Philaminte,
are purely comic, addressed to the intellect: there is no humour in them,
and they refresh the intellect they quicken to detect their comedy,
by force of the contrast they offer between themselves and the wiser
world about them; that is to say, society, or that assemblage of
minds whereof the Comic spirit has its origin.

Byron had splendid powers of humour, and the most poetic satire
that we have example of, fusing at times to hard irony.

He had no strong comic sense, or he would not have taken an anti-social
position, which is directly opposed to the Comic; and in his
philosophy, judged by philosophers, he is a comic figure, by reason
of this deficiency.

'So bald er philosophirt ist er ein Kind,' Goethe says of him.

Carlyle sees him in this comic light, treats him in the humorous
manner.

The Satirist is a moral agent, often a social scavenger, working
on a storage of bile.

The Ironeist is one thing or another, according to his caprice.

Irony is the humour of satire; it may be savage as in Swift, with a moral
object, or sedate, as in Gibbon, with a malicious.

The foppish irony fretting to be seen, and the irony which leers,
that you shall not mistake its intention, are failures in satiric
effort pretending to the treasures of ambiguity.

The Humourist of mean order is a refreshing laugher, giving tone
to the feelings and sometimes allowing the feelings to be too much
for him.

But the humourist of high has an embrace of contrasts beyond the
scope of the Comic poet.

Heart and mind laugh out at Don Quixote, and still you brood on him.

The juxtaposition of the knight and squire is a Comic conception, the
opposition of their natures most humorous.

They are as different as the two hemispheres in the time of Columbus,
yet they touch and are bound in one by laughter.

The knight's great aims and constant mishaps, his chivalrous valiancy
exercised on absurd objects, his good sense along the highroad of
the craziest of expeditions; the compassion he plucks out of derision,
and the admirable figure he preserves while stalking through the
frantically grotesque and burlesque assailing him, are in the
loftiest moods of humour, fusing the Tragic sentiment with the Comic
narrative.

The stroke of the great humourist is world-wide, with lights of
Tragedy in his laughter.

Taking a living great, though not creative, humourist to guide our
description: the skull of Yorick is in his hands in our seasons of
festival; he sees visions of primitive man capering preposterously
under the gorgeous robes of ceremonial.

Our souls must be on fire when we wear solemnity, if we would not press
upon his shrewdest nerve. Finite and infinite flash from one to the
other with him, lending him a two-edged thought that peeps out of his
peacefullest lines by fits, like the lantern of the fire-watcher
at windows, going the rounds at night.

The comportment and performances of men in society are to him, by the
vivid comparison with their mortality, more grotesque than
respectable. But ask yourself, Is he always to be relied on for justness?

All talk of their honor without the
slightest occasion for doing so, boast of their ancestors, tell you about
their lives, braggarts, liars, sharpers, as dangerous as the false cards
they have up their sleeves, as delusive as their names--in short,
the aristocracy of the bagnio.

"I adore these people. They are interesting to study, interesting to
know, amusing to understand, often clever, never commonplace like public
functionaries. Their wives are always pretty, with a slight flavor of
foreign roguery, with the mystery of their existence, half of it perhaps
spent in a house of correction. They have, as a rule, magnificent eyes
and incredible hair. I adore them also.

"Madame Samoris is the type of these adventuresses, elegant, mature and
still beautiful. Charming feline creatures, you feel that they are
vicious to the marrow of their bones. You find them very amusing when you
visit them; they give card parties; they have dances and suppers; in
short, they offer you all the pleasures of social life.

"And she had a daughter--a tall, fine-looking girl, always ready for
amusement, always full of laughter and reckless gaiety--a true
adventuress' daughter--but, at the same time, an innocent,
unsophisticated, artless girl, who saw nothing, knew nothing, understood
nothing of all the things that happened in her father's house.

"The girl was simply a puzzle to me. She was a mystery. She lived amid
those infamous surroundings with a quiet, tranquil ease that was either
terribly criminal or else the result of innocence. She sprang from the
filth of that class like a beautiful flower fed on corruption."

"How do you know about them?"

"How do I know? That's the funniest part of the business! One morning
there was a ring at my door, and my valet came up to tell me that M.
Joseph Bonenthal wanted to speak to me. I said directly:

"'And who is this gentleman?' My valet replied: 'I don't know, monsieur;
perhaps 'tis some one that wants employment.' And so it was. The man
wanted me to take him as a servant. I asked him where he had been last.
He answered: 'With the Comtesse Samoris.' 'Ah!' said I, 'but my house is
not a bit like hers.' 'I know that well, monsieur,' he said, 'and that's
the very reason I want to take service with monsieur. I've had enough of
these people: a man may stay a little while with them, but he won't
remain long with them.' I required an additional man servant at the time
and so I took him.

"A month later Mademoiselle Yvette Samoris died mysteriously, and here
are all the details of her death I could gather from Joseph, who got them
from his sweetheart, the comtesse's chambermaid.

"It was a ball night, and two newly arrived guests were chatting behind a
door. Mademoiselle Yvette, who had just been dancing, leaned against this
door to get a little air.

"They did not see her approaching, but she heard what they were saying.
And this was what they said:

"'But who is the father of the girl?'

"'A Russian, it appears; Count Rouvaloff. He never comes near the mother
now.'

"'And who is the reigning prince to-day?'

"'That English prince standing near the window; Madame Samoris adores
him. But her adoration of any one never lasts longer than a month or six
weeks. Nevertheless, as you see, she has a large circle of admirers. All
are called--and nearly all are chosen. That kind of thing costs a
good deal, but--hang it, what can you expect?'

"'And where did she get this name of Samoris?'

"'From the only man perhaps that she ever loved--a Jewish banker
from Berlin who goes by the name of Samuel Morris.'

"'Good. Thanks. Now that I know what kind of woman she is and have seen
her, I'm off!'

"What a shock this was to the mind of a young girl endowed with all the
instincts of a virtuous woman! What despair overwhelmed that simple soul!
What mental tortures quenched her unbounded gaiety, her delightful
laughter, her exultant satisfaction with life! What a conflict took place
in that youthful heart up to the moment when the last guest had left!
Those were things that Joseph could not tell me. But, the same night,
Yvette abruptly entered her mother's room just as the comtesse was
getting into bed, sent out the lady's maid, who was close to the door,
and, standing erect and pale and with great staring eyes, she said:

"'Mamma, listen to what I heard a little while ago during the ball.'

"And she repeated word for word the conversation just as I told it to
you.

"The comtesse was so stunned that she did not know what to say in reply
at first. When she recovered her self-possession she denied everything
and called God to witness that there was no truth in the story.

"The young girl went away, distracted but not convinced. And she began to
watch her mother.

"I remember distinctly the strange alteration that then took place in
her. She became grave and melancholy. She would fix on us her great
earnest eyes as if she wanted to read what was at the bottom of our
hearts. We did not know what to think of her and used to imagine that she
was looking out for a husband.

"One evening she overheard her mother talking to her admirer and later
saw them together, and her doubts were confirmed. She was heartbroken,
and after telling her mother what she had seen, she said coldly, like a
man of business laying down the terms of an agreement:

"'Here is what I have determined to do, mamma: We will both go away to
some little town, or rather into the country. We will live there quietly
as well as we can. Your jewelry alone may be called a fortune. If you
wish to marry some honest man, so much the better; still better will it
be if I can find one. If you don't consent to do this, I will kill
myself.'

"This time the comtesse ordered her daughter to go to bed and never to
speak again in this manner, so unbecoming in the mouth of a child toward
her mother.

"Yvette's answer to this was: 'I give you a month to reflect. If, at the
end of that month, we have not changed our way of living, I will kill
myself, since there is no other honorable issue left to my life.'

"And she left the room.

"At the end of a month the Comtesse Samoris had resumed her usual
entertainments, as though nothing had occurred. One day, under the
pretext that she had a bad toothache, Yvette purchased a few drops of
chloroform from a neighboring chemist. The next day she purchased more,
and every time she went out she managed to procure small doses of the
narcotic. She filled a bottle with it.

"One morning she was found in bed, lifeless and already quite cold, with
a cotton mask soaked in chloroform over her face.

"Her coffin was covered with flowers, the church was hung in white. There
was a large crowd at the funeral ceremony.

"Ah! well, if I had known--but you never can know--I would have
married that girl, for she was infernally pretty."

"And what became of the mother?"

"Oh! she shed a lot of tears over it. She has only begun to receive
visits again for the past week."

"And what explanation is given of the girl's death?"

"Oh! they pretended that it was an accident caused by a new stove, the
mechanism of which got out of order. As a good many such accidents have
occurred, the thing seemed probable enough."


A VENDETTA

The widow of Paolo Saverini lived alone with her son in a poor little
house on the outskirts of Bonifacio. The town, built on an outjutting
part of the mountain, in places even overhanging the sea, looks across
the straits, full of sandbanks, towards the southernmost coast of
Sardinia. Beneath it, on the other side and almost surrounding it, is a
cleft in the cliff like an immense corridor which serves as a harbor, and
along it the little Italian and Sardinian fishing boats come by a
circuitous route between precipitous cliffs as far as the first houses,
and every two weeks the old, wheezy steamer which makes the trip to
Ajaccio.

On the white mountain the houses, massed together, makes an even whiter
spot. They look like the nests of wild birds, clinging to this peak,
overlooking this terrible passage, where vessels rarely venture. The
wind, which blows uninterruptedly, has swept bare the forbidding coast;
it drives through the narrow straits and lays waste both sides. The pale
streaks of foam, clinging to the black rocks, whose countless peaks rise
up out of the water, look like bits of rag floating and drifting on the
surface of the sea.

The house of widow Saverini, clinging to the very edge of the precipice,
looks out, through its three windows, over this wild and desolate
picture.

She lived there alone, with her son Antonia and their dog "Semillante," a
big, thin beast, with a long rough coat, of the sheep-dog breed. The
young man took her with him when out hunting.

One night, after some kind of a quarrel, Antoine Saverini was
treacherously stabbed by Nicolas Ravolati, who escaped the same evening
to Sardinia.

When the old mother received the body of her child, which the neighbors
had brought back to her, she did not cry, but she stayed there for a long
time motionless, watching him. Then, stretching her wrinkled hand over
the body, she promised him a vendetta. She did not wish anybody near her,
and she shut herself up beside the body with the dog, which howled
continuously, standing at the foot of the bed, her head stretched towards
her master and her tail between her legs. She did not move any more than
did the mother, who, now leaning over the body with a blank stare, was
weeping silently and watching it.

The young man, lying on his back, dressed in his jacket of coarse cloth,
torn at the chest, seemed to be asleep. But he had blood all over him; on
his shirt, which had been torn off in order to administer the first aid;
on his vest, on his trousers, on his face, on his hands. Clots of blood
had hardened in his beard and in his hair.

His old mother began to talk to him. At the sound of this voice the dog
quieted down.

"Never fear, my boy, my little baby, you shall be avenged. Sleep, sleep;
you shall be avenged. Do you hear? It's your mother's promise! And she
always keeps her word, your mother does, you know she does."

Slowly she leaned over him, pressing her cold lips to his dead ones.

Then Semillante began to howl again with a long, monotonous, penetrating,
horrible howl.

The two of them, the woman and the dog, remained there until morning.

Antoine Saverini was buried the next day and soon his name ceased to be
mentioned in Bonifacio.

He had neither brothers nor cousins. No man was there to carry on the
vendetta. His mother, the old woman, alone pondered over it.

On the other side of the straits she saw, from morning until night, a
little white speck on the coast. It was the little Sardinian village
Longosardo, where Corsican criminals take refuge when they are too
closely pursued. They compose almost the entire population of this
hamlet, opposite their native island, awaiting the time to return, to go
back to the "maquis." She knew that Nicolas Ravolati had sought refuge in
this village.

All alone, all day long, seated at her window, she was looking over there
and thinking of revenge. How could she do anything without
help--she, an invalid and so near death? But she had promised, she
had sworn on the body. She could not forget, she could not wait. What
could she do? She no longer slept at night; she had neither rest nor
peace of mind; she thought persistently. The dog, dozing at her feet,
would sometimes lift her head and howl. Since her master's death she
often howled thus, as though she were calling him, as though her beast's
soul, inconsolable too, had also retained a recollection that nothing
could wipe out.

One night, as Semillante began to howl, the mother suddenly got hold of
an idea, a savage, vindictive, fierce idea. She thought it over until
morning. Then, having arisen at daybreak she went to church. She prayed,
prostrate on the floor, begging the Lord to help her, to support her, to
give to her poor, broken-down body the strength which she needed in order
to avenge her son.

She returned home. In her yard she had an old barrel, which acted as a
cistern. She turned it over, emptied it, made it fast to the ground with
sticks and stones. Then she chained Semillante to this improvised kennel
and went into the house.

She walked ceaselessly now, her eyes always fixed on the distant coast of
Sardinia. He was over there, the murderer.

All day and all night the dog howled. In the morning the old woman
brought her some water in a bowl, but nothing more; no soup, no bread.

Another day went by. Semillante, exhausted, was sleeping. The following
day her eyes were shining, her hair on end and she was pulling wildly at
her chain.

All this day the old woman gave her nothing to eat. The beast, furious,
was barking hoarsely. Another night went by.

Then, at daybreak, Mother Saverini asked a neighbor for some straw. She
took the old rags which had formerly been worn by her husband and stuffed
them so as to make them look like a human body.

Having planted a stick in the ground, in front of Semillante's kennel,
she tied to it this dummy, which seemed to be standing up. Then she made
a head out of some old rags.

The dog, surprised, was watching this straw man, and was quiet, although
famished. Then the old woman went to the store and bought a piece of
black sausage. When she got home she started a fire in the yard, near the
kennel, and cooked the sausage. Semillante, frantic, was jumping about,
frothing at the mouth, her eyes fixed on the food, the odor of which went
right to her stomach.

Then the mother made of the smoking sausage a necktie for the dummy. She
tied it very tight around the neck with string, and when she had finished
she untied the dog.

With one leap the beast jumped at the dummy's throat, and with her paws
on its shoulders she began to tear at it. She would fall back with a
piece of food in her mouth, then would jump again, sinking her fangs into
the string, and snatching few pieces of meat she would fall back again
and once more spring forward. She was tearing up the face with her teeth
and the whole neck was in tatters.

The old woman, motionless and silent, was watching eagerly. Then she
chained the beast up again, made her fast for two more days and began
this strange performance again.

For three months she accustomed her to this battle, to this meal
conquered by a fight. She no longer chained her up, but just pointed to
the dummy.

She had taught her to tear him up and to devour him without even leaving
any traces in her throat.

Then, as a reward, she would give her a piece of sausage.

As soon as she saw the man, Semillante would begin to tremble. Then she
would look up to her mistress, who, lifting her finger, would cry, "Go!"
in a shrill tone.

When she thought that the proper time had come, the widow went to
confession and, one Sunday morning she partook of communion with an
ecstatic fervor. Then, putting on men's clothes and looking like an old
tramp, she struck a bargain with a Sardinian fisherman who carried her
and her dog to the other side of the straits.

In a bag she had a large piece of sausage. Semillante had had nothing to
eat for two days. The old woman kept letting her smell the food and
whetting her appetite.

They got to Longosardo. The Corsican woman walked with a limp. She went
to a baker's shop and asked for Nicolas Ravolati. He had taken up his old
trade, that of carpenter. He was working alone at the back of his store.

The old woman opened the door and called:

"Hallo, Nicolas!"

He turned around. Then releasing her dog, she cried:

"Go, go! Eat him up! eat him up!"

The maddened animal sprang for his throat. The man stretched out his
arms, clasped the dog and rolled to the ground. For a few seconds he
squirmed, beating the ground with his feet. Then he stopped moving, while
Semillante dug her fangs into his throat and tore it to ribbons. Two
neighbors, seated before their door, remembered perfectly having seen an
old beggar come out with a thin, black dog which was eating something
that its master was giving him.

At nightfall the old woman was at home again. She slept well that night.


MY TWENTY-FIVE DAYS

I had just taken possession of my room in the hotel, a narrow den between
two papered partitions, through which I could hear every sound made by my
neighbors; and I was beginning to arrange my clothes and linen in the
wardrobe with a long mirror, when I opened the drawer which is in this
piece of furniture. I immediately noticed a roll of paper. Having opened
it, I spread it out before me, and read this title:

          My Twenty-five Days.

It was the diary of a guest at the watering place, of the last occupant
of my room, and had been forgotten at the moment of departure.

These notes may be of some interest to sensible and healthy persons who
never leave their own homes. It is for their benefit that I transcribe
them without altering a letter.

                    "CHATEL-GUYON, July 15th.

"At the first glance it is not lively, this country. However, I am going
to spend twenty-five days here, to have my liver and stomach treated, and
to get thin. The twenty-five days of any one taking the baths are very
like the twenty-eight days of the reserves; they are all devoted to
fatigue duty, severe fatigue duty. To-day I have done nothing as yet; I
have been getting settled. I have made the acquaintance of the locality
and of the doctor. Chatel-Guyon consists of a stream in which flows
yellow water, in the midst of several hillocks on which are a casino,
some houses, and some stone crosses. On the bank of the stream, at the
end of the valley, may be seen a square building surrounded by a little
garden; this is the bathing establishment. Sad people wander around this
building--the invalids. A great silence reigns in the walks shaded
by trees, for this is not a pleasure resort, but a true health resort;
one takes care of one's health as a business, and one gets well, so it
seems.

"Those who know affirm, even, that the mineral springs perform true
miracles here. However, no votive offering is hung around the cashier's
office.

"From time to time a gentleman or a lady comes over to a kiosk with a
slate roof, which shelters a woman of smiling and gentle aspect, and a
spring boiling in a basin of cement: Not a word is exchanged between the
invalid and the female custodian of the healing water. She hands the
newcomer a little glass in which air bubbles sparkle in the transparent
liquid. The guest drinks and goes off with a grave step to resume his
interrupted walk beneath the trees.

"No noise in the little park, no breath of air in the leaves; no voice
passes through this silence. One ought to write at the entrance to this
district: 'No one laughs here; they take care of their health.'

"The people who chat resemble mutes who merely open their mouths to
simulate sounds, so afraid are they that their voices might escape.

"In the hotel, the same silence. It is a big hotel, where you dine
solemnly with people of good position, who have nothing to say to each
other. Their manners bespeak good breeding, and their faces reflect the
conviction of a superiority of which it might be difficult for some to
give actual proofs.

"At two o'clock I made my way up to the Casino, a little wooden but
perched on a hillock, which one reaches by a goat path. But the view from
that height is admirable. Chatel-Guyon is situated in a very narrow
valley, exactly between the plain and the mountain. I perceive, at the
left, the first great billows of the mountains of Auvergne, covered with
woods, and here and there big gray patches, hard masses of lava, for we
are at the foot of the extinct volcanoes. At the right, through the
narrow cut of the valley, I discover a plain, infinite as the sea,
steeped in a bluish fog which lets one only dimly discern the villages,
the towns, the yellow fields of ripe grain, and the green squares of
meadowland shaded with apple trees. It is the Limagne, an immense level,
always enveloped in a light veil of vapor.

"The night has come. And now, after having dined alone, I write these
lines beside my open window. I hear, over there, in front of me, the
little orchestra of the Casino, which plays airs just as a foolish bird
might sing all alone in the desert.

"A dog barks at intervals. This great calm does one good. Goodnight.

"July 16th.--Nothing new. I have taken a bath and then a shower
bath. I have swallowed three glasses of water, and I have walked along
the paths in the park, a quarter of an hour between each glass, then half
an hour after the last. I have begun my twenty-five days.

"July 17th.--Remarked two mysterious, pretty women who are taking
their baths and their meals after every one else has finished.

"July 18th.--Nothing new.

"July 19th.--Saw the two pretty women again. They have style and a
little indescribable air which I like very much.

"July 20th.--Long walk in a charming wooded valley, as far as the
Hermitage of Sans-Souci. This country is delightful, although sad; but so
calm; so sweet, so green. One meets along the mountain roads long wagons
loaded with hay, drawn by two cows at a slow pace or held back by them in
going down the slopes with a great effort of their heads, which are yoked
together. A man with a big black hat on his head is driving them with a
slender stick, tipping them on the side or on the forehead; and often
with a simple gesture, an energetic and serious gesture, he suddenly
halts them when the excessive load precipitates their journey down the
too rugged descents.

"The air is good to inhale in these valleys. And, if it is very warm, the
dust bears with it a light odor of vanilla and of the stable, for so many
cows pass over these routes that they leave reminders everywhere. And
this odor is a perfume, when it would be a stench if it came from other
animals.

"July 21st.--Excursion to the valley of the Enval. It is a narrow
gorge inclosed by superb rocks at the very foot of the mountain. A stream
flows amid the heaped-up boulders.

"As I reached the bottom of this ravine I heard women's voices, and I
soon perceived the two mysterious ladies of my hotel, who were chatting,
seated on a stone.

"The occasion appeared to me a good one, and I introduced myself without
hesitation. My overtures were received without embarrassment. We walked
back together to the hotel. And we talked about Paris. They knew, it
seemed, many people whom I knew, too. Who can they be?

"I shall see them to-morrow. There is nothing more amusing than such
meetings as this.

"July 22d.--Day passed almost entirely with the two unknown ladies.
They are very pretty, by Jove!--one a brunette and the other a
blonde. They say they are widows. H'm?

"I offered to accompany them to Royat tomorrow, and they accepted my
offer.

"Chatel-Guyon is less sad than I thought on my arrival.

"July 23d.--Day spent at Royat. Royat is a little patch of hotels at
the bottom of a valley, at the gate of Clermont-Ferrand. A great many
people there. A large park full of life. Superb view of the Puyde-Dome,
seen at the end of a perspective of valleys.

"My fair companions are very popular, which is flattering to me. The man
who escorts a pretty woman always believes himself crowned with an
aureole; with much more reason, the man who is accompanied by one on each
side of him. Nothing is so pleasant as to dine in a fashionable
restaurant with a female companion at whom everybody stares, and there is
nothing better calculated to exalt a man in the estimation of his
neighbors.

"To go to the Bois, in a trap drawn by a sorry nag, or to go out into the
boulevard escorted by a plain woman, are the two most humiliating things
that could happen to a sensitive heart that values the opinion of others.
Of all luxuries, woman is the rarest and the most distinguished; she is
the one that costs most and which we desire most; she is, therefore the
one that we should seek by preference to exhibit to the jealous eyes of
the world.

"To exhibit to the world a pretty woman leaning on your arm is to excite,
all at once, every kind of jealousy. It is as much as to say: 'Look here!
I am rich, since I possess this rare and costly object; I have taste,
since I have known how to discover this pearl; perhaps, even, I am loved
by her, unless I am deceived by her, which would still prove that others
also consider her charming.

"But, what a disgrace it is to walk about town with an ugly woman!

"And how many humiliating things this gives people to understand!

"In the first place, they assume she must be your wife, for how could it
be supposed that you would have an unattractive sweetheart? A true woman
may be ungraceful; but then, her ugliness implies a thousand disagreeable
things for you. One supposes you must be a notary or a magistrate, as
these two professions have a monopoly of grotesque and well-dowered
spouses. Now, is this not distressing to a man? And then, it seems to
proclaim to the public that you have the odious courage, and are even
under a legal obligation, to caress that ridiculous face and that
ill-shaped body, and that you will, without doubt, be shameless enough to
make a mother of this by no means desirable being--which is the very
height of the ridiculous.

"July 24th.--I never leave the side of the two unknown widows, whom
I am beginning to know quite well. This country is delightful and our
hotel is excellent. Good season. The treatment is doing me an immense
amount of good.

"July 25th.--Drive in a landau to the lake of Tazenat. An exquisite
and unexpected jaunt decided on at luncheon. We started immediately on
rising from table. After a long journey through the mountains we suddenly
perceived an admirable little lake, quite round, very blue, clear as
glass, and situated at the bottom of an extinct crater. One side of this
immense basin is barren, the other is wooded. In the midst of the trees
is a small house where sleeps a good-natured, intellectual man, a sage
who passes his days in this Virgilian region. He opens his dwelling for
us. An idea comes into my head. I exclaim:

"'Supposing we bathe?'

"'Yes,' they said, 'but costumes.'

"'Bah! we are in the wilderness.'

"And we did bathe!

"If I were a poet, how I would describe this unforgettable vision of
those lissome young forms in the transparency of the water! The high,
sloping sides shut in the lake, motionless, gleaming and round, as a
silver coin; the sun pours into it a flood of warm light; and along the
rocks the fair forms move in the almost invisible water in which the
swimmers seemed suspended. On the sand at the bottom of the lake one
could see their shadows as they moved along.

"July 26th.--Some persons seem to look with shocked and disapproving
eyes at my rapid intimacy with the two fair widows. There are some
people, then, who imagine that life consists in being bored. Everything
that appears to be amusing becomes immediately a breach of good breeding
or morality. For them duty has inflexible and mortally tedious rules.

"I would draw their attention, with all respect, to the fact that duty is
not the same for Mormons, Arabs Zulus, Turks, Englishmen, and Frenchmen,
and that there are very virtuous people among all these nations.

"I will cite a single example. As regards women, duty begins in England
at nine years of age; in France at fifteen. As for me, I take a little of
each people's notion of duty, and of the whole I make a result comparable
to the morality of good King Solomon.

"July 27th.--Good news. I have lost 620 grams in weight. Excellent,
this water of Chatel-Guyon! I am taking the widows to dine at Riom. A sad
town whose anagram constitutes it an objectionable neighbor to healing
springs: Riom, Mori.

"July 28th.--Hello, how's this! My two widows have been visited by
two gentlemen who came to look for them. Two widowers, without doubt.
They are leaving this evening. They have written to me on fancy
notepaper.

"July 29th.--Alone! Long excursion on foot to the extinct crater of
Nachere. Splendid view.

"July 30th.--Nothing. I am taking the treatment.

"July 31st.--Ditto. Ditto. This pretty country is full of polluted
streams. I am drawing the notice of the municipality to the abominable
sewer which poisons the road in front of the hotel. All the kitchen
refuse of the establishment is thrown into it. This is a good way to
breed cholera.

"August 1st.--Nothing. The treatment.

"August 2d.--Admirable walk to Chateauneuf, a place of sojourn for
rheumatic patients, where everybody is lame. Nothing can be queerer than
this population of cripples!

"August 3d.--Nothing. The treatment.

"August 4th.--Ditto. Ditto.

"August 5th.--Ditto. Ditto.

"August 6th.--Despair! I have just weighed myself. I have gained 310
grams. But then?

"August 7th.--Drove sixty-six kilometres in a carriage on the
mountain. I will not mention the name of the country through respect for
its women.

"This excursion had been pointed out to me as a beautiful one, and one
that was rarely made. After four hours on the road, I arrived at a rather
pretty village on the banks of a river in the midst of an admirable wood
of walnut trees. --Is she fond of him?

Doctor.--And he of her also. Such poetical souls are always fond of
each other.

George.--What do you mean by that?

Doctor (sharply).--And you--how do you take my words?

George (rises.)--Not another word. You understand me, and you must
know that I do not always forgive.

Doctor (rises also, approaches George and looks into his eyes).--I believe
you wish to frighten me. Besides this, what more do you wish?

George (after a moment of struggle with himself).--You must ask me
what I did wish, because I do not now wish for anything. You have known
her longer than I have, therefore I came to you as her friend and mine,
and for answer you banter with me. In your eyes there shone hatred for
me, although I have never wronged, you. Be the judge yourself! I would be
more than right in asking you: What do you wish of me, if it were
not for the reason (with pride) that it is immaterial to me.

(He goes out.)
Doctor.--We shall see.

SCENE XIII.

Jozwowicz. Servant.

Servant.--A messenger brought this letter from Mr. Anton Zuk.

Doctor.--Give it to me. (The servant goes out.

Doctor looks at the door through which George went out.) Oh, I can no
longer control my hatred. I will crush you into dust; and now I shall
not hesitate any longer. (Opens letter feverishly) Damnation, I must be
going there at once.

SCENE XIV.

Jozwowicz. Mrs. Czeska.

Czeska (enters swiftly).

--Doctor, I am looking for you.

Doctor.--What has happened?

Czeska.--Stella is ill. I found her weeping.

Doctor (aside.)--Poor child!

(Aloud) I will go to see her at once.
(They go out.)

END OF ACT III.

* * * * *

ACT IV.

The same Drawing Room.

SCENE I.

Jozwowicz. Drahomir.

(Jozwowicz sits at table writing in notebook. Drahomir enters.)

Drahomir.--Doctor, I came to bid you farewell.

Doctor (rising suddenly).

--Ah, you are going away?

Drahomir.--Yes.

Doctor.--So suddenly? For long?

Drahomir.--I am returning to-day to Swietlenice, to George; to-morrow I
leave for Paris.

Doctor.--One word--have you said anything to any one of your plans?

Drahomir.--Not yet.

I only made up my mind an hour ago.

Doctor.--Then Mr. Pretwic knows nothing about it as yet?

Drahomir.

--No; but why do you ask?

Doctor (aside).--I must act now--otherwise everything is lost. (Aloud)
Count, I have not much time to speak to you now, because in a moment I
expect Anton in regard to a matter on which my whole future depends.
Listen to me. I beseech you, for the sake of the peace and health of the
princess, not to mention to any one that you are going away.
Neither to the Prince nor to Mr.

Pretwic.

Drahomir.--I do not understand you.

Doctor.--You will understand me.

Now I cannot tell you anything more.
In a half hour pray grant me a moment of conversation. Then you will
understand me--that I guarantee you. Here is Anton. You see I cannot explain
now.

Drahomir.--I will see you again. (He goes out.)

SCENE II.

Anton. Jozwowicz.

Anton.--The fight is very hot. Have you the address?

Doctor.--Here it is. How goes it?

Anton.--Up to now everything is well, but I repeat--the fight is very hot.
If you had not come the last time, you would have lost the battle,
because Miliszewski has withdrawn and his partisans vote for Husarski.
Podczaski is good for nothing.

Your speech in the city hall was splendid. May thunder strike you! Your
address was admired even by your enemies. Oh, we will at last be able to
do something. For three days I have not slept--I have not eaten--I work
and I have plenty of time, because I have lost my position.

Doctor.--You have lost your position?

Anton.

--On account of the agitation against Husarski.

Doctor.--Have you found any means against him?

Anton.--I have-written an article. I have brought it to you. Read it.
He sues me--he will beat me. They will put me in prison, but it will
be only after the election, and my article wronged him very much.

Doctor.--Very well.

Anton.--But when I am in prison you must take care of my wife and children.
I love them dearly. I have three of them.

It is too much--but _natura lex dura_.

Doctor.--Be assured.

Anton.--You would not believe me if I were to tell you that I am
almost happy.

Sometimes it seems to me that our country is a moldy room and that
I open the window and let in the fresh air.

We will work very hard. I believe in you, because you are an iron man.

Doctor.--I shall either perish or gain two victories.

Anton.--Two?

Doctor.--Yes; the other one even to-day, here. The events have surprised
me in some way.

The facts turned against me, and I was obliged to build my plans of
action only a short while ago.

Anton.--Eh! If we win only there. Do you know what--I would prefer that you
abandon the idea of the other victory.

Doctor.

--Anton, you are mistaken.

Anton.--Because you worry a great deal. You have grown awfully thin.
Look in the mirror.

Doctor.

--No matter; after I have sprung the mine I shall be calmer and the mine
is ready.

Anton.--But it will cost you too much.

Doctor.--Yes, but I shall not retract.

Anton.--At least be careful and do not smear your hands with the powder.

SCENE III.

The same. Stella.

Stella (entering, notices Anton).--Ah, excuse me.

Doctor.--Mr. Anton Zuk, a friend of mine. (Anton bows.) What is your
wish, princess?

Stella.--You told me to stay in bed and it is so hard to lie down.
Mrs. Czeska went to the chapel and I escaped. Do you approve?

Doctor.

--I cannot help it, princess, although I would like to scold you
like a disobedient child. A few moments ago some one else begged for you
also.

Stella.--Who was it?

Doctor.--Count Drahomir.

And he begged so earnestly that I promised him that I would allow you
to leave the bed.

He wishes to have a talk with you to-day, because he will not be able to
see you again.

Stella (aside).--What does it mean?

Doctor.--He will be here at five o'clock.

Stella.--Very well.

Doctor.--And now, pray, return to your room. Your dress is too thin and you
might catch cold.

SCENE IV.

Jozwowicz.

Anton.

Anton.--Ah, that is the princess.

Doctor.--Yes, it is she.

Anton.--Very pretty, but looks as though she was made of mist. As for
me, I prefer women like my wife.

From such as your princess you cannot expect sturdy democrats.

Doctor.--Enough of that.

Anton.--Then I will weigh anchor and sail. I will distribute the
pamphlet with your address, and then I will write another article against
Husarski. If they put me in prison they shall at least have a reason for
it. Good-bye.

Doctor.--If you meet a servant, tell him that I am waiting for Count
Drahomir.

SCENE V.

Jozwowicz--then Drahomir.

Doctor (alone).--Let that golden-haired page go, but he must see her before
he goes.

This leave-taking shall be the red flag for the bull.
(Drahomir enters.) I am waiting for you, sir. Is Mr. Pretwic in the
château?

Drahomir.--He is with the prince.

Doctor.--Count, be seated, and let us talk.

Drahomir (uneasily).

--I am listening, sir.

Doctor.--You are in love with the princess.

Drahomir.--Mr. Jozwowicz!

Doctor.--On your honor--yes or no?

Drahomir.--Only God has the right to ask me such a question. I do not
dare to ask myself.

Doctor.--And your conscience?

Drahomir.--And no one else.

Doctor.--Then let us turn the question.

She loves you.

Drahomir.--Be silent, sir. Oh, God!

Doctor.--Your pride is broken. You knew of it?

Drahomir.--I did not wish to know it.

Doctor.--But now you are aware of it.

Drahomir.--That is the reason why I am going away from here forever.

Doctor.--It is too late, sir. You have tangled her life and now you
leave her.

Drahomir.--For God's sake, what shall I do, then?

Doctor.--Go away, but not forever, and not without telling her good-bye.

Drahomir.

--Why should I add the last drop to an already overflowing cup?

Doctor.--A beautiful phrase. Can you not understand that it will hurt
her good name if you should go away suddenly without taking leave
of her? And she--she is ill and she may not be able to bear your
departure.

Drahomir.

--I do not see any remedy--
Doctor.--There is only one.

Find some pretext, bid her good-bye quietly, and tell her that you will be
back. Otherwise it will be a heavy blow for her strength. You must leave
her hope.

She must not suspect anything. Perhaps later she will become accustomed
to your absence--perhaps she will forget--
Drahomir.

--It will be better for her to forget.

Doctor.--I will do my best, but I shall first throw a handful of
earth on your memory.

Drahomir.--What shall I do, then?

Doctor.--To find a pretext to bid her good-bye, tell every one that you
are going. Then come back--and go away. Mr. Pretwic also must not
know anything.

Drahomir.--When shall I bid her good-bye?

Doctor.--In a moment. I told her. I will manage to be with Pretwic
during that time. She will be here presently.

Drahomir.--I would prefer to die.

Doctor.--No one is certain of to-morrow. Be off now. (Drahomir goes out.)

SCENE VI.

Jozwowicz. Then a servant.

Doctor.--How warm it is here! My head is splitting. (He rings--a
servant enters.) Ask Mr. Pretwic to come here. (The servant goes
out.)

My head is bursting--but then I will have a long peace.

SCENE VII.

Jozwowicz. George Pretwic.

George (entering).--What do you wish with me?

Doctor.--I wish to give you good advice about the princess's health.

George.--How is she?

Doctor.--Better. I allowed her to leave bed because she and Drahomir asked
me to.

George.--Drahomir?

Doctor.--Yes. He wishes to talk with her.

They will be here in a quarter of an hour.

George.--Jozwowicz, I am choking with wrath and pain. Drahomir avoids
me.

Doctor.--But you do not suspect him.

George.--I swear to you that I have defended myself from suspicions as
a man dying on the steppe defends himself from the crows--that I have
bitten my hands with pain and despair--that I still defend
myself.

But I cannot any more. I cannot. The evidence pounds on my brain. He avoids
me. He tells me that I have become an idiot--that I have become a
madman, because-- 
Doctor.

--Keep your temper. Even if he were in love with the princess, nobody
rules his own heart.

George.--Enough! You were right when you coupled his name with hers.
At that moment I repulsed the thought, but it was there just the
same (he strikes his breast).

The fruit is ripened. Oh, what a ridiculous and dreadful part I am
playing here--
Doctor.--But he saved your life.

George.--In order to take it when it began to have a certain value.
His service is paid with torture, with a slain happiness, with a
broken hope, with destroyed faith in myself, in him and in her.

Doctor.--Be easy.

George.--I loved that man. Tell me that I am a madman and I shall be
calmed. How dreadful to think that it is he!

Forgive me everything I said to you before and help me. Evil thoughts
are rushing through my head.

Doctor.--Be calm--you are mistaken.

George.--Prove to me that I am mistaken and I will kneel before you.

Doctor.--You are mistaken, because Drahomir is going away.

George.--He is going away. (A moment of silence.) Oh, Lord! Then I can
live without such tortures, I may hope!

Doctor (coolly and slowly).--But he is not going away forever. He said
he would return.

George.--You put me on the cross again.

Doctor.--Come to your senses and do not let yourself be carried away
by madness. At any rate you gain time. You can win her heart back
again.
George.--No--it is done. I am sinking into a precipice.
Doctor.--Everything will be straightened out by his absence.
George (with an outburst).--But did you not tell me that he will
return?
Doctor.--Listen: I agree with you that you have repaid Drahomir for
the services of saving your life with your tortures. Drahomir has
betrayed you and has broken the friendship between you by winning
her heart. But I do not think that he is going away in order to
avoid your vengeance.
George.--And to give her time to break her engagement! Yes, yes! I
am cursed. I suspect him now of everything. He avoids me.
Doctor.--Mr. Pretwic.
George.--Enough. I am going to ask him when he will be back. He has
saved my life once, and slain me ten times. (He tries to leave.)
Doctor.--Where are you going?
George.--To ask him how long he is going away.
Doctor.--Wait a moment. How could you ask him such a question?
Perhaps he is innocent, but pride will shut his mouth and everything
will be lost. Stay here--you can leave only over my corpse. I am
not afraid of you!--do you understand? In a moment they will be
here. You wish for proofs--you shall have them. From the piazza you
cannot hear them, but you can see them. You shall be persuaded with
your own eyes--perhaps you will regret your impetuosity.
George (after a while).--Very well, then. May God grant that I was
mistaken! Thank you--but you must not leave me now.
Doctor.--One word more. No matter what happens I shall consider you
a villain if you place her life in peril by any outburst.
George.--Granted. Where shall we go?
Doctor.--On the piazza. But you have fever--you are already
shaking.
George.--I am out of breath. Some one is coming. Let us be
going.

SCENE VIII.

Drahomir. Then Stella.
Drahomir.--The last evening and the last time. (After a while.) O
Lord, thy will be done!
Stella (enters).--The Doctor told me that you wished to see
me.
Drahomir.--Yes, madam. Pray forgive my boldness. A very important
affair calls me home. I come to bid you good-bye.
Stella.--You are going away?
Drahomir.--To day I am going to Swietlenice, to-morrow still
further.
(A moment of silence.)
Stella.--Yes, it is necessary.
Drahomir.--Life has flown like a dream--it is time to wake
up.

Stella.--Shall we see each other again?
Drahomir.--If God permits it.
Stella.--Then let us shake hands in farewell. I can assure you that
you have a friend in me. Friendship is like an immortal--it is a
pale flower, but does not wither. May God guide you and protect
you. The heart--of a sister--will follow you everywhere. Remember--
Drahomir.--Farewell.
Stella.--Farewell. (She goes toward the door. Then suddenly turns.
With a sob in her voice.) Why do you deceive me? You are going
forever.

Drahomir.--Have mercy on me.
Stella.--Are you going away forever?

Drahomir.--Yes, then.
Stella.--I guessed it. But perhaps it is better--for both of
us.
Drahomir.--Oh, yes. There are things which cannot be expressed,
although the heart is bursting. A while ago you told me that you
will remember--it will be better for you to forget.
Stella.--I cannot. (She weeps.)
Drahomir (passionately).--Then I love you, my dearest, and that is
the reason why I escape. (He presses her to his breast.)
Stella (awakening).--Oh, God! (She rushes, out.) 

SCENE IX.
Drahomir. Jozwowicz. George.
(George stops with Jozwowicz near the door.)
Drahomir.--Ah, it is you, George.
George.--Do not approach me. I have seen all. You are a villain and
a coward.

Drahomir--George!
George.--In order not to soil my hand, I throw in your face our
broken friendship, my trampled happiness, lost faith in God and
man, endless contempt for you and myself.

Drahomir.--Enough.
George.--Do not approach me, because I will lose my self-command
and will sprinkle these walls with your brains. No, I shall not do
that--because I have promised. But I slap your face, you villain.
Do you hear me?
Drahomir (after struggling with himself for a moment).--Such an
insult I swear before God and man I will wash out with blood.
George.--Yes, with blood (pointing to the doctor). Here is the
witness of these words.

Doctor.--At your service, gentlemen.
END OF ACT IV.

* * * * * 

ACT V.

The same drawing-room.
SCENE I.

Jozwowicz enters reading a dispatch.
The result of the ballotting until now: Jozwowicz, 613; Husarski,
604. At ten o'clock: Jozwowicz, 700; Husarski, 700. At 11
o'clock:
Jozwowicz, 814; Husarski, 750. The fight is hot. The final results
will be known at three o'clock. (He consults his watch.)
SCENE II.

Jozwowicz. George.

Doctor.--You are here?
George.--You are as afraid of me as of a ghost.
Doctor.--I thought you were elsewhere.
George.--I am going directly from here to fight. I have still an
hour.
The duel will take place at Dombrowa, on the Miliszewski's estate--not
far from here.

Doctor.--Too near from here.
George.--Miliszewski insisted. And then you will be here to prevent
the news from being known until as late as possible.
Doctor.--Doctor Krzycki will be with you?

George.--Yes.
Doctor.--Ask him to send me the news at once. I would go with you,
but I must be here.

George.--You are right. If I am killed?
Doctor.--You must not think of that.
George.--There are some people who are cursed from the moment they
are born, and for whom death is the only redemption. I belong to
that class. I have thought everything over quietly. God knows that
I am more afraid of life than of death. There is no issue for me.
Suppose I am not killed--tell me what will become of me, if I kill
the man whom she loves? Tell me! I will live without her, cursed
by her. Do you know that when I think of my situation, and what has
happened, I think some bad spirit has mixed with us and entangled
everything so that only death can disentangle it.
Doctor.--A duel is very often ended by a mere wound.
George.--I insulted Drahomir gravely, and such an insult cannot be
wiped out by a wound. Believe me, one of us must die. But I came
to talk with you about something else.
Doctor.--I am listening to you.
George.--Frankly speaking, as I do not know what will become of me,
and whether in an hour I shall be alive or not, I came to have one
more look at her. Because I love her dearly. Perhaps I was too rough
for her--too stupid--but I loved her. May God punish me if I have
not desired her happiness. As you see me here it is true that at
this moment I pity her the most and feel miserable about her
future.
Listen: whether I am killed or not, she cannot be mine. Drahomir
cannot marry her, because he could not marry the woman whose fiancé
he has killed. Of the three of us you alone will remain near her.
Take care of her--guard her. Into your hands I give her, the only
treasure I ever possessed.
Doctor (quietly).--I shall carry out your wishes.
George.--And now--I may be killed. I wish to die like a Christian.
If ever I have offended you, forgive me. (They shake hands. George
goes out.)
Doctor (alone).--Yes, of the three of us I alone shall remain near
her.

SCENE III.

Jozwowicz. Anton.
Anton (rushing in).--Man, have you become an idiot? When every
moment is valuable, you remain here. The results are uncertain.
They have put up big posters--Husarski's partisans are catching the
votes in the streets. For God's sake come with me. A carriage is
waiting for us.
Doctor.--I must remain here. I cannot go under any consideration
in the world. Let be what may.
Anton.--I did not expect such conduct from you. Come and show
yourself, if only for a moment, and the victory is ours. I cannot
speak any more. I am dead tired. Have you become a madman? There--we
have worked for him, and he clings to a petticoat and stays
here.
Doctor.--Anton! Even if I should lose there I would not stir one
step from here. I cannot and I will not go.

Anton.--So?

Doctor.--Yes.
Anton.--Do what you please, then. Very well. My congratulations.
(He walks up and down the room; then he puts his hands in his pockets
and stands before Jozwowicz.) What does it mean?
Doctor.--It means that I must remain here. At this moment Drahomir
stands opposite Pretwic with a pistol. If the news of the fight
should come to the princess, she would pay for it with her
life.

Anton.--They are fighting!
Doctor.--For life or death. In a moment the news will come who is
killed. (A moment of silence.)
Anton.--Jozwowicz, you have done all this.
Doctor.--Yes, it is I, I crushed those who were in my way, and I
shall act the same always. You have me such as I am.
Anton.--If so, I am no longer in a hurry. Do you know what I am
going to tell you?
Doctor.--You must go for a while. The princess is coming. (He opens
the door of a side room.) Go in there for a moment.
SCENE IV.

Jozwowicz and Stella.
Stella.--Doctor, what is the matter in this house?
Doctor.--What do you mean, princess?
Stella.--Mr. Pretwic came to tell me good-bye. He was very much
changed and asked me to forgive him if he ever offended me.
Doctor (aside).--A sentimental ass.
Stella.--He said that he might be obliged to go away in a few days.
I have a presentiment that you are hiding something from me. What
does it mean? Do not torture me any longer. I am so miserable that
you should have pity on me.
Doctor.--Do not let anything worry you. What can there be the
matter?
An idle fancy, that is all! The care of loving hearts surrounds
you.
Why should you have such a wild imagination? You had better return
to your apartment and do not receive any one. I will come to see
you in a moment.

Stella.--Then truly there is nothing bad?
Doctor.--What an idea! Pray believe me, I should be able to remove
anything which would threaten your happiness.
Stella (stretching out her hand to him).--Oh, Mr. Jozwowicz, happiness
is a very difficult thing to take hold of. May only the peace not
leave us. (She goes to enter the room in which Anton is.)
Doctor.--This way, princess. Some one is waiting for me in that
room.
In a moment I will come to see you. Pray do not receive any one.
Anton! (The princess goes out.) 

SCENE V.
Anton, Jozwowicz, then a Servant.
Anton.--Here I am. Poor child!
Doctor.--I cannot go for her sake. I must be here and not let the
bad news reach her, for it would kill her.
Anton.--What! and you, knowing this, you still expose her, and
sacrifice her for yourself?
Doctor (passionately).--I love her and I must have her, even if the
walls of this house should crumble around our heads.
Anton.--Man, you are talking nonsense.
Doctor.--Man, you are talking like a nincompoop, and not like a
man.
You have plenty of words in your mouth, but you lack strength--you
cannot face facts. Who would dare say: You have no right to defend
yourself?

Anton (after a while).--Good-bye.
Doctor.--Where are you going?

Anton.--I return to the city.
Doctor.--Are you with me or against me?
Anton.--I am an honest man.
A servant (enters).--A messenger brought this letter from
Miliszewski.
Doctor.--Give it to me. Go (tears the envelop and reads) "Pretwic
is dead." (After a while) Ah--
Anton.--Before I go I must answer your question as to why I am
going.
I have served you faithfully. I served you like a dog because I
believed in you. You knew how to use me, or perhaps to use me up.
I knew that I was a tool, but I did not care for that, because--But
now-- 
Doctor.--You give up the public affair?
Anton.--You do not know me. What would I do if I were to give up
my ideas? And then, do you think that you personify public affairs?
I will not give up because I have been deceived by you. But I care
about something else. I was stupid to have cared for you, and I
regret now that I must tell you that you have heaped up the measure
and used badly the strength which is in you. Oh, I know that perhaps
it would be better for me not to tell you this, perhaps to hold
with you would mean a bright future for such a man as I, who have
hardly the money to buy food for my wife and children. But I cannot.
Before God, I cannot!
I am a poor man and I shall remain poor, but I must at least have
a clear conscience. Well, I loved you almost as much as I loved my
wife and children, but from to-day you are only a political number--for
friendship you must look to some one else. You know I have no
scruples; a man rubs among the people and he rubs off many things;
but you have heaped up the measure. May I be hanged if I do not
prefer to love the people than pound them! They say that honesty
and politics are two different things. Elsewhere it may be so, but
in our country we must harmonize them. Why should they not go
together? I do not give up our ideas, but I do not care for our
friendship because the man who says he loves humanity, and then
pounds the people threateningly on their heads--that man is a liar;
do you understand me?
Doctor.--I shall not insist upon your giving me back your friendship,
but you must listen to me for the last time. If there shall begin
for me an epoch of calamity, it will begin at the moment when such
people as you begin to desert me. The man who was killed was in my
way to happiness--he took everything from me. He came armed with
wealth, good name, social position, and all the invincible arms
which birth and fortune give. With what arms could I fight him?
What could I oppose to such might?And this is how Saint Michael, the patron saint of Normandy, vanquished
the devil.

Another people would have dreamed of this battle in an entirely different
manner.


A NEW YEAR'S GIFT

Jacques de Randal, having dined at home alone, told his valet he might go
out, and he sat down at his table to write some letters.

He ended every year in this manner, writing and dreaming. He reviewed the
events of his life since last New Year's Day, things that were now all
over and dead; and, in proportion as the faces of his friends rose up
before his eyes, he wrote them a few lines, a cordial New Year's greeting
on the first of January.

So he sat down, opened a drawer, took out of it a woman's photograph,
gazed at it a few moments, and kissed it. Then, having laid it beside a
sheet of notepaper, he began:

   "MY DEAR IRENE: You must by this time have received the little
   souvenir I sent, you addressed to the maid. I have shut myself up
   this evening in order to tell you----"

The pen here ceased to move. Jacques rose up and began walking up and
down the room.

For the last ten months he had had a sweetheart, not like the others, a
woman with whom one engages in a passing intrigue, of the theatrical
world or the demi-monde, but a woman whom he loved and won. He was no
longer a young man, although he was still comparatively young for a man,
and he looked on life seriously in a positive and practical spirit.

Accordingly, he drew up the balance sheet of his passion, as he drew up
every year the balance sheet of friendships that were ended or freshly
contracted, of circumstances and persons that had entered into his life.

His first ardor of love having grown calmer, he asked himself with the
precision of a merchant making a calculation what was the state of his
heart with regard to her, and he tried to form an idea of what it would
be in the future.

He found there a great and deep affection; made up of tenderness,
gratitude and the thousand subtleties which give birth to long and
powerful attachments.

A ring at the bell made him start. He hesitated. Should he open the door?
But he said to himself that one must always open the door on New Year's
night, to admit the unknown who is passing by and knocks, no matter who
it may be.

So he took a wax candle, passed through the antechamber, drew back the
bolts, turned the key, pulled the door back, and saw his sweetheart
standing pale as a corpse, leaning against the wall.

He stammered:

"What is the matter with you?"

She replied:

"Are you alone?"

"Yes."

"Without servants?"

"Yes."

"You are not going out?"

"No."

She entered with the air of a woman who knew the house. As soon as she
was in the drawing-room, she sank down on the sofa, and, covering her
face with her hands, began to weep bitterly.

He knelt down at her feet, and tried to remove her hands from her eyes,
so that he might look at them, and exclaimed:

"Irene, Irene, what is the matter with you? I implore you to tell me what
is the matter with you?"

Then, amid her sobs, she murmured:

"I can no longer live like this."

"Live like this? What do you mean?"

"Yes. I can no longer live like this. I have endured so much. He struck
me this afternoon."

"Who? Your husband?"

"Yes, my husband."

"Ah!"

He was astonished, having never suspected that her husband could be
brutal. He was a man of the world, of the better class, a clubman, a
lover of horses, a theatergoer and an expert swordsman; he was known,
talked about, appreciated everywhere, having very courteous manners, a
very mediocre intellect, an absence of education and of the real culture
needed in order to think like all well-bred people, and finally a respect
for conventionalities.

He appeared to devote himself to his wife, as a man ought to do in the
case of wealthy and well-bred people. He displayed enough of anxiety
about her wishes, her health, her dresses, and, beyond that, left her
perfectly free.

Randal, having become Irene's friend, had a right to the affectionate
hand-clasp which every husband endowed with good manners owes to his
wife's intimate acquaintance. Then, when Jacques, after having been for
some time the friend, became the lover, his relations with the husband
were more cordial, as is fitting.

Jacques had never dreamed that there were storms in this household, and
he was bewildered at this unexpected revelation.

He asked:

"How did it happen? Tell me."

Thereupon she related a long story, the entire history of her life since
the day of her marriage, the first disagreement arising out of a mere
nothing, then becoming accentuated at every new difference of opinion
between two dissimilar dispositions.

Then came quarrels, a complete separation, not apparent, but real; next,
her husband showed himself aggressive, suspicious, violent. Now, he was
jealous, jealous of Jacques, and that very day, after a scene, he had
struck her.

She added with decision: "I will not go back to him. Do with me what you
like."

Jacques sat down opposite to her, their knees touching. He took her
hands:

"My dear love, you are going to commit a gross, an irreparable folly. If
you want to leave your husband, put him in the wrong, so that your
position as a woman of the world may be saved."

She asked, as she looked at him uneasily:

"Then, what do you advise me?"

"To go back home and to put up with your life there till the day when you
can obtain either a separation or a divorce, with the honors of war."

"Is not this thing which you advise me to do a little cowardly?"

"No; it is wise and sensible. You have a high position, a reputation to
protect, friends to preserve and relations to deal with. You must not
lose all these through a mere caprice."

She rose up, and said with violence:

"Well, no! I cannot stand it any longer! It is at an end! it is at an
end!"

Then, placing her two hands on her lover's shoulders, and looking him
straight in the face, she asked:

"Do you love me?"

"Yes."

"Really and truly?"

"Yes."

"Then take care of me."

He exclaimed:

"Take care of you? In my own house? Here? Why, you are mad. It would mean
losing you forever; losing you beyond hope of recall! You are mad!"

She replied, slowly and seriously, like a woman who feels the weight of
her words:

"Listen, Jacques. He has forbidden me to see you again, and I will not
play this comedy of coming secretly to your house. You must either lose
me or take me."

"My dear Irene, in that case, obtain your divorce, and I will marry you."

"Yes, you will marry me in--two years at the soonest. Yours is a
patient love."

"Look here! Reflect! If you remain here he'll come to-morrow to take you
away, seeing that he is your husband, seeing that he has right and law on
his side."

"I did not ask you to keep me in your own house, Jacques, but to take me
anywhere you like. I thought you loved me enough to do that. I have made
a mistake. Good-by!"

She turned round and went toward the door so quickly that he was only
able to catch hold of her when she was outside the room:

"Listen, Irene."

She struggled, and would not listen to him. Her eyes were full of tears,
and she stammered:

"Let me alone! let me alone! let me alone!"

He made her sit down by force, and once more falling on his knees at her
feet, he now brought forward a number of arguments and counsels to make
her understand the folly and terrible risk of her project. He omitted
nothing which he deemed necessary to convince her, finding even in his
very affection for her incentives to persuasion.

As she remained silent and cold as ice, he begged of her, implored of her
to listen to him, to trust him, to follow his advice.

When he had finished speaking, she only replied:

"Are you disposed to let me go away now? Take away your hands, so that I
may rise to my feet."

"Look here, Irene."

"Will you let me go?"

"Irene--is your resolution irrevocable?"

"Will you let me go."

"Tell me only whether this resolution, this mad resolution of yours,
which you will bitterly regret, is irrevocable?"

"Yes--let me go!"

"Then stay. You know well that you are at home here. We shall go away
to-morrow morning."

She rose to her feet in spite of him, and said in a hard tone:

"No. It is too late. I do not want sacrifice; I do not want devotion."

"Stay! I have done what I ought to do; I have said what I ought to say. I
have no further responsibility on your behalf. My conscience is at peace.
Tell me what you want me to do, and I will obey."'

She resumed her seat, looked at him for a long time, and then asked, in a
very calm voice:

"Well, then, explain."

"Explain what? What do you wish me to explain?"

"Everything--everything that you thought about before changing your
mind. Then I will see what I ought to do."

"But I thought about nothing at all. I had to warn you that you were
going to commit an act of folly. You persist; then I ask to share in this
act of folly, and I even insist on it."

"It is not natural to change one's mind so quickly."

"Listen, my dear love. It is not a question here of sacrifice or
devotion. On the day when I realized that I loved you, I said to myself
what every lover ought to say to himself in the same case: 'The man who
loves a woman, who makes an effort to win her, who gets her, and who
takes her, enters into a sacred contract with himself and with her. That
is, of course, in dealing with a woman like you, not a woman with a
fickle heart and easily impressed.'

"Marriage which has a great social value, a great legal value, possesses
in my eyes only a very slight moral value, taking into account the
conditions under which it generally takes place.

"Therefore, when a woman, united by this lawful bond, but having no
attachment to her husband, whom she cannot love, a woman whose heart is
free, meets a man whom she cares for, and gives herself to him, when a
man who has no other tie, takes a woman in this way, I say that they
pledge themselves toward each other by this mutual and free agreement
much more than by the 'Yes' uttered in the presence of the mayor.

"I say that, if they are both honorable persons, their union must be more
intimate, more real, more wholesome, than if all the sacraments had
consecrated it.

"This woman risks everything. And it is exactly because she knows it,
because she gives everything, her heart, her body, her soul, her honor,
her life, because she has foreseen all miseries, all dangers all
catastrophes, because she dares to do a bold act, an intrepid act,
because she is prepared, determined to brave everything--her
husband, who might kill her, and society, which may cast her out. This is
why she is worthy of respect in the midst of her conjugal infidelity;
this is why her lover, in taking her, should also foresee everything, and
prefer her to every one else whatever may happen. I have nothing more to
say. I spoke in the beginning like a sensible man whose duty it was to
warn you; and now I am only a man--a man who loves you--Command,
and I obey."

Radiant, she closed his mouth with a kiss, and said in a low tone:

"It is not true, darling! There is nothing the matter! My husband does
not suspect anything. But I wanted to see, I wanted to know, what you
would do I wished for a New Year's gift--the gift of your
heart--another gift besides the necklace you sent me. You have given
it to me. Thanks! thanks! God be thanked for the happiness you have given
me!"


FRIEND PATIENCE

"What became of Leremy?"

"He is captain in the Sixth Dragoons."

"And Pinson?"

"He's a subprefect."

"And Racollet?"

"Dead."

We were searching for other names which would remind us of the youthful
faces of our younger days. Once in a while we had met some of these old
comrades, bearded, bald, married, fathers of several children, and the
realization of these changes had given us an unpleasant shudder,
reminding us how short life is, how everything passes away, how
everything changes. My friend asked me:

"And Patience, fat Patience?"

I almost, howled:

"Oh! as for him, just listen to this. Four or five years ago I was in
Limoges, on a tour of inspection, and I was waiting for dinner time. I
was seated before the big cafe in the Place du Theatre, just bored to
death. The tradespeople were coming by twos, threes or fours, to take
their absinthe or vermouth, talking all the time of their own or other
people's business, laughing loudly, or lowering their voices in order to
impart some important or delicate piece of news.

"I was saying to myself: 'What shall I do after dinner?' And I thought of
the long evening in this provincial town, of the slow, dreary walk
through unknown streets, of the impression of deadly gloom which these
provincial people produce on the lonely traveller, and of the whole
oppressive atmosphere of the place.

"I was thinking of all these things as I watched the little jets of gas
flare up, feeling my loneliness increase with the falling shadows.

"A big, fat man sat down at the next table and called in a stentorian
voice:

"'Waiter, my bitters!'

"The 'my' came out like the report of a cannon. I immediately understood
that everything was his in life, and not another's; that he had his
nature, by Jove, his appetite, his trousers, his everything, his, more
absolutely and more completely than anyone else's. Then he looked round
him with a satisfied air. His bitters were brought, and he ordered:

"'My newspaper!'

"I wondered: 'Which newspaper can his be?' The title would certainly
reveal to me his opinions, his theories, his principles, his hobbies, his
weaknesses.

"The waiter brought the Temps. I was surprised. Why the Temps, a serious,
sombre, doctrinaire, impartial sheet? I thought:

"'He must be a serious man with settled and regular habits; in short, a
good bourgeois.'

"He put on his gold-rimmed spectacles, leaned back before beginning to
read, and once more glanced about him. He noticed me, and immediately
began to stare at me in an annoying manner. I was even going to ask the
reason for this attention, when he exclaimed from his seat:

"'Well, by all that's holy, if this isn't Gontran Lardois.'

"I answered:

"'Yes, monsieur, you are not mistaken.'

"Then he quickly rose and came toward me with hands outstretched:

"'Well, old man, how are you?'

"As I did not recognize him at all I was greatly embarrassed. I
stammered:

"'Why-very well-and-you?'

"He began to laugh "'I bet you don't recognize me.'

"'No, not exactly. It seems--however--'

"He slapped me on the back:

"'Come on, no joking! I am Patience, Robert Patience, your friend, your
chum.'

"I recognized him. Yes, Robert Patience, my old college chum. It was he.
I took his outstretched hand:

"'And how are you?'

"'Fine!'

"His smile was like a paean of victory.

"He asked:

"'What are you doing here?'

"I explained that I was government inspector of taxes.

"He continued, pointing to my red ribbon:

"'Then you have-been a success?'

"I answered:

"'Fairly so. And you?'

"'I am doing well!'

"'What are you doing?'

"'I'm in business.'

"'Making money?'

"'Heaps. I'm very rich. But come around to lunch, to-morrow noon, 17 Rue
du Coq-qui-Chante; you will see my place.'

"He seemed to hesitate a second, then continued:

"'Are you still the good sport that you used to be?'

"'I--I hope so.'

"'Not married?'

"'No.'

"'Good. And do you still love a good time and potatoes?'

"I was beginning to find him hopelessly vulgar. Nevertheless, I answered
"'Yes.'

"'And pretty girls?'

"'Most assuredly.'

"He began to laugh good-humoredly.

"'Good, good! Do you remember our first escapade, in Bordeaux, after that
dinner at Routie's? What a spree!'

"I did, indeed, remember that spree; and the recollection of it cheered
me up. This called to mind other pranks. He would say:

"'Say, do you remember the time when we locked the proctor up in old man
Latoque's cellar?'

"And he laughed and banged the table with his fist, and then he
continued:

"'Yes-yes-yes-and do you remember the face of the geography teacher, M.
Her divine lips were disclosed and her voice whispered; it was like
the sound of Apollo's lyre.

"The member of the Areopagus Melanocles for the bread for two months,
forty drachmas and four obols; let us write in round numbers forty-six
drachmas.

By Athena!

let us write fifty; my husband will be satisfied!
Ah, that Melanocles!

If you were not in a position to bother us about false weight, I
never would give you credit.

But we must keep peace with that locust."
Apollo did not listen to the words.

He was intoxicated with the woman's voice, the charm of her figure,
and whispered:

"This one or none!"

The golden-haired woman spoke again, writing further:

"Alcibiades, for cakes on honey from Hymettus for Hetera Chrysalis,
three minae.

He never verifies bills, and then he once gave me in Stoa a slap
on the shoulder--we will write four minae.

He is stupid; let him pay for it. And then that Chrysalis! She must feed
with cakes her carp in the pond, or perhaps Alcibiades makes her fat
purposely, in order to sell her afterwards to a Phoenician
merchant for an ivory ring for his harness."

Again Apollo paid no attention to the words--he was enchanted with
the voice alone and whispered to Hermes:

"This one or none!"

But Maya's son suddenly covered the house, the apparition disappeared,
and it seemed to the Radiant Apollo that with it disappeared the
stars, that the moon became black, and the whole world was covered
with the darkness of Chimera.

"When shall we decide the wager?"

asked Hermes.

"Immediately. To-day!"
"During her husband's absence she sleeps in the store. You can stand in the
street before the door. If she raises the curtain and opens the gate, I
have lost my wager."
"You have lost it already!" exclaimed the Far-darting Apollo.

The summer lightning does not pass from the East to the West as
quickly as he rushed over the salt waves of the Archipelago.

There he asked Amphitrite for an empty turtle-shell, put around it
the rays of the sun, and returned to Athens with a ready formiga.

In the city everything was already quiet. The lights were out, and
only the houses and temples shone white in the light of the moon,
which had risen high in the sky.

The store was dark, and in it, behind a gate and a curtain, the
beautiful Eryfile was asleep.

Apollo the Radiant began to touch the strings of his lyre.

Wishing to awake softly his beloved, he played at first as gently
as swarms of mosquitoes singing on a summer evening on Illis.

But the song became gradually stronger like a brook in the mountain
after a rain; then more powerful, sweeter, more intoxicating, and
it filled the air voluptuously.

The secret Athena's bird flew softly from the Acropolis and sat
motionless on the nearest column.

Suddenly a bare arm, worthy of Phidias or Praxiteles, whiter than
Pantelican marble, drew aside the curtain. The Radiant's heart stopped
beating with emotion. And then Eryfile's voice resounded:

"Ha! You booby, why do you wander about and make a noise during the
night? I have been working all day, and now they won't let me sleep!"

"Eryfile! Eryfile!" exclaimed Silver-arrowed. And he began to sing:

"From lofty peaks of Parnas--where there ring In all the glory of
light's brilliant rays The grand sweet songs which inspired muses
sing To me, by turns, in rapture and praise-- I, worshiped god--I
fly, fly to thee, Eryfile!

And on thy bosom white I shall rest, and the Eternity will be A
moment to me--the God of Light!"
"By the holy flour for sacrifices," exclaimed the baker's wife, "that
street boy sings and makes love to me. Will you go home, you impudent!"

The Radiant, wishing to pursuade her that he was not a common mortal,
threw so much light from his person, that all the earth was lighted.
But Eryfile, seeing this, exclaimed:

"That scurrilous fellow has hidden a lantern under his robe, and he tries
to make me believe that he is a god. O daughter of mighty Dios!
they press us with taxes, but there is no Scythian guard to protect us from
such stupid fellows!"
Apollo, who did not wish yet to acknowledge defeat, sang further:

"Ah, open thine arms--rounded, gleaming, white-- To thee eternal glory I
will give.
Over goddess of earth, fair and bright, Thy name above immortal shall
live.
I kiss the dainty bloom of thy cheek, To thy lustrous eyes the love-light
I bring, From the masses of thy silken hair I speak, To thy beauty,
peerless one, I sing.
White pearls are thy ruby lips between-- With might of godly words I thee
endow; An eloquence for which a Grecian queen Would gladly give
the crown from her brow.

Ah! Open, open thine arms!

"The azure from the sea I will take, Twilight its wealth of purple shall
give too; Twinkling stars shall add the sparks which they make,
And flowers shall yield their perfume and dew.
By fairy touch, light as a caress, Made from all this material so
bright, My beloved rainbow, in Chipryd's rich dress Thou shalt be
clothed by the God of Light."

And the voice of the God of Light was so beautiful that
it performed a miracle, for, behold!

in the ambrosian night the gold spear standing on the Acropolis of
Athens trembled, and the marble head of the gigantic statue turned
toward the Acropolis in order to hear better.

Heaven and Earth listened to it; the sea stopped roaring and lay
peacefully near the shore; even the pale Selene stopped her night wandering
in the sky and stood motionless over Athens.

And when Apollo had finished, a light wind arose and carried the
song throughout the whole of Greece, and wherever a child in the cradle
heard only a tone of it, that child became a poet.

But before Latona's son had finished his divine singing, the angry Eryfile
began to scream:

"What an ass!

He tries to bribe me with flowers and dew; do you think that you
are privileged because my husband is not at home?

What a pity that our servants are not at hand; I would give you a
good lesson!

But wait; I will teach you to wander during the night with songs!"

So saying she seized a pot of dough, and, throwing it through the
gate, splashed it over the face, neck, robe, and lyre of the Radiant.

Apollo groaned, and, covering his inspired head with a corner of his wet
robe, he departed in shame and wrath.

Hermes, waiting for him, laughed, turned somersaults, and twirled
his caduceus.

But when the sorrowful son of Latona approached him, the foxy patron
of merchants simulated compassion and said:
"I am sorry you have lost, O puissant archer!"

"Go away, you rascal!" answered the angry Apollo.

"I shall go when you give me Lampecja."

"May Cerberus bite your calves.

I shall not give you Lampecja, and I tell you to go away, or I will twist
your neck."
The Argo-robber knew that he must not joke when Apollo was angry, so
he stood aside cautiously and said:
"If you wish to cheat me, then in the future be Hermes and I will
be Apollo.

I know that you are above me in power, and that you can harm me, but
happily there is some one who is stronger than you and he will judge us.
Radiant, I call you to the judgment of Chronid! Come with me."
Apollo feared the name of Chronid. He did not care to refuse, and they
departed.

In the mean time day began to break.

The Attic came out from the shadows.

Pink-fingered dawn had arisen in the sky from the Archipelago.

Zeus passed the night on the summit of Ida, whether he slept or not, and
what he did there no one knew, because, Fog-carrying, he wrapped himself
in such a thick cloud that even Hera could not see through it.

Hermes trembled a little on approaching the god of gods and of people.

"I am right," he was thinking, "but if Zeus is aroused in a bad humor,
and if, before hearing us, he should take us each by a leg and throw us
some three hundred Athenian stadia, it would be very bad. He has some
consideration for Apollo, but he would treat me without ceremony,
although I am his son too."

But Maya's son feared in vain.

Chronid waited joyfully on the earth, for he had passed a pleasant
night, and was gladsomely gazing on the earthly circle. The Earth, happy
beneath the weight of the gods' and people's father, put forth beneath his
feet green grass and young hyacinths, and he, leaning on it, caressed the
curling flowers with his hand, and was happy in his proud heart.

Seeing this, Maya's son grew quiet, and having saluted the generator,
boldly accused the Radiant.

When he had finished, Zeus was silent a while, and then said:

"Radiant, is it true?"
"It is true, father Chronid," answered Apollo, "but if after the shame
you will order me to pay the bet, I shall descend to Hades and light the
shades."
Zeus became silent and thoughtful.

"Then this woman," said he finally, "remained deaf to your music, to
your songs, and she repudiated you with disdain?"

"She poured on my head a pot of dough, O Thunderer!"
Zeus frowned, and at his frown Ida trembled, pieces of rock began to roll
with a great noise toward the sea, and the trees bent like ears
of wheat.

Both gods awaited with beating hearts his decision.

"Hermes," said Zeus, "you may cheat the people as much as you like--the
people like to be cheated. But leave the gods alone, for if I become
angry I will throw you into the ether, then you will sink so deep into the
depths of the ocean that even my brother Poseidon will not be able to dig
you out with his trident."
Divine fear seized Hermes by his smooth knees; Zeus spoke further,
with stronger voice:
"A virtuous woman, especially if she loves another man, can resist
Apollo.

But surely and always a stupid woman will resist him.

"Eryfile is stupid, not virtuous; that's the reason she resisted.
Therefore you cheated the Radiant, and you shall not have Lampecja.

Now go in peace."
The gods departed.

Zeus remained in his joyful glory. For a while he looked after Apollo,
muttering:

"Oh, yes! A stupid woman is able to resist him."

After that, as he had not slept well the previous night, he called Sleep,
who, sitting on a tree in the form of a hawk, was awaiting the
orders of the Father of gods and people.

PART FIFTH

WIN OR LOSE.

_A Drama in Five Acts_.

CHARACTERS:

Prince Starogrodzki.
Stella, his daughter.
George Pretwic, Stella's fiancé.
Karol Count Drahomir, Pretwic's friend.
Countess Miliszewska.
Jan Count Miliszewski.
Anton Zuk, secretary of the county.
Dr.

Jozwowicz.
Mrs. Czeska.
Mr. Podczaski.
Servants.

ACT I.

The stage represents a drawing-room with the principal door leading to
the garden. There are also side doors to the other rooms.

SCENE I.

Princess Stella. Mrs. Czeska.

Czeska.--Why do you tell me this only now? Really, my dear Stella,
I should be angry with you. I live only a mile from here; I was your teacher
before you were put into the hands of English and French governesses.

I see you almost every day.

I love my darling with all my soul, and still you did not tell me
that for several weeks you have been engaged.

At least do not torture me any longer, but tell me, who is he?

Stella.--You must guess, my dear mother.

Czeska.--As long as you call me mother, you must not make me
wait.

Stella.

--But I wish you to guess and tell me.

Naturally it is he and not another. Believe me, it will flatter and
please me.

Czeska.--Count Drahomir, then.

Stella.

--Ah!

Czeska.--You are blushing. It is true. He has not been here for a long
time, but how sympathetic, how gay he is.

Well, my old eyes would be gladdened by seeing you both together.

I should at once think what a splendid couple. Perhaps there will be
something in it.

Stella.--There will be nothing in it, because Count Drahomir, although
very sympathetic, is not my fiancé. I am betrothed to Mr. Pretwic.

Czeska.--Mr.

George Pretwic?

Stella.--Yes. Are you surprised?

Czeska.--No, my dear child. May God bless you. Why should I be
surprised?

But I am so fond of Count Drahomir, so I thought it was he.

Mr. George Pretwic!

--Oh, I am not surprised at all that he should love you. But it came a
little too soon. How long have you known each other? Living at my
Berwinek I do not know anything that goes on in the neighborhood.

Stella.--Since three months.

My fiancé has inherited an estate in this neighborhood from the
Jazlowieckis, and came, as you know, from far off.

He was a near relation of the Jazlowieckis, and he himself comes
of a very good family.

Dear madam, have you not heard of the Pretwics?

Czeska.

--Nothing at all, my dear Stella.

What do I care for heraldry!

Stella.

--In former times, centuries ago, the Pretwics were related to our
family.

It is a very good family. Otherwise papa would not have consented. Well
then, Mr.

Pretwic came here, took possession of the Jazlowieckis estate,
became acquainted with us, and-- 
Czeska.

--And fell in love with you.

I should have done the same if I were in his place. It gives him more
value in my eyes.

Stella.--Has he needed it?

Czeska.

--No, my little kitten--rest easy.

You know I am laughed at for seeing everything in a rosy hue. He belongs
to a good family, he is young, rich, good-looking, well-bred, but--

Stella.--But what?

Czeska.--A bird must have sung it, because I cannot remember who told me
that he is a little bit like a storm.

Stella.--Yes, his life has been stormy, but he was not broken by it.

Czeska.--So much the better. Listen!

Such people are the best--they are true men. The more I think of it, the
more sincerely I congratulate you.

Stella.--Thank you. I am glad I spoke to you frankly. The fact is that
I am very lonesome here: papa is always ailing and our doctor has
been away for three months.

Czeska.--Let that doctor of yours alone.

Stella.--You never liked him.

Czeska.--You know that I am not easily prejudiced against any one, but I
do not like him.

Stella.--And do you know that he has been offered a professorship at
the university, and that he is anxious to be elected a member of
parliament?

Mother, you are really unjust.

You know that he sacrificed himself for us.

He is famous, rich, and a great student, but notwithstanding all
that he remains with us when the whole world is open to him.

I would surely have asked his advice.

Czeska.--Love is not an illness--but no matter about him.

May God help him! You had better tell me, dear kitten--are you very
much in love?

Stella.--Do you not see how quickly everything has been done?

It is true that Countess Miliszewska came here with her son. I know it was
a question about me, and I feared, although in vain, that papa might have
the same idea.

Czeska.--You have not answered my question.

Stella.--Because it is a hard matter to speak about. Mother, Mr.

Pretwic's life is full of heroic deeds, sacrifices, and
dangers. Once he was in great peril, and he owes his life to Count Drahomir.
But how dearly he loves him for it.

Well, my fiancé bears the marks of distant deserts, long solitudes, and
deep sufferings.

But when he begins to tell me of his life, it seems that I truly
love that stalwart man.

If you only knew how timidly, and at the same time how earnestly he
told me of his love, and then he added that he knows his hands are too
rough--

Czeska.--Not too rough--for they are honest. After what you have told me,
I am in his favor with all my soul.

Stella.

--But in spite of all that, sometimes I feel very unhappy.

Czeska.--What is the matter? Why?

Stella.--Because sometimes we cannot understand each other. There are two
kinds of love--one is strong as the rocks, and the other is like
a brook in which one can see one's self.

When I look at George's love, I see its might, but my soul is not
reflected in it like a face in a limpid brook.

I love him, it is true, but sometimes it seems to me that I could
love still more--that all my heart is not in that love, and then I
am unhappy.

Czeska.--But I cannot understand that. I take life simply. I love, or I do
not love. Well Stella, the world is so cleverly constructed, and God
is so good that there is nothing more easy than to be happy. But one
must not make a tangle of God's affairs. Be calm. You are very
much in love indeed. No matter!

Stella.--That confidence in the future is exactly what I need--some of
your optimism. I knew that you would frown and say: No matter!

I am now more happy. Only I am afraid of our doctor.

Well (looking through the window), our gentlemen are coming. Mr. Pretwic
and Count Drahomir.

Czeska (looking through the window.)--Your future husband is looking very
well, but so is Count Drahomir. Since when is he with Mr.
Pretwic?

Stella (looking through the window).--For the past two weeks. Mr.
Pretwic has invited him.

They are coming.
Czeska.--And your little heart is throbbing--
Stella.--Do not tease me again.

SCENE II.
Mrs. Czeska. Stella. George Pretwic. Count Drahomir.--The count has
his left arm in a sling.--A servant.
Servant (opening the door).--The princess is in the drawing-room.
Stella.--How late you are to-day!
George.--It is true. The sun is already setting. But we could not
come earlier. Do you not know that there has been a fire in the
neighboring village? We went there.
Czeska.--We have heard of it. It seems that several houses were
burned.
George.--The fire began in the morning, and it was extinguished
only now. Some twenty families are without a roof and bread. We are
also late because Karol had an accident.
Stella (with animation).--It is true. Your arm is in a
sling!
Drahomir.--Oh, it is a mere trifle. If there were no more serious
wounds in the world, courage would be sold in all the markets. Only
a slight scratch-- 
Stella.--Mr. Pretwic, how did it happen?
George.--When it happened I was at the other end of the village,
and I could not see anything on account of the smoke. I was only
told that Karol had jumped into a burning house.
Stella.--Oh, Lord!
Drahomir (laughing).--I see that my deed gains with distance.
Czeska.--You must tell us about it yourself.
Drahomir.--They told me that there was a woman in a house of which
the roof had begun to burn. Thinking that this salamander who was
not afraid of fire was some enchanted beauty, I entered the house
out of pure curiosity. It was quite dark owing to the smoke. I
looked and saw that I had no luck, because the salamander was only
an old Jewish woman packing some feathers in a bag. Amidst the cloud
of down she looked like anything you please but an enchantress. I
shouted that there was a fire, and she shouted too, evidently taking
me for a thief--so we both screamed. Finally I seized hold of my
salamander, fainting with fear, and carried her out, not even through
a window, but through the door.
George.--But you omitted to say that the roof fell in and that a
spar struck your hand.
Drahomir.--True--and I destroyed the dam of my modesty, and will
add that one of the selectmen of the village made a speech in my
honor. It seems to me that he made some mention of a monument which
they would erect for me. But pray believe that the fire was quenched
by George and his people.is that what you have made of him?"

He was very pale and replied coldly:

"I did what I could. His farm is worth eighty thousand francs, and that
is more than most of the sons of the middle classes have."

They returned slowly, without speaking a word. She was still crying; the
tears ran down her cheeks continually for a time, but by degrees they
stopped, and they went back to Fecamp, where they found Monsieur de
Cadour waiting dinner for them. As soon as he saw them, he began to laugh
and exclaimed:

"So my wife has had a sunstroke, and I am very glad of it. I really think
she has lost her head for some time past!"

Neither of them replied, and when the husband asked them, rubbing his
hands:

"Well, I hope that, at least, you have had a pleasant walk?"

Monsieur d'Apreval replied:

"A delightful walk, I assure you; perfectly delightful."


THE MAISON TELLIER

They went there every evening about eleven o'clock, just as they would go
to the club. Six or eight of them; always the same set, not fast men, but
respectable tradesmen, and young men in government or some other employ,
and they would drink their Chartreuse, and laugh with the girls, or else
talk seriously with Madame Tellier, whom everybody respected, and then
they would go home at twelve o'clock! The younger men would sometimes
stay later.

It was a small, comfortable house painted yellow, at the corner of a
street behind Saint Etienne's Church, and from the windows one could see
the docks full of ships being unloaded, the big salt marsh, and, rising
beyond it, the Virgin's Hill with its old gray chapel.

Madame Tellier, who came of a respectable family of peasant proprietors
in the Department of the Eure, had taken up her profession, just as she
would have become a milliner or dressmaker. The prejudice which is so
violent and deeply rooted in large towns, does not exist in the country
places in Normandy. The peasant says:

"It is a paying-business," and he sends his daughter to keep an
establishment of this character just as he would send her to keep a
girls' school.

She had inherited the house from an old uncle, to whom it had belonged.
Monsieur and Madame Tellier, who had formerly been innkeepers near
Yvetot, had immediately sold their house, as they thought that the
business at Fecamp was more profitable, and they arrived one fine morning
to assume the direction of the enterprise, which was declining on account
of the absence of the proprietors. They were good people enough in their
way, and soon made themselves liked by their staff and their neighbors.

Monsieur died of apoplexy two years later, for as the new place kept him
in idleness and without any exercise, he had grown excessively stout, and
his health had suffered. Since she had been a widow, all the frequenters
of the establishment made much of her; but people said that, personally,
she was quite virtuous, and even the girls in the house could not
discover anything against her. She was tall, stout and affable, and her
complexion, which had become pale in the dimness of her house, the
shutters of which were scarcely ever opened, shone as if it had been
varnished. She had a fringe of curly false hair, which gave her a
juvenile look, that contrasted strongly with the ripeness of her figure.
She was always smiling and cheerful, and was fond of a joke, but there
was a shade of reserve about her, which her occupation had not quite made
her lose. Coarse words always shocked her, and when any young fellow who
had been badly brought up called her establishment a hard name, she was
angry and disgusted.

In a word, she had a refined mind, and although she treated her women as
friends, yet she very frequently used to say that "she and they were not
made of the same stuff."

Sometimes during the week she would hire a carriage and take some of her
girls into the country, where they used to enjoy themselves on the grass
by the side of the little river. They were like a lot of girls let out
from school, and would run races and play childish games. They had a cold
dinner on the grass, and drank cider, and went home at night with a
delicious feeling of fatigue, and in the carriage they kissed Madame'
Tellier as their kind mother, who was full of goodness and complaisance.

The house had two entrances. At the corner there was a sort of tap-room,
which sailors and the lower orders frequented at night, and she had two
girls whose special duty it was to wait on them with the assistance of
Frederic, a short, light-haired, beardless fellow, as strong as a horse.
They set the half bottles of wine and the jugs of beer on the shaky
marble tables before the customers, and then urged the men to drink.

The three other girls--there were only five of them--formed a
kind of aristocracy, and they remained with the company on the first
floor, unless they were wanted downstairs and there was nobody on the
first floor. The salon de Jupiter, where the tradesmen used to meet, was
papered in blue, and embellished with a large drawing representing Leda
and the swan. The room was reached by a winding staircase, through a
narrow door opening on the street, and above this door a lantern inclosed
in wire, such as one still sees in some towns, at the foot of the shrine
of some saint, burned all night long.

The house, which was old and damp, smelled slightly of mildew. At times
there was an odor of eau de Cologne in the passages, or sometimes from a
half-open door downstairs the noisy mirth of the common men sitting and
drinking rose to the first floor, much to the disgust of the gentlemen
who were there. Madame Tellier, who was on friendly terms with her
customers, did not leave the room, and took much interest in what was
going on in the town, and they regularly told her all the news. Her
serious conversation was a change from the ceaseless chatter of the three
women; it was a rest from the obscene jokes of those stout individuals
who every evening indulged in the commonplace debauchery of drinking a
glass of liqueur in company with common women.

The names of the girls on the first floor were Fernande, Raphaele, and
Rosa, the Jade. As the staff was limited, madame had endeavored that each
member of it should be a pattern, an epitome of the feminine type, so
that every customer might find as nearly as possible the realization of
his ideal. Fernande represented the handsome blonde; she was very tall,
rather fat, and lazy; a country girl, who could not get rid of her
freckles, and whose short, light, almost colorless, tow-like hair, like
combed-out hemp, barely covered her head.

Raphaele, who came from Marseilles, played the indispensable part of the
handsome Jewess, and was thin, with high cheekbones, which were covered
with rouge, and black hair covered with pomatum, which curled on her
forehead. Her eyes would have been handsome, if the right one had not had
a speck in it. Her Roman nose came down over a square jaw, where two
false upper teeth contrasted strangely with the bad color of the rest.

Rosa was a little roll of fat, nearly all body, with very short legs, and
from morning till night she sang songs, which were alternately risque or
sentimental, in a harsh voice; told silly, interminable tales, and only
stopped talking in order to eat, and left off eating in order to talk;
she was never still, and was active as a squirrel, in spite of her
embonpoint and her short legs; her laugh, which was a torrent of shrill
cries, resounded here and there, ceaselessly, in a bedroom, in the loft,
in the cafe, everywhere, and all about nothing.

The two women on the ground floor, Lodise, who was nicknamed La Cocotte,
and Flora, whom they called Balancoise, because she limped a little, the
former always dressed as the Goddess of Liberty, with a tri-colored sash,
and the other as a Spanish woman, with a string of copper coins in her
carroty hair, which jingled at every uneven step, looked like cooks
dressed up for the carnival. They were like all other women of the lower
orders, neither uglier nor better looking than they usually are.

They looked just like servants at an inn, and were generally called "the
two pumps."

A jealous peace, which was, however, very rarely disturbed, reigned among
these five women, thanks to Madame Tellier's conciliatory wisdom, and to
her constant good humor, and the establishment, which was the only one of
the kind in the little town, was very much frequented. Madame Tellier had
succeeded in giving it such a respectable appearance, she was so amiable
and obliging to everybody, her good heart was so well known, that she was
treated with a certain amount of consideration. The regular customers
spent money on her, and were delighted when she was especially friendly
toward them, and when they met during the day, they would say: "Until
this evening, you know where," just as men say: "At the club, after
dinner." In a word, Madame Tellier's house was somewhere to go to, and
they very rarely missed their daily meetings there.

One evening toward the end of May, the first arrival, Monsieur Poulin,
who was a timber merchant, and had been mayor, found the door shut. The
lantern behind the grating was not alight; there was not a sound in the
house; everything seemed dead. He knocked, gently at first, but then more
loudly, but nobody answered the door. Then he went slowly up the street,
and when he got to the market place he met Monsieur Duvert, the gunmaker,
who was going to the same place, so they went back together, but did not
meet with any better success. But suddenly they heard a loud noise, close
to them, and on going round the house, they saw a number of English and
French sailors, who were hammering at the closed shutters of the taproom
with their fists.

The two tradesmen immediately made their escape, but a low "Pst!" stopped
them; it was Monsieur Tournevau, the fish curer, who had recognized them,
and was trying to attract their attention. They told him what had
happened, and he was all the more annoyed, as he was a married man and
father of a family, and only went on Saturdays. That was his regular
evening, and now he should be deprived of this dissipation for the whole
week.

The three men went as far as the quay together, and on the way they met
young Monsieur Philippe, the banker's son, who frequented the place
regularly, and Monsieur Pinipesse, the collector, and they all returned
to the Rue aux Juifs together, to make a last attempt. But the
exasperated sailors were besieging the house, throwing stones at the
shutters, and shouting, and the five first-floor customers went away as
quickly as possible, and walked aimlessly about the streets.

Presently they met Monsieur Dupuis, the insurance agent, and then
Monsieur Vasse, the Judge of the Tribunal of Commerce, and they took a
long walk, going to the pier first of all, where they sat down in a row
on the granite parapet and watched the rising tide, and when the
promenaders had sat there for some time, Monsieur Tournevau said:

"This is not very amusing!"

"Decidedly not," Monsieur Pinipesse replied, and they started off to walk
again.

After going through the street alongside the hill, they returned over the
wooden bridge which crosses the Retenue, passed close to the railway, and
came out again on the market place, when, suddenly, a quarrel arose
between Monsieur Pinipesse, the collector, and Monsieur Tournevau about
an edible mushroom which one of them declared he had found in the
neighborhood.

As they were out of temper already from having nothing to do, they would
very probably have come to blows, if the others had not interfered.
Monsieur Pinipesse went off furious, and soon another altercation arose
between the ex-mayor, Monsieur Poulin, and Monsieur Dupuis, the insurance
agent, on the subject of the tax collector's salary and the profits which
he might make. Insulting remarks were freely passing between them, when a
torrent of formidable cries was heard, and the body of sailors, who were
tired of waiting so long outside a closed house, came into the square.
They were walking arm in arm, two and two, and formed a long procession,
and were shouting furiously. The townsmen hid themselves in a doorway,
and the yelling crew disappeared in the direction of the abbey. For a
long time they still heard the noise, which diminished like a storm in
the distance, and then silence was restored. Monsieur Poulin and Monsieur
Dupuis, who were angry with each other, went in different directions,
without wishing each other good-by.

The other four set off again, and instinctively went in the direction of
Madame Tellier's establishment, which was still closed, silent,
impenetrable. A quiet, but obstinate drunken man was knocking at the door
of the lower room, antd then stopped and called Frederic, in a low voice,
but finding that he got no answer, he sat down on the doorstep, and
waited the course of events.

The others were just going to retire, when the noisy band of sailors
reappeared at the end of the street. The French sailors were shouting the
"Marseillaise," and the Englishmen "Rule Britannia." There was a general
lurching against the wall, and then the drunken fellows went on their way
toward the quay, where a fight broke out between the two nations, in the
course of which an Englishman had his arm broken and a Frenchman his nose
split.

The drunken man who had waited outside the door, was crying by that time,
as drunken men and children cry when they are vexed, and the others went
away. By degrees, calm was restored in the noisy town; here and there, at
moments, the distant sound of voices could be heard, and then died away
in the distance.

One man only was still wandering about, Monsieur Tournevau, the fish
curer, who was annoyed at having to wait until the following Saturday,
and he hoped something would turn up, he did not know what; but he was
exasperated at the police for thus allowing an establishment of such
public utility, which they had under their control, to be closed.

He went back to it and examined the walls, trying to find out some
reason, and on the shutter he saw a notice stuck up. He struck a wax
match and read the following, in a large, uneven hand: "Closed on account
of the Confirmation."

Then he went away, as he saw it was useless to remain, and left the
drunken man lying on the pavement fast asleep, outside that inhospitable
door.

The next day, all the regular customers, one after the other, found some
reason for going through the street, with a bundle of papers under their
arm to keep them in countenance, and with a furtive glance they all read
that mysterious notice:

        "Closed on account of the Confirmation."


PART II

Madame Tellier had a brother, who was a carpenter in their native place,
Virville, in the Department of Eure. When she still kept the inn at
Yvetot, she had stood godmother to that brother's daughter, who had
received the name of Constance--Constance Rivet; she herself being a
Rivet on her father's side. The carpenter, who knew that his sister was
in a good position, did not lose sight of her, although they did not meet
often, for they were both kept at home by their occupations, and lived a
long way from each other. But as the girl was twelve years old, and going
to be confirmed, he seized that opportunity to write to his sister,
asking her to come and be present at the ceremony. Their old parents were
dead, and as she could not well refuse her goddaughter, she accepted the
invitation. Her brother, whose name was Joseph, hoped that by dint of
showing his sister attention, she might be induced to make her will in
the girl's favor, as she had no children of her own.

His sister's occupation did not trouble his scruples in the least, and,
besides, nobody knew anything about it at Virville. When they spoke of
her, they only said: "Madame Tellier is living at Fecamp," which might
mean that she was living on her own private income. It was quite twenty
leagues from Fecamp to Virville, and for a peasant, twenty leagues on
land is as long a journey as crossing the ocean would be to city people.
The people at Virville had never been further than Rouen, and nothing
attracted the people from Fecamp to a village of five hundred houses in
the middle of a plain, and situated in another department; at any rate,
nothing was known about her business.

But the Confirmation was coming on, and Madame Tellier was in great
embarrassment. She had no substitute, and did not at all care to leave
her house, even for a day; for all the rivalries between the girls
upstairs and those downstairs would infallibly break out. No doubt
Frederic would get drunk, and when he was in that state, he would knock
anybody down for a mere word. At last, however, she made up her mind to
take them all with her, with the exception of the man, to whom she gave a
holiday until the next day but one.

When she asked her brother, he made no objection, but undertook to put
them all up for a night, and so on Saturday morning the eight-o'clock
express carried off Madame Tellier and her companions in a second-class
carriage. As far as Beuzeville they were alone, and chattered like
magpies, but at that station a couple got in. The man, an old peasant,
dressed in a blue blouse with a turned-down collar, wide sleeves tight at
the wrist, ornamented with white embroidery, wearing an old high hat with
long nap, held an enormous green umbrella in one hand, and a large basket
in the other, from which the heads of three frightened ducks protruded.
Drahomir.--Your name is familiar to me, therefore, strictly speaking,
I alone ought to introduce myself.

Doctor.--Sir.

Prince (introducing).--Mr. George Pretwic, our neighbor, and--(Stella makes
a sign) and--I wish to say--
George.--If I am not mistaken, your schoolmate.

Doctor.--I did not wish to be the first to recollect.

George.--I am glad to see you. It is quite a long time since then, but we
were good comrades. Truly, I am very glad, especially after what I have
heard here about you.

Drahomir.--You are the good spirit of this house.

Stella.--Oh, yes!

Prince.--Let me tell you my opinion of him.

George.--How often the best student, Jozwowicz, helped Pretwic with
his exercises.

Doctor.

--You have a good memory, sir.

George.

--Very good, indeed, for then we did not call each other "sir." Once
more, Stanislaw, I welcome you.

Doctor.--And I return the welcome.

George--But do I not remember that after you went through college you studied
law?

Doctor.--And afterward I became a doctor of medicine.

Prince.--Be seated. Jan, bring the lights.

Stella.--How charming that you are acquainted!

Doctor.--The school-bench, like misery, unites people. But then, social
standing separates them. George's future was assured.

I was obliged to search for mine.

Prince.--He has searched also, and found adventures.

Drahomir.--In two parts of the world.

Czeska.--That is splendid.

Doctor.--Well, he followed his instinct. Even in school he broke the horses,
went shooting and fenced.

George.--Better than I studied.

Doctor (laughing).--Yes--we used to call him the general, because he
commanded us in our student fights.

Drahomir.--George, I recognized you there.

Czeska.--But now, I think, he will stop fighting.

Stella.--Who knows?

George.--I am sure of it.

Doctor.--As for me, I was his worst soldier. I never was fond of playing
that way.

Prince.--Because those are the distractions of the nobility and not
of a doctor.

Doctor.--We begin to quarrel already. You are all proud of the fact that
your ancestors, the knights, killed so many people. But if the prince
knew how many people I have killed with my prescriptions! I can guarantee
you that none of Your Highness's ancestors can be proud of such
great number.

Drahomir.--Bravo. Very good!

Prince.--And he is my doctor!

Stella.--Papa! The doctor is joking.

Prince.--Thanks for such jokes.

But it is sure that the world is now upside-down.

Doctor.--Your Highness, we will live a hundred years more. (To George.)
Come, tell me, what became of you?

(They go out.)
Prince.--You would not believe how unhappy I am because I cannot get along
with that man. He is the son of a blacksmith from Stanislawow.
I sent him to school because I wished to make an overseer of him.

But afterwards he went to study at the University.

Drahomir.

--He is twice a doctor--he is an intelligent man.

One can see that by merely looking at him.

Stella.--Very much so.

Czeska.--So intelligent that I am afraid of him.

Drahomir.--But the prince must be satisfied.

Prince.

--Satisfied, satisfied! He has lost his common sense. He became a democrat--a
_sans culotte_. But he is a good doctor, and I am sick.
I have some stomach trouble. (To Drahomir.) Have you heard of it?

Drahomir.--The prince complained already some time ago.

Czeska.--For twenty years.

Prince.--Sorrow and public service have ruined my health.

Czeska.--But Your Highness is healthy.

Prince (angrily).--I tell you that I am sick. Stella, I am sick--am I
not?

Stella.--But now you will feel better.

Prince.--Because he alone keeps me alive. Stella would have died also
with heart trouble if it had not been for him.

Drahomir.--If that is so, he is a very precious man.

Stella.--We owe him eternal gratitude.

Prince (looking at George).--He will also be necessary to Pretwic.
What, Stella, will he not?

Stella (laughing).--Papa, how can I know that?

Drahomir.--Truly, I sometimes envy those stalwart men. During the battle
they strengthen in themselves the force which lessens and disappears in
us, because nothing nourishes it. Perhaps we are also made of noble
metal, but we are eaten up with rust while they are hardened in the battle
of life. It is a sad necessity.

Czeska.--How about Mr.

Pretwic?

Drahomir.--George endured much, it is true, and one feels this although
it is difficult to describe it. Look at those two men. When the wind
blows George resists like a century-old tree, and men like the doctor
subdue it and order it to propel his boat. There is in that some greater
capacity for life, therefore the result is more easy to be foreseen. The
tree is older, and although still strong, the more it is bitten
by the storms, the sooner it will die.

Prince.--I have said many times that we die like old trees. Some other
thicket grows, but it is composed only of bushes.

Stella.--The one who is good has the right to live--we must not doubt about
ourselves.

Drahomir.--I do not doubt, even for the reason that the poet says:
"Saintly is the one who knows how to be a friend" (bows to Stella) "with
saints."
Stella.--If he has not secured their friendship by flattery.

Drahomir.

--But I must be permitted not to envy the doctor anything.

Stella.--The friendship is not exclusive, although I look upon the doctor
as a brother.

Prince.--Stella, what are you talking about? He is your brother as I am a
republican. I cannot suffer him, but I cannot get along without him.

Czeska.--Prince, you are joking--
Drahomir (smiling).--Why should you hate him?

Prince.--Why? Have I not told you?

He does with us what he pleases. He does as he likes in the house, he does
not believe anything, and he is ambitious as the deuce. He is already a
professor in the University, and now he wishes to be a member of
parliament.

Do you hear?--he will be a member of parliament! But I would not be a
Starogrodzki if I had permitted it. (Aloud.) Jozwowicz!

Doctor (he is near a window).--Your Highness, what do you order?

Prince.--Is it true that you are trying to become a member of
parliament.

Doctor.--At your service, Your Highness?

Prince.--Mrs. Czeska. Have you heard--the world is upside down,
Jozwowicz!

Doctor.--What is it, Your Highness?

Prince.--And perhaps you will also become a minister.

Doctor.--It may be.

Prince.--Did you hear? And do you think that I will call you "Your
Excellency"?

Doctor.--It would be proper.

Prince.--Jozwowicz, do you wish to give me a stroke of apoplexy?

Doctor.--Be calm, Your Highness. My Excellency will always take
care of your Grace's bile.

Prince.--It is true. The irritation hurts me. What, Jozwowicz--does
it hurt me?

Doctor.--Yes, it excites the bile, but it gives you an appetite.

(He approaches with George.)
Stella.--What were you talking about?

Doctor.--I have been listening to George. Horrible! Dreadful! George made
a mistake by coming into the world two hundred years too late.

Bayards are not appreciated nowadays.

Czeska.--Providence is above all.

Drahomir.--I believe it also.

Doctor.--Were I a mathematician, without contradicting you I would say
that, as in many cases we do not know what X equals, we must take
care of ourselves.

Prince.--What are you saying?

Stella.--Doctor, pray do not talk so sceptically, or there will be a
war--not with papa, but with me.

Doctor.--My scepticism is ended where your words begin, therefore I
surrender.

Stella.--How gallant--the member of parliament.

SCENE VI.

The same Servant.

Servant.--Tea is served.

George.--I must bid you good-bye.

Stella.--Why, why are you going so early to-night?

Doctor (aside).--My old schoolmate is at home here.

George.--You must excuse me. I am very happy with you, but to-night I
must be going home. I will leave Drahomir--he will replace me.

Stella.--To be angry with you would be to make you conceited.

But you must tell me why you are going.

George.--The people who have lost their homes by fire are in my house.
I must give some orders and provide for their necessities.

Czeska (aside).--He is sacrificing pleasure to duty. (Aloud.) Stella!

Stella.--What is it?

Czeska.--To-morrow we must make some collections for them, and provide
them with clothing.

Doctor.--I will go with you, ladies.

It will be the first case in which misery did not search for the doctor,
but the doctor searched for misery.

Czeska.--Very clever.

Prince (rapping with the stick).--Pretwic!

George.--Your Highness, what do you order?

Prince.--You say that this rabble is very poor?

George.--Very poor, indeed.

Prince.--You say that they have nothing to eat?

George.--Almost nothing, my prince.

Prince.--God punishes them for voting for such a man (he points to
Jozwowicz) as that one.

Doctor (bows).--They have not elected me yet.

Stella.--Papa.

Prince.--What did I want to say?

Aha! Pretwic!

George.--I listen to you, my prince.

Prince.--You said that they were starving?

George.--I said--almost.

Prince.--Very well, then. Go to my cashier, Horkiewicz, and tell him to
give that rabble a thousand florins. (He raps with the stick.) They must
know that I will not permit any one to be hungry.

Stella--Dear father!

Drahomir.--I knew it would end that way.

Prince.--Yes, Mr. Jozwowicz!

_Noblesse oblige!_ Do you understand, your Excellency, Mr. Jozwowicz?

Doctor.--I understand, Your Highness.

Prince (giving his arm to Mrs.

Czeska).--And now let us take some tea.
(George takes leave and goes out.)
Doctor.--I must also be going. I am tired and I have some letters to
write.

Prince.--Upon my honor, one might think that he was already a minister.
But come to see us--I cannot sleep without you.

Doctor.--I will be at the service of Your Highness.

Prince (muttering).

--As soon as this Robespièrre arrived, I immediately felt better.

Stella.--Doctor, wait a moment. I do not take any tea. I will only
put papa in his place, and then I will be back immediately. I must have a
talk with you.

SCENE VII.

Jozwowicz alone--then Stella.

Doctor.--What are these people doing here, and what does she wish
to tell me? Is it possible--But no, it is impossible. I am uneasy,
but in a moment everything will be cleared up. What an ass I am!
She simply wishes to talk to me about the prince's health. It is
this moonlight that makes me so dreamy--I ought to have a guitar.
Stella (entering).--Mr. Jozwowicz?
Doctor.--I am here, princess.
Stella.--I did my best not to make you wait too long. Let us be
seated and have a talk, as formerly, when I was small and not well
and you took care of my health. I remember sometimes I used to fall
asleep, and you carried me in your arms to my room.
Doctor.--The darling of every one in the house was very weak
then.
Stella.--And to-day, if she is well, it is thanks to you. If she
has any knowledge, it is also thanks to you. I am a plant of which
you have taken good care.
Doctor.--And my greatest pride. There were few calm, genial moments
in my life--and peace I found only in that house.
Stella.--You were always good, and for that reason I look upon you
as an older brother.
Doctor.--Your words form the only smile in my life. I not only
respect you, but I also love you dearly--like a sister, like my own
child.
Stella.--Thank you. I have not the same confidence in any one else's
judgment and honesty as I have in yours, so I wished to speak to
you about an important matter. I hope even that what I am going to
tell you will please you as much as it pleases me. Is it true that
you are going to become a member of parliament?
Doctor (with uneasiness).--No, it is only probable. But speak of
what concerns you.
Stella.--Well, then--ah, Lord! But you will not leave papa, will
you?
Doctor (breathing heavily).--Oh, you wish to speak of the prince's
health?
Stella.--No, I know that papa is getting better. I did not expect
that it would be difficult--I am afraid of the severe opinion that
you have of people.
Doctor (with simulated ease).--Pray, do not torture my
curiosity.
Stella.--Then I will close my eyes and tell you, although it is not
easy for any young girl. You know Mr. George Pretwic well, do you
not?

Doctor (uneasily).--I know him.
Stella.--How do you like him? He is my fiancé.
Doctor (rising).--Your fiancé?
Stella.--Good gracious!--then you do not approve of my choice? (A
moment of silence.)
Doctor.--Only one moment. Your choice, princess, if it is of your
heart and will, must be good--only--it was unexpected news to me;
therefore, perhaps, I received it a little too seriously. But I
could not hear it with indifference owing to the affection I have
for--your family. And then, my opinion does not amount to anything
in such a matter. Princess, I congratulate you and wish you all
happiness.

Stella.--Thank you. Now I shall be more easy.
Doctor.--You must return to your father. Your news has been so
sudden that it has shocked me a little. I must collect my wits--I
must familiarize myself with the thought. But in any event, I
congratulate you.
Stella.--Good night. (She stops in the door, looks at the Doctor
and goes in.) 

SCENE VIII.

Jozwowicz (alone).--Too late!
END OF ACT I.

* * * * * 

ACT II.
The stage represents the same drawing-room.

SCENE I.
Jozwowicz. Anton.
Doctor.--Anton, come here. We can talk quietly, for they are preparing
my room. What news from the city?
Anton.--Good news. In an hour or so a delegation of the voters will
be here. You must say something to them--you understand? Something
about education--public roads, heavy taxes. You know what to say
better than I do.
Doctor.--I know, I know; and how do they like my platform?
Anton.--You have made a great hit. I congratulate you. It is written
with scientific accuracy. The papers of the Conservative party have
gone mad with wrath.

Doctor.--Very good. What more?
Anton.--Three days ago your election was doubtful in the suburbs.
I learned about it, however--gathered the electors and made a
speech.
"Citizens," I said, in the end, "I know only one remedy for all
your misery--it is called Jozwowicz. Long live Progress!" I also
attacked the Conservative party.
Doctor.--Anton, you are a great boy. Then there is a hope of
victory?
Anton.--Almost a surety. And then, even if we do not win now, the
future is open to us. And do you know why? Because--leaving out the
details of the election, you and I, while talking of our business
affairs, need not laugh at each other, like Roman augurs. Progress
and truth are on our side, and every day makes a new breach in the
old wall. We are only aiding the centuries and we must conquer. I
am talking calmly: Our people, our electors are merely sheep, but
we wish to make men of them, and therein lies our strength. As for
me, if I were not persuaded that in my principles lie truth and
progress, I would spit on everything and become a monk.
Doctor.--But it would be a dreadful thing if we do not win this
time.
Anton.--I am sure we will win. You are a fearful candidate for our
adversaries. You have only one antagonist who is at all
dangerous--Husarski, a rich and popular nobleman.
Doctor.--Once I am in parliament, I will try to accomplish
something.
Anton.--I believe in you, and for that reason I am working for
you.
Ha! ha! "They have already taken from us everything," said Count
Hornicki at the club yesterday, "importance, money--even good
manners." Well, at least I have not taken their good manners from
them. To the devil with them!
Doctor.--No, you have truly not taken their good manners from
them.
Anton.--But it is said in the city that your prince has given a
thousand florins to those whose houses were burned. This may be bad
for us. You must do something also.
Doctor.--I did what I could.
Anton.--I must also tell you that yesterday--What is the matter
with you? I am talking to you and you are thinking about something
else.
Doctor.--Excuse me. I am in great trouble. I cannot think as calmly
as usual.

Anton.--The idea!
Doctor.--You could not understand it.
Anton.--I am the coachman of the carriage in which you are riding--I
must know everything.

Doctor.--No. It does not concern you.
Anton.--It does concern me, because you are losing your energy. We
have no need of any Hamlets.
Doctor (gloomily).--You are mistaken. I have not given up.
Anton.--I see. You close your mouth on this subject. It is not in
your character to give up.
Doctor.--No. You must work to have me elected. I would lose doubly
if we were bitten.
Anton.--They must have burned you like the deuce, for you hiss
dreadfully.
Doctor.--An old story. A peasant did not sleep for six years, did
not eat, bent his neck, wounded his hands, and carried logs for a
hut.
After six years a lord came along, kicked the hut and said: "My
castle shall stand here." We are sceptical enough to laugh at such
things.

Anton.--He was a real lord!
Doctor.--A lord for generations. He carried his head so high that
he did not notice what cracked beneath his feet.
Anton.--I like the story. And what about the peasant?
Doctor.--According to the peasant tradition, he is thinking of a
flint and tinder.
Anton.--Glorious idea! Truly we despise tradition too much. There
are good things in it.
Doctor.--Enough. Let us talk of something else.
Anton (looking around).--An old and rich house. It would make a
splendid cabin.

Doctor.--What do you say?
Anton.--Nothing. Has the old prince a daughter?
Doctor.--Yes. Why?
Anton (laughing).--Ha, ha! Your trouble has the scent of a perfume
used by a lady. I smell here the petticoat of the princess. Behind
the member of parliament is Jozwowicz, just as behind the evening
dress there is the morning gown. What a strong perfume!
Doctor.--You may sell your perspicacity at another market. It is
my personal affair.
Anton.--Not at all, for it means that you put only half your soul
into public affairs. To the deuce with such business! Look at me.
They howl at me in the newspapers, they laugh at me--but I do not
care. I will tell you more! I feel that I shall never rise, although
I am not lacking in strength nor intelligence. I could try to get
the first place in camp to command, but I do not do it. Why? Because
I know myself very well. Because I know that I am lacking in order,
authority, tact. I have been and I am a tool, used by such as you,
and which to-morrow may be kicked aside when it is no more needed.
But my self-love does not blind me. I do not care most for myself--I
am working for my convictions--that is all. Any day I may be ousted
from my position. There is often misery in my house, and although
I love my wife and children--no matter. When it is a question of
my convictions, I will work, act, agitate. I put my whole soul in
it. And for you, the petticoat of a princess bars your way. I did
not expect this from you.
Tfu! spit on everything and come with us.
Doctor.--You are mistaken. I have no desire for martyrdom, but for
victory. And the more personal ties there are between me and public
affairs, the more I will serve them with my mind, heart, and
deeds--with all that constitutes a man. Do you understand?
Anton.--Amen. His eyes shine like the eyes of a wolf--now I recognize
you.

Doctor.--What more do you wish?
Anton.--Nothing more. I will only tell you that our motto should
be:
Attack the principles, and not the people.
Doctor.--Your virginal virtue may rest assured. I shall not poison
any one.
Anton.--I believe you, but I must tell you that I know you well. I
appreciate your energy, your learning, your common sense, but I
should not like to cross you in anything.
Doctor.--So much the better for me.
Anton.--But if it is a question of the nobility, notwithstanding
our programme I make you a present of them. You shall not cut their
heads off.
Doctor.--To be sure. And now go and get to work for me--or rather,
for us.

Anton.--For us, Jozwowicz. Do not forget that.
Doctor.--I will not swear it to you, but I promise you that I will
not forget.

Anton.--But how will you manage that nobleman?
Doctor.--Do you require that I make you my confidant?
Anton.--In the first place, I do not need your confidence, because
in our camp we have sufficient perspicacity. There is the matter
of the prince's daughter--that is all. But I am always afraid that
for her sake you will abandon public affairs. As I am working for
you, I am responsible for you, therefore we must be frank.
Doctor.--Let us be frank.
Anton.--Therefore you have said to yourself: I shall get rid of
that nobleman. Do it then.It
came like gusts of wind which blow the trees in a forest, and the priest,
paralyzed by emotion, stammered out incoherent prayers, without finding
words, ardent prayers of the soul soaring to heaven.

The people behind him gradually grew calmer. The cantors, in all the
dignity of their white surplices, went on in somewhat uncertain voices,
and the reed stop itself seemed hoarse, as if the instrument had been
weeping; the priest, however, raised his hand to command silence and went
and stood on the chancel steps, when everybody was silent at once.

After a few remarks on what had just taken place, and which he attributed
to a miracle, he continued, turning to the seats where the carpenter's
guests were sitting; "I especially thank you, my dear sisters, who have
come from such a distance, and whose presence among us, whose evident
faith and ardent piety have set such a salutary example to all. You have
edified my parish; your emotion has warmed all hearts; without you, this
great day would not, perhaps, have had this really divine character. It
is sufficient, at times, that there should be one chosen lamb, for the
Lord to descend on His flock."

His voice failed him again, from emotion, and he said no more, but
concluded the service.

They now left the church as quickly as possible; the children themselves
were restless and tired with such a prolonged tension of the mind. The
parents left the church by degrees to see about dinner.

There was a crowd outside, a noisy crowd, a babel of loud voices, where
the shrill Norman accent was discernible. The villagers formed two ranks,
and when the children appeared, each family took possession of their own.

The whole houseful of women caught hold of Constance, surrounded her and
kissed her, and Rosa was especially demonstrative. At last she took hold
of one hand, while Madame Tellier took the other, and Raphaele and
Fernande held up her long muslin skirt, so that it might not drag in the
dust; Louise and Flora brought up the rear with Madame Rivet; and the
child, who was very silent and thoughtful, set off for home in the midst
of this guard of honor.

Dinner was served in the workshop on long boards supported by trestles,
and through the open door they could see all the enjoyment that was going
on in the village. Everywhere they were feasting, and through every
window were to be seen tables surrounded by people in their Sunday best,
and a cheerful noise was heard in every house, while the men sat in their
shirt-sleeves, drinking glass after glass of cider.

In the carpenter's house the gaiety maintained somewhat of an air of
reserve, the consequence of the emotion of the girls in the morning, and
Rivet was the only one who was in a jolly mood, and he was drinking to
excess. Madame Tellier looked at the clock every moment, for, in order
not to lose two days running, they must take the 3:55 train, which would
bring them to Fecamp by dark.

The carpenter tried very hard to distract her attention, so as to keep
his guests until the next day, but he did not succeed, for she never
joked when there was business on hand, and as soon as they had had their
coffee she ordered her girls to make haste and get ready, and then,
turning to her brother, she said:

"You must put in the horse immediately," and she herself went to finish
her last preparations.

When she came down again, her sister-in-law was waiting to speak to her
about the child, and a long conversation took place, in which, however,
nothing was settled. The carpenter's wife was artful and pretended to be
very much affected, and Madame Tellier, who was holding the girl on her
knee, would not pledge herself to anything definite, but merely gave
vague promises--she would not forget her, there was plenty of time,
and besides, they would meet again.

But the conveyance did not come to the door and the women did not come
downstairs. Upstairs they even heard loud laughter, romping, little
screams, and much clapping of hands, and so, while the carpenter's wife
went to the stable to see whether the cart was ready, madame went
upstairs.

Rivet, who was very drunk, was plaguing Rosa, who was half choking with
laughter. Louise and Flora were holding him by the arms and trying to
calm him, as they were shocked at his levity after that morning's
ceremony; but Raphaele and Fernande were urging him on, writhing and
holding their sides with laughter, and they uttered shrill cries at every
rebuff the drunken fellow received.

The man was furious, his face was red, and he was trying to shake off the
two women who were clinging to him, while he was pulling Rosa's skirt
with all his might and stammering incoherently.

But Madame Tellier, who was very indignant, went up to her brother,
seized him by the shoulders, and threw him out of the room with such
violence that he fell against the wall in the passage, and a minute
afterward they heard him pumping water on his head in the yard, and when
he reappeared with the cart he was quite calm.

They started off in the same way as they had come the day before, and the
little white horse started off with his quick, dancing trot. Under the
hot sun, their fun, which had been checked during dinner, broke out
again. The girls now were amused at the jolting of the cart, pushed their
neighbors' chairs, and burst out laughing every moment.

There was a glare of light over the country, which dazzled their eyes,
and the wheels raised two trails of dust along the highroad. Presently,
Fernande, who was fond of music, asked Rosa to sing something, and she
boldly struck up the "Gros Cure de Meudon," but Madame Tellier made her
stop immediately, as she thought it a very unsuitable song for such a
day, and she added:

"Sing us something of Beranger's." And so, after a moment's hesitation,
Rosa began Beranger's song "The Grandmother" in her worn-out voice, and
all the girls, and even Madame Tellier herself, joined in the chorus:

        "How I regret
        My dimpled arms,
        My nimble legs,
        And vanished charms."

"That is first rate," Rivet declared, carried away by the rhythm, and
they shouted the refrain to every verse, while Rivet beat time on the
shaft with his foot, and with the reins on the back of the horse, who, as
if he himself were carried away by the rhythm, broke into a wild gallop,
and threw all the women in a heap, one on top of the other, on the bottom
of the conveyance.

They got up, laughing as if they were mad, and the Gong went on, shouted
at the top of their voices, beneath the burning sky, among the ripening
grain, to the rapid gallop of the little horse, who set off every time
the refrain was sung, and galloped a hundred yards, to their great
delight, while occasionally a stone-breaker by the roadside sat up and
looked at the load of shouting females through his wire spectacles.

When they got out at the station, the carpenter said:

"I am sorry you are going; we might have had some good times together."
But Madame Tellier replied very sensibly: "Everything has its right time,
and we cannot always be enjoying ourselves." And then he had a sudden
inspiration:

"Look here, I will come and see you at Fecamp next month." And he gave
Rosa a roguish and knowing look.

"Come," his sister replied, "you must be sensible; you may come if you
like, but you are not to be up to any of your tricks."

He did not reply, and as they heard the whistle of the train, he
immediately began to kiss them all. When it came to Rosa's turn, he tried
to get to her mouth, which she, however, smiling with her lips closed,
turned away from him each time by a rapid movement of her head to one
side. He held her in his arms, but he could not attain his object, as his
large whip, which he was holding in his hand and waving behind the girl's
back in desperation, interfered with his movements.

"Passengers for Rouen, take your seats!" a guard cried, and they got in.
There was a slight whistle, followed by a loud whistle from the engine,
which noisily puffed cut its first jet of steam, while the wheels began
to turn a little with a visible effort, and Rivet left the station and
ran along by the track to get another look at Rosa, and as the carriage
passed him, he began to crack his whip and to jump, while he sang at the
top of his voice:

          "How I regret
          My dimpled arms,
          My nimble legs,
          And vanished charms."

And then he watched a white pocket-handkerchief, which somebody was
waving, as it disappeared in the distance.


PART III

They slept the peaceful sleep of a quiet conscience, until they got to
Rouen, and when they returned to the house, refreshed and rested, Madame
Tellier could not help saying:

"It was all very well, but I was longing to get home."

They hurried over their supper, and then, when they had put on their
usual evening costume, waited for their regular customers, and the little
colored lamp outside the door told the passers-by that Madame Tellier had
returned, and in a moment the news spread, nobody knew how or through
whom.

Monsieur Philippe, the banker's son, even carried his friendliness so far
as to send a special messenger to Monsieur Tournevau, who was in the
bosom of his family.

The fish curer had several cousins to dinner every Sunday, and they were
having coffee, when a man came in with a letter in his hand. Monsieur
Tournevau was much excited; he opened the envelope and grew pale; it
contained only these words in pencil:

"The cargo of cod has been found; the ship has come into port; good
business for you. Come immediately."

He felt in his pockets, gave the messenger two sons, and suddenly
blushing to his ears, he said: "I must go out." He handed his wife the
laconic and mysterious note, rang the bell, and when the servant came in,
he asked her to bring him has hat and overcoat immediately. As soon as he
was in the street, he began to hurry, and the way seemed to him to be
twice as long as usual, in consequence of his impatience.

Madame Tellier's establishment had put on quite a holiday look. On the
ground floor, a number of sailors were making a deafening noise, and
Louise and Flora drank with one and the other, and were being called for
in every direction at once.

The upstairs room was full by nine o'clock. Monsieur Vasse, the Judge of
the Tribunal of Commerce, Madame Tellier's regular but Platonic wooer,
was talking to her in a corner in a low voice, and they were both
smiling, as if they were about to come to an understanding.

Monsieur Poulin, the ex-mayor, was talking to Rosa, and she was running
her hands through the old gentleman's white whiskers.

Tall Fernande was on the sofa, her feet on the coat of Monsieur
Pinipesse, the tax collector, and leaning back against young Monsieur
Philippe, her right arm around his neck, while she held a cigarette in
her left hand.

Raphaele appeared to be talking seriously with Monsieur Dupuis, the
insurance agent, and she finished by saying: "Yes, I will, yes."

Just then, the door opened suddenly, and Monsieur Tournevau came in, and
was greeted with enthusiastic cries of "Long live Tournevau!" And
Raphaele, who was dancing alone up and down the room, went and threw
herself into his arms. He seized her in a vigorous embrace and, without
saying a word, lifted her up as if she had been a feather.

Rosa was chatting to the ex-mayor, kissing him and puffing; both his
whiskers at the same time, in order to keep his head straight.

Fernanae and Madame Tellier remained with the four men, and Monsieur
Philippe exclaimed: "I will pay for some champagne; get three bottles,
Madame Tellier." And Fernande gave him a hug, and whispered to him: "Play
us a waltz, will you?" So he rose and sat down at the old piano in the
corner, and managed to get a hoarse waltz out of the depths of the
instrument.

The tall girl put her arms round the tax collector, Madame Tellier let
Monsieur Vasse take her round the waist, and the two couples turned
round, kissing as they danced. Monsieur Vasse, who had formerly danced in
good society, waltzed with such elegance that Madame Tellier was quite
captivated.

Frederic brought the champagne; the first cork popped, and Monsieur
Philippe played the introduction to a quadrille, through which the four
dancers walked in society fashion, decorously, with propriety,
deportment, bows and curtsies, and then they began to drink.

Monsieur Philippe next struck up a lively polka, and Monsieur Tournevau
started off with the handsome Jewess, whom he held without letting her
feet touch the ground. Monsieur Pinipesse and Monsieur Vasse had started
off with renewed vigor, and from time to time one or other couple would
stop to toss off a long draught of sparkling wine, and that dance was
threatening to become never-ending, when Rosa opened the door.

"I want to dance," she exclaimed. And she caught hold of Monsieur Dupuis,
who was sitting idle on the couch, and the dance began again.

But the bottles were empty. "I will pay for one," Monsieur Tournevau
said. "So will I," Monsieur Vasse declared. "And I will do the same,"
Monsieur Dupuis remarked.

They all began to clap their hands, and it soon became a regular ball,
and from time to time Louise and Flora ran upstairs quickly and had a few
turns, while their customers downstairs grew impatient, and then they
returned regretfully to the tap-room. At midnight they were still
dancing.

Madame Tellier let them amuse themselves while she had long private talks
in corners with Monsieur Vasse, as if to settle the last details of
something that had already been settled.

At last, at one o'clock, the two married men, Monsieur Tournevau and
Monsieur Pinipesse, declared that they were going home, and wanted to
pay. Nothing was charged for except the champagne, and that cost only six
francs a bottle, instead of ten, which was the usual price, and when they
expressed their surprise at such generosity, Madame Tellier, who was
beaming, said to them:

"We don't have a holiday every day."


DENIS

   To Leon Chapron.

Marambot opened the letter which his servant Denis gave him and smiled.

For twenty years Denis has been a servant in this house. He was a short,
stout, jovial man, who was known throughout the countryside as a model
servant. He asked:

"Is monsieur pleased? Has monsieur received good news?"

M. Marambot was not rich. He was an old village druggist, a bachelor, who
lived on an income acquired with difficulty by selling drugs to the
farmers. He answered:

"Yes, my boy. Old man Malois is afraid of the law-suit with which I am
threatening him. I shall get my money to-morrow. Five thousand francs are
not liable to harm the account of an old bachelor."

M. Marambot rubbed his hands with satisfaction. He was a man of quiet
temperament, more sad than gay, incapable of any prolonged effort,
careless in business.

He could undoubtedly have amassed a greater income had he taken advantage
of the deaths of colleagues established in more important centers, by
taking their places and carrying on their business. But the trouble of
moving and the thought of all the preparations had always stopped him.
After thinking the matter over for a few days, he would be satisfied to
say:

"Bah! I'll wait until the next time. I'll not lose anything by the delay.
I may even find something better."

Denis, on the contrary, was always urging his master to new enterprises.
Of an energetic temperament, he would continually repeat:

"Oh! If I had only had the capital to start out with, I could have made a
fortune! One thousand francs would do me."

M. Marambot would smile without answering and would go out in his little
garden, where, his hands behind his back, he would walk about dreaming.

All day long, Denis sang the joyful refrains of the folk-songs of the
district. He even showed an unusual activity, for he cleaned all the
windows of the house, energetically rubbing the glass, and singing at the
top of his voice.

M. Marambot, surprised at his zeal, said to him several times, smiling:

"My boy, if you work like that there will be nothing left for you to do
to-morrow."

The following day, at about nine o'clock in the morning, the postman gave
Denis four letters for his master, one of them very heavy. M. Marambot
immediately shut himself up in his room until late in the afternoon. He
then handed his servant four letters for the mail. One of them was
addressed to M. Malois; it was undoubtedly a receipt for the money.

Denis asked his master no questions; he appeared to be as sad and gloomy
that day as he had seemed joyful the day before.

Night came. M. Marambot went to bed as usual and slept.

He was awakened by a strange noise. He sat up in his bed and listened.
Suddenly the door opened, and Denis appeared, holding in one hand a
candle and in the other a carving knife, his eyes staring, his face
contracted as though moved by some deep emotion; he was as pale as a
ghost.

M. Marambot, astonished, thought that he was sleep-walking, and he was
going to get out of bed and assist him when the servant blew out the
light and rushed for the bed. His master stretched out his hands to
receive the shock which knocked him over on his back; he was trying to
seize the hands of his servant, whom he now thought to be crazy, in order
to avoid the blows which the latter was aiming at him.

He was struck by the knife; once in the shoulder, once in the forehead
and the third time in the chest. He fought wildly, waving his arms around
in the darkness, kicking and crying:

"Denis! Denis! Are you mad? Listen, Denis!"

But the latter, gasping for breath, kept up his furious attack always
striking, always repulsed, sometimes with a kick, sometimes with a punch,
and rushing forward again furiously.

M. Marambot was wounded twice more, once in the leg and once in the
stomach. But, suddenly, a thought flashed across his mind, and he began
to shriek:

"Stop, stop, Denis, I have not yet received my money!"

The man immediately ceased, and his master could hear his labored
breathing in the darkness.

M. Marambot then went on:

"I have received nothing. M. Malois takes back what he said, the law-suit
will take place; that is why you carried the letters to the mail. Just
read those on my desk."

With a final effort, he reached for his matches and lit the candle.

He was covered with blood. His sheets, his curtains, and even the walls,
were spattered with red. Denis, standing in the middle of the room, was
also bloody from head to foot.

When he saw the blood, M. Marambot thought himself dead, and fell
unconscious.

At break of day he revived. It was some time, however, before he regained
his senses, and was able to understand or remember. But, suddenly, the
memory of the attack and of his wounds returned to him, and he was filled
with such terror that he closed his eyes in order not to see anything.
After a few minutes he grew calmer and began to think. He had not died'
immediately, therefore he might still recover. He felt weak, very weak;
but he had no real pain, although he noticed an uncomfortable smarting
sensation in several parts of his body. He also felt icy cold, and all
wet, and as though wrapped up in bandages. He thought that this dampness
came from the blood which he had lost; and he shivered at the dreadful
thought of this red liquid which had come from his veins and covered his
bed. The idea of seeing this terrible spectacle again so upset him that
he kept his eyes closed with all his strength, as though they might open
in spite of himself.

What had become of Denis? He had probably escaped.

But what could he, Marambot, do now? Get up? Call for help? But if he
should make the slightest motions, his wounds would undoubtedly open up
again and he would die from loss of blood.

Suddenly he heard the door of his room open. His heart almost stopped. It
was certainly Denis who was coming to finish him up. That is their capital
distinction from common mortals; we recognize them by it at once;
and that is the reason we put them above the common level.

On the pages of their books we find not the traces of the accidental,
deeper penetrating into the life or more refined feelings, but the whole
harvest of thoughts, impressions, dispositions, written skilfully, because
studied deeply. We also leave something on these pages. Some people dry
flowers on them, the others preserve reminiscences. In every one of
Sienkiewicz's volumes people will deposit a great many personal
impressions, part of their souls; in every one they will find them
again after many years.

There are three periods in Sienkiewicz's literary life. In the first he
wrote short stories, which are masterpieces of grace and ingenuity--at
least some of them.

In those stories the reader will meet frequent thoughts about general
problems, deep observations of life--and notwithstanding his
idealism, very truthful about spiritual moods, expressed with an
easy and sincere hand.

Speaking about Sienkiewicz's works, no matter how small it may be, one
has always the feeling that one speaks about a known, living in general
memory work.
Almost every one of his stories is like a stone thrown in the midst of a
flock of sparrows gathering in the winter time around barns: one throw
arouses at once a flock of winged reminiscences.

The other characteristics of his stories are uncommonness of his
conceptions, masterly compositions, ofttimes artificial.

It happens also that a story has no plot ("From the Diary of a Tutor in
Pozman," "Bartek the Victor"), no action, almost no matter ("Yamyol"),
but the reader is rewarded by simplicity, rural theme, humoristic
pictures ("Comedy of Errors: A Sketch of American Life"), pity for
the little and poor ("Yanko the Musician"), and those qualities
make the reader remember his stories well.

It is almost impossible to forget--under the general impressions--about
his striking and standing-out figures ("The Lighthouse Keeper of
Aspinwall"), about the individual impression they leave on our minds.

Apparently they are commonplace, every-day people, but the author's
talent puts on them an original individuality, a particular stamp,
which makes one remember them forever and afterward apply them to
the individuals which one meets in life.

No matter how insignificant socially is the figure chosen by
Sienkiewicz for his story, the great talent of the author magnifies
its striking features, not seen by common people, and makes of it
a masterpiece of literary art.

Although we have a popular saying: _Comparaison n'est pas raison_,
one cannot refrain from stating here that this love for the poor,
the little, and the oppressed, brought out so powerfully in
Sienkiewicz's short stories, constitutes a link between him and
François Coppée, who is so great a friend of the friendless and the
oppressed, those who, without noise, bear the heaviest chains, the
pariahs of our happy and smiling society.

The only difference between the short stories of these two writers is
this, that notwithstanding all the mastercraft of Coppée's work, one
forgets the impressions produced by the reading of his work--while
it is almost impossible to forget "The Lighthouse Keeper" looking
on any lighthouse, or "Yanko the Musician" listening to a poor
wandering boy playing on the street, or "Bartek the Victor" seeing
soldiers of which military discipline have made machines rather
than thinking beings, or "The Diary of a Tutor" contemplating the
pale face of children overloaded with studies.

Another difference between those two writers--the comparison is
always between their short stories--is this, that while Sienkiewicz's
figures and characters are universal, international--if one can use
this adjective here--and can be applied to the students of any
country, to the soldiers of any nation, to any wandering musician
and to the light-keeper on any sea, the figures of François Coppée
are mostly Parisian and could be hardly displaced from their Parisian
surroundings and conditions.

Sometimes the whole short story is written for the sake of that
which the French call _pointe_.

When one has finished the reading of "Zeus's Sentence," for a moment
the charming description of the evening and Athenian night is lost.

And what a beautiful description it is!

If the art of reading were cultivated in America as it is in France and
Germany, I would not be surprised if some American Legouvé or
Strakosch were to add to his répertoire such productions of prose
as this humorously poetic "Zeus's Sentence," or that mystic madrigal,
"Be Blessed."

"But the dusk did not last long," writes Sienkiewicz. "Soon from the
Archipelago appeared the pale Selene and began to sail like a
silvery boat in the heavenly space.

And the walls of the Acropolis lighted again, but they beamed now
with a pale green light, and looked more than ever like the vision
of a dream."

But all these, and other equally charming pictures, disappear for a
moment from the memory of the reader. There remains only the final
joke--only Zeus's sentence. "A virtuous woman--especially when she loves
another man--can resist Apollo.

But surely and always a stupid woman will resist him."

Only when one thinks of the story does one see that the ending--that
"immoral conclusion" I should say if I were not able to understand
the joke--does not constitute the essence of the story.

Only then we find a delight in the description of the city for which
the wagons cater the divine barley, and the water is carried by the
girls, "with amphorae poised on their shoulders and lifted hands,
going home, light and graceful, like immortal nymphs."

And then follow such paragraphs as the following, which determine
the real value of the work:
"The voice of the God of Poetry sounded so beautiful that it performed
a miracle.

Behold! In the Ambrosian night the gold spear standing on the Acropolis
of Athens trembled, and the marble head of the gigantic statue
turned toward the Acropolis in order to hear better....

Heaven and earth listened to it; the sea stopped roaring and lay peacefully
near the shores; even pale Selene stopped her night wandering in
the sky and stood motionless over Athens."

"And when Apollo had finished, a light wind arose and carried the
song through the whole of Greece, and wherever a child in the cradle
heard only a tone of it, that child grew into a poet."

What poet? Famed by what song? Will he not perhaps be a lyric poet?

The same happens with "Lux in Tenebris." One reads again and again the
description of the fall of the mist and the splashing of the rain
dropping in the gutter, "the cawing of the crows, migrating to the
city for their winter quarters, and, with flapping of wings, roosting
in the trees."

One feels that the whole misery of the first ten pages was necessary in
order to form a background for the two pages of heavenly light, to bring
out the brightness of that light.

"Those who have lost their best beloved," writes Sienkiewicz, "must hang
their lives on something; otherwise they could not exist."

In such sentences--and it is not the prettiest, but the shortest
that I have quoted--resounds, however, the quieting wisdom, the
noble love of that art which poor Kamionka "respected deeply and
was always sincere toward."

During the long years of his profession he never cheated nor wronged
it, neither for the sake of fame nor money, nor for praise nor for
criticism.

He always wrote as he felt. Were I not like Ruth of the Bible, doomed
to pick the ears of corn instead of being myself a sower--if God had
not made me critic and worshipper but artist and creator--I could
not wish for another necrology than those words of Sienkiewicz
regarding the statuary Kamionka.

Quite another thing is the story "At the Source."

None of the stories except "Let Us Follow Him" possess for me so many
transcendent beauties, although we are right to be angry with the author
for having wished, during the reading of several pages, to make
us believe an impossible thing--that he was deceiving us.

It is true that he has done it in a masterly manner--it is true that
he could not have done otherwise, but at the same time there is a
fault in the conception, and although Sienkiewicz has covered the
precipice with flowers, nevertheless the precipice exists.

On the other hand, it is true that one reading the novel will forget
the trick of the author and will see in it only the picture of an immense
happiness and a hymn in the worship of love.

Perhaps the poor student is right when he says: "Among all the
sources of happiness, that from which I drank during the fever is
the clearest and best."

"A life which love has not visited, even in a dream, is still worse."

Love and faith in woman and art are two constantly recurring themes
in "Lux in Tenebris," "At the Source," "Be Blessed," and "Organist
of Ponikila."

When Sienkiewicz wrote "Let Us Follow Him," some critics
cried angrily that he lessens his talent and moral worth of the
literature; they regretted that he turned people into the false
road of mysticism, long since left.

Having found Christ on his pages, the least religious people have
recollected how gigantic he is in the writings of Heine, walking
over land and sea, carrying a red, burning sun instead of a heart.

They all understood that to introduce Christ not only worthily or
beautifully, but simply and in such a manner that we would not be obliged
to turn away from the picture, would be a great art--almost a triumph.

In later times we have made many such attempts.

"The Mysticism" became to-day an article of commerce.

The religious tenderness and simplicity was spread among Parisian
newspaper men, playwrights and novelists.

Such as Armand Sylvèstre, such as Theodore de Wyzewa, are playing
at writing up Christian dogmas and legends.

And a strange thing! While the painters try to bring the Christ nearer to
the crowd, while Fritz von Uhde or Lhermitte put the Christ in a country
school, in a workingman's house, the weakling writers, imitating poets,
dress Him in old, faded, traditional clothes and surround Him with a
theatrical light which they dare to call "mysticism." They are crowding
the porticos of the temple, but they are merely merchants. Anatole France
alone cannot be placed in the same crowd.

In "Let Us Follow Him" the situation and characters are known, and
are already to be found in literature.

But never were they painted so simply, so modestly, without romantic
complaints and exclamations.

In the first chapters of that story there appears an epic writer with
whom we have for a long time been familiar. We are accustomed to
that uncommon simplicity.

But in order to appreciate the narrative regarding Antea, one must listen
attentively to this slow prose and then one will notice the rhythmic
sentences following one after the other. Then one feels that the author
is building a great foundation for the action. Sometimes there occurs
a brief, sharp sentence ending in a strong, short word, and the
result is that Sienkiewicz has given us a masterpiece which justifies
the enthusiasm of a critic, who called him a Prince of Polish Prose.

In the second period of his literary activity, Sienkiewicz has
produced his remarkable historical trilogy, "The Deluge," "With
Fire and Sword," and "Pan Michael," in which his talent shines forth
powerfully, and which possess absolutely distinctive characters
from his short stories.

The admirers of romanticism cannot find any better books in historical
fiction.

Some critic has said righteously about Sienkiewicz, speaking of his
"Deluge," that he is "the first of Polish novelists, past or present,
and second to none now living in England, France, or Germany."

Sienkiewicz being himself a nobleman, therefore naturally in his
historical novels he describes the glorious deeds of the Polish
nobility, who, being located on the frontier of such barbarous
nations as Turks, Kozaks, Tartars, and Wolochs (to-day Roumania),
had defended Europe for centuries from the invasions of barbarism
and gave the time to Germany, France, and England to outstrip Poland
in the development of material welfare and general civilization
among the masses--the nobility being always very refined--though
in the fifteenth century the literature of Poland and her sister
Bohemia (Chechy) was richer than any other European country, except
Italy.

One should at least always remember that Nicolaus Kopernicus (Kopernik)
was a Pole and John Huss was a Chech.

Historical novels began in England, or rather in Scotland, by the
genius of Walter Scott, followed in France by Alexandre Dumas _père_.

These two great writers had numerous followers and imitators in all
countries, and every nation can point out some more or less successful
writer in that field, but who never attained the great success
of Sienkiewicz, whose works are translated into many languages, even into
Russian, where the antipathy for the Polish superior degree of civilization
is still very eager.

The superiority of Sienkiewicz's talent is then affirmed by this
fact of translation, and I would dare say that he is superior to
the father of this kind of novels, on account of his historical
coloring, so much emphasized in Walter Scott.

This important quality in the historical novel is truer and more lively
in the Polish writer, and then he possesses that psychological
depth about which Walter Scott never dreamed.

Walter Scott never has created such an original and typical figure as
Zagloba is, who is a worthy rival to Shakespeare's Falstaff.
As for the description of duelings, fights, battles, Sienkiewicz's
fantastically heroic pen is without rival.

Alexandre Dumas, notwithstanding the biting criticism of Brunetière,
will always remain a great favorite with the reading masses, who
are searching in his books for pleasure, amusement, and distraction.

Sienkiewicz's historical novels possess all the interesting qualities of
Dumas, and besides that they are full of wholesome food for thinking
minds.

His colors are more shining, his brush is broader, his composition more
artful, chiselled, finished, better built, and executed with more vigor.
While Dumas amuses, pleases, distracts, Sienkiewicz astonishes,
surprises, bewitches.

All uneasy preoccupations, the dolorous echoes of eternal problems,
which philosophical doubt imposes with the everlasting anguish of
the human mind, the mystery of the origin, the enigma of destiny,
the inexplicable necessity of suffering, the short, tragical, and
sublime vision of the future of the soul, and the future not less
difficult to be guessed of by the human race in this material world,
the torments of human conscience and responsibility for the deeds,
is said by Sienkiewicz without any pedanticism, without any dryness.

If we say that the great Hungarian author Maurice Jokay, who also
writes historical novels, pales when compared with that fascinating
Pole who leaves far behind him the late lions in the field of
romanticism, Stanley J.

Weyman and Anthony Hope, we are through with that part of Sienkiewicz's
literary achievements.

In the third period Sienkiewicz is represented by two problem novels,
"Without Dogma" and "Children of the Soil."

He
looked at me with a bewildered expression, not knowing what to believe.
Then he went out to confer with the colonel.

"I heard that a kind of jury of the mothers had been formed, to which
were submitted the different phases of the situation.

"He came back an hour later, sat down with the dignity of a judge and
began: 'No matter what may be the situation, I can see only one way out
of it for you; it is to marry Mademoiselle Dumoulin.'

"I bounded out of the chair, crying: 'Never! never!'

"Gravely he asked: 'Well, what do you expect to do?'

"I answered simply: 'Why--leave as soon as my shoes are returned to me.'

"My uncle continued: 'Please do not jest. The colonel has decided to blow
your brains out as soon as he sees you. And you may be sure that he does
not threaten idly. I spoke of a duel and he answered: "No, I tell you
that I will blow his brains out."'

"'Let us now examine the question from another point of view. Either you
have misbehaved yourself--and then so much the worse for you, my
boy; one should not go near a young girl--or else, being drunk, as
you say, you made a mistake in the room. In this case, it's even worse
for you. You shouldn't get yourself into such foolish situations.
Whatever you may say, the poor girl's reputation is lost, for a
drunkard's excuses are never believed. The only real victim in the
matter is the girl. Think it over.'

"He went away, while I cried after him: 'Say what you will, I'll not
marry her!'

"I stayed alone for another hour. Then my aunt came. She was crying. She
used every argument. No one believed my story. They could not imagine
that this young girl could have forgotten to lock her door in a house
full of company. The colonel had struck her. She had been crying the
whole morning. It was a terrible and unforgettable scandal. And my good
aunt added: 'Ask for her hand, anyhow. We may, perhaps, find some way out
of it when we are drawing up the papers.'

"This prospect relieved me. And I agreed to write my proposal. An hour
later I left for Paris. The following day I was informed that I had been
accepted.

"Then, in three weeks, before I had been able to find any excuse, the
banns were published, the announcement sent out, the contract signed, and
one Monday morning I found myself in a church, beside a weeping young
girl, after telling the magistrate that I consented to take her as my
companion--for better, for worse.

"I had not seen her since my adventure, and I glanced at her out of the
corner of my eye with a certain malevolent surprise. However, she was not
ugly--far from it. I said to myself: 'There is some one who won't
laugh every day.'

"She did not look at me once until, the evening, and she did not say a
single word.

"Toward the middle of the night I entered the bridal chamber with the
full intention of letting her know my resolutions, for I was now master.
I found her sitting in an armchair, fully dressed, pale and with red
eyes. As soon as I entered she rose and came slowly toward me saying:
'Monsieur, I am ready to do whatever you may command. I will kill myself
if you so desire.'

"The colonel's daughter was as pretty as she could be in this heroic
role. I kissed her; it was my privilege.

"I soon saw that I had not got a bad bargain. I have now been married
five years. I do not regret it in the least."

Pierre Letoile was silent. His companions were laughing. One of them
said: "Marriage is indeed a lottery; you must never choose your numbers.
The haphazard ones are the best."

Another added by way of conclusion: "Yes, but do not forget that the god
of drunkards chose for Pierre."


THE UNKNOWN

We were speaking of adventures, and each one of us was relating his story
of delightful experiences, surprising meetings, on the train, in a hotel,
at the seashore. According to Roger des Annettes, the seashore was
particularly favorable to the little blind god.

Gontran, who was keeping mum, was asked what he thought of it.

"I guess Paris is about the best place for that," he said. "Woman is like
a precious trinket, we appreciate her all the more when we meet her in
the most unexpected places; but the rarest ones are only to be found in
Paris."

He was silent for a moment, and then continued:

"By Jove, it's great! Walk along the streets on some spring morning. The
little women, daintily tripping along, seem to blossom out like flowers.
What a delightful, charming sight! The dainty perfume of violet is
everywhere. The city is gay, and everybody notices the women. By Jove,
how tempting they are in their light, thin dresses, which occasionally
give one a glimpse of the delicate pink flesh beneath!

"One saunters along, head up, mind alert, and eyes open. I tell you it's
great! You see her in the distance, while still a block away; you already
know that she is going to please you at closer quarters. You can
recognize her by the flower on her hat, the toss of her head, or her
gait. She approaches, and you say to yourself: 'Look out, here she is!'
You come closer to her and you devour her with your eyes.

"Is it a young girl running errands for some store, a young woman
returning from church, or hastening to see her lover? What do you care?
Her well-rounded bosom shows through the thin waist. Oh, if you could
only take her in your arms and fondle and kiss her! Her glance may be
timid or bold, her hair light or dark. What difference does it make? She
brushes against you, and a cold shiver runs down your spine. Ah, how you
wish for her all day! How many of these dear creatures have I met this
way, and how wildly in love I would have been had I known them more
intimately.

"Have you ever noticed that the ones we would love the most distractedly
are those whom we never meet to know? Curious, isn't it? From time to
time we barely catch a glimpse of some woman, the mere sight of whom
thrills our senses. But it goes no further. When I think of all the
adorable creatures that I have elbowed in the streets of Paris, I fairly
rave. Who are they! Where are they? Where can I find them again? There is
a proverb which says that happiness often passes our way; I am sure that
I have often passed alongside the one who could have caught me like a
linnet in the snare of her fresh beauty."

Roger des Annettes had listened smilingly. He answered: "I know that as
well as you do. This is what happened to me: About five years ago, for
the first time I met, on the Pont de la Concorde, a young woman who made
a wonderful impression on me. She was dark, rather stout, with glossy
hair, and eyebrows which nearly met above two dark eyes. On her lip was a
scarcely perceptible down, which made one dream-dream as one dreams of
beloved woods, on seeing a bunch of wild violets. She had a small waist
and a well-developed bust, which seemed to present a challenge, offer a
temptation. Her eyes were like two black spots on white enamel. Her
glance was strange, vacant, unthinking, and yet wonderfully beautiful.

"I imagined that she might be a Jewess. I followed her, and then turned
round to look at her, as did many others. She walked with a swinging gait
that was not graceful, but somehow attracted one. At the Place de la
Concorde she took a carriage, and I stood there like a fool, moved by the
strongest desire that had ever assailed me.

"For about three weeks I thought only of her; and then her memory passed
out of my mind.

"Six months later I descried her in the Rue de la Paix again. On seeing
her I felt the same shock that one experiences on seeing a once dearly
loved woman. I stopped that I might better observe her. When she passed
close enough to touch me I felt as though I were standing before a red
hot furnace. Then, when she had passed by, I noticed a delicious
sensation, as of a cooling breeze blowing over my face. I did not follow
her. I was afraid of doing something foolish. I was afraid of myself.

"She haunted all my dreams.

"It was a year before I saw her again. But just as the sun was going down
on one beautiful evening in May I recognized her walking along the Avenue
des Champs-Elysees. The Arc de Triomphe stood out in bold relief against
the fiery glow of the sky. A golden haze filled the air; it was one of
those delightful spring evenings which are the glory of Paris.

"I followed her, tormented by a desire to address her, to kneel before her,
to pour forth the emotion which was choking me. Twice I passed by her
only to fall back, and each time as I passed by I felt this sensation, as
of scorching heat, which I had noticed in the Rue de la Paix.

"She glanced at me, and then I saw her enter a house on the Rue de
Presbourg. I waited for her two hours and she did not come out. Then I
decided to question the janitor. He seemed not to understand me. 'She
must be visiting some one,' he said.

"The next time I was eight months without seeing her. But one freezing
morning in January, I was walking along the Boulevard Malesherbes at a
dog trot, so as to keep warm, when at the corner I bumped into a woman
and knocked a small package out of her hand. I tried to apologize. It was
she!

"At first I stood stock still from the shock; then having returned to her
the package which she had dropped, I said abruptly:

"'I am both grieved and delighted, madame, to have jostled you. For more
than two years I have known you, admired you, and had the most ardent
wish to be presented to you; nevertheless I have been unable to find out
who you are, or where you live. Please excuse these foolish words.
Attribute them to a passionate desire to be numbered among your
acquaintances. Now you will wonder how we can also say that Orientals
are the most hospitable of any people in the world for the Arabs are
Orientals. And yet it is strictly true that these robbers are more
hospitable, in a way, than you people of Western countries. They have a
proverb which says that "Every stranger is an invited guest"; and
another which says, "The guest while in the house is its lord."

If an Arab gets after you to rob or kill you, it is only necessary
to take refuge in his tent for safety.

He is bound then, by the rules of Oriental hospitality, to treat
you as his guest.

But you must not stay there too long and you must be careful how you get
away! You will find instances of this respect for the duty of hospitality
all through the Bible story.

It was in the earliest Bible times, as later and as now, a grievous
sin to be inhospitable.

The cradle of the Mohammedan religion is Arabia, and yet in no
country are they more ignorant of their religion.

How sad to think that when they do worship God they do it in such an
ignorant and idolatrous way!

In our next chapter we shall see more about this.

Arabia has no national flag, no national hymn and no national
feeling.

Every one lives for himself and no one cares for his neighbour. This does
not sound strange of robbers but it does of people who are so
hospitable.

This queer country we are about to visit together and talk over with each
other.

You will not grow weary by the way, we hope.

If the desert tracks are long and tiresome through the following
chapters, just refresh yourself in the oasis of a picture.

III
THE SQUARE-HOUSE WITH THE BLACK OVERCOAT

You think I am making fun but it is really true that in western
Arabia there is a house that always wears an overcoat.

This is a large, square stone house without windows and with only one door
to let in the light and the air; it is empty inside, although crowds
gather around it as you see in the picture. Yet this house always has on
an overcoat of black silk, very heavy and richly embroidered.
Every year the old coat is taken off and a new one put on. A few days
ago a Moslem pilgrim showed me a piece of the cloth of last year's
overcoat and he was very proud of it.

It was indeed a fine piece of heavy silk and the names of God and Mohammed
were prettily woven into the cloth. This man had just come from visiting
the square-house and I will tell you what he saw.

The place he visited with hundreds and thousands of other pilgrims is
called Mecca and the square-house is the _Beit Allah_ or house of
God to all Mohammedans.

It is also called the _Kaaba_, which is the Arabic word for a cube.

The Moslems believe all sorts of foolish things about the Kaaba. They say
Adam built it as soon as he fell down on the earth out of Paradise,
and that Abraham repaired it after it had been ruined by the flood in
the days of Noah.

They even show a large white stone on which Abraham and Ishmael stood
when they plastered the walls; the stone still bears the impress of
Abraham's feet, they say.

Did you ever hear such a topsy-turvy story?

The building is about twenty-four cubits long and wide and nearly twenty
cubits high.

It has no ornaments or beauty except one rain-spout to carry the water
off the flat roof; you can see it on the right side of the Kaaba on the
picture. This spout is said to be of pure gold. In one corner of the
building is a large black stone which is also an object of worship.

The Mohammedans say it came down from heaven with Adam and was once
pure white. By the many kisses of sinful worshippers it has turned
black. Not only is it black but broken.

For about three hundred years after Mohammed's death the stone remained
imbedded in the walls of the Kaaba, but then some wild Arabs from the
Persian Gulf came, sacked Mecca and stole the black stone. It was carried
to Katif, a place near Bahrein, right across Arabia, and they kept
it a long time until the people of Mecca paid a large sum of money
and carried it back.

On the long journey it must have fallen from the camel because, at
present, it is cracked and the broken pieces are held together by
a silver band.

There once were a great many of these stone idols in the Kaaba, but
Mohammed destroyed them all except this one when he became master of
Mecca.

[Illustration: THE SQUARE HOUSE WITH THE BLACK OVERCOAT.]
At present the stone house is empty of idols and yet all the Moslems
turn in the direction of this old heathen temple to pray.

It is now fifty-six years since the incident occurred, and yet
not a month passes that I do not see it again in a dream, so great is the
impression of fear it has left on my mind. For ten minutes I experienced
such horrible fright that ever since then a sort of constant terror has
remained with me. Sudden noises startle me violently, and objects
imperfectly distinguished at night inspire me with a mad desire to flee
from them. In short, I am afraid of the dark!

"But I would not have acknowledged that before I reached my present age.
Now I can say anything. I have never receded before real danger, ladies.
It is, therefore, permissible, at eighty-two years of age, not to be
brave in presence of imaginary danger.

"That affair so completely upset me, caused me such deep and mysterious
and terrible distress, that I never spoke of it to any one. I will now
tell it to you exactly as it happened, without any attempt at
explanation.

"In July, 1827, I was stationed at Rouen. One day as I was walking along
the quay I met a man whom I thought I recognized without being able to
recall exactly who he was. Instinctively I made a movement to stop. The
stranger perceived it and at once extended his hand.

"He was a friend to whom I had been deeply attached as a youth. For five
years I had not seen him; he seemed to have aged half a century. His hair
was quite white and he walked bent over as though completely exhausted.
He apparently understood my surprise, and he told me of the misfortune
which had shattered his life.

"Having fallen madly in love with a young girl, he had married her, but
after a year of more than earthly happiness she died suddenly of an
affection of the heart. He left his country home on the very day of her
burial and came to his town house in Rouen, where he lived, alone and
unhappy, so sad and wretched that he thought constantly of suicide.

"'Since I have found you again in this manner,' he said, 'I will ask you
to render me an important service. It is to go and get me out of the desk
in my bedroom--our bedroom--some papers of which I have urgent
need. I cannot send a servant or a business clerk, as discretion and
absolute silence are necessary. As for myself, nothing on earth would
induce me to reenter that house. I will give you the key of the room,
which I myself locked on leaving, and the key of my desk, also a few
words for my gardener, telling him to open the chateau for you. But come
and breakfast with me tomorrow and we will arrange all that.'

"I promised to do him the slight favor he asked. It was, for that matter,
only a ride which I could make in an hour on horseback, his property
being but a few miles distant from Rouen.

"At ten o'clock the following day I breakfasted, tete-a-tete, with my
friend, but he scarcely spoke.

"He begged me to pardon him; the thought of the visit I was about to make
to that room, the scene of his dead happiness, overcame him, he said. He,
indeed, seemed singularly agitated and preoccupied, as though undergoing
some mysterious mental struggle.

"At length he explained to me exactly what I had to do. It was very
simple. I must take two packages of letters and a roll of papers from the
first right-hand drawer of the desk, of which I had the key. He added:

"'I need not beg you to refrain from glancing at them.'

"I was wounded at that remark and told him so somewhat sharply. He
stammered:

"'Forgive me, I suffer so,' and tears came to his eyes.

"At about one o'clock I took leave of him to accomplish my mission.

"'The weather was glorious, and I trotted across the fields, listening to
the song of the larks and the rhythmical clang of my sword against my
boot. Then I entered the forest and walked my horse. Branches of trees
caressed my face as I passed, and now and then I caught a leaf with my
teeth and chewed it, from sheer gladness of heart at being alive and
vigorous on such a radiant day.

"As I approached the chateau I took from my pocket the letter I had for
the gardener, and was astonished at finding it sealed. I was so irritated
that I was about to turn back without having fulfilled my promise, but
reflected that I should thereby display undue susceptibility. My friend
in his troubled condition might easily have fastened the envelope without
noticing that he did so.

"The manor looked as if it had been abandoned for twenty years. The open
gate was falling from its hinges, the walks were overgrown with grass and
the flower beds were no longer distinguishable.

"The noise I made by kicking at a shutter brought out an old man from a
side door. He seemed stunned with astonishment at seeing me. I said that I
gave more than I took, and you thought I spoke of money and not sentiment?
Then you could suspect that I was capable of throwing my riches
in your face--you thought I was capable of that?

That is why he could not forgive!

That is why he went away!

That is why he has made his life and mine miserable!

Leon.

--It is too late to talk about that.

Too late!

You knew then and you know to-day that I could not have understood
your words differently.

The other man was of your own world--the world of which you were
so fond that sometimes it seemed to me that you cherished it more
than our love.

At times when I so doubted you did not calm
me.
You were amused by the thought that you were stretching out to me
a hand of courtly condescension, and I, in an excess of humiliation,
I cast aside that hand.

You knew it then, and you know it to-day!

Jadwiga.--I know it to-day, but I did not know then.

I swear it by my mother's memory. But suppose it was even as you say.

Why could you not forgive me?

Oh God! truly one might go mad.

And there was neither time nor opportunity to explain.

He went away and never returned.

What could I do? When you became angry, when you shut yourself up
within yourself, grief pressed my heart.

I am ashamed even to-day to say this. I looked into your eyes like a dog
which wishes to disarm the anger of his master by humility. In vain!
Then I thought, when taking leave, I will shake hands with him so
honestly and cordially that he will finally understand and will
forgive me.

While parting my hand dropped, for you only saluted me from afar. I
swallowed my tears and humiliation. I thought still he will return to-morrow.
A day passed, two days, a week, a month.

Leon.--Then you married.

Jadwiga (passionately).--Yes.

Useless tears and time made me think it was forever--therefore anger
grew in my heart--anger and a desire for vengeance on you and
myself.

I wished to be lost, for I said to myself, "That man does not love me, has
never loved me."
As I was
growing irritated over my useless efforts and could now see fairly well
in the semi-darkness, I gave up the hope of getting more light, and went
over to the writing desk.

"I seated myself in an armchair and, letting down the lid of the desk, I
opened the drawer designated. It was full to the top. I needed but three
packages, which I knew how to recognize, and began searching for them.

"I was straining my eyes in the effort to read the superscriptions when I
seemed to hear, or, rather, feel, something rustle back of me. I paid no
attention, believing that a draught from the window was moving some
drapery. But in a minute or so another movement, almost imperceptible,
sent a strangely disagreeable little shiver over my skin. It was so
stupid to be affected, even slightly, that self-respect prevented my
turning around. I had just found the second package I needed and was
about to lay my hand on the third when a long and painful sigh, uttered
just at my shoulder, made me bound like a madman from my seat and land
several feet off. Why did you return from the city?

Countess.--For you.

To-day is election day--have you forgotten it?

Jan.--I do not wish to be a member of parliament. Why did you tell her
that Pretwic was killed?

SCENE IX.

The same. Jozwowicz.
Countess and Jan together.--What news?
Doctor.--Everything is over. (The bell is heard tolling in the
chapel of the château.)
Jan (frightened).--What, the bell of the chapel? Then she is
dead!
(Jozwowicz comes to the front of the stage and sits down.)
SCENE X."I do not believe in ghosts, nevertheless I collapsed from a hideous
dread of the dead, and I suffered, oh! I suffered in a few moments more
than in all the rest of my life from the irresistible terror of the
supernatural. If she had not spoken I should have died perhaps. But she
spoke, she spoke in a sweet, sad voice that set my nerves vibrating. I
dare not say that I became master of myself and recovered my reason. No!
I was terrified and scarcely knew what I was doing. But a certain innate
pride, a remnant of soldierly instinct, made me, almost in spite of
myself, maintain a bold front. She said:

"'Oh, sir, you can render me a great service.'

"I wanted to reply, but it was impossible for me to pronounce a word.
Only a vague sound came from my throat. She continued:

"'Will you? You can save me, cure me. I suffer frightfully. I suffer, oh!
how I suffer!' and she slowly seated herself in my armchair, still
looking at me.

"'Will you?' she said.

"I nodded in assent, my voice still being paralyzed.

"Then she held out to me a tortoise-shell comb and murmured:

"'Comb my hair, oh! comb my hair; that will cure me; it must be combed.
Look at my head--how I suffer; and my hair pulls so!'

"Her hair, unbound, very long and very black, it seemed to me, hung over
the back of the armchair and touched the floor.

"Why did I promise? You, the elect of art and the pride of the whole nation,
and in the mean while its spoiled child--you can live with your whole soul
in the present and in the future.

From the flowers strewn under one's feet, one can always chose the
most beautiful, or not choose at all, but always tread upon them.

Leon.--If one does not stumble.

Jadwiga.--No! To advance toward immortality.

Leon.--Longing for death while on the road.

Jadwiga.--It is an excess of pessimism for a man who says that he is
accustomed to his wheelbarrow.

Leon.--I wish only to show the other side of the medal. And then you
must remember, madam, that to-day pessimism is the mode. You must not
take my words too seriously. In a drawing-room one strings the words
of a conversation like beads on a thread--it is only play.

Jadwiga.--Let us play then (after a while). Ah! How many changes!
I cannot comprehend. If two years ago some one had told me that to-day we
would sit far apart from each other, and chat as we do, and look at each
other with watchful curiosity, like two people perfectly strange
to each other, I could not have believed. Truly, it is utterly
amusing!
Leon.--It would not be proper for me to remind you of our
agreement.
Jadwiga.--But nevertheless you do remind me. Thank you. My nerves
are guilty for this melancholy turn of the conversation. But I feel
it is not becoming to me. But pray be assured that I shall not again
enter that thorny path, if for no other reason than that of self-love.
Undoubtedly I had had one of those incomprehensible
nervous attacks those exaltations of mind that give rise to visions and
are the stronghold of the supernatural. And I was about to believe I had
seen a vision, had a hallucination, when, as I approached the window, my
eyes fell, by chance, upon my breast. My military cape was covered with
long black hairs! One by one, with trembling fingers, I plucked them off
and threw them away.

"I then called my orderly. Besides running around the Kaaba, kissing the
black stone and drinking water from a holy well called _zemzem_, they
have one day on which they sacrifice sheep or other animals. One curious
custom on this day of sacrifice I must tell you of.He asked after me most particularly, and, on being told I was
ill--had had a sunstroke--appeared exceedingly anxious. Next
morning I went to him, determined to tell him the truth. He had gone out
the evening before and had not yet returned. I called again during the
day; my friend was still absent. After waiting a week longer without news
of him, I notified the authorities and a judicial search was instituted.
Not the slightest trace of his whereabouts or manner of disappearance was
discovered.

For thirteen hundred years Moslems have come every year to Mecca, and
gone away, with no one ever to tell them of the Son of God, the
Saviour of the World.

Thirteen hundred years! Don't you think it is time to go and tell them?
"