I was not, therefore, touched by the spur of ambition, usually
stimulating on such occasions; and yet I ought to stand exculpated
from the charge of ungracious or unbecoming indifference to public
applause. I did not the less feel gratitude for the public favour,
although I did not proclaim it; as the lover who wears his
mistress's favour in his bosom is as proud, though not so vain, of
possessing it as another who displays the token of her grace upon
his bonnet. Far from such an ungracious state of mind, I have
seldom felt more satisfaction than when, returning from a pleasure
voyage, I found Waverley in the zenith of popularity, and public
curiosity in full cry after the name of the Author. The knowledge
that I had the public approbation was like having the property of
a hidden treasure, not less gratifying to the owner than if all
the world knew that it was his own. Another advantage was
connected with the secrecy which I observed. I could appear or
retreat from the stage at pleasure, without attracting any
personal notice or attention, other than what might be founded on
suspicion only. In my own person also, as a successful author in
another department of literature, I might have been charged with
too frequent intrusions on the public patience; but the Author of
Waverley was in this respect as impassible to the critic as the
Ghost of Hamlet to the partisan of Marcellus. Perhaps the
curiosity of the public, irritated by the existence of a secret,
and kept afloat by the discussions which took place on the subject
from time to time, went a good way to maintain an unabated
interest in these frequent publications. There was a mystery
concerning the Author which each new novel was expected to assist
in unravelling, although it might in other respects rank lower
than its predecessors.

I may perhaps be thought guilty of affectation, should I allege as
one reason of my silence a secret dislike to enter on personal
discussions concerning my own literary labours. It is in every
case a dangerous intercourse for an author to be dwelling
continually among those who make his writings a frequent and
familiar subject of conversation, but who must necessarily be
partial judges of works composed in their own society. The habits
of self-importance which are thus acquired by authors are highly
injurious to a well-regulated mind; for the cup of flattery, if it
does not, like that of Circe, reduce men to the level of beasts,
is sure, if eagerly drained, to bring the best and the ablest down
to that of fools. This risk was in some degree prevented by the
mask which I wore; and my own stores of self-conceit were left to
their natural course, without being enhanced by the partiality of
friends or adulation of flatterers.

If I am asked further reasons for the conduct I have long
observed, I can only resort to the explanation supplied by a
critic as friendly as he is intelligent; namely, that the mental
organisation of the novelist must be characterised, to speak
craniologically, by an extraordinary development of the passion
for delitescency! I the rather suspect some natural disposition of
this kind; for, from the instant I perceived the extreme curiosity
manifested on the subject, I felt a secret satisfaction in
baffling it, for which, when its unimportance is considered, I do
not well know how to account.

My desire to remain concealed, in the character of the Author of
these Novels, subjected me occasionally to awkward embarrassments,
as it sometimes happened that those who were sufficiently intimate
with me would put the question in direct terms. In this case, only
one of three courses could be followed. Either I must have
surrendered my secret, or have returned an equivocating answer,
or, finally, must have stoutly and boldly denied the fact. The
first was a sacrifice which I conceive no one had a right to force
from me, since I alone was concerned in the matter. The
alternative of rendering a doubtful answer must have left me open
to the degrading suspicion that I was not unwilling to assume the
merit (if there was any) which I dared not absolutely lay claim
to; or those who might think more justly of me must have received
such an equivocal answer as an indirect avowal. I therefore
considered myself entitled, like an accused person put upon trial,
to refuse giving my own evidence to my own conviction, and flatly
to deny all that could not be proved against me. At the same time
I usually qualified my denial by stating that, had I been the
Author of these works, I would have felt myself quite entitled to
protect my secret by refusing my own evidence, when it was asked
for to accomplish a discovery of what I desired to conceal.

The dogs now recognized the voice of their Lord and barking, the
horses stamped and neighed. It was a terrible uproar in this
quiet night. When the General hinablief the stairs to his
daughter behind herzueilen, he saw his horrified people from
all sides come together. "My daughter! - Helene has been kidnapped!
- Goes into the garden - guarded the street - let the police come
- searches for the murderer! "Immediately thereafter he tore
in his anger simply the chain where the guard was great." Helene!
Helene, "he cried to the animal. The dog made a sentence such
as a lion, barking furiously, and fell so fast in the garden
inside, that the General could not follow him. In that moment
heard the gallop of horses on the road, and General opened itself
in great haste. "Brigadier," cried he, "cut out the murderer of Mr.
de Mauny back from. They want out of my gardens. Fast, occupied
the roads after the Picardy ... I make a hunt through all the
land, through all the gardens and houses. - My other, "he
said to his people," guarded the streets and occupied the line of
Barrière to Versailles!

Forward, all! "He grabbed a rifle, which his valet brought hurried
into the garden and shouted to the dogs:" search, "Aus der
Ferne replied him awful barking, and he turned to the direction
from which the howling the dog seemed to come. At seven clock
morning had Nachsuchungen the Gendarmerie, the General, his people
and the neighbors have not yet been successful. The dog was not
returned. Exhausted by the effort and by the Gram aged rapidly
this night, the Marquis returned to the exhibition, which for
him was now deserted, although his three other children were
still there. "They are always very cold to your daughter had,"
said he, with a look at his wife. "Here is something from us but
it stayed," he added, to the hoop showing that he saw commenced
flower. "That she was still here - and now lost - lost!" He
cried, burying his head in his hands and sat in silence for a
while there. He liked no longer in the scout room, which he
used to house the painting sweetest happiness was presented.
The light of the morning struggling with the extinguished lamps,
candles Scorched their paper sleeves, all stood in line to the
despair of the father. "The thing that must be destroyed," he
said after a moment of silence, pointing to the hoop. "I can
not see what it reminds me of." The horrific Christmas, in which
the Marquis and his wife had the misfortune of their eldest daughter
to lose without it, the strange force could resist that her
seducer -- really quite an unwilling seducer - it had exercised
this horrific night was like a Wink by fate itself Shortly
thereafter, the bankruptcy of an exchange agent based on the
Marquis. He took on the mortgage assets of his wife to see
a speculation to try to gain their family all former wealth
should give back. The speculation failed, and ruined him completely.
In his desperation to do everything possible to try to wander
from the General. Six years had passed since his departure verflossen.
The family had rarely received news of him. Six days before the
adoption, by Spain, the independence of the American Republics
recognized, he had declared his return. On a beautiful, sunny
morning, there were several French trading men, full of impatience
to return to their homeland, with the riches which it has long
acidophilous work and sometimes dangerous journeys through Mexico,
some were acquired by Columbia, on a Spanish brig, only a few miles
from Bordeaux.

A laborious or through his grief over the years aged man leaned on
the Schanz paneling and seemed to be no sense of to have the image
that is in the eyes of the groups on the roof was standing around
passengers. The dangers of seafaring, and escaped through
the beauty of the day attracted, were all on deck risen to the
home to greet.
He had challenged the public to a game at bo-peep, and
if he was discovered in his 'hiding-hole,' he must submit to the
shame of detection.

Various reports were of course circulated in various ways; some
founded on an inaccurate rehearsal of what may have been partly
real, some on circumstances having no concern whatever with the
subject, and others on the invention of some importunate persons,
who might perhaps imagine that the readiest mode of forcing the
Author to disclose himself was to assign some dishonourable and
discreditable cause for his silence.

It may be easily supposed that this sort of inquisition was
treated with contempt by the person whom it principally regarded;
as, among all the rumours that were current, there was only one,
and that as unfounded as the others, which had nevertheless some
alliance to probability, and indeed might have proved in some
degree true.

I allude to a report which ascribed a great part, or the whole, of
these Novels to the late Thomas Scott, Esq., of the 70th Regiment,
then stationed in Canada. Those who remember that gentleman will
readily grant that, with general talents at least equal to those
of his elder brother, he added a power of social humour and a deep
insight into human character which rendered him an universally
delightful member of society, and that the habit of composition
alone was wanting to render him equally successful as a writer.
The Author of Waverley was so persuaded of the truth of this, that
he warmly pressed his brother to make such an experiment, and
willingly undertook all the trouble of correcting and
superintending the press. Mr. Thomas Scott seemed at first very
well disposed to embrace the proposal, and had even fixed on a
subject and a hero. The latter was a person well known to both of
us in our boyish years, from having displayed some strong traits
of character. Mr. T. Scott had determined to represent his
youthful acquaintance as emigrating to America, and encountering
the dangers and hardships of the New World, with the same
dauntless spirit which he had displayed when a boy in his native
country. Mr. Scott would probably have been highly successful,
being familiarly acquainted with the manners of the native
Indians, of the old French settlers in Canada, and of the Brules
or Woodsmen, and having the power of observing with accuracy what
I have no doubt he could have sketched with force and expression.
In short, the Author believes his brother would have made himself
distinguished in that striking field in which, since that period,
Mr. Cooper has achieved so many triumphs. But Mr. T. Scott was
already affected by bad health, which wholly unfitted him for
literary labour, even if he could have reconciled his patience to
the task. He never, I believe, wrote a single line of the
projected work; and I only have the melancholy pleasure of
preserving in the Appendix [Footnote: See Appendix No. III.] the
simple anecdote on which he proposed to found it.

To this I may add, I can easily conceive that there may have been
circumstances which gave a colour to the general report of my
brother being interested in these works; and in particular that it
might derive strength from my having occasion to remit to him, in
consequence of certain family transactions, some considerable sums
of money about that period. To which it is to be added that if any
person chanced to evince particular curiosity on such a subject,
my brother was likely enough to divert himself with practising on
their credulity.

It may be mentioned that, while the paternity of these Novels was
from time to time warmly disputed in Britain, the foreign
booksellers expressed no hesitation on the matter, but affixed my
name to the whole of the Novels, and to some besides to which I
had no claim.

The volumes, therefore, to which the present pages form a Preface
are entirely the composition of the Author by whom they are now
acknowledged, with the exception, always, of avowed quotations,
and such unpremeditated and involuntary plagiarisms as can scarce
be guarded against by any one who has read and written a great
deal. Lady Percy. O, in order of heaven's sake, regardless of the
remains back. There was a time, father, since its your word
Brachet, although far more keen to keep it as IZT. As some schikte
your Blik Percy, your son, my dearest Harry, northward, the
Beystand opposed to him his father should add?

but he waited in vain. Who matters to you then stay at
home? In a crucial Zeitpunct, and since by your Zurükbleiben your
honor and your son went lost? What the Eurig betrift, may they
heavenly glory umglänzen! The his standing above him like the sun
in the vault of heaven arzurnen: And the whole chivalry of
England moved Bey his light, in the illustrious career
decent that. He was the mirror, before the noble youth looked at
their shape. He saw no feet, not his gear imitations, and
with the trigger switch, which Bey him a natural error, was the
general accent of the brave, so great was the desire, similar to
Seyn.

Not only its theoretical merits of war, even his language, his career,
his way of dressing, his manners, his affections, his even
temper and his sense of humor, were the pattern, all other
wornach are formed, each one schäzte themselves just as much as he
believed similar to Seyn. And this man, oh! this miracle of a
man in him, to no one on the merits had it reads it alone, with
a handful of people, all the violence of the war-god bearable;
verließt it, in circumstances where nothing but the sound of Hot
- Spurs name was able to resist thun - O! never, never insulted
abgeschiednen his mind so much that your word you keep others
better than him! Let them alone: The Marshal and the Archbishop
are strong enough. Had my favorite Harry only half their
number had so würd 'ich Augenblik this on Hot Spurs Naken hanging
style, from Monmouth Grabe talk to. Northumberland. Uebel possible'
you get it, beautiful daughter, that her actions brought by an old
fresh aufreisset wound again. But I must go, and me against the
danger therein, or else they will keep me even looking for, and
find myself less prepared. Lady Northumberland.

The publishers have endeavoured to
gratify the honourable partiality of the public for the
encouragement of British art, by illustrating this edition with
designs by the most eminent living artists. [Footnote: The
illustrations here referred to were made for the edition of 1829]

To my distinguished countryman, David Wilkie, to Edwin Landseer,
who has exercised his talents so much on Scottish subjects and
scenery, to Messrs. Leslie and Newton, my thanks are due, from a
friend as well as an author. Nor am I less obliged to Messrs.
Cooper, Kidd, and other artists of distinction to whom I am less
personally known, for the ready zeal with which they have devoted
their talents to the same purpose.

Farther explanation respecting the Edition is the business of the
publishers, not of the Author; and here, therefore, the latter has
accomplished his task of introduction and explanation. If, like a
spoiled child, he has sometimes abused or trifled with the
indulgence of the public, he feels himself entitled to full belief
when he exculpates himself from the charge of having been at any
time insensible of their kindness.

ABBOTSFORD, 1st January, 1829.


WAVERLEY

OR 'T IS SIXTY YEARS SINCE

    Under which King, Bezonian? speak, or die!

    Henry IV, Part II.

VOLUME II


INTRODUCTION


The plan of this edition leads me to insert in this place some
account of the incidents on which the Novel of Waverley is
founded. They have been already given to the public by my late
lamented friend, William Erskine, Esq. (afterwards Lord Kinneder),
when reviewing the Tales of My Landlord for the Quarterly Review
in 1817. The particulars were derived by the critic from the
Author's information. Afterwards they were published in the
Preface to the Chronicles of the Canongate. They are now inserted
in their proper place.

The mutual protection afforded by Waverley and Talbot to each
other, upon which the whole plot depends, is founded upon one of
those anecdotes which soften the features even of civil war; and,
as it is equally honourable to the memory of both parties, we have
no hesitation to give their names at length. When the Highlanders,
on the morning of the battle of Preston, 1745, made their
memorable attack on Sir John Cope's army, a battery of four field-
pieces was stormed and carried by the Camerons and the Stewarts of
Appine. The late Alexander Stewart of Invernahylewas one of the
foremost in the charge, and observing an officer of the King's
forces, who, scorning to join the flight of all around, remained
with his sword in his hand, as if determined to the very last to
defend the post assigned to him, the Highland gentleman commanded
him to surrender, and received for reply a thrust, which he caught
in his target. The officer was now defenceless, and the battle-axe
of a gigantic Highlander (the miller of Invernahyle's mill) was
uplifted to dash his brains out, when Mr. Stewart with difficulty
prevailed on him to yield. He took charge of his enemy's property,
protected his person, and finally obtained him liberty on his
parole. The officer proved to be Colonel Whitefoord, an Ayrshire
gentleman of high character and influence, and warmly attached to
the House of Hanover; yet such was the confidence existing between
these two honourable men, though of different political
principles, that, while the civil war was raging, and straggling
officers from the Highland army were executed without mercy,
Invernahyle hesitated not to pay his late captive a visit, as he
returned to the Highlands to raise fresh recruits, on which
occasion he spent a day or two in Ayrshire among Colonel
Whitefoord's Whig friends, as pleasantly and as good-humouredly as
if all had been at peace around him.

They abandoned such a dream to the gentle delights of the
delicate harmony that Madame de listom-Landon in her long
experience had promised her, she waited with acquiescence to the
end of their pain, they hoped to die young. Since her return
from the Touraine was her health has become weaker every
day, and life seemed to her only by the suffering attributed to -
a noble suffering, moreover, an apparently almost complete bliss
disease, which in the eyes of superficial people for cricket one
could apply Hausdämchens.

The doctors had condemned the Marquise, on a sofa to lie where they
are surrounded with flowers and now dahinsiechte like this. Their
weakness forbade her going and stay in the fresh air, they
drove in the only closed wagons from. Resistant surrounded
by all the wonders of our modern luxury and our industry, it
was like a sick less than a jaded queen. Some friends that their
illness and weakness were adorable, and perhaps also calculated
to determine that in future it would be completely healthy,
they attended because they were always sure that they meet at home,
brought her all the news and informed them about the thousands of
small events that make life in Paris so varied make. Their melancholy
was serious and deep, but it was the melancholy of abundance. The
Marquise d'Aiglemont resembled a beautiful flower, whose root of
a black insect is pitted. It was sometimes in societies,
not taste it, but to the demands of the position to meet after
her husband wanted. Your voice and the completion of her
singing have earned it the applause that is almost always a young
woman flatters. But what is their success, neither with their
feelings nor their hope had something to do? Her husband did
nothing of music. Recently she has always felt uneasy in the salons,
where their beauty, their tributes revenue. Their situation
attracted to a kind of cruel compassion, a cold curiosity.
She was attacked by a fever, which almost regularly ends
with death - a disease from which the women whispering among
themselves only speak, and for our Neologie still has no name can
find. Despite the silence, in the middle of their lives unfold, it
was the cause of their suffering a secret for nobody. Despite the
marriage, is still a young girl who met the slightest glances with
shame. In order not to have to blush, it appeared, therefore,
always happy and laughing, they erkünstelte a false joy, always
said that it would be very much or did the questions on their
health with discreet lies before. Meanwhile, 1817 was an event
much to the reassurance deplorable state of change, in which Julie
has hitherto had found.

They had a daughter and wanted to breastfeed themselves.
'Why did he not stop when we called to
him?' said the soldier. 'He is as deaf, poor man, as a peat-
stack,' answered the ready-witted domestic. 'Let him be sent for
directly.' The real shepherd accordingly was brought from the
hill, and, as there was time to tutor him by the way, he was as
deaf when he made his appearance as was necessary to sustain his
character. Invernahyle was afterwards pardoned under the Act of
Indemnity.

The Author knew him well, and has often heard these circumstances
from his own mouth. He was a noble specimen of the old Highlander,
far descended, gallant, courteous, and brave, even to chivalry. He
had been out, I believe, in 1715 and 1745, was an active partaker
in all the stirring scenes which passed in the Highlands betwixt
these memorable eras; and, I have heard, was remarkable, among
other exploits, for having fought a duel with the broadsword with
the celebrated Rob Roy MacGregor at the clachan of Balquidder.

Invernahyle chanced to be in Edinburgh when Paul Jones came into
the Firth of Forth, and though then an old man, I saw him in arms,
and heard him exult (to use his own words) in the prospect
of drawing his claymore once more before he died.' In fact, on
that memorable occasion, when the capital of Scotland was menaced
by three trifling sloops or brigs, scarce fit to have sacked a
fishing village, he was the only man who seemed to propose a plan
of resistance. He offered to the magistrates, if broadswords and
dirks could be obtained, to find as many Highlanders among the
lower classes as would cut off any boat's crew who might be sent
into a town full of narrow and winding passages, in which they
were like to disperse in quest of plunder. I know not if his plan
was attended to, I rather think it seemed too hazardous to the
constituted authorities, who might not, even at that time, desire
to see arms in Highland hands. A steady and powerful west wind
settled the matter by sweeping Paul Jones and his vessels out of
the Firth.

If there is something degrading in this recollection, it is not
unpleasant to compare it with those of the last war, when
Edinburgh, besides regular forces and militia, furnished a
volunteer brigade of cavalry, infantry, and artillery to the
amount of six thousand men and upwards, which was in readiness to
meet and repel a force of a far more formidable description than
was commanded by the adventurous American. Time and circumstances
change the character of nations and the fate of cities; and it is
some pride to a Scotchman to reflect that the independent and
manly character of a country, willing to entrust its own
protection to the arms of its children, after having been obscured
for half a century, has, during the course of his own lifetime,
recovered its lustre.

But the permanent link does not condone, and indeed calls upon the
society, and yet it has some connection between a chaste young
girl and a man she barely knows for three months, still horrible,
because this girl is selling his whole life. It is true that the
price is much higher.

If you are at least ehrtet because her them once but no compensation
for their pain zubilligt!

But no, the world just slandered the most virtuous among us. This
is our destiny, of his two sides: either a public prostitution and
the shame - or a clandestine prostitution and misery. What did
the poor girl without a dowry is concerned - they go crazy and
die.
Malaprop's phrase, be, 'like Cerberus, three gentlemen at
once.' The Author, as he is unconscious of anything in the work
itself (except perhaps its frivolity) which prevents its finding
an acknowledged father, leaves it to the candour of the public to
choose among the many circumstances peculiar to different
situations in life such as may induce him to suppress his name on
the present occasion. He may be a writer new to publication, and
unwilling to avow a character to which he is unaccustomed; or he
may be a hackneyed author, who is ashamed of too frequent
appearance, and employs this mystery, as the heroine of the old
comedy used her mask, to attract the attention of those to whom
her face had become too familiar. He may be a man of a grave
profession, to whom the reputation of being a novel-writer might
be prejudicial; or he may be a man of fashion, to whom writing of
any kind might appear pedantic. He may be too young to assume the
character of an author, or so old as to make it advisable to lay
it aside.

The Author of Waverley has heard it objected to this novel, that,
in the character of Callum Beg and in the account given by the
Baron of Bradwardine of the petty trespasses of the Highlanders
upon trifling articles of property, he has borne hard, and
unjustly so, upon their national character. Nothing could be
farther from his wish or intention. The character of Callum Beg is
that of a spirit naturally turned to daring evil, and determined,
by the circumstances of his situation, to a particular species of
mischief. Those who have perused the curious Letters from the
Highlands, published about 1726, will find instances of such
atrocious characters which fell under the writer's own
observation, though it would be most unjust to consider such
villains as representatives of the Highlanders of that period, any
more than the murderers of Marr and Williamson can be supposed to
represent the English of the present day. As for the plunder
supposed to have been picked up by some of the insurgents in 1745,
it must be remembered that, although the way of that unfortunate
little army was neither marked by devastation nor bloodshed, but,
on the contrary, was orderly and quiet in a most wonderful degree,
yet no army marches through a country in a hostile manner without
committing some depredations; and several, to the extent and of
the nature jocularly imputed to them by the Baron, were really
laid to the charge of the Highland insurgents; for which many
traditions, and particularly one respecting the Knight of the
Mirror, may be quoted as good evidence. [Footnote: A homely
metrical narrative of the events of the period, which contains
some striking particulars, and is still a great favourite with the
lower classes, gives a very correct statement of the behaviour of
the mountaineers respecting this same military license; and, as
the verses are little known, and contain some good sense, we
venture to insert them.]


Here a mother wants the children to her husband to bring their
heritage for the benefit of the children, whom she prefers.

    On the other side wants the man sometimes
    its assets devoted to the Baby send
    to the hatred of the mother
                  deserves. And then
    there are battles, documents, counter
                  prescriptions, bogus sales, Fideikommisse - in short, a pitiful
Tohuwabohu - to honor, pity!

    Here fathers bring their lives to their
    children's inheritance by the estate
    of their women steal - yes, stealing
                  is the right
    word. We spoke of drama. Oh, I
                  assure you, if we take the mystery could divulge some gifts would
our poet Civil horrific tragedies can make it.

    I do not know what kind of power
    the women use in order to achieve
    what they want. Indeed, so delicate
                  and they look
    weak, they always retain the upper hand.
                  Oh yes, yes, I am never catch them, not me!

    I always know the reason of
    such preference, of which you kindly
    in the world always says: "We do not
                  quite know why."
    But the husbands never come
                  behind it, this justice must be offered to them.

    I think you will respond that there is just
    and loving child - "Helene was with
    her father from the room next door in
                  the back parlor
    and listened attentively to the
                  notary.

    She understood him so well that they are
    on their mother threw terrible single
    glance, and with all the instincts of youth
                        realized this fact,
    the rigorous treatment of doubling
                        their imminent.

    The Marquise erbleichte Vandenesse and made a
    gesture of horror at her husband's
    attention, provoking the flowers of the
                        wallpaper looked.
    At that moment, the diplomat, despite all
                        of life is no longer quell the notary and threw a devastating sight.

    "Come round here, sir," he said to
    him quickly and progressively
    to the chamber to the front of the
                        salon was.
    And through the Highlands they were so rude,
    As leave them neither clothes nor food,
    Then burnt their houses to conclude;
                        'T was tit for tat.
    How can her nainsell e'er be good,
                        To think on that?

    And after all, O, shame and grief!
    To use some worse than murd'ring thief,
    Their very gentleman and chief,
                        Unhumanly!
    Like Popish tortures, I believe,
                        Such cruelty.

    Ev'n what was act on open stage
    At Carlisle, in the hottest rage,
    When mercy was clapt in a cage,
                        And pity dead,
    Such cruelty approv'd by every age,
                        I shook my head.

    This monster has to continually
    wage war, that is no different.
    His distraction has now begun, the
                        young Englishman,
    his illness, the man held for fatal,
                        to study.

    So he gradually like anatomy and pharmaceutics found.dear countrymen,
    O never do the like again,
    To thirst for vengeance, never ben'
                        Your gun nor pa',
    But with the English e'en borrow and len',
                        Let anger fa'.

    The longer the resistance has been so powerful
    is the voice of love. So here ends this
    perspective or much more - if it is
                        allowed, the
    painting one of their picturesque
                        expression to borrow - the "most exposed muscle«-made study.WAVERLEY

OR 'TIS SIXTY YEARS SINCE


CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

