Produced by David Widger


                THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A.  F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                           SEPTEMBER & OCTOBER
                                  1661

September 1st (Lord's day).  Last night being very rainy [the rain] broke
into my house, the gutter being stopped, and spoiled all my ceilings
almost.  At church in the morning, and dined at home with my wife.  After
dinner to Sir W. Batten's, where I found Sir W. Pen and Captain Holmes.
Here we were very merry with Sir W. Pen about the loss of his tankard,
though all be but a cheat, and he do not yet understand it; but the
tankard was stole by Sir W. Batten, and the letter, as from the thief,
wrote by me, which makes: very good sport.  Here I staid all the
afternoon, and then Captain Holmes and I by coach to White Hall; in our
way, I found him by discourse, to be a great friend of my Lord's, and he
told me there was many did seek to remove him; but they were old seamen,
such as Sir J. Minnes (but he would name no more, though I do believe Sir
W. Batten is one of them that do envy him), but he says he knows that the
King do so love him, and the Duke of York too, that there is no fear of
him.  He seems to be very well acquainted with the King's mind, and with
all the several factions at Court, and spoke all with so much frankness,
that I do take him to be my Lord's good friend, and one able to do him
great service, being a cunning fellow, and one (by his own confession to
me) that can put on two several faces, and look his enemies in the face
with as much love as his friends.  But, good God! what an age is this, and
what a world is this! that a man cannot live without playing the knave and
dissimulation.  At Whitehall we parted, and I to Mrs. Pierce's, meeting
her and Madam Clifford in the street, and there staid talking and laughing
with them a good while, and so back to my mother's, and there supped, and
so home and to bed.

2nd.  In the morning to my cozen Thos. Pepys, executor, and there talked
with him about my uncle Thomas, his being in the country, but he could not
advise me to anything therein, not knowing what the other has done in the
country, and so we parted.  And so to Whitehall, and there my Lord Privy
Seal, who has been out of town this week, not being yet come, we can have
no seal, and therefore meeting with Mr. Battersby the apothecary in
Fenchurch Street to the King's Apothecary's chamber in Whitehall, and
there drank a bottle or two of wine, and so he and I by water towards
London.  I landed at Blackfriars and so to the Wardrobe and dined, and
then back to Whitehall with Captain Ferrers, and there walked, and thence
to Westminster Hall, where we met with Mr. Pickering, and so all of us to
the Rhenish wine house (Prior's), where the master of the house is laying
out some money in making a cellar with an arch in his yard, which is very
convenient for him.  Here we staid a good while, and so Mr. Pickering and
I to Westminster Hall again, and there walked an hour or two talking, and
though he be a fool, yet he keeps much company, and will tell all he sees
or hears, and so a man may understand what the common talk of the town is,
and I find by him that there are endeavours to get my Lord out of play at
sea, which I believe Mr. Coventry and the Duke do think will make them
more absolute; but I hope, for all this, they will not be able to do it.
He tells me plainly of the vices of the Court, and how the pox is so
common there, and so I hear on all hands that it is as common as eating
and swearing.  From him by water to the bridge, and thence to the Mitre,
where I met my uncle and aunt Wight come to see Mrs. Rawlinson (in her
husband's absence out of town), and so I staid with them and Mr. Lucas and
other company, very merry, and so home, Where my wife has been busy all
the day making of pies, and had been abroad and bought things for herself,
and tells that she met at the Change with my young ladies of the Wardrobe
and there helped them to buy things, and also with Mr. Somerset, who did
give her a bracelet of rings, which did a little trouble me, though I know
there is no hurt yet in it, but only for fear of further acquaintance.  So
to bed.  This night I sent another letter to Sir W. Pen to offer him the
return of his tankard upon his leaving of 30s. at a place where it should
be brought.  The issue of which I am to expect.

3rd.  This day some of us Commissioners went down to Deptford to pay off
some ships, but I could not go, but staid at home all the morning setting
papers to rights, and this morning Mr. Howell, our turner, sent me two
things to file papers on very handsome.  Dined at home, and then with my
wife to the Wardrobe, where my Lady's child was christened (my Lord Crew
and his Lady, and my Lady Montagu, my Lord's mother-in-law, were the
witnesses), and named Katherine

     [Lady Katherine Montagu, youngest daughter of Lord Sandwich,
     married, first, Nicholas Bacon, eldest son and heir of Sir Nicholas
     Bacon, K.B., of Shrubland Hall, co.  Suffolk; and, secondly, the
     Rev. Balthazar Gardeman.  She died January 15th, 1757, at ninety-six
     years, four months.--B.]

(the Queen elect's name); but to my and all our trouble, the Parson of the
parish christened her, and did not sign the child with the sign of the
cross.  After that was done, we had a very fine banquet, the best I ever
was at, and so (there being very little company) we by and by broke up,
and my wife and I to my mother, who I took a liberty to advise about her
getting things ready to go this week into the country to my father, and
she (being become now-a-days very simple) took it very ill, and we had a
great deal of noise and wrangling about it.  So home by coach.

4th.  In the morning to the Privy Seal to do some things of the last
month, my Lord Privy Seal having been some time out of town.  Then my wife
came to me to Whitehall, and we went and walked a good while in St.
James's Park to see the brave alterations, and so to Wilkinson's, the
Cook's, to dinner, where we sent for Mrs. Sarah and there dined and had
oysters, the first I have eat this year, and were pretty good.  After
dinner by agreement to visit Mrs. Symonds, but she is abroad, which I
wonder at, and so missing her my wife again to my mother's (calling at
Mrs. Pierce's, who we found brought to bed of a girl last night) and there
staid and drank, and she resolves to be going to-morrow without fail.
Many friends come in to take their leave of her, but a great deal of stir
I had again tonight about getting her to go to see my Lady Sandwich before
she goes, which she says she will do tomorrow.  So I home.

5th.  To the Privy Seal this morning about business, in my way taking
leave of my mother, who goes to Brampton to-day.  But doing my business at
the Privy Seal pretty soon, I took boat and went to my uncle Fenner's, and
there I found my mother and my wife and Pall (of whom I had this morning
at my own house taken leave, and given her 20s. and good counsel how to
carry herself to my father and mother), and so I took them, it being late,
to Beard's, where they were staid for, and so I put them into the waggon,
and saw them going presently, Pall crying exceedingly.  Then in with my
wife, my aunt Bell and Charles Pepys, whom we met there, and drank, and so
to my uncle Fenner's to dinner (in the way meeting a French footman with
feathers, who was in quest of my wife, and spoke with her privately, but I
could not tell what it was, only my wife promised to go to some place
to-morrow morning, which do trouble my mind how to know whither it was),
where both his sons and daughters were, and there we were merry and dined.
After dinner news was brought that my aunt Kite, the butcher's widow in
London, is sick ready to die and sends for my uncle and me to come to take
charge of things, and to be entrusted with the care of her daughter.  But
I through want of time to undertake such a business, I was taken up by
Antony Joyce, which came at last to very high words, which made me very
angry, and I did not think that he would ever have been such a fool to
meddle with other people's business, but I saw he spoke worse to his
father than to me and therefore I bore it the better, but all the company
was offended with him, so we parted angry he and I, and so my wife and I
to the fair, and I showed her the Italians dancing the ropes, and the
women that do strange tumbling tricks and so by foot home vexed in my mind
about Antony Joyce.

6th.  This morning my uncle Fenner by appointment came and drank his
morning draft with me, and from thence he and I go to see my aunt Kite (my
wife holding her resolution to go this morning as she resolved yesterday,
and though there could not be much hurt in it, yet my own jealousy put a
hundred things into my mind, which did much trouble me all day), whom we
found in bed and not like to live as we think, and she told us her mind
was that if she should die she should give all she had to her daughter,
only L5 apiece to her second husband's children, in case they live to come
out of their apprenticeships, and that if her daughter should die before
marrying, then L10 to be divided between Sarah Kite's children and the
rest as her own daughter shall dispose of it, and this I set down that I
may be able to swear in case there should be occasion. From thence to an
alehouse while it rained, which kept us there I think above two hours, and
at last we were fain to go through the rainy street home, calling on his
sister Utbeck and drank there.  Then I home to dinner all alone, and
thence my mind being for my wife's going abroad much troubled and unfit
for business, I went to the Theatre, and saw "Elder Brother" ill acted;
that done, meeting here with Sir G. Askew, Sir Theophilus Jones, and
another Knight, with Sir W. Pen, we to the Ship tavern, and there staid
and were merry till late at night, and so got a coach, and Sir Wm. and I
home, where my wife had been long come home, but I seemed very angry, as
indeed I am, and did not all night show her any countenance, neither
before nor in bed, and so slept and rose discontented.

7th.  At the office all the morning.  At noon Mr. Moore dined with me, and
then in comes Wm. Joyce to answer a letter of mine I wrote this morning to
him about a maid of his that my wife had hired, and she sent us word that
she was hired to stay longer with her master, which mistake he came to
clear himself of; and I took it very kindly.  So I having appointed the
young ladies at the Wardrobe to go with them to a play to-day, I left him
and my brother Tom who came along with him to dine, and my wife and I took
them to the Theatre, where we seated ourselves close by the King, and Duke
of York, and Madame Palmer, which was great content; and, indeed, I can
never enough admire her beauty.  And here was "Bartholomew Fayre," with
the puppet-show, acted to-day, which had not been these forty years (it
being so satyricall against Puritanism, they durst not till now, which is
strange they should already dare to do it, and the King do countenance
it), but I do never a whit like it the better for the puppets, but rather
the worse.  Thence home with the ladies, it being by reason of our staying
a great while for the King's coming, and the length of the play, near nine
o'clock before it was done, and so in their coach home, and still in
discontent with my wife, to bed, and rose so this morning also.

8th (Lord's day).  To church, it being a very wet night last night and
to-day, dined at home, and so to church again with my wife in the
afternoon, and coming home again found our new maid Doll asleep, that she
could not hear to let us in, so that we were fain to send the boy in at a
window to open the door to us.  So up to my chamber all alone, and
troubled in mind to think how much of late I have addicted myself to
expense and pleasure, that now I can hardly reclaim myself to look after
my great business of settling Gravely business, until now almost too late.
I pray God give me grace to begin now to look after my business, but it
always was, and I fear will ever be, my foible that after I am once got
behind-hand with business, I am hard to set to it again to recover it.  In
the evening I begun to look over my accounts and upon the whole I do find
myself, by what I can yet see, worth near L600, for which God be blessed,
which put me into great comfort.  So to supper and to bed.

9th.  To the Privy Seal in the morning, but my Lord did not come, so I
went with Captain Morrice at his desire into the King's Privy Kitchen to
Mr. Sayres, the Master Cook, and there we had a good slice of beef or two
to our breakfast, and from thence he took us into the wine cellar where,
by my troth, we were very merry, and I drank too much wine, and all along
had great and particular kindness from Mr. Sayres, but I drank so much
wine that I was not fit for business, and therefore at noon I went and
walked in Westminster Hall a while, and thence to Salisbury Court play
house, where was acted the first time "'Tis pity Shee's a Whore,"  a
simple play and ill acted, only it was my fortune to sit by a most pretty
and most ingenious lady, which pleased me much.  Thence home, and found
Sir Williams both and much more company gone to the Dolphin to drink the
30s. that we got the other day of Sir W. Pen about his tankard.  Here was
Sir R. Slingsby, Holmes, Captn.  Allen, Mr. Turner, his wife and daughter,
my Lady Batten, and Mrs. Martha, &c., and an excellent company of
fiddlers; so we exceeding merry till late; and then we begun to tell Sir
W. Pen the business, but he had been drinking to-day, and so is almost
gone, that we could not make him understand it, which caused us more
sport.  But so much the better, for I believe when he do come to
understand it he will be angry, he has so talked of the business himself
and the letter up and down that he will be ashamed to be found abused in
it.  So home and to bed.

10th.  At the office all the morn, dined at home; then my wife into Wood
Street to buy a chest, and thence to buy other things at my uncle Fenner's
(though by reason of rain we had ill walking), thence to my brother Tom's,
and there discoursed with him about business, and so to the Wardrobe to
see my Lady, and after supper with the young ladies, bought a link and
carried it myself till I met one that would light me home for the link.
So he light me home with his own, and then I did give him mine.  This
night I found Mary, my cozen W. Joyce's maid, come to me to be my cook
maid, and so my house is full again.  So to bed.

11th.  Early to my cozen Thomas Trice to discourse about our affairs, and
he did make demand of the L200 and the interest thereof.  But for the L200
I did agree to pay him, but for the other I did desire to be advised.  So
from him to Dr. Williams, who did carry me into his garden, where he hath
abundance of grapes; and did show me how a dog that he hath do kill all
the cats that come thither to kill his pigeons, and do afterwards bury
them; and do it with so much care that they shall be quite covered; that
if but the tip of the tail hangs out he will take up the cat again, and
dig the hole deeper.  Which is very strange; and he tells me that he do
believe that he hath killed above 100 cats.  After he was ready we went up
and down to inquire about my affairs and then parted, and to the Wardrobe,
and there took Mr. Moore to Tom Trice, who promised to let Mr. Moore have
copies of the bond and my aunt's deed of gift, and so I took him home to
my house to dinner, where I found my wife's brother, Balty, as fine as
hands could make him, and his servant, a Frenchman, to wait on him, and
come to have my wife to visit a young lady which he is a servant to, and
have hope to trepan and get for his wife.  I did give way for my wife to
go with him, and so after dinner they went, and Mr. Moore and I out again,
he about his business and I to Dr. Williams: to talk with him again, and
he and I walking through Lincoln's Fields observed at the Opera a new
play, "Twelfth Night"

     [Pepys seldom liked any play of Shakespeare's, and he sadly
     blundered when he supposed "Twelfth Night" was a new play.]

was acted there, and the King there; so I, against my own mind and
resolution, could not forbear to go in, which did make the play seem a
burthen to me, and I took no pleasure at all in it; and so after it was
done went home with my mind troubled for my going thither, after my
swearing to my wife that I would never go to a play without her.  So that
what with this and things going so cross to me as to matters of my uncle's
estate, makes me very much troubled in my mind, and so to bed. My wife was
with her brother to see his mistress today, and says she is young, rich,
and handsome, but not likely for him to get.

12th.  Though it was an office day, yet I was forced to go to the Privy
Seal, at which I was all the morning, and from thence to my Lady's to
dinner at the Wardrobe; and in my way upon the Thames, I saw the King's
new pleasure-boat that is come now for the King to take pleasure in above
bridge; and also two Gundaloes

     ["Two long boats that were made in Venice, called gondolas, were by
     the Duke of Venice (Dominico Contareni) presented to His Majesty; ,
     and the attending watermen, being four, were in very rich clothes,
     crimson satin; very big were their breeches and doublets; they wore
     also very large shirts of the same satin, very richly laced."
     --Rugge's Diurnal.--B.]

that are lately brought, which are very rich and fine.  After dinner I
went into my Lady's chamber where I found her up now out of her childbed,
which I was glad to see, and after an hour's talk with her I took leave
and to Tom Trice again, and sat talking and drinking with him about our
business a great while.  I do find I am likely to be forced to pay
interest for the L200.  By and by in comes my uncle Thomas, and as he was
always a close cunning fellow, so he carries himself to me, and says
nothing of what his endeavours are, though to my trouble I know that he is
about recovering of Gravely, but neither I nor he began any discourse of
the business.  From thence to Dr. Williams (at the little blind alehouse
in Shoe Lane, at the Gridiron, a place I am ashamed to be seen to go
into), and there with some bland counsel of his we discuss our matters,
but I find men of so different minds that by my troth I know not what to
trust to.  It being late I took leave, and by link home and called at Sir
W. Batten's, and there hear that Sir W. Pen do take our jest of the
tankard very ill, which Pam sorry for.

13th.  This morning I was sent for by my uncle Fenner to come and advise
about the buriall of my aunt, the butcher, who died yesterday; and from
thence to the Anchor, by Doctor's Commons, and there Dr. Williams and I
did write a letter for my purpose to Mr. Sedgewick, of Cambridge, about
Gravely business, and after that I left him and an attorney with him and
went to the Wardrobe, where I found my wife, and thence she and I to the
water to spend the afternoon in pleasure; and so we went to old George's,
and there eat as much as we would of a hot shoulder of mutton, and so to
boat again and home.  So to bed, my mind very full of business and
trouble.

14th.  At the office all the morning, at noon to the Change, and then home
again.  To dinner, where my uncle Fenner by appointment came and dined
with me, thinking to go together to my aunt Kite's that is dead; but
before we had dined comes Sir R. Slingsby and his lady, and a great deal
of company, to take my wife and I out by barge to shew them the King's and
Duke's yachts.  So I was forced to leave my uncle and brother Tom at
dinner and go forth with them, and we had great pleasure, seeing all four
yachts, viz., these two and the two Dutch ones.  And so home again, and
after writing letters by post, to bed.

15th (Lord's day).  To my aunt Kite's in the morning to help my uncle
Fenner to put things in order against anon for the buriall, and at noon
home again; and after dinner to church, my wife and I, and after sermon
with my wife to the buriall of my aunt Kite, where besides us and my uncle
Fenner's family, there was none of any quality, but poor rascally people.
So we went to church with the corps, and there had service read at the
grave, and back again with Pegg Kite who will be, I doubt, a troublesome
carrion to us executors; but if she will not be ruled, I shall fling up my
executorship.  After that home, and Will Joyce along with me where we sat
and talked and drank and ate an hour or two, and so he went away and I up
to my chamber and then to prayers and to bed.

16th.  This morning I was busy at home to take in my part of our freight
of Coles, which Sir G. Carteret, Sir R. Slingsby, and myself sent for,
which is 10 Chaldron, 8 of which I took in, and with the other to repay
Sir W. Pen what I borrowed of him a little while ago.  So that from this
day I should see how long 10 chaldron of coals will serve my house, if it
please the Lord to let me live to see them burned.  In the afternoon by
appointment to meet Dr. Williams and his attorney, and they and I to Tom
Trice, and there got him in discourse to confess the words that he had
said that his mother did desire him not to see my uncle about her L200
bond while she was alive.  Here we were at high words with T. Trice and
then parted, and we to Standing's, in Fleet Street, where we sat and drank
and talked a great while about my going down to Gravely Court,

     [The manorial court of Graveley, in Huntingdonshire, to which
     Impington owed suit or service, and under which the Pepys's copyhold
     estates were held.  See July 8th, 1661, ante.--B.]

which will be this week, whereof the Doctor had notice in a letter from
his sister this week.  We should have been well pleased to have been told
of the size of the fish when it died, in addition to that of the prison
in which it dwelt, for otherwise the fact itself is of less consequence.[13]
We presume its rate of growth would be extremely slow, although we do not
agree with Mr Young in the opinion already quoted, that salmon actually
decrease in _dimensions_ on entering the fresh water. We doubt not they
decrease in _weight_, and probably also in circumference; but their bones
and organic structure are assuredly enlarged, and themselves lengthened,
in such a way as to fit their general form for a rapidly increased
development, so soon as they again rejoice in the fattening
influences of the salubrious sea.

[Footnote 13: The following curious particulars regarding the above-mentioned
salmon are taken from a Devonshire newspaper:--"She would come to the
top of the water and take meat off a plate, and would devour a quarter
of a pound of lean meat in less time than a man could eat it; she would
also allow Mr Dormer to take her out of the water, and when put into it
again she would immediately take meat from his hands, or would even bite
the finger if presented to her. Some time since a little girl teased her
by presenting the finger and then withdrawing it, till at last she leaped
a considerable height above the water, and caught her by the said
finger, which made it bleed profusely: by this leap she threw herself
completely out of the water into the court.

At one time a young duckling got into the well, to solace himself in
his favourite element, when she immediately seized him by the leg, and
took him under water; but the timely interference of Mr Dormer prevented
any further mischief than making a cripple of the young duck. At another
time a full-grown drake approached the well, when Mrs Fish, seeing a
trespasser on her premises, immediately seized the intruder by the bill,
and a desperate struggle ensued, which at last ended in the release of
Mr Drake from the grasp of Mrs Fish, and no sooner freed, than Mr Drake
flew off in the greatest consternation and affright; since which time, to
this day, he has not been seen to approach the well, and it is with great
difficulty he can be brought within sight of it. This fish lay in a
dormant state for five months in the year, during which time she would eat
nothing, and was likewise very shy."]

Our author next refers to a rather singular subject, which has not yet
sufficiently attracted the notice of naturalists, and the phenomena of
which (at least their final causes) have not been explained by physiological
enquirers. That fishes assume, in a great degree, the colour of the channel
over which they lie, is known to many practical observers. We have
ourselves frequently frightened small flounders from their propriety
with our shoe-points, while angling near the mouths of rivers, and so exactly
did their colour accord with the shingle beneath our feet, that we could
not detect their presence but by their own betraying movements. Such,
however, as happened to glide towards, and settle on, a portion
of the bed of different colour from the rest, continued perceptible
for a short time; but they too seemed speedily to disappear, although
we afterwards discovered that they had not stirred an inch, but had
merely changed their tint to that of the particular portion of the
basin of the stream to which they had removed.

     Every angler knows, that there is not only a difference in the
     colour of trouts in different streams, but that different though
     almost adjoining portions of the same river, if distinguished by some
     diversity of character in respect to depth, current, or clearness,
     will yield him fish of varying hue. Very rapid and irregular changes
     are also observable in their colours after death; and large alternate
blotches of darker and lighter hues may be produced upon their sides
and general surface, by the mode of their disposal in the creel.

Dr Stark showed many years ago, that the colour of sticklebacks, and other
small fishes, was influenced by the colour of the earthenware, or other
vessels in which they were confined, as well as modified by the quantity
of light to which they were exposed; and Mr Shaw has very recently informed
us, regarding this mutability of the outer aspect of fishes, that
if the head alone is placed upon a particular colour, (whether
lighter or darker,) the whole body will immediately assume a
corresponding shade, quite independent of the particular tint upon
which the body itself may chance to rest.

We know not to what extent these, and similar phenomena, are familiar
to Sir David Brewster; but we willingly admit, that in order to attain to
their clearer comprehension, the facts themselves must be investigated
by one who, like that accomplished philosopher, is conversant with
those branches of physical science to which they are related. They
unfortunately lie beyond the range of our own optics, but Mr Scrope's
practical improvement of the subject is as follows:--
"I would recommend any one who wishes to show his day's sport in the
pink of perfection, to keep his trouts in a wet cloth, so that, on his
return home, he may exhibit them to his admiring friends, and extract
from them the most approved of epithets and exclamations, taking the
praise bestowed upon the fish as a particular compliment to himself."--P.
56.

British legislators ought certainly to consider the recent completion of
our knowledge both of salmon and sea-trout; and if they can make themselves
masters of their more detailed local history, so much the better. Mr Home
Drummond's is still the regulating Act of Parliament, and seems to have
kept its ground firmly, notwithstanding many attempted alterations, if
not amendments. In accordance with that Act, all our rivers north of the
Tweed close on the 14th of September, and do not re-open till the 1st of
February.[14] This bears hardly upon some of our northern streams. In the
Ness, for example, before the application of the existing laws, more fish
were wont to be killed in December and January than during most other
periods of the year.[15] It appears to have been clearly ascertained that
the season of a river (in respect to its being early or late) depends
mainly upon the temperature of its waters. The Ness, which is the
earliest river in Scotland, scarcely ever freezes.

It flows from the longest and deepest loch in Britain; and thus, when the
thermometer, as it did in the winter of 1807, stands at 20, 30,
or even 40 deg. below the freezing point at Inverness, it makes little
or no impression upon either lake or river. The course of the latter is
extremely short.

     The Shin is also an early river, flowing from a smaller loch, though
     with a more extended course before it enters the Kyle of Sutherland,
where it becomes confluent with the Oykel waters.

It may so happen, that in these and other localities, a colder stream,
drawing its shallow and divided sources from the frozen sides of barren
mountains, may adjoin the lake-born river, and
"On that flood, Indurated and fix'd, the snowy weight Lies undissolved,
while silently beneath, And unperceived, the current steals away."

Now salmon don't like either snowy water, bridges of ice, or stealthy
streams, but a bold, bright, expansive, unimpeded, and accommodating kind
of highway to our inland vales. They instinctively regard a modified
temperature, and a flowing movement, as great inducements to leave the sea
in early winter, instead of waiting until spring; and, in like manner,
they avoid "imprisoned rivers" until icy gales have ceased to blow.

The consequences are, we may have an extremely early river and a very late
one within a few hundred yards of each other, and both debouching from
the same line of coast into the sea. Now, in the autumn of 1836, a bill
was proposed and brought in by Mr Patrick Stewart and Mr Loch, to amend
the preceding Act (9th Geo. IV.) which had repealed that of James I.,
(1424.) It proceeded on the preamble, that "whereas the sand acts have
been found inadequate to the purposes for which they were passed,
inasmuch as it is found that our close-time is not suitable for all the
salmon fishings and rivers throughout Scotland, and it is expedient that
the same should therefore, and in other respects, be altered, modified,
and amended." It therefore enacted that different close-times shall be
observed in different divisions of Scotland, the whole of which is partitioned
into twelve districts, as specified in schedule A referred to in
the bill. We do not know how or from whom the necessary information was
obtained; but we doubt not it was sedulously sought for, and
digested in due form.

For example, the boundaries as to time and space of the second district, are
as follows:--"From Tarbet Ness aforesaid, to Fort George Point, in
the county of Nairn, including the Beaulie Frith and the rivers
connected therewith, _except the river Ness_, from the 20th day of August
to the 6th day of January, both days inclusive; and for the said river Ness,
from the 14th day of July, to the 1st day of December, both days inclusive."
This is so far well. But in the ninth district, the definition and
directions are:--"From the confines of the Solway Frith to the northern
boundary of the county of Ayr, from the 30th day of September to the 16th
day of February, both days inclusive." Now most anglers know that the
district thus defined, includes streams which vary considerably
in their character, and cannot be correctly classed together.

Thus the Doon, which draws its chief sources from numerous lakes among
the hills, is one of the earliest rivers in the south-west of Scotland,
clean fresh-run fish occurring in it by Christmas; while the neighbouring
river Ayr, although existing under the same general climatic influence,
produces few good salmon till the month of June. It is fed by tributaries
of the common kind. The Stinchar, in the same district, is also a late
river, being seldom worked by the tacksmen till towards the end of
April, and even then few of the fish are worth keeping. Of course, it
requires to be closed in September, although the fish are then in
good case. These, and many other facts which might be mentioned, show the
difficulty of legislating even upon the improved localizing principle which
it has been attempted to introduce. However, the bill referred to, though
printed, was never passed.

[Footnote 14: The net fishings in the Tweed do not close till the 16th
of October, and the lovers of the angle are allowed an additional fortnight.
These fishings do not open (either for net or rod) till the 15th of
February.]
[Footnote 15: It was proved in evidence before the select committee of the
House of Commons in 1825, that the amount of salmon killed in the
Ness during eight years, (from 1811-12 to 1818-19,) made a total
for the months
Of December, of 2405 Of January, 3554 Of February, 3239 Of March,
3029 Of April, 2147 Of May, 1127 Of June, 170 Of July, 253 Of August,
2192 Of September, 430 ------ 18,542
It further appears, from the evidence referred to, that during these
years no _grilse_ ran up the Ness till after the month of May.

The months
Of June produced 277 Of July, 1358 Of August, 4229 Of September, 1493
---- 7357 ]
Since we have entered, inadvertently, into what may be called the legislative
branch of our subject, we may refer for a moment to the still more
recent bill, prepared and brought into Parliament by Mr Edward
Ellice and Mr Thomas Mackenzie, and ordered to be printed, 11th May
1842.

It is entitled, "a bill for the better regulation of the close-time in
salmon fisheries in Scotland;" and with a view to accommodate and reconcile
the interests of all parties, it throws the arrangement and the decision
of the whole affair into the hands of the commissioners of the _herring_
fishery. It enacts that it shall be lawful for these commissioners, upon
due application by any proprietor (or guardian, judicial factor,
or trustee) of salmon fishings, of the value of not less than twenty
pounds yearly, in any of the rivers, streams, lochs, &c., or by any
three or more of such proprietors possessing salmon fishings of the
yearly value of ten pounds each, or of any proprietor of salmon
fishings which extend one mile in length on one side, or one half
mile on both sides of any river or stream, calling upon the said
commissioners to alter the close-time of any river, stream, &c.,
to enquire into the expediency of such alteration.

     With that view, the are empowered to call before them, and examine
     upon oath or affirmation, all necessary witnesses, and to take all
     requisite evidence for and against the proposed alteration of the
     close-time; and upon due consideration of all the circumstances
of the case, to determine that the close-time in such river, stream,
&c., shall be altered, and to alter the same accordingly, and fix
such other close-time as they shall deem expedient.

Provided always that the close-time to be fixed by said commissioners,
shall not in any case consist of less than one hundred and thirty-nine
free consecutive days.
Provision is also made for an alteration, on application and evidence
as before, of any such legalized close-time, after the expiration of three
years; all expenses incurred by the commissioners in taking evidence,
or in other matters connected with the subject, to be defrayed by the
proprietors. Permission may also be granted in favour of angling with
the single rod, for fourteen days after the close. This bill, which we
suspect it would have been difficult to work conveniently, was
likewise laid upon the shelf.

Although, as we have said, salmon soonest ascend the warmest rivers, they
are alleged to spawn earliest in the colder ones. Thus Mr Scrope informs
us, that in the shallow mountain streams which pour into the Tay, near
its source, the fish spawn much earlier than those in the main bed of
that magnificent river, and he quotes the following sentiments of
the late John Crerar, head fisherman and forester to the Duke of
Athole, on the subject:--
"There are," said John, "two kinds of creatures that I am well
acquainted with--the one a land animal, the other a water one--the
red-deer and the salmon.

In October the deer ruts, and the salmon spawns. The deer begins soonest,
high up among the hills, particularly in frosty weather; so does the
salmon begin to spawn earlier in frosty weather than in soft. The master
hart would keep all the other harts from the hind, if he could; and the
male salmon would keep all the other males from the female, if he was
able."--P. 60.

We do not think, however, that Mr Scrope's comparative reference to the
upper and lower portions of the Tay affords a satisfactory or conclusive
test. The higher parts of almost all rivers (including, their tributaries)
constitute the favourite spawning places, from other causes than
"by reason of the cold;" and the question should be tried, not by
comparing two different districts of the same river, but all the
portions of one river, with the entire course of another of dissimilar
character.

The exceptive clause in Mr Loch's proposed act in flavour of the river Ness,
certainly stood upon the supposition of that river being an early one
for the breeding salmon, as well as the new-run winter fish; for it enacts
not only that the Ness should open more than a month earlier than its
neighbours, but also that it shall close more than a month before them.
This latter restriction would of course be useless and impolitic, if the
parent fish were not conceived to be about to spawn.

     But it should also be borne in mind, that the same causes (such
     as the extent and depth of feeding lakes) which produce a higher
     temperature in winter, cause a lower one in summer and the earlier
     part of autumn, and that shallow upland streams are warmer during
     the latter periods than those which flow from deeper and more
     affluent sources. We believe that the fish of all rivers spawn
     soonest on the higher portions of their water courses,
     whether these be comparatively warm or cold. The earliest individuals
     are in general such as have escaped the nets and other accidents
     below, and have made their watery way in good time to proper
     spawning places.

In several rivers with which we are acquainted, a great majority of the
breeding fish ascend in August and September.
But many of those which make their appearance in July, would be early
spawners if they were allowed to escape the various dangers which beset
their path in life--almost all the salmon of that month being captured by
one means or another. Mr Young, in our MS. notes already quoted, states,
in regard to the range of the breeding season, that he has seen salmon
perfectly full of spawn, ascending the rivers in October, November,
December, January, and February. Now the fish of the last-named month may
have spawned as late as March, although our correspondent adds that he
has never _seen_ fish on the spawning beds later than February, nor
earlier than September. He has seen them in the act of spawning in these
and all the intermediate months.

As we have said above, the greater part of these breeders ascend in August
and September, and the _throng_ of the spawning process takes place in
November and December. The earlier spawning begins in September with
only a few pairs, generally grilse; and from that period the numbers increase
till the first week of December, when the operation has attained its height.
It then gradually decreases until February, when perhaps only a few
pairs are seen at work. Mr Young informs us that sea-trout are seen spawning
a week earlier than grilse, and grilse a week earlier than salmon. He
does not mean that all grilse spawn before salmon begin, but that they are
observed working a week before the latter have commenced.

Mr Shaw informs us, (in his last letter,) that it is an exceedingly rare
occurrence to find an unspawned fish in the rivers of Dumfriesshire in the
month of March. On one occasion, however, about twenty years ago, he
observed a female salmon spawning in the Nith about the 10th or 12th of
March, but unaccompanied by any male. He can also call to mind a pair of
salmon having been observed spawning in the Ettrick so late as Selkirk
March fair, which is held during the first week of April. This, however,
we believe to be a very rare occurrence, notwithstanding Mr Scrope's
statement, that he has in the Tweed "caught full roaners as late as May."
These seem to be anomalous or accidental instances, and we are not aware
that any evidence has been brought forward to prove that they still seek
the spawning beds in pairs at that period, or produce what may be
called autumnal fry.

The usual spawning period in the south-west of Scotland extends from about
the middle of November till the middle of February; but the busiest months
of that period are December and January, when the salmon spawn in great
numbers in the Nith, about Drumlanrig. From the circumstances of the largest
salmon visiting the rivers at that season, Mr Shaw is induced to think that
they are likewise the oldest; and that, as they increase in years, they
desire to remain the longer in the sea, visiting the fresh waters only
during the breeding season. The spawning period of sea-trout, he informs
us, is from about the middle of October until the middle of December,
the principal period being the whole of November, when the various
streams and tributaries are taken possession of both by sea-trout
and herling, spawning in deep or shallow water, according to their
individual size.

     But in reference to the point in question, that cold accelerates
     the spawning process, let us take for a moment the general basin
     of the Oykel waters into view.
     All this morning at Pegg Kite's with my uncle Fenner, and two
friends of his, appraising her goods that her mother has left; but the
slut is like to prove so troublesome that I am out of heart with troubling
myself in her business.  After we had done we all went to a cook's shop in
Bishopsgate Street and dined, and then I took them to the tavern and did
give them a quart of sack, and so parted.  I home and then took my wife
out, and in a coach of a gentlewoman's that had been to visit my Lady
Batten and was going home again our way, we went to the Theatre, but
coming late, and sitting in an ill place, I never had so little pleasure
in a play in my life, yet it was the first time that ever I saw it,
"Victoria Corombona."  Methinks a very poor play.  Then at night troubled
to get my wife home, it being very dark, and so we were forced to have a
coach.  So to supper and to bed.

3rd.  At the office all the morning; dined at home, and in the afternoon
Mr. Moore came to me, and he and I went to Tower Hill to meet with a man,
and so back all three to my house, and there I signed a bond to Mr.
Battersby, a friend of Mr. Moore's, who lends me L50, the first money that
ever I borrowed upon bond for my own occasion, and so I took them to the
Mitre and a Portugal millon with me; there sat and discoursed in matters
of religion till night with great pleasure, and so parted, and I home,
calling at Sir W. Batten's, where his son and his wife were, who had
yesterday been at the play where we were, and it was good sport to hear
how she talked of it with admiration like a fool.  So home, and my head
was not well with the wine that I drank to-day.

4th.  By coach to White Hall with Sir W. Pen.  So to Mr. Montagu, where
his man, Mons. Eschar, makes a great com plaint against the English, that
they did help the Spaniards against the French the other day; and that
their Embassador do demand justice of our King, and that he do resolve to
be gone for France the next week; which I, and all that I met with, are
very glad of.  Thence to Paternoster Row, where my Will did receive the
L50 I borrowed yesterday.  I to the Wardrobe to dinner, and there staid
most of the afternoon very merry with the ladies.  Then Captain Ferrers
and I to the Theatre, and there came too late, so we staid and saw a bit
of "Victoria," which pleased me worse than it did the other day.  So we
staid not to see it out, but went out and drank a bottle or two of China
ale, and so home, where I found my wife vexed at her people for grumbling
to eat Suffolk cheese, which I also am vexed at.  So to bed.

5th.  At the office all the morning, then dined at home, and so staid at
home all the afternoon putting up my Lord's model of the Royal James,
which I borrowed of him long ago to hang up in my room.  And at night Sir
W. Pen and I alone to the Dolphin, and there eat some bloat-herrings

     [To bloat is to dry by smoke, a method chiefly used to cure herrings
     or bloaters.  "I have more smoke in my mouth than would blote a
     hundred herrings."--Beaumont and Fletcher, Island Princess.  "Why,
     you stink like so many bloat-herrings newly taken out of the
     chimney."--Ben Jonson, "Masque of Augurs."]

and drank good sack.  Then came in Sir W. Warren and another and staid a
while with us, and then Sir Arnold Brames, with whom we staid late and
till we had drank too much wine.  So home and I to bed pleased at my
afternoon's work in hanging up the shipp.  So to bed.

6th (Lord's day).  To church in the morning; Mr. Mills preached, who, I
expect, should take in snuffe [anger] that my wife not come to his child's
christening the other day.  The winter coming on, many of parish ladies
are come home and appear at church again; among others, the three sisters
the Thornbury's, a very fine, and the most zealous people that ever I saw
in my life, even to admiration, if it were true zeal.  There was also my
pretty black girl, Mrs. Dekins, and Mrs.  Margaret Pen, this day come to
church in a new flowered satin suit that my wife helped to buy her the
other day.  So me to dinner, and to church in the afternoon to St.
Gregory's, by Paul's, where I saw Mr. Moose in the gallery and went up to
him and heard a good sermon of Dr. Buck's, one I never heard before, a
very able man.  So home, and in the evening I went to my Valentine, her
father and mother being out of town, to fetch her to supper to my house,
and then came Sir W. Pen and would have her to his, so with much sport I
got them all to mine, and we were merry, and so broke up and to bed.

7th.  Up in the morning and to my uncle Fenner's, thinking to have met Peg
Kite about her business but she comes not, so I went to Dr. Williams,
where I found him sick in bed and was sorry for it.  So about business all
day, troubled in my mind till I can hear from Brampton, how things go on
at Sturtlow, at the Court, which I was cleared in at night by a letter,
which tells me that my cozen Tom was there to be admitted, in his father's
name, as heir-at-law, but that he was opposed, and I was admitted by
proxy, which put me out of great trouble of mind.

8th.  At the office all the morning.  After office done, went and eat some
Colchester oysters with Sir W. Batten at his house, and there, with some
company; dined and staid there talking all the afternoon; and late after
dinner took Mrs. Martha out by coach, and carried her to the Theatre in a
frolique, to my great expense, and there shewed her part of the "Beggar's
Bush," without much pleasure, but only for a frolique, and so home again.

9th.  This morning went out about my affairs, among others to put my
Theorbo out to be mended, and then at noon home again, thinking to go with
Sir Williams both to dinner by invitation to Sir W. Rider's, but at home I
found Mrs. Pierce, la belle, and Madam Clifford, with whom I was forced to
stay, and made them the most welcome I could; and I was (God knows) very
well pleased with their beautiful company, and after dinner took them to
the Theatre, and shewed them "The Chances;" and so saw them both at home
and back to the Fleece tavern, in Covent Garden, where Luellin and
Blurton, and my old friend Frank Bagge, was to meet me, and there staid
till late very merry.  Frank Bagge tells me a story of Mrs. Pepys that
lived with my Lady Harvy,  Mr. Montagu's sister, a good woman; that she
had been very ill, and often asked for me; that she is in good condition,
and that nobody could get her to make her will; but that she did still
enquire for me, and that now she is well she desires to have a chamber at
my house.  Now I do not know whether this is a trick of Bagge's, or a good
will of hers to do something for me; but I will not trust her, but told
him I should be glad to see her, and that I would be sure to do all that I
could to provide a place for her.  So by coach home late.

10th.  At the office all the morning; dined at home, and after dinner Sir
W. Pen and my wife and I to the Theatre (she first going into Covent
Garden to speak a word with a woman to enquire of her mother, and I in the
meantime with Sir W. Pen's coach staying at W. Joyce's), where the King
came to-day, and there was "The Traytor"  most admirably acted; and a most
excellent play it is.  So home, and intended to be merry, it being my
sixth wedding night; but by a late bruise .  .  .  .  I am in so much pain
that I eat my supper and in pain to bed, yet my wife and I pretty merry.

11th:  All day in bed with a cataplasm .  .  .  .  and at night rose a
little, and to bed again in more ease than last night.  This noon there
came my brother and Dr. Tom and Snow to dinner, and by themselves were
merry.

12th.  In bed the greatest part of this day also, and my swelling in some
measure gone.  I received a letter this day from my father, that Sir R.
Bernard do a little fear that my uncle has not observed exactly the custom
of Brampton in his will about his lands there, which puts me to a great
trouble in mind, and at, night wrote to him and to my father about it,
being much troubled at it.

13th (Lord's day).  Did not stir out all day, but rose and dined below,
and this day left off half skirts and put on a wastecoate, and my false
taby wastecoate with gold lace; and in the evening there came Sir W.
Batten to see me, and sat and supped very kindly with me, and so to
prayers and to bed.

14th.  This morning I ventured by water abroad to Westminster, but lost my
labour, for Mr. Montagu was not in town.  So to the Wardrobe, and there
dined with my Lady, which is the first time I have seen her dine abroad
since her being brought to bed of my Lady Katherine.  In the afternoon
Captain Ferrers and I walked abroad to several places, among others to Mr.
Pim's, my Lord's Taylour's, and there he went out with us to the Fountain
tavern and did give us store of wine, and it being the Duke of York's
birthday, we drank the more to his health.  But, Lord! what a sad story he
makes of his being abused by a Dr. of Physique who is in one part of the
tenement wherein he dwells.  It would make one laugh, though I see he is
under a great trouble in it.  Thence home by link and found a good answer
from my father that Sir R. Bernard do clear all things as to us and our
title to Brampton, which puts my heart in great ease and quiet.

15th.  At the office all the morning, and in the afternoon to Paul's
Churchyard to a blind place, where Mrs. Goldsborough was to meet me (who
dare not be known where she lives) to treat about the difference which
remains between my uncle and her.  But, Lord! to hear how she talks and
how she rails against my uncle would make one mad.  But I seemed not to be
troubled at it, but would indeed gladly have an agreement with her. So I
appoint Mr. Moore and she another against Friday next to look into our
papers and to see what can be done to conclude the matter.  So home in
much pain by walking too much yesterday .  .  .  .  which much troubles
me.

16th.  In bed till 12 o'clock.  This morning came several maids to my wife
to be hired, and at last she pitched upon one Nell, whose mother, an old
woman, came along with her, but would not be hired under half a year,
which I am pleased at their drollness.  This day dined by appointment with
me, Dr. Thos. Pepys and my Coz: Snow, and my brother Tom, upon a fin of
ling and some sounds, neither of which did I ever know before, but most
excellent meat they are both, that in all my life I never eat the like
fish.  So after dinner came in W. Joyce and eat and drank and were merry.
So up to my chamber, and put all my papers, at rights, and in the evening
our maid Mary.  (who was with us upon trial for a month) did take leave of
us, going as we suppose to be married, for the maid liked us and we her,
but all she said was that she had a mind to live in a tradesman's house
where there was but one maid.  So to supper and to bed.

17th.  At the office all the morning, at noon my wife being gone to my coz
Snow's with Dr. Thomas Pepys and my brother Tom to a venison pasty (which
proved a pasty of salted pork); by appointment I went with Captain David
Lambert to the Exchequer, and from thence by appointment he and I were to
meet at a cook's shop to dine.  But before I went to him Captain. Cock, a
merchant I had not long known, took me to the Sun tavern and gave me a
glass of sack, and being a man of great observation and repute, did tell
me that he was confident that the Parliament, when it comes the next month
to sit again, would bring trouble with it, and enquire how the King had
disposed of offices and money, before they will raise more; which, I fear,
will bring all things to ruin again.  Thence to the Cook's and there dined
with Captain Lambert and his father-in-law, and had much talk of
Portugall; from whence he is lately come, and he tells me it is a very
poor dirty place; I mean the City and Court of Lisbon; that the King is a
very rude and simple fellow; and, for reviling of somebody a little while
ago, and calling of him cuckold, was run into .  .  .  .  with a sword and
had been killed, had he not told them that he was their king.  That there
are there no glass windows, nor will they have any; which makes sport
among our merchants there to talk of an English factor that, being newly
come thither, writ into England that glass would be a good commodity to
send thither, &c.  That the King has his meat sent up by a dozen of lazy
guards and in pipkins, sometimes, to his own table; and sometimes nothing
but fruits, and, now and then, half a hen.  And now that the Infanta is
become our Queen, she is come to have a whole hen or goose to her table,
which is not ordinary.  So home and to look over my papers that concern
the difference between Mrs. Goldsborough and us; which cost me much pains,
but contented me much after it was done.  So at home all the evening and
to supper and to bed.

18th.  To White Hall, to Mr. Montagu's, where I met with Mr. Pierce, the
purser, to advise about the things to be sent to my Lord for the Queen's
provision, and was cleared in it, and now there is all haste made, for the
fleet's going.  At noon to my Lord's to dinner, and in the afternoon,
leaving my wife there, Mr. Moore and I to Mrs. Goldsborough, who sent for
a friend to meet with us, and so we were talking about the difference
between us till 10 at night.  I find it very troublesome, and have brought
it into some hopes of an agreement, I offering to forgive her L10 that is
yet due according to my uncle's accounts to us.  So we left her friend to
advise about it, and I hope to hear of her, for I would not by any means
go to law with a woman of so devilish a tongue as she has.  So to my
Lady's, where I left my wife to lie with Mademoiselle all night, and I by
link home and to bed.  This night lying alone, and the weather cold, and
having this last 7 or 8 days been troubled with a tumor .  .  . which is
now abated by a poultice of a good handful of bran with half a pint of
vinegar and a pint of water boiled till it be thick, and then a spoonful
of honey put to it and so spread in a cloth and laid to it, I first put on
my waistcoat to lie in all night this year, and do not intend to put it
off again till spring.  I met with complaints at home that my wife left no
victuals for them all this day.

19th.  At the office all the morning, and at noon Mr. Coventry, who sat
with us all the morning, and Sir G. Carteret, Sir W. Pen, and myself,. by
coach to Captain Marshe's, at Limehouse, to a house that hath been their
ancestors for this 250 years, close by the lime-house which gives the name
to the place.  Here they have a design to get the King to hire a dock for
the herring busses, which is now the great design on foot, to lie up in.
We had a very good and handsome dinner, and excellent wine. I not being
neat in clothes, which I find a great fault in me, could not be so merry
as otherwise, and at all times I am and can be, when I am in good habitt,
which makes me remember my father Osborne's' rule for a gentleman to spare
in all things rather than in that.  So by coach home, and so to write
letters by post, and so to bed.

20th (Lord's day).  At home in bed all the morning to ease my late tumour,
but up to dinner and much offended in mind at a proud trick my man Will
hath got, to keep his hat on in the house, but I will not speak of it to
him to-day; but I fear I shall be troubled with his pride and laziness,
though in other things he is good enough.  To church in the afternoon,
where a sleepy Presbyter preached, and then to Sir W. Batten who is to go
to Portsmouth to-morrow to wait upon the Duke of York, who goes to take
possession and to set in order the garrison there.  Supped at home and to
bed.

21st.  Early with Mr. Moore by coach to Chelsy, to my Lord Privy Seal's,
but have missed of coming time enough; and having taken up Mr. Pargiter,
the goldsmith (who is the man of the world that I do most know and believe
to be a cheating rogue), we drank our morning draft there together of cake
and ale, and did make good sport of his losing so much by the King's
coming in, he having bought much of Crown lands, of which, God forgive me!
I am very glad.  At Whitehall, at the Privy Seal, did with Sir W. Pen take
advice about passing of things of his there that concern his matters of
Ireland.  Thence to the Wardrobe and dined, and so against my judgment and
conscience (which God forgive, for my very heart knows that I offend God
in breaking my vows herein) to the Opera, which is now newly begun to act
again, after some alteracion of their scene, which do make it very much
worse; but the play, "Love and Honour," being the first time of their
acting it, is a very good plot, and well done. So on foot home, and after
a little business done in my study and supper, to bed.

22nd.  At the office all the morning, where we had a deputation from the
Duke in his absence, he being gone to Portsmouth, for us to have the whole
disposal and ordering of the Fleet.  In the afternoon about business up
and down, and at night to visit Sir R. Slingsby, who is fallen sick of
this new disease, an ague and fever.  So home after visiting my aunt Wight
and Mrs. Norbury (who continues still a very pleasant lady), and to
supper, and so to bed.

23rd.  To Whitehall, and there, to drink our morning, Sir W. Pen and I to
a friend's lodging of his (Col. Pr. Swell), and at noon he and I dined
together alone at the Legg in King Street, and so by coach to Chelsy to my
Lord Privy Seal's about business of Sir William's, in which we had a fair
admittance to talk with my Lord, and had his answer, and so back to the
Opera, and there I saw again "Love and Honour," and a very good play it
is.  And thence home, calling by the way to see Sir Robert Slingsby, who
continues ill, and so home.  This day all our office is invited against
Tuesday next, my Lord Mayor's day, to dinner with him at Guildhall.  This
evening Mr. Holliard came and sat with us, and gave us both directions to
observe.

24th.  At the office all morning, at noon Luellin dined with me, and then
abroad to Fleet Street, leaving my wife at Tom's while I went out and did
a little business.  So home again, and went to see Sir Robert [Slingsby],
who continues ill, and this day has not spoke at all, which makes them all
afeard of him.  So home.

25th.  To Whitehall, and so to dinner at the Wardrobe, where my wife met
me, and there we met with a venison pasty, and my Lady very merry and very
handsome, methought.  After dinner my wife and I to the Opera, and there
saw again "Love and Honour," a play so good that it has been acted but
three times and I have seen them all, and all in this week; which is too
much, and more than I will do again a good while.  Coming out of the house
we met Mrs. Pierce and her comrade Mrs. Clifford, and I seeming willing to
stay with them to talk my wife grew angry, and whether she be jealous or
no I know, not, but she loves not that I should speak of Mrs. Pierce.
Home on foot very discontented, in my way I calling at the Instrument
maker, Hunt's, and there saw my lute, which is now almost done, it being
to have a new neck to it and to be made to double strings. So home and to
bed.  This day I did give my man Will a sound lesson about his forbearing
to give us the respect due to a master and mistress.

26th.  This morning Sir W. Pen and I should have gone out of town with my
Lady Batten, to have met Sir William coming back from Portsmouth; at
Kingston, but could not, by reason that my Lord of Peterborough (who is to
go Governor of Tangier) came this morning, with Sir G. Carteret, to advise
with us about completing of the affairs and preparacions for that place.
So at the office all the morning, and in the afternoon Sir W. Pen, my wife
and I to the Theatre, and there saw "The Country Captain," the first time
it hath been acted this twenty-five years, a play of my Lord Newcastle's,
but so silly a play as in all my life I never saw, and the first that ever
I was weary of in my life.  So home again, and in the evening news was
brought that Sir R. Slingsby, our Comptroller (who hath this day been sick
a week), is dead; which put me into so great a trouble of mind, that all
the night I could not sleep, he being a man that loved me, and had many
qualitys that made me to love him above all the officers and commissioners
in the Navy.  Coming home we called at Dan Rawlinson's; and there drank
good sack, and so home.

27th (Lord's day).  At church in the morning; where in the pew both Sir
Williams and I had much talk about the death of Sir Robert, which troubles
me much; and them in appearance, though I do not believe it; because I
know that he was a cheque to their engrossing the whole trade of the Navy
office.  Home to dinner, and in the afternoon to church again, my wife
with me, whose mourning is now grown so old that I am ashamed to go to
church with her.  And after church to see my uncle and aunt Wight, and
there staid and talked and supped with them, and were merry as we could be
in their company.  Among other things going up into their chamber to see
their two pictures, which I am forced to commend against my judgment, and
also she showed us her cabinet, where she had very pretty medals and good
jewels.  So home and to prayers and to bed.

28th.  At the office all the morning, and dined at home, and so to Paul's
Churchyard to Hunt's, and there found my Theorbo done, which pleases me
very well, and costs me 26s. to the altering.  But now he tells me it is
as good a lute as any is in England, and is worth well L10.  Hither I sent
for Captain Ferrers to me, who comes with a friend of his, and they and I
to the Theatre, and there saw "Argalus and Parthenia," where a woman acted
Parthenia, and came afterwards on the stage in men's clothes, and had the
best legs that ever I saw, and I was very well pleased with it.  Thence to
the Ringo alehouse, and thither sent for a belt-maker, and bought of him a
handsome belt for second mourning, which cost me 24s., and is very neat.

29th.  This day I put on my half cloth black stockings and my new coat of
the fashion, which pleases me well, and with my beaver I was (after office
was done) ready to go to my Lord Mayor's feast, as we are all invited; but
the Sir Williams were both loth to go, because of the crowd, and so none
of us went, and I staid and dined with them, and so home, and in evening,
by consent, we met at the Dolphin, where other company came to us, and
should have been merry, but their wine was so naught, and all other things
out of order, that we were not so, but staid long at night, and so home
and to bed.  My mind not pleased with the spending of this day, because I
had proposed a great deal of pleasure to myself this day at Guildhall.
This Lord Mayor, it seems, brings up again the Custom of Lord Mayors going
the day of their installment to Paul's, and walking round about the Cross,
and offering something at the altar.

30th.  All the morning at the office.  At noon played on my Theorbo, and
much pleased therewith; it is now altered with a new neck.  In the
afternoon Captain Lambert called me out by appointment, and we walked
together to Deptford, and there in his ship, the Norwich, I got him to
shew me every hole and corner of the ship, much to my information, and the
purpose of my going.  So home again, and at Sir W. Batten's heard how he
had been already at Sir R. Slingsby's, as we were all invited, and I
intended this night to go, and there he finds all things out of order, and
no such thing done to-night, but pretending that the corps stinks, they
will bury it to-night privately, and so will unbespeak all their guests,
and there shall be no funerall, which I am sorry for, that there should be
nothing done for the honour of Sir Robert, but I fear he hath left his
family in great distraction.  Here I staid till late at cards with my Lady
and Mrs. Martha, and so home.  I sent for a bottle or two of wine thither.
At my coming home I am sorry to find my wife displeased with her maid
Doll, whose fault is that she cannot keep her peace, but will always be
talking in an angry manner, though it be without any reason and to no
purpose, which I am sorry for and do see the inconvenience that do attend
the increase of a man's fortune by being forced to keep more servants,
which brings trouble.  Sir Henry Vane, Lambert, and others, are lately
sent suddenly away from the Tower, prisoners to Scilly; but I do not think
there is any plot as is said, but only a pretence; as there was once
pretended often against the Cavaliers.

31st.  This morning comes Prior of Brampton to me about the house he has
to buy of me, but I was forced to be at the office all the morning, and so
could not talk with him.  And so, after the office was done, and dined at
home, I went to my brother Tom's, and there met him.  He demanded some
abatement, he having agreed with my father for Barton's house, at a price
which I told him I could not meddle with, but that as for anything to
secure his title to them I was ready, and so we parted.  I will paint
yourself, rumseller, As you wait for that fair young boy, Just in
the morning of manhood, A mother's pride and joy.
He has no thought of stopping, But you greet him with a smile, And you
seem so blithe and friendly, That he pauses to chat awhile.Hence, with my mind full of trouble, to
my uncle Fenner's, when at the alehouse I found him drinking and very
jolly and youthsome, and as one that I believe will in a little time get a
wife.  So home.