Produced by Thierry Alberto, Henry Craig and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


    Transcriber's note: Minor printing errors have been corrected.
    Phrases printed in italics in the original version are
    indicated in this electronic version by _ (underscore).
    A list of amendments are given at the end of the book.


                         MADAME BOVARY

                   A TALE OF PROVINCIAL LIFE

                              BY
                        GUSTAVE FLAUBERT


                            WITH A
                     CRITICAL INTRODUCTION
                              BY
                      FERDINAND BRUNETIÈRE
                     Of the French Academy

                 AND A BIOGRAPHICAL PREFACE BY
                       ROBERT ARNOT, M. A

                           VOLUME I.

                   SIMON P. MAGEE, PUBLISHER,
                         CHICAGO, ILL.
                      COPYRIGHT, 1904, BY
                        M. WALTER DUNNE


Entered at Stationers' Hall, London


CONTENTS

PART I.

  I. THE NEW BOY                             1

  II. A GOOD PATIENT                        13

  III. A LONELY WIDOWER                     23

  IV. CONSOLATION                           31

  V. THE NEW MÉNAGE                         38

  VI. A MAIDEN'S YEARNINGS                  43

  VII. DISILLUSION                          50

  VIII. GLIMPSES OF THE WORLD               58

  IX. IDLE DREAMS                           71

PART II.

  I. A NEW FIELD                            85

  II. NEW FRIENDS                           98

  III. ADDED CARES                         107

  IV. SILENT HOMAGE                        121

  V. SMOTHERED FLAMES                      126

  VI. SPIRITUAL COUNSEL                    138

  VII. A WOMAN'S WHIMS                     154

  VIII. A VILLAGE FESTIVAL                 165

  IX. A WOODLAND IDYLL                     193

  X. LOVERS' VOWS                          206

  XI. AN EXPERIMENT AND A FAILURE          217

  XII. PREPARATIONS FOR FLIGHT             233

  XIII. DESERTED                           251

  XIV. RELIGIOUS FERVOR                    264

  XV. A NEW DELIGHT                        278


CRITICAL INTRODUCTION


_Domi mansit, lanam fecit:_ "He remained at home and wrote," is the
first thing that should be said of Gustave Flaubert. This trait, which
he shares with many of the writers of his generation,--Renan, Taine,
Leconte de Lisle and Dumas _fils_,--distinguishes them and distinguishes
him from those of the preceding generation, who voluntarily sought
inspiration in disorder and agitation,--Balzac and George Sand, for
instance (to speak only of romance writers), and the elder Dumas or
Eugène Sue. Flaubert, indeed, had no "outward life;" he lived only for
his art.

A second trait of his character, and of his genius as a writer, is that
of seeing in his art only the art itself--and art alone, without the
mingling of any vision of fortune or success. A competency,--which he
had inherited from the great surgeon, his father,--and moderate tastes,
infinitely more _bourgeois_ than his literature,--permitted him to shun
the great stumbling-block of the professional man of letters, which, in
our day, and doubtless in the United States as well as in France, is the
temptation to coin money with the pen. Never was writer more
disinterested than Flaubert; and the story is that _Madame Bovary_
brought him 300 francs--in debts.

A third trait, which helps not only to characterise but to individualise
him, is his subordination not only of his own existence, but of life in
general, to his conception of art. It is not enough to say that he lived
for his art: he saw nothing in the world or in life but material for
that art,--_Hostis quid aliud quam perpetua materia gloriæ?_--and if it
be true that others have died of their ambition, it could literally be
said of Flaubert that he was killed by his art.

It is this point that I should like to bring out in this
Introduction,--where we need not speak of his Norman origin, or (as his
friend Ducamp has written in his _Literary Souvenirs_ with a
disagreeable persistence, and so uselessly!) of his nervousness and
epilepsy; of his loves or his friendships, but solely of his work. We
know, in fact, to-day, that if all such details are made clear in the
biography of a great writer, in no way do they explain his work. The
author of _Gil Blas_, Alain René Lesage, was a Breton, like the author
of _Atala_; the Corneille brothers had almost nothing in common. Of all
our great writers, the one nearest, perhaps, to Jean-Jacques Rousseau,
who died a victim to delirium from persecution, was Madame Sand, who
had, without doubt, the sanest and best balanced temperament.

Other writers have sought,--for instance, our great classical authors,
Pascal, Bossuet and perhaps Corneille,--to influence the thought of
their time; some, like Molière, La Fontaine, and La Bruyère, to correct
customs. Others still,--such as our romantic writers, Hugo or De
Musset,--desired only to express their personal conception of the world
and of life. And then Balzac, whose object,--almost scientific,--was to
make a "natural history," a study and description, of the social
species, as an animal or vegetable species is described in zoology or
botany. .

* * * * *

FRANCIS DUC DE ROCHEFOUCAULD.
1613-1680.

_Maxim ccxvii_.

Hypocrisy is a sort of homage that vice pays to virtue.

* * * * *

JOSEPH FOUCHE.
1763-1820.

It was worse than a crime, it was a blunder.

* * * * *

MISCELLANEOUS.

"_The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church_."
"Plures efficimur, quoties metimur a vobis; semen est sanguis
Christianorum." _Tertullian_ _Apologet_., c. 50.

* * * * *
"_Corporations have no souls_."
"They (Corporations) cannot commit trespass nor be outlawed nor excommunicate,
for they have no souls."--_Lord Coke's Reports_ Part x. p. 32.

* * * * *
"_A Rowland for an Oliver_."
"These were two of the most famous in the list of Charlemagne's twelve
peers; and their exploits are rendered so ridiculously and equally
extravagant by the old romancers that from thence arose that saying among
our plain and sensible ancestors of giving one a 'Rowland for his Oliver,'
to signify the matching one incredible lie with another."--_Warburton_.

* * * * *
"It is unseasonable and unwholesome in all months that have not an R in
their name to eat an oyster."--_Butler's Dyet's Dry Dinner_, 1599.

* * * * *
"_Hobson's Choice_."
"Tobias Hobson was the first man in England that let out hackney
horses.--When a man came for a horse he was led into the stable, where
there was a great choice, but he obliged him to take the horse
which stood next to the stable door; so that every customer was
alike well served according to his chance, from whence it became a
proverb when what ought to be your election was forced upon you,
to say 'Hobson's Choice.'"

--_Spectator_, No. 509.

ADDENDA.

* * * * *

SHAKESPEARE.

_Measure for Measure_. Act v. Sc. 1.

My business in this state Made me a looker on here in Vienna.

_King Henry VI_. Part i. Act i, Sc. 1.

Hung be the heavens with black
* * * * *

MILTON.
Sonnet xi. _To Cromwell_.

Peace hath her victories No less renowned than war.

* * * * *

GEORGE HERBERT.

_The Elixir_.

A servant with this clause Makes drudgery divine; Who sweeps a room
as for thy laws.
Makes that and the action fine.

SAMUEL BUTLER

_Hudibras_. P. ii. C. i. Line 843.

Love is a boy by poets styled; Then spare the rod and spoil the child.

* * * * *

JAMES THOMSON.

_Seasons_. _Winter_, Line 625.

The kiss snatched hasty from the sidelong maid.

WILLIAM WORDSWORTH

_Tintern Abbey_.

Knowing that Nature never did betray The heart that loved her.

INDEX
Abundance, every one that hath Accidents by flood and field Accoutred as
I was Aching void Action, suit the, to the word Actions of the just
--like almanacs Acts, little nameless Ada, sole daughter of my house
Adam, whipped the offending --dolve and Eve span --the son of, and of Eve
Adversary, that mine, had written a book Adversity, sweet the uses
of Adversity's sweet milk Affection's mild Age, my, is as a lusty
winter --, be comfort to my --cannot wither her --, he was not of an --,
for talking --, shakes Athena's tower --, mirror to a gaping --, you'd
scarce expect one of my Ages, alike all --, three poets in three
distant Agree, where they do Air is full of farewells Airy nothing
a local habitation --tongues Aisle and fretted vault Alabaster,
like his grandsire cut in All things, prove --things to all men
--things that are, are chased --that's bright must fade Allegory,
headstrong as an Almanacs like actions of the last age Almighty
Dollar Alms, when thou doest Alone, not good that man should be --,
they are never, when with noble thoughts Alpha and Omega Alps on
Alps arise Altars, strike for your Ambition, vaulting --should be
made of sterner stuff --, to reign is worth Angel, she drew down
an --, a guardian, she Angel, recording Angels unawares --, make
the, weep --trumpet-tongued --and ministers of grace --face shined
bright --till our passion dies --are painted fair to look like you
--, holy, guard thy bed --wake thee Angels' visits, short and bright
--short and far between Angel-visits, few and far between Anger of
his lip --more in sorrow than in Angry, be ye, and sin not Anguish,
pain is lessened by another's --, hopeless, poured his groan Annals
of the poor Anointed, rail on the Lord's Answer, a soft, turneth
away wrath Anthem, pealing Antidote, sweet oblivious Anything, for
what is worth in Apostles fled, she when Apostolic blows and knocks
Apothecary, civet, good Apparel, proclaims the man Apparitions seen
and gone Appearance, judge not by Appetite, good digestion wait on
Appetite, cloy the hungry ed are of --, to breakfast with what
--grown by what it fed on Applaud these to the very echo Apple of
his eye Appliances and means to boot Apollo's lute, musical as
Apollos watered Apprehension of the good April, June, and November
Arch of London bridge Argue, though vanquished, he could Argues
yourselves unknown Argument, staple of his Armor, his honest thought
Arms, take your last embrace Arrows, Cupid kills with Art, adorning
thee with so much --grace beyond the reach of --, ease in writing
comes from --, than all the gloss of --is long Artaxerxes' throne
Arts and eloquence, mother of Asbourne, down thy hill, romantic
Ashes to ashes --, e'en in our Askelon, publish it not in the streets
of Ask, and it shall be given you Asleep, the houses seem Ass, write
me down an Assurance double sure Athens, the eye of Greece Atlantean
shoulders Attempt, and not the deed, confounds Audience, and attention
drew Audience fit, though few Auld acquaintance Authority, a little
brief Awake, arise, for ever fallen Awe, in, of such a thing as I
Ax, laid to the root
Babe, bent o'er her Babel, stir of the great Bachelor, when I said
I should die a Backing, a plague upon such Bacon shined, think haw
Badge of our tribe Balances, thou art weighed in the Ballad to his
mistress' eyebrow Ballad-mongers, one of these same meter Ballads
sung from a cart --of a people, write the Balloon, huge Bank, I
know a Banner, star-spangled Banners, hang out our Banquet's o'er
when the Barren, 't is all Battalions, not single, but in Battle,
mighty fallen in --not to the strong --and the breeze --, perilous
edge of --, freedom's, once began Battles, fought his, o'er again
Battle's magnificently stern array Battlements, bore stars Be-all,
this blow might to the Bear, like the Turk Bears and lions grow!

Beaumont, lie a little nearer Spenser Beauties of the North --reveal
while she hides Beautiful, she's --, as sweet Beauty truly blent --in
his life --smiling in her tears --, fills the air around with --,
lines where, lingers --, she walks in --, a thing of Beaux, where
none are Bedfellows, strange Beer, chronicle small Bee, how doth
the little busy Bees, innumerable Beetle, that we tread on Beggar,
dumb, may challenge double pity Beggary in the love Bell, silence
that dreadful --, sullen, sounds as a Bell, church-going Belle, 't
is vain to be a Dells jangled, out of tune Bent, fool me to the top
of my Bezonian?

under which king Bigness which you see Bird of dawning --that shunn'st
the noise of folly Birth is but a sleep Black spirits and white --to
red began to turn Blackberries, if reasons were as plenty as Bladder,
blows a man up like a Blessed, more, to give Blessings brighten
as they take their flight --on him who invented sleep Blest, man
never is, but always to be Blind, eyes to the Blind, if the blind
lead the Bliss gained by every woe --, virtue makes the --, domestic
happiness, thou only --, winged hours of Blood, whoso sheddeth man's
--, hot and rebellious liquors in my --, her pure and eloquent --,
felt in the --of the martyrs Blot, which dying he could wish to
Blow, might be the be-all Blow, every hand that dealt the --,
themselves must strike the Blunder, frae mony a --, worse than a
crime Boast, the patriot's Boatman, take thrice thy fee Boats,
little, should keep near shore Body, absent in --form doth fake --,
would almost say her, thought Bond, nominated in the --, 't is not
in the Bondman, who would he a Bondsmen, hereditary Bone and skin,
two millers thin Bones, full of dead men's Bononcini, compared to
Booby, who'd give her for another Book, that mine adversary has
written a --, your face is as a --'s a book Books, making of, no
end --in the running brooks --, wiser grow without his --cannot
always please --, quit your --which are no --some to be tasted Bores
and bored Born lowly, better to be Borrower nor lender be Bosom,
cleanse the stuffed --'s lord sits lightly Bosom of his Father and
his God Boston, solid men of Botanize upon his mother's grave Bounds
of modesty Bounty, large was his Bourbon or Nassau Bourne, no
traveler returns Bow, two strings to his Bowl, mingles with my
friendly Boxes, a beggarly account of Boy, once more who would not
be a Braggart, with, my tongue Brain, raze out the written troubles
of the --, very coinage of your Brains, steal away their Brass,
evil manners live in Brave, how sleep the --, on, ye --, home of
the Breach, more honored in the Bread upon the waters Breakfast
with what appetite Breast, light within his own clear --, eternal
in the human Breastplate, what stronger Breath can make them --,
weary of Breathes there the man with soul so dead Brevity is the
soul of wit Bridge of Sighs Briers, this working-day world is full
of Brightest and best of the sons of the morning Britannia rules
the waves --needs no bulwarks Britons never will be slaves Brook,
noise like a hidden Brooks, hooks in the funning Brotherhood,
monastic Brow, when pain and anguish wring the Braised reed Brutus
is an honorable man Bubbles, the earth hath Bucket, as a drop of a
--, the old oaken Bucks had dined Bug, snug as a Build, he lives
to Burden, the grasshopper a --, bear his own Burning, one fire
burns out another's Bush, good wine needs no --, the thief doth
tear each Butterfly upon a wheel
Cabined, cribbed, confined Caesar, not that I loved, less --hath
went --, tongue in every wound of --dead and turned to clay Cain
the first city made Cage, nor iron bars a Cake is dough Cakes and
ale Caledonia, stern and wild Calf's-skin on those recreant limbs
Calumny, thon shalt not escape Camel, swallow a --through the eye
of a needle Can such things be Candle throws his beams --out, brief
--, fit to hold a --hold, to the sun Canon against self-slaughter
Canopied by the blue sky Carcass is, there will the eagles be Card,
we must speak by the Care adds a nail to our coffin --, knits up
the ravelled sleave of --is an enemy to life Cares, fret thy soul
with --beguiled by sports --dividing Cart, now traversed the Casca,
the envious Cassius, darest thou leap Cast, set my life upon a Cat
in the adage --will mew --, endow a college or a Cataract, the
sounding Cataracts, silent Cathay, cycle of Cato, big with the fate
of Caucasus, thinking on the frosty Cause, hear me for my Caution,
cold pausing Cave, they enter the darksome Caviare to the general
Celestial, rosy-red Chaff, hid in two bushels of Chalice, the
ingredients of our poisoned Chamber where the good man meets his
fate Chance that oft decides the fate of monarchs --to fall below
Demosthenes or Cicero Chances, most disastrous Chaos is come again
Charge, Chester, charge Chapel, the devil builds a Charities that
soothe Charity shall cover the multitude of sins Charm, no need of
a remoter Charmer, t' other dear, away Charmers sinner it Charybdis,
your mother Chasteneth, whom the Lord loveth, he Chatham's language
Chatterton, marvelous boy Chaucer, nigh to learned Cheated, pleasure
of being Cheek, feed on her damask --, that I might touch, that
--upon her hand --, he that loves a rosy Cheek, iron tears down
Pluto's --, the roses from your Cheer, be of good Cheese, moon made
of green Cherry, like to a double Chickens, all my pretty --, count
your, ere they are hatched Child, train up a --, I spake as a --,
a wise father that knows his own --, to have a thankless --, a
simple, that lightly draws its breath --is father of the man --, a
curious --, a three years --, spoil the Childhood, days of my
Childhood's hour Childishness, second Children of this world --of
light --gathering pebbles --of larger growth Children's sports
satisfy the child Chin, some bee had stung China fall Chinks that
time has made Christ, for me to live is Church, built God a
Church-going bell Church, who builds to God a Churchdoor, not so
wide as a Churchyards yawn Cities, far from gay City sec upon a
hill Civet, good apothecary Clapper-clawing Classic ground Clay,
o'er informed the tenement of --, blind his soul with Cloud out of
the sea --capped towers --, overcome us like a summer's --, sable
--but serves to brighten Cloy the edge of appetite Coach, go call
a Coals of fire on his head Coat, he used to wear a long black
Coats, if there's a hole in a' your Coil shuffled off this mortal
College, die and endow a Cologne, wash your city of Colossus,
bestride the world like a Column, throws up a steamy Combat deepens
Combination and a form indeed Come live with me Come what come may
Comforters, miserable Coming events Commentators, each dark passage
shun --, plain Communion sweet, quaff Companions, I have had
Comparisons are odorous --are odious Compass, a narrow Compulsion,
give you a reason on Concealment, like a worm in the bud Conceals,
the maid who modestly Conceits, be not wise in your own Conclusion,
most lame and impotent --, denoted a foregone Concord of sweet
sounds Confirmations strong Conflict, dire was the noise of Conclusion,
worse confounded Congregate, merchants most do Conjectures.

His function is ever to "represent:" and in order
to accomplish this, he should, like the savant, mirror only the facts.
After this, what do the names "romanticism" or "classicism" signify?
Their sole use is to indicate the side taken; they are, so to speak, an
acknowledgment that the writer is adorning the occurrence he is about to
represent. He may make it more universal or more characteristic than
nature! But, inversely, if all art is concentrated upon the
representation, what matters the subject? Is one animal or plant more
interesting than another to the naturalist? Does a name matter? All
demand the same attention. Art can make exception in its subjects no
more than science.

If we ask in what consists the difference between science and art, on
this basis, Flaubert, with Leconte de Lisle and with Taine, will tell us
that it is in the beauty which communicates prestige to the work, or in
the power of form.

"What I have just written might be taken for something of Paul de
Kock's, had I not given it a profoundly literary form," wrote Flaubert,
while he was at work on _Madame Bovary_; "but how, out of trivial
dialogue, produce style? Yet it is absolutely necessary! It must be
done!" He went further still, and persuaded himself that style had a
value in itself, intrinsic and absolute, aside from the subject. In
fact, if the subject had no importance of its own, and if there were no
personal motives for choosing one subject rather than another, what
reason would there be for writing _Madame Bovary_ or _Salammbô_? One
alone: and that to "make something out of nothing," to produce a work of
art from things of no import. For though everyone has some ideas, and
everyone has had experience in some kind of life, it is given to few to
be able to express their experience or their ideas in terms of beauty.
This, precisely, is the goal of art.

Form, then, is the great preoccupation of the artist, since, if he is an
artist, it is through form, and in the perfection or originality of that
form, that his triumph comes. Nothing stands out from the general
mediocrity except by means of form; nothing becomes concrete, assuming
immortality, save through form. Form in art is queen and sovereign. Even
truth makes itself felt only through the attractiveness of form. And
further, we cannot part one from the other; they are not opposed to each
other; they are at one; and art in every phase consists only in this
union. It is the end of art to give the superior life of form to that
which has it not; and finally, this superior life of form, this magic
wand of style, rhythmic as verse and terse as science, by firmly
establishing the thing it touches, withdraws it from that law of change,
constant in its inconstancy, which is the miserable condition of
existence.

    All passes; art in its strength
    Alone remains to all eternity;
          The bust
    Survives the city.

This it is that makes up the charm, the social dignity, and the lasting
grandeur of art.

This is not the place to discuss the "æsthetic" quality, and I shall
content myself with indicating briefly some of the objections it has
called forth.

Has form indeed all the importance in literature that Flaubert claimed
for it? And what importance has it in sculpture, for example, or in
painting? Let us grant its necessity. Colour and line, which are, so to
speak, the primal elements in the alphabet of painting and of sculpture,
have not in themselves determined and precise significance. Yellow and
red, green and blue are only general and confused sensations. But words
express particular sentiments and well-defined ideas, and have a value
that does not depend upon the form or the quality of the words. You
cannot, then, in using them, distinguish between significance and form,
or combine them independently of the idea they are intended to convey,
as is possible with colours and with lines, solely for the beauty that
results from combination. If literary art is a "representation," it is
also something more; and the lapse in Flaubert, as in all those who have
followed him in the letter, lies in having missed this distinction. You
cannot write merely to represent; you write also to express ideas, to
determine or to modify convictions; you write that you may act, or impel
others to act: these are effects beyond the power of painting or of
sculpture. A statue or a picture never brought about a revolution; a
book, a pamphlet, nay, a few fiery words, have overturned a dynasty.

It is no longer true, as a whole generation of writers has believed,
that art and science may be one and the same thing; or that the first,
as Taine has said, may be an "anticipation of the second." We could not
in the presence of our fellow-creatures and their suffering affect the
indifference of a naturalist before the plant or the animal he is
studying. Whatever the nature of "human phenomena" may be, we in our
quality as man can only look at them with human eyes, and could
temptation make us change our point of view, it would properly be called
inhuman.

One might add that, if it is not certain that nature was made for man,
and if, for that reason, science is wholly independent of conscience,
as we take it, it is otherwise with art. We know that man was not made
for art, but that art was made for man. We forget each time we speak of
"art for art's sake" that there is need precisely to define the meaning
of the expression and to recall that but for truth art could not have
for its object the perfecting of political institutions, the uplifting
of the masses, the correction of customs, the teachings of religion, and
that although this may lead finally to the realization of beauty, it
nevertheless remains the duty of man, and consequently, is human in its
origin, human in its development, and human in its aim.

Upon all these points, it is only necessary to think sensibly, as also
upon the question--which we have not touched upon,--of knowing under
what conditions, in what sense, and in what degree the person of the
artist can or should remain foreign to his work.

But a peculiarity of Flaubert's,--and one more personal, which even most
of the naturalists have not shared with him, neither the Dutch in their
paintings, nor the English in the history of romance (the author of _Tom
Jones_ or of _Clarissa Harlowe_), nor the Russians, Tolstoi or
Dostoiefski,--is to despise the rôle of irony in art. "My personages are
profoundly repugnant to me," he wrote, _à propos_ of _Madame Bovary_.
But they were not always repugnant to him, at least not all of them,
and, in verification of this, we find that he has not for Spendius,
Matho, Hamilcar, and Hanno, the boundless scorn that he affects for
Homais or for Bournisien, for Bouvard or for Pecuchet.

We recognise here the particular and special form of Flaubert's
pessimism. That there could be people in the world, among his
contemporaries, who were not wholly absorbed and preoccupied with art,
surpassed his comprehension, and when this indifference did not arouse
an indignation which exasperated him even to blows, it drew from him a
scornful laughter that one might call Homeric or Rabelaisian, since it
incited more to anger than to gaiety. And this is the reason why _Madame
Bovary_, _Education Sentimentale_, _Un Coeur Simple_, and _Bouvard et
Pecuchet_ would be more truly named were they called satires and not
representations.

The exaggeration of the principle here recoils upon itself. That
disinterestedness, that impartiality, that serenity which permitted him
to "hover impartially above all objects" deserted him. A satirist, or to
be more exact, a caricaturist, awoke within the naturalist. He raged at
his own characters. He railed at them and mocked them. The interest of
the representation had undergone a change. He was no longer in the
attitude of mere fidelity to facts, but in a state of scorn and violent
derision. Homais and Bournisien are no longer studies in themselves, but
a burden to Flaubert. His _Education Sentimentale_, in spite of him,
became, to use his own expression, an overflow of rancour. In _Bouvard
et Pecuchet_ he gave way to his hatred of humanity; here, as a favour,
and under the mask of irony, he brings himself into his work, and, like
a simple Madame Sand, or a vulgar De Musset, we perceive Flaubert
himself, bull-necked and ruddy, with the moustaches of a Gallic chief,
agonizing at each turn in the romance.

It is not necessary to exaggerate Flaubert's influence. In his time
there were ten other writers, none of whom equalled him,--Parnassians in
poetry, positivists in criticism, realists in romance or in dramatic
writing,--who laboured at the same work. His æstheticism is not his
alone, yet _Madame Bovary_ and _Salammbô_ shot like unexpected meteors
out of a grey sky, the dull, low sky of the Second Empire. In 1860 the
sky was not so grey or so low; and the _Poèmes Antiques_ of Leconte de
Lisle, the _Études d'histoire religieuse_ of Renan, and the _Essais de
Critique_ of Taine, are possibly not unworthy to be placed in parallel
or comparison with the first writings of Flaubert. An exquisite judge of
things of the mind, J. J. Weiss, very clearly saw at that time what
there was in common in all these works, in the glory of which he was not
deceived when he added the _Fleurs du Mai_ by Charles Baudelaire, and
the first comedies of Alexandre Dumas _fils_. But the truth is, not one
of these works was marked with signs of masterly maturity in like degree
with _Madame Bovary_.

It is, then, natural that, from day to day, Flaubert should become a
guide, and here, if we consider the nature of the lessons he gives, we
cannot deny their towering excellence.

If there was need to agitate against romanticism, _Madame Bovary_
performed the duty; and if in this agitation there was need to save what
was worth salvation, _Salammbô_ saved it. If it was fitting to recall to
poets and to writers of romance, to Madame Sand herself and Victor Hugo,
that art was not invented as a public carrier for their confidences, it
is still Flaubert who does it. He taught the school of hasty writers
that talent, or even genius, is in need of discipline,--the discipline
of a long and painful prenticehood in the making and unmaking of their
work. He has widened, and especially has he hollowed and deepened, the
notion that romanticism was born of nature, and, in doing this, has
brought art back to the fountain-head of inspiration. His rhetoric and
æstheticism brought him face to face with Nature, enabled him to see
her, a gift as rare as it is great, and to "represent" her--the proof of
the preceding. It is the artist that judges the model. Poets and
romance-writers, like painters, we value only in as much as they
represent life--by and for the fidelity, the originality, the novelty,
the depth, the distinction, the perfection with which they represent it.
It is the rule of rules, the principle of principles! And if Flaubert
had no other merit than to have seen this better than any other writer
of his age, it would be enough to assure for him a place, and a very
exalted place, in the Pantheon of French Literature.

F. BRUNETIÈRE


BIOGRAPHICAL PREFACE


Gustave Flaubert was born at Rouen, December 12, 1821. His father was a
physician, who later became chief surgeon in the Hôtel Dieu of that
city, and his mother, Anne-Justine-Carline Fleuriot, was of Norman
extraction.

Fourth of a family of six children, as a child Flaubert exhibited marked
fondness for stories, and, with his favourite sister, Caroline, would
invent them for pastime. As a youth, he was exceedingly handsome, tall,
broad-shouldered and athletic, of independent turn of mind, fond of
study, and caring little for the luxuries of life. He attended the
college of Rouen, but showed no marked characteristic save a pronounced
taste for history. After graduating, he went to Paris to read law, at
the École de Droit. At this time disease, the nature of which he always
endeavored to conceal from the world, attacked him and compelled a
return to Rouen. The complaint, as revealed after his death by Maxime
Ducamp, was epilepsy, and the constant fear of suffering an attack in
public led Flaubert to live the life of a recluse.

The death of his father occurring at this critical period, Flaubert
abandoned the study of law, which he had begun only in obedience to the
formally expressed wish of his family. Having a comfortable income, he
turned his thoughts to literature, and from that time all other work was
distasteful. He read and wrote incessantly, although at this period he
never completed anything. Among his papers were found several fragments
written between his eighteenth and twentieth years. Some bear the stamp
of his individuality, if not in the substance, which is romantic,--at
least in the form, which is peculiarly lucid and concise,--for instance,
the slight, romantic, autobiographic sketch entitled _Novembre_.

Flaubert wrote neither for money nor for fame. To him, art was religion,
and to it he sacrificed his life. Perfection of style was his goal; and
unremitting devotion to his ideal slew him. That he was never satisfied
with what he wrote, his letters show; and all who knew him marvelled at
his laborious and pathetic application to his work. He settled first in
Croisset, near Rouen, with his family, but shortly afterwards went to
Brittany with Maxime Ducamp. On his return he planned _La Tentation de
Saint Antoine_, which grew out of a fragmentary sketch entitled _Smarh_
(a mediæval Mystery, the manuscript tells us), written in early youth.
_La Tentation_ proved a source of labor, for he never ceased revising it
until it appeared in book form in 1874. In 1847, he wrote a modern play,
entitled _Le Candidat_, produced in 1874 at the Vaudeville. It was not
his first dramatic effort, as he had already written a sort of lyric
fairy-play, _Le Château des Coeurs_, which was published in his
_Oeuvres Posthumes_.

In 1849 Flaubert visited Greece, Egypt, and Syria, again accompanied by
his friend Maxime Ducamp. After his return he planned a book of
impressions similar to _Par les Champs et par les Grèves_, which was the
result of the trip to Brittany; but the beginning only was achieved.
Still he gathered many data for his future great novel, _Salammbô_. The
year 1851 found him back in Croisset, working at _La Tentation de Saint
Antoine_, which he dropped suddenly, when half finished, for an entirely
different subject--_Madame Bovary_, a novel of provincial life,
published first in 1857 in the _Revue de Paris_. For this Flaubert was
prosecuted, on the charge of offending against public morals, but was
acquitted after the remarkable defense offered by Maître Senard.

Flaubert's fame dates from _Madame Bovary_, which was much discussed by
press and public. Many, including his friend, Maxime Ducamp, condemned
it, but Sainte-Beuve gave it his decisive and courageous approval. It
was generally considered, however, as the starting point of a new phase
in letters, frankly realistic, and intent on understanding and
expressing everything. Such success might have influenced Flaubert's
artistic inclinations but did not, for while _Madame Bovary_ was
appearing in the _Revue de Paris_, the _Artiste_ was publishing
fragments of _La Tentation de Saint Antoine_.

In 1858 Flaubert went to Tunis, visited the site of ancient Carthage,
and four years afterwards wrote _Salammbô_, a marvellous reconstitution,
more than half intuitive, of a civilisation practically unrecorded in
history. This extraordinary book did not call forth the enthusiasm that
greeted _Madame Bovary_. Flaubert, in whom correctness of detail was a
passion, was condemned, even by Sainte-Beuve, for choosing from all
history a civilisation of which so little is known. The author replied,
and a lengthy controversy ensued, but it was not a subject that could be
settled definitely in one way or another.

In _L'Education Sentimentale, roman d'un jeune homme_, published in
1869, Flaubert returns momentarily to the style which brought him such
rapid and deserved celebrity. In 1877 appeared _Trois Contes_, three
short stories written in the impersonal style of _Salammbô_, contrasting
strangely with _La Legende de Saint Julien l'Hospitalier_ and
_Herodias_, wherein Flaubert shows himself supreme in the art of
word-painting.

Death came to him on May 8, 1880, as he was writing the last chapters of
a new work, _Bouvard et Pecuchet_, which was published in part after he
died and later appeared in book form (1881).

At the age of twenty-five, Flaubert met the only woman who in any way
entered his sentimental life. She was an author, the wife of Lucien
Colet, and the "Madame X" of the Correspondence. Their friendship lasted
eight years and ended unpleasantly, Flaubert being too absorbed by his
worship for art to let passion sway him.

He remained unmarried because his love for his mother and family made
calls upon him that he would not neglect. He was indifferent to women,
treated them with paternal indulgence, and often avowed that "woman is
the undoing of the just." Yet a warm friendship existed between him and
George Sand, and many of his letters are addressed to her, touching upon
various questions in art, literature, and politics.

The misanthropy which haunted Flaubert, of which so much has been said,
was not innate, but was acquired through the constant contemplation of
human folly. It was natural for him to be cheerful and kind-hearted,
and of his generosity and disinterestedness not enough can be said. At
the close of his life financial difficulties assailed him, for he had
given a great part of his fortune to the support of a niece, restricting
his own expenses and living as modestly as possible. In 1879, M. Jules
Ferry, then Minister of Public Instruction, offered him a place in the
Bibliothèque Mazarine, but the appointment was not confirmed.

Flaubert's method of production was slow and laborious. Sometimes weeks
were required to write a few pages, for he accumulated masses of notes
and, it must be said, so much erudition as at times to impede action. He
thought no toil too great, did it but aid him in his pursuit of literary
perfection, and when the work that called for such expenditure of
strength and thought was finished, he looked for no reward save that of
a satisfied soul. Alien to business wisdom, he believed that to set a
price upon his work disparaged it.

In Flaubert, a Romanticist and a Naturalist at first were blended. But
the latter tendency was fostered and acknowledged, while the former was
repressed. He was an ardent advocate of the impersonal in art, declaring
that an author should not in a page, a line, or a word, express the
smallest part of an opinion. To him a writer was a mirror, but a mirror
that reflected life while adding that divine effulgence which is Art. Of
him a French Romanticist still living says:

     "Imagination was espoused by Unremitting-Toil-in-Faith and bore
     Flaubert. France fed the child, but Art stepped in and gave him to
     the Nations as a Beacon for the worshippers of
     Truth-in-Letters-and-in-Life."

The city of Rouen reared a monument to Flaubert's memory, but on the
spot where he breathed his last are reared the chimneys and the
buildings of a factory, a tribute--possibly unconscious--to reality in
life.


Before writing _Madame Bovary_ Flaubert had tested himself, and an idea
of the scope and variety of his ideas may be gained from the following
list of inedited and unfinished fragments:

HISTORICAL

    The Death of the Due de Guise, 1835
    Norman Chronicle of the Tenth Century, 1836
    Two Hands on a Crown, or, During the Fifteenth Century, 1836.
    Essay on the Struggle between Priesthood and Empire, 1838.
    Rome and the Cæsars, 1839.

TRAVELS

    Various notes on Travels to the Pyrenean Mountains, Corsica,
    Spain and the Orient, from 1840 to 1850.

TALES AND NOVELS

    The Plague in Florence, 1836
    Rage and Impotence, 1836
    The Society Woman, fantastic verses, 1836
    Bibliomania, 1836
    An Exquisite Perfume, or, The Buffoons, 1836.
    Dreams of the Infernal Regions, 1837
    Passion and Chastity, 1837
    The Funeral of Dr. Mathurin, or, During the XVth Century, 1839.
    Frenzy and Death, 1843
    Sentimental Education (not the novel published under same title).
    1843.

PLAYS

    Louis XI, Drama, 1838
    Discovery of Vaccination, a parody of tragic style; one act only
    was written.

CRITICISMS

    On Romantic Literature in France

MISCELLANY

    Quidquid volueris? A psychological study, 1837.
    Agony (Sceptical Thoughts), 1838
    Art and Commerce, 1839.
    Several nameless sketches.

Unfortunately, nearly all the works of Flaubert's youth were mere
sketches, laid aside by him. Their publication would have added nothing
to his fame. Still, the loss of some would have been deplorable, to wit,
such gems as _Novembre_, _The Dance of Death_, _Rabelais_, and the
travels, _Over Strand and Field_. These sketches will be found in this
edition.

ROBERT ARNOT


MADAME BOVARY

PART I.

I.

THE NEW BOY.


We were in class when the head-master came in, followed by a "new
fellow," not wearing the school uniform, and a school servant carrying a
large desk. Those who had been asleep woke up, and every one rose as if
just surprised at his work.

The head-master made a sign to us to sit down. Then, turning to the
class-master, he said to him in a low voice:

"Monsieur Roger, here is a pupil whom I recommend to your care; he'll be
in the second. If his work and conduct are satisfactory, he will go into
one of the upper classes, as becomes his age."

The "new fellow," standing in the corner behind the door so that he
could hardly be seen, was a country lad of about fifteen, and taller
than any of us. His hair was cut square on his forehead like a village
chorister's; he looked reliable, but very ill at ease. Although he was
not broad-shouldered, his short school jacket of green cloth with black
buttons must have been tight about the armholes, and showed at the
opening of the cuffs red wrists accustomed to being bare. His legs, in
blue stockings, looked out from beneath yellow trousers, drawn tight by
braces. He wore stout, ill-cleaned, hobnailed boots.

We began repeating the lesson. He listened with all his ears, as
attentive as if at a sermon, not daring even to cross his legs or lean
on his elbow; and when at two o'clock the bell rang, the master was
obliged to tell him to fall into line with the rest of us.

When we came back to work, we were in the habit of throwing our caps on
the floor so as to have our hands more free; we used from the door to
toss them under the form, so that they hit against the wall and made a
lot of dust: it was "the thing."

But, whether he had not noticed the trick, or did not dare to attempt
it, the "new fellow" was still holding his cap on his knees even after
prayers were over. It was one of those head-gears of composite order, in
which we can find traces of the bearskin, shako, billycock hat, sealskin
cap, and cotton nightcap; one of those poor things, in fine, whose dumb
ugliness has depths of expression, like an imbecile's face. Oval,
stiffened with whalebone, it began with three round knobs; then came in
succession lozenges of velvet and rabbit-skin separated by a red band;
after that a sort of bag that ended in a cardboard polygon covered with
complicated braiding, from which hung, at the end of a long, thin cord,
small twisted gold threads in the manner of a tassel. The cap was new;
its peak shone.

"Rise," said the master.

He stood up; his cap fell. The whole class began to laugh. He stooped to
pick it up. A neighbor knocked it down again with his elbow; he picked
it up once more.

"Get rid of your helmet," said the master, who was a bit of a wag.

There was a burst of laughter from the boys, which so thoroughly put the
poor lad out of countenance that he did not know whether to keep his cap
in his hand, leave it on the floor, or put it on his head. He sat down
again and placed it on his knee.

"Rise," repeated the master, "and tell me your name."

The new boy articulated in a stammering voice an unintelligible name.

"Again!"

The same sputtering of syllables was heard, drowned by the tittering of
the class.

"Louder!" cried the master; "louder!"

The "new fellow" then took a supreme resolution, opened an inordinately
large mouth, and shouted at the top of his voice as if calling some one
the word, "Charbovari."

A hubbub broke out, rose in _crescendo_ with bursts of shrill voices
(they yelled, barked, stamped, repeated "Charbovari! Charbovari!"), then
died away into single notes, growing quieter only with great difficulty,
and now and again suddenly recommencing along the line of a form whence
rose here and there, like a damp cracker going off, a stifled laugh.

However, amid a rain of impositions, order was gradually re-established
in the class; and the master having succeeded in catching the name of
"Charles Bovary," having had it dictated to him, spelt out, and re-read,
at once ordered the poor devil to go and sit down on the punishment form
at the foot of the master's desk. He got up, but before going
hesitated.

"What are you looking for?" asked the master.

"My c-a-p," timidly said the "new fellow," casting troubled looks round
him.

"Five hundred verses for all the class!" shouted in a furious voice,
stopped, like the _Quos ego_, a fresh outburst "Silence!" continued the
master indignantly, wiping his brow with his handkerchief, which he had
just taken from his cap. "As to you, 'new boy,' you will conjugate
'_ridiculus sum_' twenty times." Then, in a gentler tone, "Come, you'll
find your cap again; it hasn't been stolen."

Quiet was restored. Heads bent over desks, and the "new fellow" remained
for two hours in an exemplary attitude, although from time to time some
paper pellet flipped from the tip of a pen came bang in his face. But he
wiped his face with one hand and continued motionless, his eyes lowered.

In the evening, at preparation, he pulled out his pens from his desk,
arranged his small belongings, and carefully ruled his paper. We saw him
working conscientiously, looking out every word in the dictionary, and
taking the greatest pains. Thanks, no doubt, to the willingness he
showed, he had not to go down to the class below. But though he knew his
rules passably, he had little finish in composition. It was the curé of
his village who had taught him his first Latin; his parents, from
motives of economy, having sent him to school as late as possible.

His father, Monsieur Charles Denis Bartolomé Bovary, retired
assistant-surgeon-major, compromised about 1812 in certain conscription
scandals, and forced at that time to leave the service, had then taken
advantage of his fine figure to get hold of a dowry of sixty thousand
francs that offered in the person of a hosier's daughter who had fallen
in love with his good looks. A fine man, a great talker, making his
spurs ring as he walked, wearing whiskers that ran into his moustache,
his fingers always garnished with rings, and dressed in loud colors, he
had the dash of a military man with the easy air of a commercial
traveller. Once married, he lived for three or four years on his wife's
fortune, dining well, rising late, smoking long porcelain pipes, not
coming in at night till after the theater, and haunting cafés. The
father-in-law died, leaving little; he was indignant at this, "went in
for the business," lost some money in it, then retired to the country,
where he thought he would make money. But, as he knew no more about
farming than calico, as he rode his horses instead of sending them to
plough, drank his cider in bottle instead of selling it in cask, ate the
finest poultry in his farmyard, and greased his hunting-boots with the
fat of his pigs, he was not long in finding out that he would do better
to give up all speculation.

For two hundred francs a year he managed to live on the border of the
provinces of Caux and Picardy, in a kind of place half farm, half
private house; and here, soured, eaten up with regrets, cursing his
luck, jealous of every one, he shut himself up at the age of forty-five,
sick of men, he said, and determined to live in peace.

His wife had adored him once on a time; she had bored him with a
thousand servilities that had only estranged him the more. Lively once,
expansive and affectionate, in growing older she had become (after the
fashion of wine that, exposed to air, turns to vinegar) ill-tempered,
grumbling, irritable. She had suffered so much without complaint at
first, when she had seen him going after all the village drabs, and when
a score of bad houses sent him back to her at night, weary, stinking
drunk. Then her pride revolted. After that she was silent, burying her
anger in a dumb stoicism that she maintained till her death. She was
constantly going about looking after business matters. She called on the
lawyers, the president, remembered when bills fell due, got them
renewed, and at home, ironed, sewed, washed, looked after the workmen,
paid the accounts, while he, troubling himself about nothing, eternally
besotted in sleepy sulkiness, whence he only roused himself to say
disagreeable things to her, sat smoking by the fire and spitting into
the cinders.

When she had a child, it had to be sent out to nurse. When he came home,
the lad was spoiled as if he were a prince. His mother stuffed him with
jam; his father let him run about barefoot, and, playing the
philosopher, even said he might as well go about quite naked like the
young of animals. As opposed to the maternal ideas, he had a certain
virile idea of childhood on which he sought to mould his son, wishing
him to be brought up hardily, like a Spartan, to give him a strong
constitution. He sent him to bed without any fire, taught him to drink
off large draughts of rum, and to jeer at religious processions. But,
peaceable by nature, the lad answered only poorly to his notions. His
mother always kept him near her; she cut out cardboard for him, told him
tales, entertained him with endless monologues full of melancholy gaiety
and charming nonsense. In her life's isolation she centered on the
child's head all her shattered, broken little vanities. She dreamed of
high station; she already saw him, tall, handsome, clever, settled as an
engineer or in the law. She taught him to read, and even on an old piano
she had taught him two or three little songs. But to all this Monsieur
Bovary, caring little for letters, said: "It is not worth while. Shall
we ever have the means to send him to a public school, to buy him a
practice, or to start him in business? Besides, with cheek a man always
gets on in the world." Madame Bovary bit her lips, and the child knocked
about the village.

He went after the laborers, drove away with clods of earth the ravens
that were flying about. He was a partly conscious provider of entertainment
when he made the book so thick with incidents, scenes and portraits,
and each incident, scene and portrait so perfect after its kind. Where
he overdoes his emphasis or refinement, can only be decided by
differing tastes. Some, for example, cannot abide his description of the
sleepless man who had at last discovered a perfect opiate in
Wordsworth's poetry.

I find myself stopping short at the effect of sherry and Popish leanings
on the publican and his trade, and still more the effect of his return
to ale and commonsense religion: how everyone bought his liquids and
paid for them and wanted to treat him, while the folk of his parish had
already made him a churchwarden. This might have been writ sarcastic
by a witty Papist.

Probably Borrow used the device of recognition and reappearances
to satisfy a rather primitive taste in fiction, and to add to the mystery,
though I will again suggest that a man who travelled and went about among
men as he did would take less offence at these things. The re-appearances
of Jasper are natural enough, except at the ford when Borrow is about
to pass into Wales: those of Ardry less so. But when Borrow contrives to
hear more of the old china collector and of Isopel also from the jockey,
and shuffles about the postillion, Murtagh, the Man in Black, and
Platitude, and introduces Sir John Bowring for punishment, he makes
"The Romany Rye" much inferior to "Lavengro."

These devices never succeed, except where their extravagance makes
us laugh heartily--as when on Salisbury Plain he meets returning
from Botany Bay the long lost son of his old London Bridge apple-woman.
The devices are unnecessary and remain as stiffening stains upon
a book that is otherwise full of nature and human nature.

CHAPTER XXV--"LAVENGRO" AND "THE ROMANY RYE": THE CHARACTERS

As the atmosphere of the two autobiographical books is more intense
and pure than that of "The Bible in Spain," so the characters in
it are more elaborate.

"The Bible in Spain" contained brilliant sketches and suggestions of men
and women. In the autobiography even the sketches are intimate, like
that of the "Anglo-Germanist," William Taylor; and they are not less
surprising than the Spanish sketches, from the Rommany chal who
"fought in the old Roman fashion. He bit, he kicked, and screamed like a
wild cat of Benygant; casting foam from his mouth, and fire from his
eyes"--from this man upwards and downwards. Some are highly finished,
and these are not always the best. For example, the portrait of his father,
the stiff, kindly, uncomprehending soldier, strikes me as a little too
much "done to a turn." It is a little too like a man in a book, and
so perfectly consistent, except for that one picturesque weakness--the
battle with Big Ben, whose skin was like a toad.

Borrow probably saw and cared very little for his father, and therefore
found it too easy to idealise and produce a mere type, chiefly out
of his head.
His mother is more certainly from life, and he could not detach
himself from her sufficiently to make her clear; yet he makes her
his own mother plainly enough.

His brother has something of the same unreality and perfection as his
father. These members of his family belong to one distinct class of studies
which includes among others the publisher, Sir Richard Phillips.
They are of persons not quite of his world whom he presents to us with
admiration, or, on the other hand, with dislike, but in either case without
sympathy. They do not contribute much to the special character of the
autobiography, except in humour.

The interviews with Sir Richard Phillips, in particular, give an example
of Borrow's obviously personal satire, poisonous and yet without
rancour. He is a type. He is the charlatan, holy and massive and not
perfectly self-convincing. When Borrow's money was running low
and he asked the publisher to pay for some contributions to a magazine,
now deceased:

"'Sir,' said the publisher, 'what do you want the money for?'
"'Merely to live on,' I replied; 'it is very difficult to live in this
town without money.'
"'How much money did you bring with you to town?'

demanded the publisher.

"'Some twenty or thirty pounds,' I replied.

"'And you have spent it already?'
"'No,' said I, 'not entirely; but it is fast disappearing.'
"'Sir,' said the publisher, 'I believe you to be extravagant; yes, sir,
extravagant!'

"'On what grounds do you suppose me to be so?'
"'Sir,' said the publisher, 'you eat meat.'
"'Yes,' said I, 'I eat meat sometimes; what should I eat?'
"'Bread, sir,' said the publisher; 'bread and cheese.'
"'So I do, sir, when I am disposed to indulge; but I cannot often afford
it--it is very expensive to dine on bread and cheese, especially when one
is fond of cheese, as I am. My last bread and cheese dinner cost me
fourteen pence. There is drink, sir; with bread and cheese one must drink
porter, sir.'
"'Then, sir, eat bread--bread alone. As good men as yourself have
eaten bread alone; they have been glad to get it, sir.

If with bread and cheese you must drink porter, sir, with bread alone
you can, perhaps, drink water, sir.'
"However, I got paid at last for my writings in the review, not, it is
true, in the current coin of the realm, but in certain bills; there were
two of them, one payable at twelve, and the other at eighteen
months after date."
The incident serves to diversify the narrative, and may be taken from
his own London experiences, while the particular merriment of the
rhyme is Borrow's; but it is not of the essence of the book, and fits
only indifferently into the mysterious "Arabian Nights" London, the city
of the gallant Ardry and the old apple-woman who called him "dear"
and called Moll Flanders "blessed Mary Flanders." Sir Richard will not
mysteriously re-appear, nor will Captain and Mrs. Borrow. I should say,
in fact, that characters of this class have scarcely at all the
power of motion.

What is more, they take us not only a little way out of Borrow's
world sometimes, but away from Borrow himself.

Apart from these characters, the men and women of "Lavengro" and "The
Romany Rye" are all in harmony with one another, with Borrow, and
with Borrow's world. Jasper Petulengro and his wife, his sister Ursula,
the gigantic Tawno Chikno, the witch Mrs. Herne, and the evil sprite
Leonora, Thurtell, the fighting men, the Irish outlaw Jerry Grant, who
was suspected of raising a storm by "something Irish and supernatural"
to win a fight, Murtagh, that wicked innocent, the old apple-woman,
Blazing Bosville, Isopel Berners, the jockey who drove one hundred
and ten miles in eleven hours to see "the only friend he ever had
in the world," John Thurtell, and say, "God Almighty bless you,
Jack!"

before the drop fell, the old gentleman who had learned "Sergeant
Broughton's guard" and knocked out the bullying coachman, the Welsh
preacher and his wife, the Arcadian old bee-keeper, the rat-catcher--all
these and their companions are woven into one piece by the genius
of their creator, Borrow.

I can imagine them all greeting him together as the Gypsies did, and much
as the jockey did afterwards:

"Here the Gipsy gemman see, With his Roman jib and his rome and
dree-- Rome and dree, rum and dry Rally round the Rommany Rye."

He waves his wand and they disappear. He made them as Jerry Grant
made the storm and beat Sergeant Bagg. In "Lavengro" he actually does
raise such a storm, though Knapp affected to discover it in a newspaper
of the period. Sampson and Martin are fighting at North Walsham, and
a storm comes on:

"There's wind and dust, a crash, rain and hail; is it possible to
fight amidst such a commotion? Yes! the fight goes on; again the
boy strikes the man full on the brow, but it is no use striking
that man, his frame is of adamant.

'Boy, thy strength is beginning to give way, thou art becoming confused';
the man now goes to work, amidst rain and hail. 'Boy, thou wilt not hold
out ten minutes longer against rain, hail, and the blows of such an
antagonist.'
"And now the storm was at its height; the black thundercloud had broken
into many, which assumed the wildest shapes and the strangest colours,
some of them unspeakably glorious; the rain poured in a deluge,
and more than one water-spout was seen at no great distance: an
immense rabble is hurrying in one direction; a multitude of men of
all ranks, peers and yokels, prize-fighters and Jews, and the last
came to plunder, and are now plundering amidst that wild confusion
of hail and rain, men and horses, carts and carriages.

But all hurry in one direction, through mud and mire; there's a town
only three miles distant which is soon reached, and soon filled, it will
not contain one-third of that mighty rabble; but there's another town
farther on--the good old city is farther on, only twelve miles; what's
that! who'll stay here? onward to the old town.

"Hurry skurry, a mixed multitude of men and horses, carts and carriages,
all in the direction of the old town; and, in the midst of all that mad
throng, at a moment when the rain gushes were coming down with particular
fury, and the artillery of the sky was pealing as I had never heard
it peal before, I felt some one seize me by the arm--I turned round
and beheld Mr.

Petulengro.

"'I can't hear you, Mr.

Petulengro,' said I; for the thunder drowned the words which he appeared
to be uttering.

"'Dearginni,' I heard Mr. Petulengro say, 'it thundereth. I was asking,
brother, whether you believe in dukkeripens?'
"'I do not, Mr. Petulengro; but this is strange weather to be asking me
whether I believe in fortunes.'
"'Grondinni,' said Mr. Petulengro, 'it haileth. I believe in dukkeripens,
brother.'
"'And who has more right,' said I, 'seeing that you live by them?

But this tempest is truly horrible.'
"'Dearginni, grondinni ta villaminni! It thundereth, it haileth, and
also flameth,' said Mr. Petulengro. 'Look up there, brother!'
"I looked up. Connected with this tempest there was one feature to
which I have already alluded--the wonderful colours of the clouds. Some
were of vivid green; others of the brightest orange; others as black
as pitch.
The Gypsy's finger was pointed to a particular part of the sky.

"'What do you see there, brother?'
"'A strange kind of cloud.'
"'What does it look like, brother?'
"'Something like a stream of blood.'
"'That cloud foreshoweth a bloody dukkeripen.'
"'A bloody fortune!' said I. 'And whom may it betide?'
"'Who knows?' said the Gypsy.

"Down the way, dashing and splashing, and scattering man, horse, and cart
to the left and right, came an open barouche, drawn by four smoking
steeds, with postillions in scarlet jackets, and leather skull-caps.
Two forms were conspicuous in it; that of the successful bruiser,
and of his friend and backer, the sporting gentleman of my acquaintance.

"'His!' said the Gypsy, pointing to the latter, whose stern features
wore a smile of triumph, as, probably recognizing me in the crowd, he
nodded in the direction of where I stood, as the barouche hurried
by.

"There went the barouche, dashing through the rain gushes', and in
it one whose boast it was that he was equal to 'either fortune.'

Many have heard of that man--many may be desirous of knowing yet
more of him.

I have nothing to do with that man's after life--he fulfilled his dukkeripen.
'A bad, violent man!'

Softly, friend; when thou wouldst speak harshly of the dead, remember
that thou hast not yet fulfilled thy own dukkeripen!"
As Borrow fits these pugilists into the texture of his autobiography,
so he does men who appear not once but a dozen times. Take Jasper
Petulengro out of the books and he does not amount to much.

In them he is a figure of most masculine beauty, a king, a trickster,
and thief, but simple, good with his fists, loving life, manly sport
and fair play. He and Borrow meet and shake hands as "brothers" when
they are little boys.
They meet again, by chance, as big boys, and Jasper says: "Your blood
beat when mine was near, as mine always does at the coming of a
brother; and we became brothers in that lane."

Jasper laughs at the Sapengro and Lavengro and horse-witch because he
lacks two things, "mother sense and gentle Rommany," and he has
something to do with teaching Borrow the Gypsy tongue and Gypsy ways,
and the "mother sense" of shifting for himself. The Gypsies approve
him also as "a pure fist master." In return he teaches Mrs. Chikno's
child to say his prayers in Rommany. They were willing--all but Mrs.
Herne--that he should marry Mr. Petulengro's sister, Ursula. It is
always by chance that they meet, and chance is very favourable. They
meet at significant times, as when Borrow has been troubled by the
preacher and the state of his own soul, or when he is sick of London and
hack-writing and poverty.

In fact, the Gypsies, and his "brother" Jasper in particular, returning
and returning, are the motive of the book. They connect Borrow with
what is strange, with what is simple, and with what is free. The very
last words of "The Romany Rye," spoken as he is walking eastward, are
"I shouldn't wonder if Mr.
Petulengro and Tawno Chikno came originally from India. I think I'll
go there." They are not a device. The re-appearances of these wandering
men are for the most part only pleasantly unexpected. Their mystery
is the mystery of nature and life.

They keep their language and their tents against the mass of civilization
and length of time. They are foreigners but as native as the birds.
It is Borrow's triumph to make them as romantic as their reputation while
yet satisfying Gypsy students as to his facts.

Jasper is almost like a second self, a kind of more simple, atavistic self,
to Borrow, as in that characteristic picture, where he is drawing near
to Wales with his friends, the Welsh preacher and his wife. A brook is
the border and they point it out.

There is a horseman entering it:
"he stops in the middle of it as if to water his steed." They ask
Lavengro if he will come with them into Wales. They persuade him:

"'I will not go with you,' said I. 'Dost thou see that man in the
ford?'
"'Who is staring at us so, and whose horse has not yet done drinking?
Of course I see him.'
"'I shall turn back with him. God bless you!'
"'Go back with him not,' said Peter, 'he is one of those whom I like
not, one of the clibberty-clabber, as Master Ellis Wyn observes--turn
not with that man.'
"'Go not back with him,' said Winifred. 'If thou goest with that man,
thou wilt soon forget all our profitable counsels; come with us.'
"'I cannot; I have much to say to him. Kosko Divous, Mr. Petulengro.'

"'Kosko Divvus, Pal,' said Mr. Petulengro, riding through the water;
'are you turning back?'

"I turned back with Mr. Petulengro."
At another time Jasper twists about like a weasel bewitching a bird,
and in so doing puts 50 pounds unnoticed into Lavengro's pocket.

Lavengro is indignant at the pleasantry. But Jasper insists; the money
is for him to buy a certain horse; if he will not take the money and buy
the horse there will be a quarrel. He has made the money by fair fighting
in the ring, has nowhere to put it, and seriously thinks that it were
best invested in this fine horse, which accordingly Borrow purchases
and takes across England, and sells at Horncastle Fair for 150 pounds.
The next scene shows Tawno Chikno at his best. Borrow has been
trotting the horse and racing it against a cob, amid a company that
put him "wonderfully in mind of the ancient horse-races of the heathen
north," so that he almost thought himself Gunnar of Lithend. But
Tawno was the man to try the horse at a jump, said Jasper.

Tawno weighed sixteen stone, and the owner thought him more likely to break
the horse's back. Jasper became very much excited, and offered to
forfeit a handful of guineas if harm was done.

"'Here's the man. Here's the horse-leaper of the world. . . .' Tawno,
at a bound, leaped into the saddle, where he really looked like
Gunnar of Hlitharend, save and except that the complexion of Gunnar
was florid, whereas that of Tawno was of nearly Mulatto darkness;
and that all Tawno's features were cast in the Grecian model, whereas
Gunnar had a snub nose.

'There's a leaping-bar behind the house,' said the landlord.
'Leaping-bar!' said Mr. Petulengro, scornfully. 'Do you think my black
pal ever rides at a leaping bar? No more than at a windle-straw. Leap
over that meadow wall, Tawno.' Just past the house, in the direction
in which I had been trotting, was a wall about four feet high, beyond
which was a small meadow. Tawno rode the horse gently up to the wall,
permitted him to look over, then backed him for about ten yards, and
pressing his calves against the horse's sides, he loosed the rein,
and the horse launching forward, took the leap in gallant style.

'Well done, man and horse!' said Mr. Petulengro; 'now come back, Tawno.'
The leap from the side of the meadow was, however, somewhat higher;
and the horse, when pushed at it, at first turned away; whereupon Tawno
backed him to a greater distance, pushed the horse to a full gallop,
giving a wild cry; whereupon the horse again took the wall, slightly
grazing one of his legs against it.

'A near thing,' said the landlord, 'but a good leap.

Now, no more leaping, so long as I have control over the animal.'"

A very different beautiful scene is where Mrs. Petulengro braids Isopel's
fair hair in Gypsy fashion, half against her will, and Lavengro looks
on, showing Isopel at a glance his disapproval of the fashion, while
Petulengro admires it. If it is not too much to quote, I will do so,
because it is the clearest and most detailed picture of more than one
figure in the whole of the autobiography. Mr. and Mrs. Petulengro have
come to visit Isopel, and Lavengro has fetched her to his tent,
where they are awaiting her:
"So Belle and I advanced towards our guests.

As we drew nigh Mr.
Petulengro took off his hat and made a profound obeisance to Belle,
whilst Mrs. Petulengro rose from her stool and made a profound
curtsey.

Belle, who had flung her hair back over her shoulders, returned their
salutations by bending her head, and after slightly glancing at Mr.
Petulengro, fixed her large blue eyes full upon his wife. Both these
females were very handsome--but how unlike! Belle fair, with blue
eyes and flaxen hair; Mrs.

Petulengro with olive complexion, eyes black, and hair dark--as dark
could be. Belle, in demeanour calm and proud; the Gypsy graceful,
but full of movement and agitation. And then how different were those
two in stature! The head of the Romany rawnie scarcely ascended to the
breast of Isopel Berners. I could see that Mrs.
Petulengro gazed on Belle with unmixed admiration: so did her
husband.
'Well,' said the latter, 'one thing I will say, which is, that there is
only one on earth worthy to stand up in front of this she, and that is
the beauty of the world, as far as man flesh is concerned, Tawno
Chikno; what a pity he did not come down! . . .'
"Mrs. Petulengro says: 'You are very beautiful, madam, though you are
not dressed as I could wish to see you, and your hair is hanging down in
sad confusion; allow me to assist you in arranging your hair, madam; I
will dress it for you in our fashion; I would fain see how your
hair would look in our poor Gypsy fashion; pray allow me, madam?'

and she took Belle by the hand.

"'I really can do no such thing,' said Belle, withdrawing her hand; 'I
thank you for coming to see me, but . . .'
"'Do allow me to officiate upon your hair, madam,' said Mrs. Petulengro;
'I should esteem your allowing me a great mark of condescension. You are
very beautiful, madam, and I think you doubly so, because you are so
fair; I have a great esteem for persons with fair complexions and hair;
I have a less regard for people with dark hair and complexions, madam.'

"'Then why did you turn off the lord, and take up with me?' said Mr.
Petulengro; 'that same lord was fair enough all about him.'

"'People do when they are young and silly what they sometimes repent
of when they are of riper years and understandings. I sometimes think
that had I not been something of a simpleton, I might at this time
be a great court lady. Now, madam,' said she, again taking Belle
by the hand, 'do oblige me by allowing me to plait your hair a little?'

"'I have really a good mind to be angry with you,' said Belle, giving
Mrs. Petulengro a peculiar glance.

"'Do allow her to arrange your hair,' said I, 'she means no harm, and
wishes to do you honour; do oblige her and me too, for I should
like to see how your hair would look dressed in her fashion.'

"'You hear what the young rye says?' said Mrs. Petulengro. 'I am
sure you will oblige the young rye, if not myself. Many people would
be willing to oblige the young rye, if he would but ask them; but
he is not in the habit of asking favours. He has a nose of his own,
which he keeps tolerably exalted; he does not think small-beer of
himself, madam; and all the time I have been with him, I never heard
him ask a favour before; therefore, madam, I am sure you will oblige
him.' . . ."
The men talk together, Jasper telling about the passing of the
"old-fashioned good-tempered constables," the advent of railways,
and the spoiling of road life.

". . . 'Now, madam,' said Mrs.At first she solaced herself by
allusions that Charles did not understand, then by casual observations
that he let pass for fear of a storm, finally by open apostrophes to
which he knew not what to answer. "Why did he go back to the Bertaux now
that Monsieur Rouault was cured and that these folks hadn't paid yet?
Ah! it was because a young lady was there, some one who knew how to
talk, to embroider, to be witty. That was what he cared about; he wanted
town misses." And she went on:

"The daughter of old Rouault a town miss! Get out! Their grandfather was
a shepherd, and they have a cousin who was almost had up at the assizes
for a nasty blow in a quarrel. It is not worth while making such a fuss,
or showing herself at church on Sundays in a silk gown, like a countess.
Besides, the poor old chap, if it hadn't been for the colza last year,
would have had much ado to pay up his arrears."

For very weariness Charles left off going to the Bertaux. Héloise made
him swear, his hand on the prayer-book, that he would go there no more,
after much sobbing and many kisses, in a great outburst of love. He
obeyed then, but the strength of his desire protested against the
servility of his conduct; and he thought, with a kind of naïve
hypocrisy, that this interdict to see her gave him a sort of right to
love her. And then the widow was thin; she had long teeth; wore in all
weathers a little black shawl, the edge of which hung down between her
shoulder-blades; her bony figure was sheathed in her clothes as if they
were a scabbard; they were too short, and displayed her ankles with the
laces of her large boots crossed over gray stockings.

Charles's mother came to see them from time to time, but after a few
days the daughter-in-law seemed to put her own edge on her, and then,
like two knives, they scarified him with their reflections and
observations. It was wrong of him to eat so much. Why did he always
offer a glass of something to every one who came? What obstinacy not to
wear flannels!

In the spring it came about that a notary at Ingouville, the holder of
the widow Dubuc's property, one fine day went off, taking with him all
the money in his office. Héloise, it is true, still possessed, besides a
share in a boat valued at six thousand francs, her house in the Rue St.
François; and yet, with all this fortune that had been so trumpeted
abroad, nothing, excepting perhaps a little furniture and a few clothes,
had appeared in the household. The matter had to be gone into. The house
at Dieppe was found to be eaten up with mortgages to its foundations;
what she had placed with the notary God only knew, and her share in the
boat did not exceed one thousand crowns. She had lied, the good lady! In
his exasperation, Monsieur Bovary the elder, smashing a chair on the
flags, accused his wife of having caused the misfortune of their son by
harnessing him to such a harridan, whose harness wasn't worth her hide.
They came to Tostes. Explanations followed. There were scenes. Héloise
in tears, throwing her arms about her husband, conjured him to defend
her from his parents. Charles tried to speak up for her. They grew angry
and left the house.

But the blow had struck home. A week after, as she was hanging up some
washing in her yard, she was seized with a spitting of blood, and the
next day, while Charles had his back turned to her drawing the
window-curtain, she said, "O God!" gave a sigh and fainted. She was
dead! What a surprise!

When all was over at the cemetery, Charles went home. He found no one
downstairs; he went up to the first floor to their room; saw her dress
still hanging at the foot of the alcove; then, leaning against the
writing-table, he stayed until the evening, buried in a sorrowful
reverie. She had loved him, after all!


III.

A LONELY WIDOWER.


One morning old Rouault brought Charles the money for setting his
leg--seventy-five francs in forty-sou pieces, and a turkey. He had heard
of his loss, and consoled him as well as he could.

"I know what it is," said he, clapping him on the shoulder; "I've been
through it. When I lost my dear departed, I went into the fields to be
quite alone. I fell at the foot of a tree; I cried; I called on God; I
talked nonsense to him. I wanted to be like the moles that I saw on the
branches, their insides swarming with worms, dead, and an end of it. And
when I thought that there were others at that very moment with their
nice little wives holding them in their embrace, I struck great blows on
the earth with my stick. I was pretty well mad with not eating; the very
idea of going to a café disgusted me--you wouldn't believe it. Well,
quite softly, one day following another, a spring on a winter, and an
autumn after a summer, this wore away, piece by piece, crumb by crumb;
it passed away, it is gone, I should say it has sunk; for something
always remains at the bottom, as one would say--a weight here, at one's
heart. But since it is the lot of all of us, one must not give way
altogether, and, because others have died, want to die too. You must
pull yourself together, Monsieur Bovary. It will pass away. Come to see
us; my daughter thinks of you now and again, d'ye know, and she says you
are forgetting her. Spring will soon be here. We'll have some
rabbit-shooting in the warrens to amuse you a bit."

Charles followed his advice. He went back to the Bertaux. He found all
as he had left it, that is to say, as it was five months ago. The pear
trees were already in blossom, and Farmer Rouault, on his legs again,
came and went, making the farm more full of life.

Thinking it his duty to heap the greatest attention upon the doctor
because of his sad position, he begged him not to take his hat off,
spoke to him in an undertone as if he had been ill, and even pretended
to be angry because nothing rather lighter had been prepared for him
than for the others, such as a little clotted cream or stewed pears. He
told stories. Charles found himself laughing, but the remembrance of his
wife suddenly coming back to him depressed him. Coffee was brought in;
he thought no more about her.

He thought less of her as he grew accustomed to living alone. The new
delight of independence soon made his loneliness bearable. He could now
change his meal-times, go in or out without explanation, and when he was
very tired stretch himself full length on his bed. So he nursed and
coddled himself and accepted the consolations that were offered him. On
the other hand, the death of his wife had not served him ill in his
business, since for a month people had been saying, "The poor young man!
what a loss!" His name had been talked about, his practice had
increased; and, moreover, he could go to the Bertaux just as he liked.
He had an aimless hope, and was vaguely happy; he thought himself better
looking as he brushed his whiskers before the looking-glass.

One day he got there about three o'clock. Everybody was in the fields.
He went into the kitchen, but did not at once catch sight of Emma; the
outside shutters were closed. Through the chinks of the wood the sun
sent across the flooring long fine rays that were broken at the corners
of the furniture and trembled along the ceiling. Some flies on the table
were crawling up the glasses that had been used, and buzzing as they
drowned themselves in the dregs of the cider. The daylight that came in
by the chimney made velvet of the soot at the back of the fireplace, and
touched with blue the cold cinders. Between the window and the hearth
Emma was sewing; she wore no fichu; he could see small drops of
perspiration on her bare shoulders.

After the fashion of country folks she asked him to have something to
drink. He said no; she insisted and at last laughingly offered to have a
glass of liqueur with him. So she went to fetch a bottle of curaçoa from
the cupboard, reached down two small glasses, filled one to the brim,
poured scarcely anything into the other, and, after clinking their
glasses, carried hers to her mouth. As it was almost empty she bent back
to drink, her head thrown back, her lips pouting, her neck on the
strain. She laughed at getting none of it, while with the tip of her
tongue passing between her small teeth she licked drop by drop the
bottom of her glass.

She sat down again and took up her work, a white cotton stocking she was
darning. She worked with her head bent down; she did not speak, nor did
Charles. The air coming in under the door blew a little dust over the
flags; he watched it drift along, and heard nothing but the throbbing in
his head and the faint clucking of a hen that had laid an egg in the
yard. Emma from time to time cooled her cheeks with the palms of her
hands, and cooled these again on the knobs of the huge fire-dogs.

She complained of suffering since the beginning of the season from
giddiness; she asked if sea-baths would do her any good; she began
talking of her convent, Charles of his school; words came to them. They
went up into her bedroom. She showed him her old music-books, the little
prizes she had won, and the oak-leaf crowns, left at the bottom of a
cupboard. She spoke to him, too, of her mother, of the country, and even
showed him the bed in the garden where, on the first Friday of every
month, she gathered flowers to put on her mother's tomb. But their
gardeners had understood nothing about it; servants were so careless.
She would have dearly liked, if only for the winter, to live in town,
although the length of the fine days made the country perhaps even more
wearisome in the summer. And, according to what she was saying, her
voice was clear, sharp, or, on a sudden, all languor, lingering out in
modulations that ended almost in murmurs as she spoke to herself; now
joyous, opening big, naïve eyes, then with her eyelids half closed, her
look full of boredom, her thoughts wandering.

Going home at night, Charles went over her words, one by one, trying to
recall them, to fill out their sense, that he might piece out the life
she had lived before he knew her. But he never saw her in his thoughts
other than he had seen her the first time, or as he had just left her.
Then he asked himself what would become of her--if she would be married,
and to whom? Alas! old Rouault was rich, and she!--so beautiful! But
Emma's face always rose before his eyes, and a monotone, like the
humming of a top, sounded in his ears, "If you should marry, after all!
if you should marry!" At night he could not sleep; his throat was
parched; he was athirst. He got up to drink from the water-bottle and
opened the window. The night was covered with stars, a warm wind blowing
in the distance; the dogs were barking. He turned his head toward the
Bertaux.

Thinking that, after all, he should lose nothing, Charles promised
himself to ask her in marriage as soon as occasion offered, but each
time such occasion did offer the fear of not finding the right words
sealed his lips.

Old Rouault would not have been sorry to be rid of his daughter, who was
of no use to him in the house. In his heart he excused her, thinking her
too clever for farming, a calling under the ban of Heaven, since one
never saw a millionaire in it. Far from having made a fortune by it, the
good man was losing every year; for if he was good in bargaining, in
which he enjoyed the dodges of the trade, on the other hand, agriculture
properly so called, and the internal management of the farm, suited him
less than most people. He did not willingly take his hands out of his
pockets, and did not spare expense in all that concerned himself,
liking to eat well, to have good fires, and to sleep well. He liked old
cider, underdone legs of mutton, _glorias_[1] well beaten up. He took
his meals in the kitchen alone, opposite the fire, on a little table
brought to him all ready laid, as on the stage.

[Footnote 1: A mixture of coffee and spirits.--TRANS.]

When, therefore, he perceived that Charles's cheeks grew red if near his
daughter, which meant that he would propose for her one of these days,
he chewed the cud of the matter beforehand. He certainly thought him a
little meagre, and not quite the son-in-law he would have liked, but he
was said to be well-conducted, economical, very learned, and no doubt
would not make too many difficulties about the dowry. Now, as old
Rouault would soon be forced to sell twenty-two acres of "his property,"
as he owed a good deal to the mason, to the harness-maker, and as the
shaft of the cider-press wanted renewing, "If he asks for her," he said
to himself, "I'll give her to him."

At Michaelmas Charles went to spend three days at the Bertaux. The last
had passed like the others, in procrastinating from hour to hour. Old
Rouault was seeing him off; they were walking along the road full of
ruts; they were about to part. This was the time. Charles gave himself
as far as to the corner of the hedge, and at last, when past it:

"Monsieur Rouault," he murmured, "I should like to say something to
you."

They stopped. Charles was silent.

"Well, tell me your story. Don't I know all about it?" said old Rouault,
laughing softly.

"Monsieur Rouault--Monsieur Rouault," stammered Charles.

"I ask nothing better," the farmer went on. "Although, no doubt, the
little one is of my mind, still we must ask her opinion. So you get
off--I'll go back home. If it is 'yes,' you needn't return because of
all the people about, and besides it would upset her too much. But so
that you mayn't be eating your heart, I'll open wide the outer shutter
of the window against the wall; you can see it from the back by leaning
over the hedge."

And he went off.

Charles fastened his horse to a tree; he ran into the road and waited.
Half-an-hour passed, then he counted nineteen minutes by his watch.
Suddenly a noise was heard against the wall; the shutter had been thrown
back; the hook was still swinging.

The next day by nine o'clock he was at the farm. Emma blushed as he
entered, and she gave a little forced laugh to keep herself in
countenance. Old Rouault embraced his future son-in-law. The discussion
of money matters was put off; moreover, there was plenty of time before
them, as the marriage could not decently take place till Charles was out
of mourning, that is to say, about the spring of the next year.

The winter passed waiting for this. Mademoiselle Rouault was busy with
her trousseau. Part of it was ordered at Rouen, and she made herself
chemises and nightcaps after fashion-plates that she borrowed. When
Charles visited the farmer, the preparations for the wedding were talked
over; they wondered in what room they should have dinner; they dreamed
of the number of dishes that would be wanted, and what should be the
entrées.

Emma would, on the contrary, have preferred to have a midnight wedding
with torches, but old Rouault could not understand such an idea. So
there was a wedding at which forty-three persons were present, at which
they remained sixteen hours at table, began again the next day, and to
some extent on the days following.


IV.

CONSOLATION.


The guests arrived early in carriages, in one-horse chaises, two-wheeled
cars, old open gigs, wagonettes with leather hoods, and the young people
from the nearer villages in carts, in which they stood up in rows,
holding on to the sides so as not to fall, going at a trot and well
shaken up. Some came from a distance of thirty miles, from Goderville,
from Normanville, and from Cany. All the relatives of both families had
been invited, quarrels between friends arranged, acquaintances long
since lost sight of written to.

From time to time one heard the crack of a whip behind the hedge; then
the gates opened, a chaise entered. Galloping up to the foot of the
steps, it stopped short and emptied its load. They got down from all
sides, rubbing knees and stretching arms. The ladies wearing bonnets,
had on dresses in the town fashion, gold watch chains, pelerines with
the ends tucked into belts, or little colored fichus fastened down
behind with a pin, that left the back of the neck bare. The lads,
dressed like their papas, seemed uncomfortable in their new clothes
(many that day handselled their first pair of boots), and by their
sides, speaking never a word, wearing the white dress of their first
communion lengthened for the occasion, were some big girls of fourteen
or sixteen, cousins or elder sisters no doubt, rubicund, bewildered,
their hair greasy with rose-pomade, and very much afraid of soiling
their gloves. As there were not enough stable-boys to unharness all the
carriages, the gentlemen turned up their sleeves and set about it
themselves. According to their different social positions, they wore
tail-coats, overcoats, shooting-jackets, cutaway-coats: fine tail-coats,
redolent of family respectability, that came out of the wardrobe only on
state occasions; overcoats with long tails flapping in the wind and
round capes and pockets like sacks; shooting-jackets of coarse cloth,
usually worn with a cap with a brass-bound peak; very short
cutaway-coats with two small buttons in the back, close together like a
pair of eyes, the tails of which seemed cut out of one piece by a
carpenter's hatchet. Some, too (but these, you may be sure, would sit at
the bottom of the table), wore their best blouses--that is to say, with
collars turned down to the shoulders, the back gathered into small
plaits and the waist fastened very far down with a worked belt.

And the shirts stood out from the chests like cuirasses! Every one had
just had his hair cut; ears stood out from the heads; they had been
close-shaven; a few, even, who had had to get up before daybreak, and
not been able to see to shave, had diagonal gashes under their noses or
cuts the size of a three-franc piece along the jaws, which the fresh air
_en route_ had inflamed, so that the great, white, beaming faces were
mottled here and there with red dabs.

The _mairie_ was a mile and a half from the farm, and they went thither
on foot, returning in the same way after the ceremony in the church. The
procession, first united like one long colored scarf that undulated
across the fields, along the narrow path winding amid the green corn,
soon lengthened out, and broke up in different groups that loitered to
talk. The fiddler walked in front with his violin, gay with ribbons in
its pegs. Then came the married pair, the relations, the friends, all
following pell-mell; the children stayed behind amusing themselves
plucking the bell-flowers from oat-ears, or playing among themselves
unseen. Emma's skirt, too long, trailed a little on the ground; from
time to time she stopped to pull it up, and then delicately, with her
gloved hands, she picked off the coarse grass and the thistledowns,
while Charles, empty handed, waited till she had finished. Old Rouault,
with a new silk hat and the cuffs of his black coat covering his hands
up to the nails, gave his arm to Madame Bovary, senior. As to Monsieur
Bovary senior, who, heartily despising all these folk, had come simply
in a frock-coat of military cut with one row of buttons--he was passing
compliments of the bar to a fair young peasant. She bowed, blushed, and
did not know what to say. The other wedding guests talked of their
business or played tricks behind each other's backs, egging one another
on in advance to be jolly. Those who listened could always catch the
squeaking of the fiddler, who went on playing across the fields. When he
saw that the rest were far behind he stopped to take breath, slowly
rosined his bow, so that the strings should sound more shrilly, then set
off again, by turns lowering and raising his neck, the better to mark
time for himself. The noise of the instrument drove the little birds far
away.

The table was laid under the cart-shed. On it were four sirloins, six
chicken fricassées, stewed veal, three legs of mutton, and in the middle
a fine roast sucking-pig, flanked by four chitterlings with sorrel. At
the corners were decanters of brandy. Sweet bottled-cider frothed round
the corks, and all the glasses had been filled to the brim with wine
beforehand. Large dishes of yellow cream, that trembled with the least
shake of the table, had designed on their smooth surface the initials of
the newly wedded pair in nonpareil arabesques. A confectioner of Yvetot
had been intrusted with the tarts and sweets. As he had only just set up
in the place, he had taken great trouble, and at dessert he himself
brought in a set dish that evoked loud cries of wonderment. To begin
with, at its base was a square of blue cardboard, representing a temple
with porticoes, colonnades, and stucco statuettes all round, and in the
niches were constellations of gilt paper stars; on the second stage was
a dungeon of Savoy cake, surrounded by many fortifications in candied
angelica, almonds, raisins, and quarters of oranges; and finally, on the
upper layer was a green field with rocks set in lakes of jam, nutshell
boats, and a small Cupid balancing himself in a chocolate swing, whose
two uprights ended in real roses for balls at the top.

Until night they ate. When any of them were too tired of sitting, they
went out for a stroll in the yard, or for a game with corks in the
granary, and then returned to table. Toward the finish some went to
sleep and snored. But with the coffee every one woke up. Then they began
songs, showed off tricks, raised heavy weights, performed feats with
their fingers, then tried lifting carts on their shoulders, made broad
jokes, kissed the women. At night when they left, the horses, stuffed up
to the nostrils with oats, could hardly be got into the shafts; they
kicked, reared, the harness broke, their masters laughed or swore; and
all night in the light of the moon along country roads there were
runaway carts at full gallop plunging into the ditches, jumping over
yard after yard of stones, clambering up the hills, with women leaning
out from the tilt to catch hold of the reins.

Those who stayed at the Bertaux spent the night drinking in the kitchen.
The children had fallen asleep under the seats.

The bride had begged her father to be spared the usual marriage
pleasantries. However, a fishmonger, one of their cousins (who had even
brought a pair of soles for his wedding present), began to squirt water
from his mouth through the keyhole, when old Rouault came up just in
time to stop him, and explain to him that the distinguished position of
his son-in-law would not allow of such liberties. The cousin all the
same did not give in to these reasons readily. In his heart he accused
old Rouault of being proud, and he joined four or five other guests in a
corner, who having, through mere chance, been several times running
served with the worst helps of meat, also were of opinion they had been
badly used, and were whispering about their host, and with covered hints
hoping he would ruin himself.

Madame Bovary, senior, had not opened her mouth all day. She had been
consulted neither as to the dress of her daughter-in-law nor as to the
arrangement of the feast; she went to bed early. Her husband, instead
of following her, sent to Saint-Victor for some cigars, and smoked till
daybreak, drinking kirsch-punch, a mixture unknown to the company. This
added greatly to the consideration in which he was held.

Charles, who was not of a facetious turn, did not shine at the wedding.
He answered feebly to the puns, _doubles entendres_, compliments, and
chaff that it was felt a duty to let off at him as soon as the soup
appeared.

The next day, on the other hand, he seemed another man. It was he who
might rather have been taken for the virgin of the evening before,
whilst the bride gave no sign that revealed anything. The shrewdest did
not know what to make of it, and they looked at her when she passed near
them with an unbounded concentration of mind. But Charles concealed
nothing. He called her "my wife," _tutoyéd_ her, asked for her of every
one, looked for her everywhere, and often he dragged her into the yards
where he could be seen from afar, among the trees putting his arm round
her waist, and walking half bending over her, ruffling the chemisette of
her bodice with his head.

Two days after the wedding the married pair left. Charles, on account of
his patients, could not be away longer. Old Rouault had them driven back
in his cart, and himself accompanied them as far as Vassonville. Here he
embraced his daughter for the last time, got down, and went his way.
When he had gone about a hundred paces he stopped, and as he saw the
cart disappearing, its wheels turning in the dust, he gave a deep sigh.
Then he remembered his wedding, the old times, the first pregnancy of
his wife; he, too, had been very happy the day when he had taken her
from her father to his home, and had carried her off on a pillion,
trotting through the snow, for it was near Christmas-time, and the
country was all white. She held him by one arm, her basket hanging from
the other; the wind blew the long lace of her Cauchois head-dress so
that it sometimes flapped across his mouth, and when he turned his head
he saw near him, on his shoulder, her little rosy face, smiling silently
under the gold bands of her cap. To warm her hands she put them from
time to time in his breast. How long ago it all was! Their son would
have been thirty by now. Then he looked back and saw nothing on the
road. He felt dreary as an empty house; and tender memories mingling
with the sad thoughts in his brain, addled by the fumes of the feast, he
felt inclined for a moment to take a turn towards the church. As he was
afraid, however, that this sight would make him yet more sad, he went
directly home.

Monsieur and Madame Charles arrived at Tostes about six o'clock. The
neighbors came to the windows to see their doctor's new wife.

The old servant presented herself, curtsied to her, apologised for not
having dinner ready, and suggested that madame, in the meantime, should
look over her house.


V.

THE NEW MÉNAGE.


The brick front was just in a line with the street, or rather the road.
Behind the door hung a cloak with a small collar, a bridle, and a black
leather cap, and on the floor in a corner, were a pair of leggings still
covered with dry mud. On the right was the one apartment that was both
dining and sitting room. A canary-yellow paper, relieved at the top by a
garland of pale flowers, was puckered everywhere over the
badly-stretched canvas; white calico curtains with a red border hung
crosswise the length of the window; and on the narrow mantelpiece a
clock with a head of Hippocrates shone resplendent between two plate
candlesticks under oval shades. On the other side of the passage was
Charles's consulting-room, a little room about six paces wide, with a
table, three chairs, and an office-chair. Volumes of the "Dictionary of
Medical Science," uncut, but the binding rather the worse for the
successive sales through which they had gone, occupied almost alone the
six shelves of a deal bookcase. The smell of melted butter penetrated
the thin walls when he saw patients, just as in the kitchen one could
hear the people coughing in the consulting-room and recounting their
whole histories. Then, opening on the yard, where the stable was, came a
large dilapidated room with a stove, now used as a wood-house, cellar,
and pantry, full of old rubbish, of empty casks, agricultural implements
past service, and a mass of dusty things whose use it was impossible to
guess.

The garden, longer than wide, ran between two mud walls with espaliered
apricots, to a hawthorn hedge that separated it from the field. In the
middle was a slate sundial on a brick pedestal; four flower-beds with
eglantines surrounded symmetrically the more useful kitchen-garden bed.
At the bottom, under the spruce bushes, was a curé in plaster reading
his breviary.

Emma went upstairs. The first room was not furnished, but in the second,
which was their bedroom, was a mahogany bedstead in an alcove with red
drapery. A shell-box adorned the chest of drawers, and on the secretary
near the window a bouquet of orange blossoms tied with white satin
ribbons stood in a bottle. It was a bride's bouquet; it was the other
one's. She looked at it. Charles noticed it; he took it and carried it
up to the attic, while Emma, seated in an armchair (they were putting
her things down around her) thought of her bridal flowers packed up in a
bandbox, and wondered, dreaming, what would be done with them if she
were to die.

During the first days she occupied herself in thinking about changes in
the house. She took the shades off the candlesticks, had new wall-paper
put up, the staircase repainted, and seats made in the garden round the
sundial; she even inquired how she could get a basin with a jet fountain
and fishes. Finally, her husband, knowing that she liked to drive out,
picked up a second-hand dog-cart, which, with new lamps and a
splash-board in striped leather, looked almost like a tilbury.

He was happy then, and without a care in the world. A meal together, a
walk in the evening on the highroad, a gesture of her hands over her
hair, the sight of her straw hat hanging from the window-fastener, and
many another thing in which Charles had never dreamed of pleasure, now
made up the endless round of his happiness. In bed, in the morning, by
her side, on the pillow, he watched the sunlight sinking into the down
on her fair cheek, half hidden by the lappets of her nightcap. Seen thus
closely, her eyes looked to him enlarged, especially when, on waking up,
she opened and shut them rapidly many times. Black in the shade, dark
blue in broad daylight, they had, as it were, depths of different
colors, that, darker in the center, grew paler toward the surface of the
eye. His own eyes lost themselves in these depths; he saw himself in
miniature down to the shoulders, with his handkerchief round his head
and the top of his shirt open. He rose. She came to the window to see
him off, and stayed leaning on the sill between two pots of geranium,
clad in her dressing-gown hanging loosely about her. Charles in the
street buckled his spurs, his foot on the mounting stone, while she
talked to him from above, picking with her mouth some scrap of flower or
leaf that she blew out at him. Then this, eddying, floating, described
semicircles in the air like a bird, and was caught before it reached the
ground in the ill-groomed mane of the old white mare standing motionless
at the door. Charles from horseback threw her a kiss; she answered with
a nod; she shut the window, and he set off. And then along the highroad,
spreading out its long ribbon of dust, along the deep lanes that the
trees bent over as in arbors, along paths where the corn reached to the
knees, with the sun on his back and the morning air in his nostrils, his
heart full of the joys of the past night, his mind at rest, his flesh at
ease, he went on, re-chewing his happiness, like those who after dinner
taste again the truffles which they are digesting.

Until now what good had he had of his life? His time at school, when he
remained shut up within the high walls, alone, in the midst of
companions richer than he or cleverer at their work, who laughed at his
accent, who jeered at his clothes, and whose mothers came to the school
with cakes in their muffs? Or later, when he studied medicine, and never
had his purse full enough to treat some little work-girl who would have
become his mistress? So in the prison at Madrid he got on so well with
the prisoners that on the third day he spoke their language as if he
were "a son of the prison." At Gibraltar he talked to the man of Mogador
in Arabic and was taken for "a holy man from the kingdoms of the
East," especially when he produced the shekel which had been given him
by Hasfeldt: a Jew there believed him to be a Salamancan Jew. At Villafranca
a woman mistook his voice in the dark for that of "the German
clockmaker from Pontevedra."

For some time in 1839 he went among the villages dressed in a peasant's
leather helmet, jacket and trousers, and resembling "a person between
sixty and seventy years of age," so that people addressed him as Uncle,
and bought his Testaments, though the Bible Society, on hearing
it, "began to inquire whether, if the old man were laid up in
prison, they could very conveniently apply for his release in the
proper quarter." {173}
He saw men and places, and with his pen he created a land as distinct,
as wild, as vast, and as wonderful as the Spain of Cervantes.

He did this with no conscious preconceived design. His creation was
the effect of a multitude of impressions, all contributory because all
genuine and true to the depth of Borrow's own nature. He had seen and
felt Spain, and "The Bible in Spain" shows how; nor probably could he
have shown it in any other way.

Not but what he could speak of Spain as the land of old renown, and
of himself--in a letter to the Bible Society in 1837--as an errant
knight, and of his servant Francisco as his squire.

He did not see himself as he was, or he would have seen both Don
Quixote and Sancho Panza in one, now riding a black Andalusian
stallion, now driving an ass before him.

Only a power as great as Borrow's own could show how this wild Spain
was built up. For it was not done by this and that, but by a great
man and a noble country in a state of accord continually vibrating.

Thus he drew near to Finisterra with his wild Gallegan guide:
"It was a beautiful autumnal morning when we left the choza and
pursued our way to Corcuvion.

I satisfied our host by presenting him with a couple of pesetas; and he
requested as a favour that if on our return we passed that way, and
were overtaken by the night, we would again take up our abode beneath
his roof. This I promised, at the same time determining to do my best
to guard against the contingency, as sleeping in the loft of a Gallegan
hut, though preferable to passing the night on a moor or mountain,
is anything but desirable.

"So we again started at a rapid pace along rough bridleways and footpaths,
amidst furze and brushwood. In about an hour we obtained a view of the
sea, and directed by a lad, whom we found on the moor employed in tending
a few miserable sheep, we bent our course to the north-west, and at
length reached the brow of an eminence, where we stopped for some time
to survey the prospect which opened before us.

"It was not without reason that the Latins gave the name of Finisterrae
to this district. We had arrived exactly at such a place as in my
boyhood I had pictured to myself as the termination of the world,
beyond which there was a wild sea, or abyss, or chaos. I now saw far
before me an immense ocean, and below me a long and irregular line of
lofty and precipitous coast. Certainly in the whole world there is no
bolder coast than the Gallegan shore, from the _debouchement_ of
the Minho to Cape Finisterra.

It consists of a granite wall of savage mountains, for the most part
serrated at the top, and occasionally broken, where bays and firths
like those of Vigo and Pontevedra intervene, running deep into the
land. These bays and firths are invariably of an immense depth,
and sufficiently capacious to shelter the navies of the proudest
maritime nations.

"There is an air of stern and savage grandeur in everything around
which strongly captivates the imagination. This savage coast is the
first glimpse of Spain which the voyager from the north catches, or he
who has ploughed his way across the wide Atlantic; and well does
it seem to realize all his visions of this strange land. 'Yes,' he
exclaims, 'this is indeed Spain--stern, flinty Spain--land emblematic
of those spirits to which she has given birth. From what land but
that before me could have proceeded those portentous beings who astounded
the Old World and filled the New with horror and blood--Alba and Philip,
Cortez and Pizarro--stern colossal spectres looming through the gloom
of bygone years, like yonder granite mountains through the haze, upon
the eye of the mariner? Yes, yonder is indeed Spain--flinty, indomitable
Spain--land emblematic of its sons!'
"As for myself, when I viewed that wide ocean and its savage
shore, I cried, 'Such is the grave, and such are its terrific
sides; those moors and wilds over which I have passed are the rough
and dreary journey of life.

Cheered with hope, we struggle along through all the difficulties of
moor, bog, and mountain, to arrive at--what? The grave and its dreary
sides. Oh, may hope not desert us in the last hour--hope in the Redeemer
and in God!'
"We descended from the eminence, and again lost sight of the sea amidst
ravines and dingles, amongst which patches of pine were occasionally
seen. Continuing to descend, we at last came, not to the sea, but to the
extremity of a long, narrow firth, where stood a village or hamlet;
whilst at a small distance, on the western side of the firth,
appeared one considerably larger, which was indeed almost entitled to
the appellation of town. This last was Corcuvion; the first, if I
forget not, was called Ria de Silla. We hastened on to Corcuvion, where
I bade my guide make inquiries respecting Finisterra. He entered the
door of a wine-house, from which proceeded much noise and vociferation,
and presently returned, informing me that the village of Finisterra
was distant about a league and a half. A man, evidently in a state of
intoxication, followed him to the door. 'Are you bound for Finisterra,
cavalheiros?' he shouted.

"'Yes, my friend,' I replied; 'we are going thither.'
"'Then you are going amongst a flock of drunkards' (_fato de borrachos_),
he answered. 'Take care that they do not play you a trick.'
"We passed on, and striking across a sandy peninsula at the back of the
town, soon reached the shore of an immense bay, the north-westernmost end
of which was formed by the far-famed cape of Finisterra, which we now
saw before us stretching far into the sea.

"Along the beach of dazzling white sand we advanced towards the cape,
the bourne of our journey. The sun was shining brightly, and
every object was illumined by his beams. The sea lay before us like a
vast mirror, and the waves which broke upon the shore were so tiny
as scarcely to produce a murmur.

On we sped along the deep winding bay, overhung by gigantic hills
and mountains. Strange recollections began to throng upon my mind. It
was upon this beach that, according to the tradition of all ancient
Christendom, St. James, the patron saint of Spain, preached the gospel
to the heathen Spaniards. Upon this beach had once stood an immense
commercial city, the proudest in all Spain. This now desolate bay had
once resounded with the voices of myriads, when the keels and commerce
of all the then known world were wafted to Duyo.

"'What is the name of this village?'

said I to a woman, as we passed by five or six ruinous houses at the
bend of the bay, ere we entered upon the peninsula of Finisterra.

"'This is no village,' said the Gallegan--'this is no village, Sir
Cavalier; this is a city--this is Duyo.'
"So much for the glory of the world! These huts were all that the roaring
sea and the tooth of time had left of Duyo, the great city!
Onward now to Finisterra."
He spends little time on such declamatory description, but it is
essential to the whole effect. This particular piece is followed by
the difficulty of a long ascent, by a sleep of exhaustion on a rude and
dirty bed, by Borrow's arrest as the Pretender, Don Carlos, in
disguise, by an escape from immediate execution into the hands
of an Alcalde who read "Jeremy Bentham" day and night; all this in one
short chapter.

Equally essential is the type of landscape represented by the solitary
ruined fort in the monotonous waste between Estremoz and Elvas, which
he climbed to over stones that cut his feet:

"Being about to leave the place, I heard a strange cry behind a part
of the wall which I had not visited; and hastening thither, I found
a miserable object in rags seated upon a stone.

It was a maniac--a man about thirty years of age, and I believe deaf and
dumb. There he sat, gibbering and mowing, and distorting his wild
features into various dreadful appearances. There wanted nothing but
this object to render the scene complete; banditti amongst such
melancholy desolation would have been by no means so much in keeping.

But the manaic on his stone, in the rear of the wind-beaten ruin
overlooking the blasted heath, above which scowled the leaden heaven,
presented such a picture of gloom and misery as I believe neither
painter nor poet ever conceived in the saddest of their musings. This
is not the first instance in which it has been my lot to verify the
wisdom of the saying that truth is sometimes wilder than fiction."
At Oropesa he heard from the barber-surgeon of the mysterious Guadarrama
mountains, and of the valley that lay undiscovered and unknown for
thousands of years until a hunter found there a tribe of people speaking
a language unknown to anyone else and ignorant of the rest of men.
Rough wild ways intersect the book. Thunder storms overhang it.
Immense caverns echo beneath it. The travellers left behind a mill which
"stood at the bottom of a valley shaded by large trees, and its
wheels were turning with a dismal and monotonous noise," and they
emerged, by the light of "a corner of the moon," on to the wildest
heath of the wildest province of Spain, ignorant of their way,
making for a place which the guide believed not to exist.

They passed a defile where the carrier had been attacked on his last
journey by robbers, who burnt the coach by means of the letters in it,
and butchered all except the carrier, who had formerly been the
master of one of the gang: as they passed, the ground was still
saturated with the blood of one of the murdered soldiers and a dog was
gnawing a piece of his skull. Borrow was told of an old viper catcher
caught by the robbers, who plundered and stripped him and then tied
his hands behind him and thrust his head into his sack, "which contained
several of these horrible reptiles alive," and so he ran mad through
the villages until he fell dead. As a background, he had again and again
a scene like that one, whose wild waters and mountains, and the
"Convent of the Precipices" standing out against the summit, reminded
him at once of Salvator Rosa and of Stolberg's lines to a mountain
torrent:

"The pine trees are shaken. . . ." Describing the cave at Gibraltar,
he spoke of it as always having been "a den for foul night birds,
reptiles, and beasts of prey," of precipice after precipice, abyss
after abyss, in apparently endless succession, and of an explorer who
perished there and lay "even now rotting in the bowels of the
mountain, preyed upon by its blind and noisome worms."

When he saw a peaceful rich landscape in a bright sunny hour, as at
Monte Moro, he shed tears of rapture, sitting on and on in those
reveries which, as he well knew, only enervate the mind: or he felt
that he would have desired "no better fate than that of a shepherd
on the prairies or a hunter on the hills of Bembibre": or looking through
an iron-grated door at a garden court in Seville he sighed that
his fate did not permit him to reside in such an Eden for the
remainder of his days.

For as he delights in the dismal, grand, or wild, so he does with
equal intensity in the sweetness of loveliness, as in the country
about Seville: "Oh how pleasant it is, especially in springtide,
to stray along the shores of the Guadalquivir!

Not far from the city, down the river, lies a grove called Las
Delicias, or the Delights.

It consists of trees of various kinds, but more especially of poplars and
elms, and is traversed by long, shady walks. This grove is the favourite
promenade of the Sevillians, and there one occasionally sees assembled
whatever the town produces of beauty or gallantry. There wander the
black-eyed Andalusian dames and damsels, clad in their graceful silken
mantillas; and there gallops the Andalusian cavalier on his long-tailed,
thick-maned steed of Moorish ancestry. As the sun is descending, it
is enchanting to glance back from this place in the direction of the city;
the prospect is inexpressibly beautiful. Yonder in the distance, high
and enormous, stands the Golden Tower, now used as a toll-house, but the
principal bulwark of the city in the time of the Moors. It stands on
the shore of the river, like a giant keeping watch, and is the first
edifice which attracts the eye of the voyager as he moves up the
stream to Seville. On the other side, opposite the tower, stands the
noble Augustine Convent, the ornament of the faubourg of Triana;
whilst between the two edifices rolls the broad Guadalquivir, bearing
on its bosom a flotilla of barks from Catalonia and Valencia.

Farther up is seen the bridge of boats which traverses the water. The
principal object of this prospect, however, is the Golden Tower, where
the beams of the setting sun seem to be concentrated as in the
focus, so that it appears built of pure gold, and probably from
that circumstance received the name which it now bears.

Cold, cold must the heart be which can remain insensible to the beauties
of this magic scene, to do justice to which the pencil of Claude himself
were barely equal.
Often have I shed tears of rapture whilst I beheld it, and listened
to the thrush and the nightingale piping forth their melodious
songs in the woods, and inhaled the breeze laden with the perfume
of the thousand orange gardens of Seville.

'Kennst du das land wo die citronen bluhen?'"
If a scene was not in fact superlative his creative memory would furnish
it with what it lacked, giving the cathedral of Palencia, for example,
windows painted by Murillo.

CHAPTER XXI--"THE BIBLE IN SPAIN": THE CHARACTERS
In such scenes, naturally, Borrow placed nothing common and nothing
mean.

He must have a madman among the ruins, or by a pool a peasant woman sitting,
who has been mad ever since her child was drowned there, or a mule and
a stallion fighting with hoofs and teeth. The clergy, in their ugly
shovel hats and long cloaks, glared at him askance as he passed by their
whispering groups in Salamanca: at the English College in Valladolid,
he thought of "those pale, smiling, half-foreign priests who, like
stealthy grimalkins, traversed green England in all directions"
under the persecution of Elizabeth.

If he painted an archbishop plainly dressed in black cassock and silken
cap, stooping, feeble, pale and emaciated, he set upon his finger a
superb amethyst of a dazzling lustre--Borrow never saw a finer, except
one belonging to an acquaintance of his own, a Tartar Khan.

The day after his interview with the archbishop he had a visit from
Benedict Mol. This man is proved to have existed by a letter from
Rey Romero to Borrow mentioning "The German of the Treasure."
{181} "True, every word of it!" says Knapp: "Remember our artist
never created; he painted from models."

Because he existed, therefore every word of Borrow's concerning him is
true. As Borrow made him, "He is a bulky old man, somewhat above the
middle height, and with white hair and ruddy features; his eyes were large
and blue, and, whenever he fixed them on anyone's countenance, were
full of an expression of great eagerness, as if he were expecting the
communication of some important tidings. He was dressed commonly
enough, in a jacket and trousers of coarse cloth of a russet colour;
on his head was an immense sombrero, the brim of which had been
much cut and mutilated, so as in some places to resemble the jags
or denticles of a saw."

And thus, at Madrid in 1836, he told his story on the first meeting, as
men had to do when they were interrogated by Borrow:

"Upon my asking him who he was, the following conversation ensued between
us:

"'I am a Swiss of Lucerne, Benedict Mol by name, once a soldier in the
Walloon Guard, and now a soap-boiler, _para servir usted_.'
"'You speak the language of Spain very imperfectly,' said I; 'how long
have you been in the country?'
"'Forty-five years,' replied Benedict. 'But when the guard was broken up
I went to Minorca, where I lost the Spanish language without acquiring
the Catalan.'

"'You have been a soldier of the King of Spain,' said I; 'how did you like
the service?'
"'Not so well but that I should have been glad to leave it forty years
ago; the pay was bad, and the treatment worse. I will now speak Swiss
to you; for, if I am not much mistaken, you are a German man, and
understand the speech of Lucerne. I should soon have deserted from the
service of Spain, as I did from that of the Pope, whose soldier I
was in my early youth before I came here; but I had married a woman
of Minorca, by whom I had two children: it was this that detained
me in these parts so long.

Before, however, I left Minorca, my wife died; and as for my children,
one went east, the other west, and I know not what became of them.
I intend shortly to return to Lucerne, and live there like a duke.'
"'Have you then realized a large capital in Spain?' said I, glancing
at his hat and the rest of his apparel.

"'Not a cuart, not a cuart; these two wash-balls are all that I possess.'

"'Perhaps you are the son of good parents, and have lands and
money in your own country wherewith to support yourself.'
"'Not a heller, not a heller. My father was hangman of Lucerne, and when
he died, his body was seized to pay his debts.'

"'Then doubtless,' said I, 'you intend to ply your trade of
soap-boiling at Lucerne. You are quite right, my friend; I know of no
occupation more honourable or useful.'
"'I have no thoughts of plying my trade at Lucerne,' replied Benedict.

'And now, as I see you are a German man, Lieber Herr, and as I like your
countenance and your manner of speaking, I will tell you in confidence
that I know very little of my trade, and have already been turned
out of several fabriques as an evil workman; the two wash-balls
that I carry in my pocket are not of my own making.

_In kurtzen_, I know little more of soap-boiling than I do of tailoring,
horse-farriery, or shoe-making, all of which I have practised.'
"'Then I know not how you can hope to live like a hertzog in your native
canton, unless you expect that the men of Lucerne, in consideration of
your services to the Pope and to the King of Spain, will maintain you
in splendour at the public expense.'
"'Lieber Herr,' said Benedict, 'the men of Lucerne are by no means
fond of maintaining the soldiers of the Pope and the King of Spain
at their own expense; many of the guard who have returned thither
beg their bread in the streets: but when I go, it shall be in a
coach drawn by six mules with a treasure, a mighty schatz which
lies in the church of St.

James of Compostella, in Galicia.'
"'I hope you do not intend to rob the church,' said I. 'If you do, however,
I believe you will be disappointed. Mendizabal and the Liberals have
been beforehand with you. I am informed that at present no other treasure
is to be found in the cathedrals of Spain than a few paltry ornaments
and plated utensils.'

"'My good German Herr,' said Benedict, 'it is no church schatz; and
no person living, save myself, knows of its existence. Nearly thirty
years ago, amongst the sick soldiers who were brought to Madrid,
was one of my comrades of the Walloon Guard, who had accompanied
the French to Portugal; he was very sick, and shortly died. Before,
however, he breathed his last, he sent for me, and upon his death-bed
told me that himself and two other soldiers, both of whom had since been
killed, had buried in a certain church in Compostella a great booty
which they had made in Portugal; it consisted of gold moidores and
of a packet of huge diamonds from the Brazils: the whole was contained
in a large copper kettle.

I listened with greedy ears, and from that moment, I may say, I have
known no rest, neither by day nor night, thinking of the schatz. It is
very easy to find, for the dying man was so exact in his description of
the place where it lies, that were I once at Compostella I should have
no difficulty in putting my hand upon it. Several times I have been on
the point of setting out on the journey, but something has always
happened to stop me.

When my wife died, I left Minorca with a determination to go to St. James;
but on reaching Madrid, I fell into the hands of a Basque woman, who
persuaded me to live with her, which I have done for several years. She
is a great hax, {184} and says that if I desert her she will breathe
a spell which shall cling to me for ever.
_Dem Got sey dank_, she is now in the hospital, and daily expected to
die. This is my history, Lieber Herr.'"
Notice that Borrow continues:

"I have been the more careful in relating the above conversation, as I
shall have frequent occasion to mention the Swiss in the course
of these journals."

Benedict Mol had the faculty of re-appearance. In the next year at
Compostella the moonlight fell on his grey locks and weatherbeaten face
and Borrow recognised him. "_Och_," said the man, "_mein Gott_, _es
ist der Herr_!" (it is that gentleman). "Och, what good fortune, that
the _Herr_ is the first person I meet in Compostella." Even Borrow could
scarcely believe his eyes. Benedict had come to dig for the treasure,
and in the meantime proposed to live at the best hotel and pay his score
when the digging was done. Borrow gave him a dollar, which he paid to a
witch for telling him where exactly the treasure lay. A third time,
to his own satisfaction and Borrow's astonishment, he re-appeared
at Oviedo.
A fear took hold of her; she called Djali,
and hurriedly returned to Tostes by the highroad, threw herself into an
armchair, and for the rest of the evening did not speak.

But towards the end of September something extraordinary fell upon her
life; she was invited by the Marquis d'Andervilliers to Vaubyessard.

Secretary of State under the Restoration, the Marquis, anxious to
re-enter political life, set about preparing for his candidature to the
Chamber of Deputies long beforehand. In the winter he distributed a
great deal of wood, and in the Conseil Général always enthusiastically
demanded new roads for his arrondissement. During the dog-days he had
suffered from an abscess, which Charles had cured as if by miracle by
giving a timely little touch with the lancet. The steward sent to Tostes
to pay for the operation reported in the evening that he had seen some
superb cherries in the doctor's little garden. Now cherry-trees did not
thrive at Vaubyessard; the Marquis asked Bovary for some slips; made it
his business to thank him personally; saw Emma; thought she had a pretty
figure, and that she did not bow like a peasant; so that he did not
think he was going beyond the bounds of condescension, nor, on the other
hand, making a mistake, in inviting the young couple.

One Wednesday at three o'clock, Monsieur and Madame Bovary, seated in
their dog-cart, set out for Vaubyessard, with a great trunk strapped on
behind and a bonnet-box in front on the apron. Besides these Charles
held a bandbox between his knees.

They arrived at nightfall, just as the lamps in the park were being
lighted to show the carriage-drive.


VIII.

GLIMPSES OF THE WORLD.


The château, a modern building in Italian style, with two projecting
wings and three flights of steps, lay at the foot of an immense
green-sward, on which some cows were grazing among groups of large trees
set out at regular intervals, while large beds of arbutus, rhododendron,
syringas, and guelder roses bulged out their irregular clusters of green
along the curve of the gravel path. A river flowed under a bridge;
through the mist one could distinguish buildings with thatched roofs
scattered over the field bordered by two gently-sloping well-timbered
hillocks, and in the background amid the trees rose in two parallel
lines the coach-houses and stables, all that was left of the ruined old
château.

Charles's dog-cart pulled up before the middle flight of steps; servants
appeared; the Marquis came forward, and offering his arm to the doctor's
wife, conducted her to the vestibule.

It was paved with marble slabs, was very lofty, and the sound of
footsteps and that of voices re-echoed through it as in a church.
Opposite rose a straight staircase, and on the left a gallery
overlooking the garden led to the billiard-room, through whose door one
could hear the click of the ivory balls. As she crossed it to go to the
drawing-room, Emma saw standing round the table men with grave faces,
their chins resting on high cravats. They all wore orders, and smiled
silently as they made their strokes. On the dark wainscoting of the
walls large gold frames bore at the bottom names written in black
letters. She read:

     "Jean-Antoine d'Andervilliers d'Yverbonville, Count de la
     Vaubyessard and Baron de la Fresnaye, killed at the battle of
     Coutras on the 20th of October 1587."

And on another:

     "Jean-Antoine-Henry-Guy d'Andervilliers de la Vaubyessard, Admiral
     of France and Chevalier of the Order of St. Michael, wounded at the
     battle of the Hougue-Saint-Vaast on the 29th of May 1692; died at
     Vaubyessard on the 23rd of January 1693."

One could hardly make out those that followed, for the light of the
lamps lowered over the green cloth threw a dim shadow round the room.
Burnishing the horizontal pictures, it broke up against these in
delicate lines where there were cracks in the varnish, and from all
these great black squares framed in with gold stood out here and there
some lighter portion of the painting--a pale brow, two eyes that looked
at you, perukes flowing over and powdering red-coated shoulders, or the
buckle of a garter above a well-rounded calf.

The Marquis opened the drawing-room door; one of the ladies (the
Marchioness herself) came to meet Emma. She made her sit down by her on
an ottoman, and began talking to her as amicably as if she had known her
a long time. She was about forty years old, with fine shoulders, a hook
nose, a drawling voice, and on this evening she wore over her brown hair
a simple guipure fichu that fell in a point at the back. A fair young
woman was by her side in a high-backed chair, and gentlemen with flowers
in their buttonholes were talking to ladies round the fire.

At seven dinner was served. The men, who were in the majority, sat down
at the first table in the vestibule; the ladies at the second in the
dining-room with the Marquis and Marchioness.

Emma, on entering, felt herself wrapped round by the warm air, a
blending of the perfume of flowers and of the fine linen, of the fumes
of the viands, and the odor of the truffles. The silver dish-covers
reflected the lighted wax candles in the candelabra, the cut crystal
covered with light steam reflected pale rays from one to the other;
bouquets were placed in a row the whole length of the table; and in the
large-bordered plates each napkin, arranged after the fashion of a
bishop's miter, held between its two gaping folds a small oval-shaped
roll. The red claws of lobsters hung over the dishes; rich fruit in open
baskets was piled up on moss; there were quails in their plumage; smoke
was rising; and in silk stockings, knee-breeches, white cravat, and
frilled shirt, the steward, grave as a judge, offered ready-carved
dishes between the shoulders of the guests, and with a touch of the
spoon gave the piece chosen. On the large stove of porcelain inlaid with
copper baguettes the statue of a woman, draped to the chin, gazed
motionless on the room full of life.

Madame Bovary noticed that many ladies had not put their gloves in their
glasses.

But at the upper end of the table, alone among all those women, bent
over his full plate, with his napkin tied round his neck like a child,
an old man sat eating, letting drops of gravy drip from his mouth. His
eyes were bloodshot, and he wore a little queue tied with a black
ribbon. He was the Marquis's father-in-law, the old Duke de Laverdière,
once on a time favorite of the Count d'Artois, in the days of the
Vaudreuil hunting-parties at the Marquis de Conflans', and had been, it
was said, the lover of Queen Marie Antoinette, between Monsieur de
Coigny and Monsieur de Lauzun. He had lived a life of noisy debauch,
full of duels, bets, elopements; he had squandered his fortune and
frightened all his family. A servant behind his chair named aloud to him
in his ear the dishes that he pointed to, stammering, and constantly
Emma's eyes turned involuntarily to this old man with hanging lips, as
to something extraordinary. He had lived at court and slept in the bed
of queens!

Iced champagne was poured out. Emma shivered all over as she felt it
cold in her mouth. She had never seen pomegranates nor tasted
pine-apples. The powdered sugar even seemed to her whiter and finer than
elsewhere.

The ladies afterward went to their rooms to prepare for the ball.

Emma made her toilet with the fastidious care of an actress on her
début. She did her hair according to the directions of the hairdresser,
and put on the barège dress spread out upon the bed. Charles's trousers
were tight across the belly.

"My trouser-straps will be rather awkward for dancing," he said.

"Dancing?" repeated Emma.

"Yes!"

"Why, you must be mad! They would make fun of you; keep your place.
Besides, it is more becoming for a doctor," she added.

Charles was silent. He walked up and down waiting for Emma to finish
dressing.

He saw her from behind in the glass between two lights. Her black eyes
seemed blacker than ever. Her hair, undulating toward the ears, shone
with a blue luster; a rose in her chignon trembled on its mobile stalk,
with artificial dewdrops on the tips of the leaves. She wore a gown of
pale saffron trimmed with three bouquets of pompon roses mixed with
green.

Charles came and kissed her on her shoulder.

"Let me alone!" she said; "you are tumbling me."

One could hear the flourish of the violin and the notes of a horn. She
went downstairs restraining herself from running.

Dancing had begun. Guests were arriving. There was some crushing. She
sat down on a form near the door.

The quadrille over, the floor was occupied by groups of men standing up
and talking and servants in livery bearing large trays. Along the line
of seated women painted fans were fluttering, bouquets half-hid smiling
faces, and gold-stoppered scent-bottles were turned in partly-closed
hands, whose white gloves outlined the nails and tightened on the flesh
at the wrists. Lace trimmings, diamond brooches, medallion bracelets
trembled on bodices, gleamed on breasts, clinked on bare arms. The hair,
well smoothed over the temples and knotted at the nape, bore crowns, or
bunches, or sprays of myosotis, jasmine, pomegranate blossoms, ears of
corn, and cornflowers. Calmly seated in their places, mothers with
forbidding countenances were wearing red turbans.

Emma's heart beat rather faster when, her partner holding her by the
tips of the fingers, she took her place in a line with the dancers, and
waited for the first note to start. But her emotion soon vanished, and,
swaying to the rhythm of the orchestra, she glided forward with slight
movements of the neck. A smile rose to her lips at certain delicate
phrases of the violin, that sometimes played alone while the other
instruments were silent; one could hear the clear clink of the
louis-d'or that were being thrown down upon the card-tables in the next
room; then all struck in again, the cornet-à-piston uttered its sonorous
note, feet marked time, skirts swelled and rustled, hands touched and
parted; the same eyes falling before you met yours again.

A few men (some fifteen or so), of twenty-five to forty, scattered here
and there among the dancers or talking at the doorways, distinguished
themselves from the crowd by a certain air of breeding, whatever their
differences in age, dress, or face.

Their clothes, better made, seemed of finer cloth, and their hair,
brought forward in curls towards the temples, glossy with more delicate
pomades. They had the complexion of wealth,--that clear complexion that
is heightened by the pallor of porcelain, the shimmer of satin, the
veneer of old furniture, and that an ordered regimen of exquisite
nurture maintains at its best. Their necks moved easily in their low
cravats, their long whiskers fell over their turned-down collars, they
wiped their lips upon handkerchiefs, with embroidered initials, that
gave forth a subtle perfume. Those who were beginning to grow old had an
air of youth, while there was something mature in the faces of the
young. In their unconcerned looks was the calm of passions daily
satiated, and through all their gentleness of manner pierced that
peculiar brutality, the result of a command of half-easy things, in
which force is exercised and vanity amused--the management of
thoroughbred horses and the society of loose women.

A few steps from Emma a gentleman in a blue coat was talking of Italy
with a pale young woman wearing a parure of pearls.

They were praising the breadth of the columns of St. Peter's, Tivoli,
Vesuvius, Castellamare, and Cassines, the roses of Genoa, the Coliseum
by moonlight. With her other ear Emma was listening to a conversation
full of words she did not understand. "'And the young girl I saw your
daughter?'
"'Yes, sir, she is my daughter.'
"'And how came the good woman not to tell me you were her husband?'
"'I suppose, sir, you did not ask who I was, and she thought you
did not care to know.' . . ."

To multiply instances might cease to be amusing. It may have been Borrow's
right way of getting what he wanted, though it sounds like a Charity
Organization inquisitor. As to the effectiveness of setting down every
step of the process instead of the result, there can hardly be two
opinions, unless the reader prefers an impression of the wandering
inquisitive gentleman to one of the people questioned. Probably these
barren dialogues may be set down to indolence or to the too facile
adoption of a trick. They are too casual and slight to be exact, and
on the other hand they are too literal to give a direct impression.

Luckily he diversified such conversation with stories of poets and
robbers, gleaned from his books or from wayside company. The best of
this company was naturally not the humble homekeeping publican or
cottager, but the man or woman of the roads, Gypsy or Irish.

The vagabond Irish, for example, give him early in the book an
effective contrast to the more quiet Welsh; his guide tells how
they gave him a terrible fright:
"I had been across the Berwyn to carry home a piece of weaving work
to a person who employs me.

It was night as I returned, and when I was about half-way down the hill,
at a place which is called Allt Paddy, because the Gwyddelod are
in the habit of taking up their quarters there, I came upon a gang
of them, who had come there and camped and lighted their fire,
whilst I was on the other side of the hill.

There were nearly twenty of them, men and women, and amongst the rest
was a man standing naked in a tub of water with two women stroking him
down with clouts. He was a large fierce-looking fellow, and his body,
on which the flame of the fire glittered, was nearly covered with red
hair. I never saw such a sight.

As I passed they glared at me and talked violently in their Paddy Gwyddel,
but did not offer to molest me. I hastened down the hill, and right
glad I was when I found myself safe and sound at my house in
Llangollen, with my money in my pocket, for I had several shillings
there, which the man across the hill had paid me for the work which I had
done."
The best man in the book is the Irish fiddler, with a shock of red
hair, a hat that had lost part of its crown and all its rim, and
a game leg.

This Irishman in the early part of the book and the Irishwoman at the
end are characters that Borrow could put his own blood into. He has
done so in a manner equal to anything in the same kind in his earlier
books.

I shall quote the whole interview with the man. It is an admirable piece
of imagination. If any man thinks it anything else, let him spend ten
years in taking down conversations in trains and taverns and ten years
in writing them up, and should he have anything as good as this
to show, he has a most rare talent:

"'Good morning to you,' said I.

"'A good marning to your hanner, a merry afternoon, and a roaring joyous
evening--that is the worst luck I wish to ye.'
"'Are you a native of these parts?' said I.

"'Not exactly, your hanner--I am a native of the city of Dublin, or,
what's all the same thing, of the village of Donnybrook which is close
by it.'
"'A celebrated place,' said I.

"'Your hanner may say that; all the world has heard of Donnybrook, owing
to the humours of its fair.

Many is the merry tune I have played to the boys at that fair.'
"'You are a professor of music, I suppose?'
"'And not a very bad one as your hanner will say if you will allow
me to play you a tune.'

"'Can you play "Croppies Lie Down"?'
"'I cannot, your hanner; my fingers never learnt to play such a
blackguard tune; but if ye wish to hear "Croppies Get Up" I can oblige
ye.'

"'You are a Roman Catholic, I suppose?'
"'I am not, your hanner--I am a Catholic to the backbone, just like
my father before me.

Come, your hanner, shall I play ye "Croppies Get Up"?'
"'No,' said I; 'It's a tune that doesn't please my ears. If, however, you
choose to play "Croppies Lie Down," I'll give you a shilling.'
"'Your hanner will give me a shilling?'
"'Yes,' said I, 'if you play "Croppies Lie Down": but you know you
cannot play it, your fingers never learned the tune.'

"'They never did, your hanner; but they have heard it played of
ould by the blackguard Orange fiddlers of Dublin on the first of
July, when the Protestant boys used to walk round Willie's statue
on College Green--so if your hanner gives me the shilling they may
perhaps bring out something like it.'

"'Very good,' said I; 'begin!'
"'But, your hanner, what shall we do for the words? Though my fingers
may remember the tune, my tongue does not remember the words--that is
unless . . .'
"'I give another shilling,' said I; 'but never mind you the words;
I know the words, and will repeat them.'

"'And your hanner will give me a shilling?'
"'If you play the tune,' said I.

"'Hanner bright, your hanner?'
"'Honour bright,' said I.

"Thereupon the fiddler, taking his bow and shouldering his fiddle,
struck up in first-rate style the glorious tune, which I had so often
heard with rapture in the days of my boyhood in the barrack yard of
Clonmel; whilst I walking by his side as he stumped along, caused the
welkin to resound with the words, which were the delight of the young
gentlemen of the Protestant academy of that beautiful old town.

"'I never heard those words before,' said the fiddler, after I had
finished the first stanza.

"'Get on with you,' said I.

"'Regular Orange words!' said the fiddler, on my finishing the second
stanza.

"'Do you choose to get on?' said I.

"'More blackguard Orange words I never heard!'

cried the fiddler, on my coming to the conclusion of the third stanza.
'Divil a bit farther will I play; at any rate till I get the shilling.'

"'Here it is for you,' said I; 'the song is ended and of course the tune.'

"'Thank your hanner,' said the fiddler, taking the money, 'your hanner
has kept your word with me, which is more than I thought your
hanner would. And now, your hanner, let me ask you why did your hanner
wish for that tune, which is not only a blackguard one, but quite out
of date; and where did your hanner get the words?'

"'I used to hear the tune in my boyish days,' said I, 'and wished to
hear it again, for though you call it a blackguard tune, it is the
sweetest and most noble air that Ireland, the land of music, has
ever produced.

As for the words, never mind where I got them; they are violent enough,
but not half so violent as the words of some of the songs made against
the Irish Protestants by the priests.'
"'Your hanner is an Orange man, I see.

Well, your hanner, the Orange is now in the kennel, and the Croppies have
it all their own way.'

"'And perhaps,' said I, 'before I die, the Orange will be out of
the kennel and the Croppies in, even as they were in my young days.'

"'Who knows, your hanner?

and who knows that I may not play the ould tune round Willie's image
in College Green, even as I used some twenty-seven years ago?'

"'O then you have been an Orange fiddler?'
"'I have, your hanner.

And now as your hanner has behaved like a gentleman to me I will tell
ye all my history.

I was born in the city of Dublin, that is in the village of
Donnybrook, as I tould your hanner before.

It was to the trade of bricklaying I was bred, and bricklaying I
followed till at last, getting my leg smashed, not by falling off
the ladder, but by a row in the fair, I was obliged to give it up,
for how could I run up the ladder with a patten on my foot, which
they put on to make my broken leg as long as the other.

Well, your hanner; being obliged to give up my bricklaying, I took to
fiddling, to which I had always a natural inclination, and played
about the streets, and at fairs, and wakes, and weddings. At length
some Orange men getting acquainted with me, and liking my style
of playing, invited me to their lodge, where they gave me to drink,
and tould me that if I would change my religion and join them, and
play their tunes, they would make it answer my purpose.

Well, your hanner, without much stickling I gave up my Popery,
joined the Orange lodge, learned the Orange tunes, and became a
regular Protestant boy, and truly the Orange men kept their word,
and made it answer my purpose.

O the meat and drink I got, and the money I made by playing at the
Orange lodges and before the processions when the Orange men paraded
the streets with their Orange colours.

And O, what a day for me was the glorious first of July when with my
whole body covered with Orange ribbons I fiddled "Croppies Lie Down"--"Boyne
Water," and the "Protestant Boys" before the procession which
walked round Willie's figure on horseback in College Green, the man
and horse all ablaze with Orange colours.

But nothing lasts under the sun, as your hanner knows; Orangeism
began to go down; the Government scowled at it, and at last passed
a law preventing the Protestant boys dressing up the figure on the
first of July, and walking round it.

That was the death-blow of the Orange party, your hanner; they never
recovered it, but began to despond and dwindle, and I with them, for
there was scarcely any demand for Orange tunes.

Then Dan O'Connell arose with his emancipation and repale cries, and then
instead of Orange processions and walkings, there were Papist
processions and mobs, which made me afraid to stir out, lest knowing me
for an Orange fiddler, they should break my head, as the boys broke
my leg at Donnybrook fair. At length some of the repalers and emancipators
knowing that I was a first-rate hand at fiddling came to me, and tould
me, that if I would give over playing "Croppies Lie Down" and other
Orange tunes, and would play "Croppies Get Up," and what not, and
become a Catholic and a repaler, and an emancipator, they would make a
man of me--so as my Orange trade was gone, and I was half-starved, I
consinted, not however till they had introduced me to Daniel O'Connell,
who called me a credit to my country, and the Irish Horpheus, and
promised me a sovereign if I would consint to join the cause, as
he called it.

Well, your hanner, I joined with the cause and became a Papist, I mane
a Catholic once more, and went at the head of processions, covered all
over with green ribbons, playing "Croppies Get Up," "Granny Whale,"
and the like. But, your hanner; though I went the whole hog with
the repalers and emancipators, they did not make their words
good by making a man of me.

Scant and sparing were they in the mate and drink, and yet more
sparing in the money, and Daniel O'Connell never gave me the sovereign
which he promised me.

No, your hanner, though I played "Croppies Get Up," till my fingers
ached, as I stumped before him and his mobs and processions, he
never gave me the sovereign: unlike your hanner who gave me the
shilling ye promised me for playing "Croppies Lie Down," Daniel
O'Connell never gave me the sovereign he promised me for playing
"Croppies Get Up."

Och, your hanner, I often wished the ould Orange days were back again.
However as I could do no better I continued going the whole hog
with the emancipators and repalers and Dan O'Connell; I went the
whole animal with them till they had got emancipation; and I went the
whole animal with them till they nearly got repale--when all of
a sudden they let the whole thing drop--Dan and his party having
frighted the Government out of its seven senses, and gotten all they
thought they could get, in money and places, which was all they wanted,
let the whole hullabaloo drop, and of course myself, who formed part of
it. I went to those who had persuaded me to give up my Orange tunes, and
to play Papist ones, begging them to give me work; but they tould me very
civilly that they had no farther occasion for my services. I went to
Daniel O'Connell reminding him of the sovereign he had promised me, and
offering if he gave it me to play "Croppies Get Up" under the nose of
the lord-lieutenant himself; but he tould me that he had not time to
attend to me, and when I persisted, bade me go to the Divil and shake
myself.

Well, your hanner, seeing no prospect for myself in my own country,
and having incurred some little debts, for which I feared to be arrested,
I came over to England and Wales, where with little content and
satisfaction I have passed seven years.'
"'Well,' said I, 'thank you for your history--farewell.'

"'Stap, your hanner; does your hanner think that the Orange will
ever be out of the kennel, and that the Orange boys will ever walk round
the brass man and horse in College Green as they did of ould?'
"'Who knows?' said I.

'But suppose all that were to happen, what would it signify to you?'

"'Why then Divil in my patten if I would not go back to Donnybrook and
Dublin, hoist the Orange cockade, and become as good an Orange boy as
ever.'
"'What,' said I, 'and give up Popery for the second time?'
"'I would, your hanner; and why not?

for in spite of what I have heard Father Toban say, I am by no means
certain that all Protestants will be damned.'
"'Farewell,' said I.

"'Farewell, your hanner, and long life and prosperity to you! God bless
your hanner and your Orange face. Ah, the Orange boys are the boys for
keeping faith. They never served me as Dan O'Connell and his dirty gang
of repalers and emancipators did. Farewell, your hanner, once more; and
here's another scratch of the illigant tune your hanner is so
fond of, to cheer up your hanner's ears upon your way.'
"And long after I had left him I could hear him playing on his fiddle in
first-rate style the beautiful tune of 'Down, down, Croppies Lie Down.'"

CHAPTER XXX--"WILD WALES" (_continued_)

Much more than in any of his other books Borrow is the hero in "Wild
Wales"--a strange black-coated gentleman with white hair striding over
the hills and along the rivers, carrying an umbrella, asking innumerable
questions and giving infinite information about history, literature,
religion, politics, and minor matters, willing to talk to anyone, but
determined not to put up at a trampers' hostelry. The Irish at Chester
took him for a minister, the Irish reapers in Anglesey took him for a
priest and got him to bless them in Latin while they knelt. All wondered
to hear the Saxon speaking or reading in Welsh. A man who could speak
Spanish addressed him in that language as a foreigner--"'I can't
tell you how it was, sir,' said he, looking me very innocently in the
face, 'but I was forced to speak Spanish to you.'" At Pentre Dwr the
man with the pigs heard his remarks on pigs and said: "I see you are in
the trade and understand a thing or two." The man on the road south
to Tregaron told him that he looked and spoke like the Earl of
Leicester.

He reveals himself also without recourse to impartial men upon the
road.
The mere figure of the tall man inquiring for the birthplaces of poets
and literally translating place names for their meaning, is very
powerful in holding the attention. He does not conceal his opinions.
Some were already familiar to readers of Borrow, his admiration for
Smollett and for Scott as a writer, his hate of gentility, Cavaliers,
Papists, France, sherry, and teetotalism. He had some bad ale in Wales,
and he had some Allsopp, which he declared good enough for the
summer, and at Bala one of his best Welshmen gave him the best of
home-brewed, "rich and mellow, with scarcely any smack of the
hop in it, and though so pale and delicate to the eye nearly as strong
as brandy."

The Chester ale he spirted out of the window after the Chester
cheese. To his subjects of admiration he also adds Robert Southey, as
"not the least of Britain's four great latter poets, decidedly her best
prose writer, and probably the purest and most noble character to which
she has ever given birth"; but this was when he was thinking of Madoc,
the Welsh discoverer of America. I should be sorry to have to name
any of the other "four poets" except Byron.
Another literary _dictum_ is that Macpherson's "Ossian" is genuine
because a book which followed it and was undoubtedly genuine bore
a strong resemblance to it.

An opinion that shows as fully as any single one could Borrow's vivid
and vague inaccuracy and perversity is this of Snowdon:

"But it is from its connection with romance that Snowdon derives its chief
interest. Who when he thinks of Snowdon does not associate it with the
heroes of romance, Arthur and his knights? whose fictitious adventures,
the splendid dreams of Welsh and Breton minstrels, many of the scenes
of which are the valleys and passes of Snowdon, are the origin of
romance, before which what is classic has for more than half a
century been waning, and is perhaps eventually destined to disappear.

Yes, to romance Snowdon is indebted for its interest and consequently for
its celebrity; but for romance Snowdon would assuredly not be what it
at present is, one of the very celebrated hills of the world, and to the
poets of modern Europe almost what Parnassus was to those of old."
Who associates Snowdon with Arthur, and what Arthurian stories have the
valleys and passes of Snowdon for their scenes? what "poets of
modern Europe" have sung of it? And yet Borrow has probably often
carried this point with his reader.

Borrow as a Christian is very conspicuous in this book. He cannot speak
of Sir Henry Morgan without calling him "a scourge of God on the
cruel Spaniards of the New World. . . .

On which account God prospered and favoured him, permitting him to
attain the noble age of ninety." He was fond of discovering the hand of
God, for example, in changing a nunnery--"a place devoted to gorgeous
idolatry and obscene lust"--into a quiet old barn: "Surely," he asks,
"the hand of God is visible here?" and the respectful mower answers: "It
is so, sir." In the same way, when he has told a man called Dafydd
Tibbot, that he is a Frenchman--"Dearie me, sir, am I indeed?" says
the man, very pleased--he supposes the man a descendant of a proud,
cruel, violent Norman, for the descendants of proud, cruel and
violent men "are doomed by God to come to the dogs."

He tells us that he comforted himself, after thinking that his wife
and daughter and himself would before long be dead, by the reflection
that "such is the will of Heaven, and that Heaven is good." He showed
his respect for Sunday by going to church and hesitating to go to
Plynlimmon--"It is really not good to travel on the Sunday without
going into a place of worship." He wished, as he passed Gwynfe,
which means Paradise,--or _Gwynfa_ does; but no matter,--that he had
never read Tom Payne, who "thinks there's not such a place as Paradise."
He lectures a poet's mistress for not staying with her hunchbacked old
husband and making him comfortable: he expresses satisfaction at the
poet's late repentance.

Why, at least, was
not her husband one of those men of taciturn passions who work at their
books all night, and at last, when about sixty, the age when rheumatism
sets in, wear a string of orders on their ill-fitting black coats? She
could have wished this name of Bovary, which was hers, had been
illustrious, to see it displayed at the booksellers', repeated in the
newspapers, known to all France. But Charles had no ambition. An Yvetot
doctor whom he had lately met in consultation had somewhat humiliated
him at the very bedside of the patient, before the assembled relatives.
When, in the evening, Charles told her this anecdote, Emma inveighed
loudly against his colleague. Charles was much touched. He kissed her
forehead with a tear in his eyes. But she was angered with shame; she
felt a wild desire to strike him; she went to open the window in the
passage and breathed in the fresh air to calm herself.

"What a man! what a man!" she said in a low voice, biting her lips.

Besides, she was becoming more irritated with him. As he grew older his
manner grew heavier; at dessert he cut the corks of the empty bottles;
after eating he cleaned his teeth with his tongue; in taking soup he
made a gurgling noise with every spoonful; and, as he was getting
fatter, the puffed-out cheeks seemed to push the eyes, always small, up
to the temples.

Sometimes Emma tucked the red borders of his under-vest into his
waistcoat, rearranged his cravat, and threw away the soiled gloves he
was going to put on; and this was not, as he fancied, for himself; it
was for herself, by a diffusion of egotism, of nervous irritation.
Sometimes, too, she told him of what she had read, such as a passage in
a novel, of a new play, or an anecdote of the "upper ten" that she had
seen in a feuilleton; for, after all, Charles was something, an
ever-open ear, an ever-ready approbation. She confided many a thing to
her greyhound. She would have done so to the logs in the fireplace or to
the pendulum of the clock.

At bottom of her heart, however, she was waiting for something to
happen. Like shipwrecked sailors, she turned despairing eyes upon the
solitude of her life, seeking afar off some white sail in the mists of
the horizon. She did not know what this chance would be, what wind would
bring it her, toward what shore it would drive her, if it would be a
shallop or a three-decker, laden with anguish or full of bliss to the
port-holes. But each morning, as she awoke, she hoped it would come that
day; she listened to every sound, sprang up with a start, wondered that
it did not come; then at sunset, always more saddened, she longed for
the morrow.

Spring came round. With the first warm weather, when the pear-trees
began to blossom, she suffered from dyspnoea.

From the beginning of July she counted how many weeks there were to
October, thinking that perhaps the Marquis d'Andervilliers would give
another ball at Vaubyessard. But all September passed without letters or
visits.

After the ennui of this disappointment her heart once more remained
empty, and then the same series of days recommenced. So now they would
thus follow one another, always the same, immovable, and bringing
nothing. Other lives, however flat, had at least the chance of some
event. One adventure sometimes brought with it infinite consequences,
and the scene changed. But nothing happened to her; God had willed it
so! The future was a dark corridor, with its door at the end shut fast.

She gave up music. What was the good of playing? Who would hear her?
Since she could never, in a velvet gown with short sleeves, striking
with her light fingers the ivory keys of an Erard at a concert, feel
the murmur of ecstasy envelop her like a breeze, it was not worth while
boring herself with practising. Her drawing cardboard and her embroidery
she left in the cupboard. What was the good? what was the good? Sewing
irritated her. "I have read everything," she said to herself. And she
sat there making the tongs red-hot, or looked at the rain falling.

How sad she was on Sundays when vespers sounded! She listened with dull
attention to each stroke of the cracked bell. A cat slowly walking over
some roof put up his back in the pale rays of the sun. The wind on the
highroad blew up clouds of dust. Afar off a dog sometimes howled; and
the bell, keeping time, continued its monotonous ringing that died away
over the fields.

But the people came out from church. The women in waxed clogs, the
peasants in new blouses, the little bareheaded children skipping along
in front of them, all were going home. And till nightfall, five or six
men, always the same, stayed playing at corks in front of the large door
of the inn.

The winter was severe. The windows every morning were covered with rime,
and the light shining through them, dim as through ground-glass,
sometimes did not change the whole day long. At four o'clock the lamp
had to be lighted.

On fine days she went down into the garden. The dew had left on the
cabbages a silver lace with long transparent threads spreading from one
to the other. No birds were to be heard; everything seemed asleep, the
espalier covered with straw, and the vine, like a great sick serpent
under the coping of the wall, along which, on drawing near, one saw the
many-footed woodlice crawling. Under the spruce by the hedgerow, the
curé in the three-cornered hat reading his breviary had lost his right
foot, and the very plaster, scaling off with the frost, had left white
scabs on his face.

Then she went up again, shut her door, put on coals, and fainting with
the heat of the hearth, felt her boredom weigh more heavily than ever.
She would have liked to go down and talk to the servant, but a sense of
shame restrained her.

Every day at the same time the schoolmaster in a black skull-cap opened
the shutters of his house, and the rural policeman, wearing his sabre
over his blouse, passed by. Night and morning the post-horses, three by
three, crossed the street to water at the pond. From time to time the
bell of a public-house door rang, and when it was windy one could hear
the little brass basins that served as signs for the hairdresser's shop
creaking on their two rods. This shop had as decoration an old engraving
of a fashion-plate stuck against a window-pane and the wax bust of a
woman with yellow hair. He, too, the hairdresser, lamented his wasted
calling, his hopeless future, and dreaming of some shop in a big
town--at Rouen, for example, overlooking the harbor, near the
theater--he walked up and down all day from the mairie to the church,
sombre, and waiting for customers. When Madame Bovary looked up, she
always saw him there, like a sentinel on duty, with his skull-cap over
his ears and his waistcoat of lasting.

Sometimes in the afternoon, outside the window of her room, the head of
a man appeared, a swarthy head with black whiskers, smiling slowly, with
a broad, gentle smile that showed his white teeth. A waltz immediately
began, and on the organ, in a little drawing-room, dancers the size of a
finger, women in pink turbans, Tyrolians in jackets, monkeys in
frock-coats, gentlemen in knee-breeches, turned and turned between the
sofas, the consoles, multiplied in the bits of looking-glass held
together at their corners by a piece of gold paper. The man turned his
handle, looking to the right and left, and up at the windows. Now and
again, while he shot out a long squirt of brown saliva against the
milestone, with his knee he raised his instrument, whose hard straps
tired his shoulder; and now, doleful and drawling, or gay and hurried,
the music escaped from the box, droning through a curtain of pink
taffeta under a brass claw in arabesque. They were airs played in other
places at the theaters, sung in drawing-rooms, danced to at night under
lighted lustres, echoes of the world that reached even to Emma. Endless
sarabands ran through her head, and, like an Indian dancing-girl on the
flowers of a carpet, her thoughts leaped with the notes, swung from
dream to dream, from sadness to sadness. When the man had caught some
coppers in his cap, he drew down an old cover of blue cloth, hitched his
organ on to his back, and went off with a heavy tread. She watched him
going.

But it was above all the meal-times that were unbearable to her, in this
small room on the ground-floor, with its smoking stove, its creaking
door, the walls that sweated, the damp flags; all the bitterness of life
seemed served up on her plate, and with the smoke of the boiled beef
arose from her secret soul whiffs of sickliness. Charles was a slow
eater; she played with a few nuts, or, leaning on her elbow, amused
herself with drawing lines along the oil-cloth table-cover with the
point of her knife.

She now let everything in her household take care of itself, and Madame
Bovary senior, when she came to spend part of Lent at Tostes, was much
surprised at the change. She who was formerly so careful, so dainty, now
passed whole days without dressing, wore gray cotton stockings, and
burnt tallow candles. She kept saying they must be economical since they
were not rich, adding that she was very contented, very happy, that
Tostes pleased her very much, with other speeches that closed the mouth
of her mother-in-law. Besides, Emma no longer seemed inclined to follow
her advice; once even, Madame Bovary having thought fit to maintain that
mistresses ought to keep an eye on the religion of their servants, she
had answered with so angry a look and so cold a smile that the good
woman did not mention it again.

Emma was growing _difficile_, capricious. She ordered dishes for
herself, then she did not touch them; one day drank only pure milk, and
the next cups of tea by the dozen. Often she persisted in not going out,
then, stifling, threw open the windows and put on light frocks. After
she had well scolded her servant, she gave her presents or sent her out
to see the neighbors, just as she sometimes threw beggars all the silver
in her purse, although she was by no means tender-hearted or easily
accessible to the feelings of others, like most country-bred people, who
always retain in their souls something of the horny hardness of the
paternal hands.

Toward the end of February old Rouault, in memory of his cure, himself
brought his son-in-law a superb turkey, and stayed three days at Tostes.
Charles being with his patients, Emma kept him company. He smoked in
the room, spat on the fire-dogs, talked farming, calves, cows, poultry,
and municipal council, so that when he left she closed the door on him
with a feeling of satisfaction that surprised even herself. Moreover,
she no longer concealed her contempt for anything or anybody, and at
times she set herself to express singular opinions, finding fault with
that which others approved, and approving things perverse and immoral,
all which made her husband open his eyes widely.

Would this misery last forever? Would she never issue from it? Yet she
was as good as all the women who were living happily. She had seen
duchesses at Vaubyessard with clumsier waists and commoner ways, and she
execrated the injustice of God. She leant her head against the walls to
weep; she envied lives of stir; longed for masked balls, for violent
pleasures, with all the wildness, that she did not know, but that these
must surely yield.

She grew pale and suffered from palpitations of the heart. Charles
prescribed valerian and camphor baths. Everything that was tried only
seemed to irritate her the more.

On certain days she chattered with feverish rapidity, and this
over-excitement was suddenly followed by a state of torpor, in which she
remained without speaking, without moving. What then revived her was
pouring a bottle of eau-de-cologne over her arms.

As she was constantly complaining about Tostes, Charles fancied that her
illness was no doubt due to some local cause, and fixing on this idea,
began to think seriously of setting up elsewhere.

From that moment she drank vinegar, contracted a sharp little cough, and
completely lost her appetite.

It cost Charles much to give up Tostes after living there four years and
when he was "beginning to get on there." Yet if it must be! He took her
to Rouen to see his old master. It was a nervous complaint: change of
air was needed.

After looking about him on this side and on that, Charles learnt that in
the Neufchâtel arrondissement there was a considerable market-town
called Yonville l'Abbaye, whose doctor, a Polish refugee, had decamped a
week before. Then he wrote to the chemist of the place to ask the number
of the population, the distance from the nearest doctor, what his
predecessor had made a year, and so forth; and the answer being
satisfactory, he made up his mind to move towards the spring, if Emma's
health did not improve.

One day when, in view of her departure, she was tidying a drawer,
something pricked her finger. It was a wire of her wedding-bouquet. The
orange blossoms were yellow with dust and the silver-bordered satin
ribbons frayed at the edges. She threw it into the fire. It flared up
more quickly than dry straw. Then it was like a red bush in the cinders,
slowly devoured. She watched it burn. The little pasteboard berries
burst, the wire twisted, the gold lace melted; and the shrivelled paper
corollas, fluttering like black butterflies at the back of the stove, at
last flew up the chimney.

When they left Tostes in the month of March, Madame Bovary was
pregnant.


PART II.

I.

A NEW FIELD.


Yonville-l'Abbaye (so called from an old Capuchin abbey of which not
even the ruins remain) is a market-town twenty-four miles from Rouen,
between the Abbeville and Beauvais roads, at the foot of a valley
watered by the Rieule, a little river that runs into the Andelle after
turning three water-mills near its mouth, where there are a few trout
that the lads amuse themselves by fishing for on Sundays.

We leave the highroad at La Boissière and keep straight on to the top of
the Leux hill, whence the valley is seen. The river that runs through it
makes of it, as it were, two regions with distinct physiognomies,--all
on the left is pasture land, all on the right arable. The meadow
stretches under a bulge of low hills to join at the back with the
pasture land of the Bray country, while on the eastern side, the plain,
gently rising, broadens out, showing as far as eye can follow its blond
cornfields. The water, flowing by the grass, divides with a white line
the color of the roads and of the plains, and the country is like a
great unfolded mantle with a green velvet cape bordered with a fringe of
silver.

Before us, on the verge of the horizon, lie the oaks of the forest of
Argueil, with the steeps of the Saint-Jean hills scarred from top to
bottom with red irregular lines; they are rain-tracks, and these
brick-tones standing out in narrow streaks against the gray color of the
mountain are due to the quantity of iron springs that flow beyond in the
neighboring country.

Here we are on the confines of Normandy, Picardy, and the Île-de-France,
a bastard land, whose language is without accent as its landscape is
without character. It is there that they make the worst Neufchâtel
cheeses of all the arrondissement; and, on the other hand, farming is
costly because so much manure is needed to enrich this friable soil full
of sand and flints.

Up to 1835 there was no practicable road for getting to Yonville, but
about this time a cross-road was made which joins that of Abbeville to
that of Amiens, and is occasionally used by the Rouen wagoners on their
way to Flanders. Yonville-l'Abbaye has remained stationary in spite of
its "new outlet." Instead of improving the soil, they persist in keeping
up the pasture lands, however depreciated they may be in value, and the
lazy borough, growing away from the plain, has naturally spread
riverwards. It is seen from afar sprawling along the banks like a
cowherd taking a siesta by the waterside.

At the foot of the hill beyond the bridge begins a roadway, planted with
young aspens, that leads in a straight line to the first houses in the
place. These, fenced in by hedges, are in the middle of courtyards full
of straggling buildings, wine-presses, cart-sheds, and distilleries
scattered under thick trees, with ladders, poles, or scythes hung on to
the branches. The thatched roofs, like fur caps drawn over eyes, reach
down over about a third of the low windows, whose coarse convex glasses
have knots in the middle like the bottoms of bottles. Against the
plaster wall, diagonally crossed by black joists, a meagre pear-tree
sometimes leans, and the ground floors have at their door a small
swing-gate, to keep out the chicks that come pilfering crumbs of bread
steeped in cider on the threshold. But the courtyards grow narrower, the
houses closer together, and the fences disappear; a bundle of ferns
swings under a window from the end of a broomstick; there is a
blacksmith's forge and then a wheelwright's, with two or three new carts
outside that partly block up the way. Then across an open space appears
a white house beyond a grass mound ornamented by a Cupid, his finger on
his lips; two brass vases are at each end of a flight of steps;
scutcheons[2] blaze upon the door. As a rule, when Borrow gets away
from life and begins to think about it, he ceases to be an individual
and becomes a tame and entirely convenient member of society, fit
for the Commission of the Peace or a berth at the British Museum.

After he has made 20 pounds by pen-slavery and saved himself from
serious poverty, he exclaims:
"Reader, amidst the difficulties and dangers of this life, should
you ever be tempted to despair, call to mind these latter chapters
of the life of Lavengro.

There are few positions, however difficult, from which dogged resolution
and perseverance may not liberate you."
When he comes to discuss his own work he says that "it represents him,
however, as never forgetting that he is the son of a brave but poor
gentleman, and that if he is a hack author, he is likewise a scholar.
It shows him doing no dishonourable jobs, and proves that if he occasionally
associates with low characters, he does so chiefly to gratify the
curiosity of a scholar. In his conversations with the apple-woman of
London Bridge, the scholar is ever apparent, so again in his acquaintance
with the man of the table, for the book is no raker up of the
uncleanness of London, and if it gives what at first sight appears
refuse, it invariably shows that a pearl of some kind, generally a
philological one, is contained amongst it; it shows its hero always
accompanied by his love of independence, scorning in the greatest
poverty to receive favours from anybody, and describes him finally
rescuing himself from peculiarly miserable circumstances by writing
a book, an original book, within a week, even as Johnson is said
to have written his 'Rasselas,' and Beckford his 'Vathek,' and tells
how, leaving London, he betakes himself to the roads and fields.

"In the country it shows him leading a life of roving adventure, becoming
tinker, Gypsy, postillion, ostler; associating with various kinds of
people, chiefly of the lower classes, whose ways and habits are
described; but, though leading this erratic life, we gather from
the book that his habits are neither vulgar nor vicious, that he still
follows to a certain extent his favourite pursuits, hunting after
strange characters, or analysing strange words and names. At the
conclusion of Chapter XLVII., which terminates the first part of the
history, it hints that he is about to quit his native land on a grand
philological expedition.

"Those who read this book with attention--and the author begs to observe
that it would be of little utility to read it hurriedly--may derive much
information with respect to matters of philology and literature; it
will be found treating of most of the principal languages from
Ireland to China, and of the literature which they contain. . . ."

Away from the dingle and Jasper his view of life is as follows--ale,
Tate and Brady, and the gloves:
"But, above all, the care and providence of God are manifested in
the case of Lavengro himself, by the manner in which he is enabled
to make his way in the world up to a certain period, without falling
a prey either to vice or poverty.

In his history there is a wonderful illustration of part of the text quoted
by his mother, 'I have been young, and now am old, yet never saw I the
righteous forsaken, or his seed begging bread.' He is the son
of good and honourable parents, but at the critical period of life, that
of entering into the world, he finds himself without any earthly friend
to help him, yet he manages to make his way; he does not become a
Captain in the Life Guards, it is true, nor does he get into Parliament,
nor does the last chapter conclude in the most satisfactory and
unobjectionable manner, by his marrying a dowager countess, as that
wise man Addison did, or by his settling down as a great country
gentleman, perfectly happy and contented, like the very moral Roderick
Random, or the equally estimable Peregrine Pickle; he is hack author,
Gypsy, tinker, and postillion, yet, upon the whole, he seems to be
quite as happy as the younger sons of most earls, to have as high
feelings of honour; and when the reader loses sight of him, he has
money in his pocket honestly acquired, to enable him to commence a
journey quite as laudable as those which the younger sons of earls
generally undertake.

Surely all this is a manifestation of the kindness and providence of
God: and yet he is not a religious person; up to the time when the
reader loses sight of him, he is decidedly not a religious person; he has
glimpses, it is true, of that God who does not forsake him, but he
prays very seldom, is not fond of going to church; and, though he
admires Tate and Brady's version of the Psalms, his admiration is
rather caused by the beautiful poetry which that version contains
than the religion; yet his tale is not finished--like the tale of
the gentleman who touched objects, and that of the old man who knew
Chinese without knowing what was o'clock; perhaps, like them, he
is destined to become religious, and to have, instead of occasional
glimpses, frequent and distinct views of his God; yet, though he
may become religious, it is hardly to be expected that he will
become a very precise and strait-laced person; it is probable that
he will retain, with his scholarship, something of his Gypsyism,
his predilection for the hammer and tongs, and perhaps some inclination
to put on certain gloves, not white kid, with any friend who may
be inclined for a little old English diversion, and a readiness to
take a glass of ale, with plenty of malt in it, and as little hop
as may well be--ale at least two years old--with the aforesaid
friend, when the diversion is over; for, as it is the belief of the
writer that a person may get to heaven very comfortably without
knowing what's o'clock, so it is his belief that he will not be
refused admission there because to the last he has been fond of
healthy and invigorating exercises, and felt a willingness to partake
of any of the good things which it pleases the Almighty to put
within the reach of His children during their sojourn upon earth."

It is quite evident then that Borrow does not advocate the open air,
the tinkers' trade, and a-roving-a-roving, for the sons of gentlemen.
It is not apparent that the open air did his health much good. As for
tinkering, it was, he declares, a necessity and for lack of
anything better to do, and he realised that he was only playing at it.
When he was looking for a subject for his pen he rejected Harry Simms
and Jemmy Abershaw because both, though bold and extraordinary men, were
"merely highwaymen."
On the other hand, when he has known a "bad man" he cannot content
himself with mere disapproval.

Take, for example, his friends the murderers, Haggart and Thurtell. He
shows Haggart as an ambitious lad too full of life, "with fine materials
for a hero." He calls the fatalist's question: "Can an Arabian steed
submit to be a vile drudge?"

--nonsense, saying: "The greatest victory which a man can achieve is
over himself, by which is meant those unruly passions which are
not convenient to the time and place." Then he exclaims:

"But peace to thee, poor David! why should a mortal worm be sitting in
judgment over thee? The Mighty and Just One has already judged thee,
and perhaps above thou hast received pardon for thy crimes, which
could not be pardoned here below; and now that thy feverish existence
has closed, and thy once active form become inanimate dust, thy
very memory all but forgotten, I will say a few words about thee,
a few words soon also to be forgotten.

Thou wast the most extraordinary robber that ever lived within the
belt of Britain; Scotland rang with thy exploits, and England, too, north
of the Humber; strange deeds also didst thou achieve when, fleeing
from justice, thou didst find thyself in the sister Isle; busy wast
thou there in town and on curragh, at fair and race-course, and also
in the solitary place. Ireland thought thee her child, for who spoke her
brogue better than thyself?--she felt proud of thee, and said, 'Sure,
O'Hanlon is come again.' What might not have been thy fate in the far
west in America, whither thou hadst turned thine eye, saying, 'I
will go there, and become an honest man!' But thou wast not to go there,
David--the blood which thou hadst shed in Scotland was to be required
of thee; the avenger was at hand, the avenger of blood.

Seized, manacled, brought back to thy native land, condemned to die,
thou wast left in thy narrow cell, and told to make the most of thy
time, for it was short; and there, in thy narrow cell, and thy
time so short, thou didst put the crowning stone to thy strange deeds,
by that strange history of thyself, penned by thine own hand in
the robber tongue.

Thou mightest have been better employed, David!--but the ruling
passion was strong with thee, even in the jaws of death. Thou mightest
have been better employed!--but peace be with thee, I repeat, and the
Almighty's grace and pardon."
He makes the jockey speak in the same fashion of Thurtell whom he went to
see hanged, according to an old agreement:

"I arrived at H--- just in the nick of time. There was the ugly jail--the
scaffold--and there upon it stood the only friend I ever had in
the world.

Driving my Punch, which was all in a foam, into the midst of the crowd,
which made way for me as if it knew what I came for, I stood up
in my gig, took off my hat, and shouted, 'God Almighty bless you,
Jack!'

The dying man turned his pale grim face towards me--for his face
was always somewhat grim, do you see--nodded and said, or I thought
I heard him say, 'All right, old chap.'

The next moment . . . my eyes water. He had a high heart, got into a scrape
whilst in the Marines, lost his half-pay, took to the turf, ring,
gambling, and at last cut the throat of a villain who had robbed him of
nearly all he had.

But he had good qualities, and I know for certain that he never did
half the bad things laid to his charge; for example, he never bribed
Tom Oliver to fight cross, as it was said he did, on the day of the
awful thunderstorm.

Ned Flatnose fairly beat Tom Oliver, for though Ned was not what's called
a good fighter, he had a particular blow, which if he could put in he was
sure to win.

His right shoulder, do you see, was two inches farther back than
it ought to have been, and consequently his right fist generally fell
short; but if he could swing himself round, and put in a blow with that
right arm, he could kill or take away the senses of anybody in the world.
It was by putting in that blow in his second fight with Spring that he
beat noble Tom. Spring beat him like a sack in the first battle, but
in the second Ned Painter--for that was his real name--contrived
to put in his blow, and took the senses out of Spring; and in like
manner he took the senses out of Tom Oliver.

"Well, some are born to be hanged, and some are not; and many of
those who are not hanged are much worse than those who are.

Jack, with many a good quality, is hanged, whilst that fellow of a lord,
who wanted to get the horse from you at about two-thirds of his
value, without a single good quality in the world, is not hanged,
and probably will remain so.
You ask the reason why, perhaps. I'll tell you: the lack of a certain
quality called courage, which Jack possessed in abundance, will preserve
him; from the love which he bears his own neck he will do nothing
that can bring him to the gallows."

Isopel Berners, with Moses and David in her mind, expresses Borrow's
private opinion more soberly when she says:

"_Fear God_, and take your own part. There's Bible in that, young
man; see how Moses feared God, and how he took his own part against
everybody who meddled with him. And see how David feared God, and
took his own part against all the bloody enemies which surrounded
him--so fear God, young man, and never give in! The world can
bully, and is fond, provided it sees a man in a kind of difficulty, of
getting about him, calling him coarse names, and even going so far as
to hustle him; but the world, like all bullies, carries a white
feather in its tail, and no sooner sees the man taking off his coat,
and offering to fight its best, than it scatters here and there, and is
always civil to him afterwards. So when folks are disposed
to ill-treat you, young man, say 'Lord, have mercy upon me!' and then tip
them Long Melford, to which, as the saying goes, there is nothing
comparable for shortness all the world over."

{picture: The Green, Long Melford, Suffolk. Photo: C. F. Emeny,
Sudbury:
page261.jpg}
He had probably a natural inclination towards a liberal or eccentric
morality, but he was no thinker, and he gave way to a middle-class
phraseology--with exceptions, as when he gives it as the opinion
of his old master, the Norwich solicitor, that "all first-rate
thieves were sober, and of well-regulated morals, their bodily
passions being kept in abeyance by their love of gain."

Sometimes Borrow allows these two sides of him, his private and his social
sides, to appear together dramatically.

For example, he more than half seriously advises Jasper to read the
Scriptures and learn his duty to his fellow-creatures and his duty
to his own soul, lest he should be ranked with those who are "outcast,
despised and miserable."

Whereupon Jasper questions him and gets him to admit that the Gypsies
are very much like the cuckoos, roguish, chaffing birds that
everybody is glad to see again:
"'You would wish to turn the cuckoos into barn-door fowls, wouldn't
you?'

"'Can't say I should, Jasper, whatever some people might wish.'

"'And the chals and chies into radical weavers and factory wenches,
hey, brother?'

"'Can't say that I should, Jasper. You are certainly a picturesque
people, and in many respects an ornament both to town and country; painting
and lil writing too are under great obligations to you. What pretty
pictures are made out of your campings and groupings, and what pretty
books have been written in which Gypsies, or at least creatures
intended to represent Gypsies, have been the principal figures! I think
if we were without you, we should begin to miss you.'

"'Just as you would the cuckoos, if they were all converted into barn-
door fowls. I tell you what, brother, frequently as I have sat under a
hedge in spring or summer time, and heard the cuckoo, I have thought
that we chals and cuckoos are alike in many respects, but especially
in character.

Everybody speaks ill of us both, and everybody is glad to see both of
us again.'
"'Yes, Jasper, but there is some difference between men and cuckoos;
men have souls, Jasper!'

"'And why not cuckoos, brother?'
"'You should not talk so, Jasper; what you say is little short of
blasphemy. How should a bird have a soul?'
"'And how should a man?'

"'Oh, we know very well that a man has a soul.'
"'How do you know it?'
"'We know very well.'
"'Would you take your oath of it, brother--your bodily oath?'
"'Why, I think I might, Jasper!'"

There is no doubt that Borrow liked a strong or an extraordinary
man none the less for being a scoundrel.

There is equally little doubt that he never demeaned himself with the
lower orders. He never pretended, and was seldom taken, to be one of
themselves.

His attitude differed in degree, but not in kind, from that of a frank,
free squire or parson towards keepers, fishermen or labourers. And if
he did not drink and swear on an equality with them, neither did he
crankily worship them as Fitzgerald did "Posh," the fisherman.

They respected him--at least so he tells us--and he never gives
himself away to any other effect--because he was honest, courageous
and fair.

Thus he never gave cause for suspicion as a man does who throws off the
cloak of class, and he was probably as interesting to them as they to
him. Nor did his refusal to adopt their ways and manners out and
out prevent a very genuine kind of equality from existing between him
and some of them. A man or woman of equal character and force became
his equal, as Jasper did, as Isopel and David Haggart did, and he
accepted this equality without a trace of snobbishness.

He says himself that he has "no abstract love for what is low, or what the
world calls low." Certainly there is nothing low in his familiars, as he
presents them, at least nothing sordid. It may be the result of
unconscious idealisation, but his Gypsies have nothing more sordid about
them than wild birds have. Mrs. Herne is diabolical, but in a
manner that would not be unbecoming to a duchess. Leonora is treacherous,
but as an elf is permitted to be. As for Jasper and Mrs. Petulengro,
they are as radiant as Mercutio and Rosalind. They have all the
sweetness of unimprisoned air: they would prefer, like Borrow,
"the sound of the leaves and the tinkling of the waters" to the
parson and the church; and the smell of the stable, which is strong
in "Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye," to the smell of the congregation
and the tombs.

CHAPTER XXVIII--WALKING TOURS

When Borrow had almost finished "The Romany Rye" he went on a visit to
his cousins in Cornwall. The story of his saving a man's life in a
stormy sea had reached them, and they sent him an invitation, which
he accepted at Christmas time in 1853.

He stayed for a fortnight with a cousin's married daughter, Mrs. Anne
Taylor, at Penquite Farm, near Liskeard, and then several days again after
a fortnight spent on a walk to Land's End and back. In his last week he
walked to Tintagel and Pentire. He was welcomed with hospitality and
admiration. He in turn seems to have been pleased and at his ease, though
he only understood half of what was said. Those who remember his
visit speak of his tears in the house where his father was born,
of his sitting in the centre of a group telling stories of his
travels and singing a Gypsy song, of his singing foreign songs all
day out of doors, of his fit of melancholy cured by Scotch and Irish
airs played on the piano, of his violent opinions on sherry and
"Uncle Tom's Cabin," of his protesting against some sign of gentility
by using a filthy rag as a pocket handkerchief, and that in a
conspicuous manner, of his being vain and not proud, of his telling
the children stories, of one child crying out at sight of him:
"That _is_ a man!"

He made his mark by unusual ways and by intellectual superiority to his
rustic cousins. He rode about with one of his cousin's grandchildren.
He walked hither and thither alone, doing as much as twenty-five miles
a day with the help of "Look out, look out, Svend Vonved," which he sang
in the last dark stretches of road. Mr.
Walling was "told that he roamed the Caradons in all weathers without
a hat, in search of sport and specimens, antiquities and dialects,"
but I should think the "specimens" were for the table. He talked to the
men by the wayside or dived into the slums of Liskeard for
disreputable characters.

He visited remarkable and famous places, and was delighted with "Druidic"
remains and tales of fairies.

Thus Borrow made "fifty quarto pages" of notes, says Knapp, about people,
places, dialect, and folk lore. Some of the notes are mere shorthand;
some are rapid gossipy jottings; and they include; a verse translation
of a Cornish tale.

A book on Cornwall, to have grown out of these notes, was advertised;
but it was never written. Perhaps he found it hard to vivify or integrate
his notes. In any case there could hardly have been any backbone to the
book, and it would have been tourist's work, however good.

He was not a man who wrote about everything; the impulse was lacking
and he went on with the furious Appendix to "The Romany Rye."

In 1854 he paid a much longer visit to Wales.

He took his wife and daughter as far as Llangollen, which he used as a
centre during August.
Then he had ten days walking through Corwen, Cerrig-y-Drudion, Capel
Curig, Bangor, Anglesey, Snowdon, Beth Gelert, Festiniog, and Bala.

After three weeks more at Llangollen, he had his boots soled and his
umbrella mended, bought a leather satchel with a lock and key, and put
in it a white linen shirt, a pair of worsted stockings, a razor,
and a prayer book, and with twenty pounds in his pocket and his
umbrella grasped in the middle, set out on a tour of three weeks.

He travelled through the whole length of Wales, by Llangarmon, Sycharth,
Bala, Machynlleth, Devil's Bridge, Plinlimmon, Pont Rhyd Fendigaid,
Strata Florida, Tregaron, Lampeter, Pumpsaint, Llandovery, Llangadog,
Gwynfe, Gutter Fawr (Brynamman), Swansea, Neath, Merthyr, Caerphilly,
Newport, and Chepstow.
He had loved the Welsh bards and Wales from his boyhood up, and these
three months kept him occupied and happy. When at Llangollen he walked
during the day, and in the evening showed his wife and stepdaughter a
view, if he had found one.

His wife reported to his mother that she had reason to praise God for
his condition.

Borrow was happy at seeing the places mentioned by the bards and the
houses where some of them were born. "Oh, the wild hills of Wales,"
he exclaimed, "the land of old renown and of wonder, the land of Arthur
and Merlin!" These were the very tones of his Spanish enthusiasm nearly
twenty years ago. He travelled probably without maps, and with no general
knowledge of the country or of what had been written of it, so that
he did not know how to spell Manorbier or recognise it as the birthplace
of Gerald of Wales.

He remembered his youth, when he translated the bards, with complacent
melancholy.

He sunned himself in the admiration of his inferiors, talking at great
length on subjects with which he was acquainted and repeating his
own execrable verse translations.

"Nice man"--"civil man"--"clever man . . . has been everywhere," the people
said.

In the South, too, he had the supreme good fortune to meet Captain Bosvile
for the first time for thirty years, and not being recognised,
said, "I am the chap what certain folks calls the Romany Rye."

Bejiggered if the Captain had not been thinking it was he, and goes on
to ask after that "fine young woman and a vartuous" that he used
to keep company with, and Borrow in his turn asked after Jasper--"Lord!"

was the answer, "you can't think what grand folks he and his wife have
become of late years, and all along of a trumpery lil which somebody
has written about them."

He also met an Italian whose friends he had last seen at Norwich, one whom
he had found at Corunna. It is no wonder that it seemed to him he had
always had "the health of an elephant," and could walk thirty-four miles
a day, and the last mile in ten minutes. He took his chance for
a night's lodging, content to have someone else's bed, but going to
the best inn where he had a choice, as at Haverfordwest.

He was very much moved by the adventure. "I have a wonderful deal to
say if I once begin; I have been everywhere," he said to the old man at
Gutter Fawr. He gave the shepherd advice about his sheep. "I am in the
habit," he said to the landlord at Pont Erwyd, "of talking about
everything, being versed in all matters, do you see, or affecting to
be so, which comes much to the same thing." Even in the company of his
stepdaughter--as they were not in Hyde Park--he sang in Welsh at the
top of his voice. The miller's hospitality in Mona brought tears to
his eyes; so did his own verse translation of the "Ode to Sycharth,"
because it made him think "how much more happy, innocent and holy
I was in the days of my boyhood when I translated Iolo's ode than I am
at the present time." He kissed the silver cup at Llanddewi Brefi and
the tombstone of Huw Morus at Llan Silin. When the chair of Huw Morus
was wiped and he was about to sit down in it, he uncovered and said in
his best Welsh:

"'Shade of Huw Morus, supposing your shade haunts the place which you
loved so well when alive--a Saxon, one of the seed of the Coiling
Serpent, has come to this place to pay that respect to true genius, the
Dawn Duw, which he is ever ready to pay. He read the songs of the Nightingale
of Ceiriog in the most distant part of Lloegr, when he was a
brown-haired boy, and now that he is a grey-haired man he is come to say
in this place that they frequently made his eyes overflow with tears
of rapture.'
"I then sat down in the chair, and commenced repeating verses of Huw
Morus.

"Now I, on the
contrary, adore stories that rush breathlessly along, that frighten one.
I detest commonplace heroes and moderate sentiments, such as there are
in nature."

"In fact," observed the clerk, "these works, not touching the heart, it
seems to me, the true end of art. It is so sweet, amid all the
disenchantments of life, to be able to dwell in thought upon noble
characters, pure affections, and pictures of happiness. For myself,
living here far from the world, this is my one distraction; but Yonville
affords so few resources."

"Like Tostes, no doubt," replied Emma; "and so I always subscribed to a
lending library."

"If madame will do me the honor of making use of it," said the chemist,
who had just caught the last words, "I have at her disposal a library
composed of the best authors, Voltaire, Rousseau, Delille, Walter Scott,
the 'Echo des Feuilletons;' and in addition I receive various
periodicals, among them the 'Fanal de Rouen' daily, having the advantage
to be its correspondent for the districts of Buchy, Forges, Neufchâtel,
Yonville and vicinity."

For two hours and a half they had been at table; for the servant
Artémise, carelessly dragging her old list slippers over the flags,
brought one plate after the other, forgot everything, and constantly
left the door of the billiard-room half open, so that it beat against
the wall with its hooks.

Unconsciously, Léon, while talking, had placed his foot on one of the
bars of the chair on which Madame Bovary was sitting. She wore a small
blue silk necktie, that kept up like a ruff a gauffered cambric collar,
and with the movements of her head the lower part of her face gently
sunk into the linen or came out from it. Thus, side by side, while
Charles and the chemist chatted, they entered into one of those vague
conversations where the hazard of all that is said brings you back to
the fixed center of a common sympathy. The Paris theaters, titles of
novels, new quadrilles, and the world they did not know; Tostes, where
she had lived, and Yonville, where they were; they examined all, talked
of everything till to the end of dinner.

When coffee was served Félicité went away to get ready the room in the
new house, and the guests soon raised the siege. Madame Lefrançois was
asleep near the cinders, while the stable-boy, lantern in hand, was
waiting to show Monsieur and Madame Bovary the way home. Bits of straw
stuck in his red hair, and he limped with his left leg. When he had
taken in his other hand the curé's umbrella, they started.

The town was asleep; the pillars of the market threw great shadows; the
earth was all gray as on a summer's night. But as the doctor's house was
only some fifty paces from the inn, they had to say good-night almost
immediately, and the company dispersed.

As soon as she entered the passage, Emma felt the cold of the plaster
fall about her shoulders like damp linen. The walls were new and the
wooden stairs creaked. In their bedroom, on the first floor, a whitish
light passed through the curtainless windows. She could catch glimpses
of tree-tops, and beyond, the fields, half-drowned in the fog that lay
reeking in the moonlight along the course of the river. In the middle of
the room, pell-mell, were scattered drawers, bottles, curtain-rods, gilt
poles, with mattresses on the chairs and basins on the floor,--the two
men who had brought the furniture had left everything about carelessly.

This was the fourth time that she had slept in a strange place. The
first was the day of her going to the convent; the second, of her
arrival at Tostes; the third, at Vaubyessard; and this was the fourth.
And each one had marked, as it were, the inauguration of a new phase in
her life. She did not believe that things could present themselves in
the same way in different places, and since the portion of her life
lived had been bad, no doubt that which remained to be lived would be
better.


III.

ADDED CARES.


The next day, as she was getting up, she saw the clerk on the Place. She
had on a dressing-gown. He looked up and bowed. She nodded quickly and
reclosed the window.

Léon waited all day for six o'clock in the evening to come, but on going
to the inn, he found no one but Monsieur Binet, already at table. The
dinner of the evening before had been a considerable event for him; he
had never till then talked for two hours consecutively to a "lady." How
then had he been able to explain, and in such language, the number of
things that he could not have said so well before? He was usually shy,
and maintained that reserve which partakes at once of modesty and
dissimulation. At Yonville he was considered "well-bred." He listened to
the arguments of the older people, and did not seem hot about
politics--a remarkable thing for a young man. Then he had some
accomplishments; he painted in water-colors, could read the key of _G_,
and readily talked literature after dinner when he did not play cards.
Monsieur Homais respected him for his education; Madame Homais liked him
for his good-nature, for he often took the little Homaises into the
garden--little brats who were always dirty, very much spoiled, and
somewhat lymphatic, like their mother. Besides the servant to look after
them, they had Justin, the chemist's apprentice, a second cousin of
Monsieur Homais, who had been taken into the house from charity, and who
was useful at the same time as a servant.

The chemist proved the best of neighbors. He gave Madame Bovary
information as to the tradespeople, sent expressly for his own cider
merchant, tasted the drink himself, and saw that the casks were properly
placed in the cellar; he explained how to set about getting in a supply
of butter cheap, and made an arrangement with Lestiboudois, the
sacristan, who, besides his sacerdotal and funereal functions, looked
after the principal gardens at Yonville by the hour or the year,
according to the taste of the customers.

The need of looking after others was not the only thing that urged the
chemist to such obsequious cordiality; there was a plan underneath it
all.

He had infringed the law of the 19th Ventôse, year xi, article 1, which
forbade all persons not having a diploma to practice medicine; so that,
after certain anonymous denunciations, Homais had been summoned to Rouen
to see the procureur of the king in his own private room; the magistrate
receiving him standing up, ermine on shoulder and cap on head. It was in
the morning, before the court opened. In the corridors one heard the
heavy boots of the gendarmes walking past, and like a far-off noise
great locks that were shut. The chemist's ears tingled as if he were
about to have an apoplectic stroke: he saw the depths of dungeons, his
family in tears, his shop sold, all the jars dispersed; and he was
obliged to enter a café and take a glass of rum and seltzer to recover
his spirits.

Little by little the memory of this reprimand grew fainter, and he
continued, as heretofore, to give anodyne consultations in his
back-parlor. But the mayor resented it, his colleagues were jealous,
everything was to be feared; gaining over Monsieur Bovary by his
attentions was to earn his gratitude, and prevent his speaking out
later, should he notice anything. So every morning Homais brought him
"the paper," and often in the afternoon left his shop for a few moments
to have a chat with the Doctor.

Charles was dull: patients did not come. He remained seated for hours
without speaking, went into his consulting-room to sleep, or watched his
wife sewing. Then for diversion he employed himself at home as a
workman; he even tried to do up the attic with some paint which had been
left behind by the painters. But money matters worried him. He had spent
so much for repairs at Tostes, for madame's toilette, and for the
moving, that the whole dowry, over three thousand crowns, had slipped
away in two years. Then how many things had been spoilt or lost during
their carriage from Tostes to Yonville, without counting the plaster
curé, who, falling out of the coach at an over-severe jolt, had been
dashed into a thousand fragments on the pavement of Quincampoix!

A pleasanter trouble came to distract him, namely, the pregnancy of his
wife. As the time of her confinement approached he cherished her the
more. It was another bond of the flesh establishing itself, and, as it
were, a continued sentiment of a more complex union. When from afar he
saw her languid walk, and her figure without stays turning softly on her
hips; when opposite one another he looked at her at his ease, while she
took tired poses in her armchair, then his happiness knew no bounds; he
got up, embraced her, passed his hands over her face, called her little
mamma, wanted to make her dance, and, half-laughing, half-crying,
uttered all kinds of caressing pleasantries that came into his head. The
idea of having begotten a child delighted him. Now he wanted nothing. He
knew human life from end to end, and he sat down to it with serenity.

Emma at first felt a great astonishment; then was anxious to be
delivered that she might know what it was to be a mother. But not being
able to spend as much as she would have liked, to have a
swing-bassinette with rose silk curtains, and embroidered caps, in a fit
of bitterness she gave up looking after the trousseau, and ordered the
whole of it from a village needlewoman, without choosing or discussing
anything. Thus she did not amuse herself with those preparations that
stimulate the tenderness of mothers, and so her affection was from the
very outset, perhaps, to some extent attenuated.

As Charles, however, spoke of the boy at every meal, she soon began to
think of him more consecutively.

She hoped for a son; he would be strong and dark; she would call him
George; and this idea of having a male child was like an expected
revenge for all her impotence in the past. A man, at least, is free; he
may travel over passions and over countries, overcome obstacles, taste
of the most far-away pleasures. But a woman is always hampered. At once
inert and flexible, she has against her the weakness of the flesh and
legal dependence. Her will, like the veil of her bonnet, held by a
string, flutters in every wind; there is always some desire that draws
her, some conventionality that restrains.

She was confined on a Sunday at about six o'clock, as the sun was
rising.

"It is a girl!" said Charles.

She turned her head away and fainted.

Madame Homais, as well as Madame Lefrançois of the Lion d'Or, almost
immediately came running in to embrace her. The chemist, as a man of
discretion, offered only a few provisional felicitations through the
half-open door. He wished to see the child, and thought it well made.

While she was getting well she occupied herself much in seeking a name
for her daughter. First she went over all those that have Italian
endings, such as Clara, Louisa, Amanda, Atala; she liked Galsuinde very
well, and Yseult or Léocadie still better. Charles wanted the child to
be called after her mother; Emma opposed this. They ran over the
calendar from end to end, and then consulted outsiders.

"Monsieur Léon," said the chemist, "with whom I was talking about it the
other day, wonders you do not choose Madeleine. It is very much in
fashion just now."

But Madame Bovary, senior, cried out loudly against this name of a
sinner. As to Monsieur Homais, he had a preference for all those that
recalled some great man, an illustrious fact, or a generous idea, and it
was on this system that he baptized his four children. Thus Napoléon
represented glory and Franklin liberty; Irma was perhaps a concession to
romanticism, but Athalie was a homage to the greatest masterpiece of the
French stage. For his philosophical convictions did not interfere with
his artistic tastes; in him the thinker did not stifle the man of
sentiment; he could make distinctions, make allowances for imagination
and fanaticism. In this tragedy, for example, he found fault with the
ideas, but admired the style; he detested the conception, but applauded
all the details, and loathed the characters while he grew enthusiastic
over their dialogue. When he read the fine passages he was transported,
but when he thought that mummers would get something out of them for
their show, he was disconsolate; and in this confusion of sentiments in
which he was involved he would have liked at once to crown Racine with
both his hands and argue with him for a good quarter of an hour.

At last Emma remembered that at the château of Vaubyessard she had heard
the Marchioness call a young lady Berthe; from that moment this name was
chosen; and as old Rouault could not come, Monsieur Homais was requested
to stand godfather. His gifts were all products from his establishment,
to wit: six boxes of jujubes, a whole jar of racahout, three cakes of
marsh-mallow paste, and six sticks of sugar-candy, into the bargain,
that he had come across in a cupboard. On the evening of the ceremony
there was a grand dinner; the curé was present; there was much
excitement. Monsieur Homais toward liqueur-time began singing "Le Dieu
des bonnes gens." Monsieur Léon sang a barcarolle, and Madame Bovary,
senior, who was godmother, a romance of the time of the Empire; finally,
M. Bovary, senior, insisted on having the child brought down, and began
baptizing it with a glass of champagne that he poured over its head.
This mockery of the first of the sacraments made the Abbé Bournisien
angry; old Bovary replied by a quotation from "La Guerre des Dieux;" the
curé wished to leave; the ladies implored, Homais interfered; and they
succeeded in making the priest sit down again, and he quietly went on
with the half-finished coffee in his saucer.

Monsieur Bovary, senior, stayed at Yonville a month, dazzling the
natives by a superb policeman's cap with silver tassels that he wore in
the morning when he smoked his pipe in the square. Being also in the
habit of drinking a good deal of brandy, he often sent the servant to
the Lion d'Or to buy him a bottle, which was put down to his son's
account, and to perfume his handkerchiefs he used up his
daughter-in-law's whole supply of eau-de-cologne.

The latter did not at all dislike his company. He had knocked about the
world, he talked about Berlin, Vienna, and Strasbourg, of his soldier
times, of the mistresses he had had, the grand luncheons of which he had
partaken; then he was amiable, and sometimes even, either on the stairs
or in the garden, would seize hold of her waist, crying, "Charles, look
out for yourself."

Then Madame Bovary, senior, became alarmed for her son's happiness, and
fearing that her husband might in the long run have an immoral influence
upon the ideas of the young woman, took care to hurry their departure.
Perhaps she had more serious reasons for uneasiness. Monsieur Bovary was
not the man to respect anything.

One day Emma was suddenly seized with the desire to see her little girl,
who had been put to nurse with the carpenter's wife, and without looking
at the almanac to see whether the six weeks of the Virgin were yet
passed, she set out for the Rollets' house, situated at the extreme end
of the village, between the highroad and the fields.

It was mid-day, the shutters of the houses were closed, and the slate
roofs that glittered beneath the fierce light of the blue sky seemed to
strike sparks from the crest of their gables. A heavy wind was blowing;
Emma felt weak as she walked; the stones of the pavement hurt her; she
was doubtful whether she would not go home again, or go in somewhere to
rest.

At this moment Monsieur Léon came out from a neighboring door with a
bundle of papers under his arm. He came to greet her, and stood in the
shade in front of Lheureux's shop under the projecting gray awning.

Madame Bovary said she was going to see her baby, but that she was
beginning to grow tired.

"If--" said Léon, not daring to go on.

"Have you any business to attend to?" she asked.

And on the clerk's answer, she begged him to accompany her. That same
evening this was known in Yonville, and Madame Tuvache, the mayor's
wife, declared in the presence of her servant that "Madame Bovary was
compromising herself."

To get to the nurse's it was necessary to turn to the left on leaving
the street, as if making for the cemetery, and to follow between little
houses and yards a small path bordered with privet hedges. They were in
bloom, and so were the speedwells, eglantines, thistles, and the
sweetbriar that sprang up from the thickets. Through openings in the
hedges one could see into the huts, some pig on a dung-heap, or tethered
cows rubbing their horns against the trunk of trees. The two, side by
side, walked slowly, she leaning upon him, and he restraining his pace,
which he regulated by hers; in front of them a swarm of midges
fluttered, buzzing in the warm air.

They recognized the house by an old walnut-tree which shaded it. Low,
and covered with brown tiles, outside it hung, beneath the dormer-window
of the garret, a string of onions. Faggots upright against a thorn fence
surrounded a bed of lettuces, a few square feet of lavender, and sweet
peas strung on sticks. Dirty water was running here and there on the
grass, and several indefinite rags, knitted stockings, a red calico
jacket, and a large sheet of coarse linen, were spread over the hedge.
At the noise of the gate the nurse appeared with a baby she was suckling
on one arm. With her other hand she was pulling along a poor puny little
fellow, his face covered with scrofula, the son of a Rouen hosier, whom
his parents, too taken up with their business, left in the country.

"Go in," she said; "your little one is there asleep."

The room on the ground floor, the only one in the dwelling, had at its
farther end, against the wall, a large bed without curtains, while a
kneading-trough took up the side by the window, one pane of which was
mended with a piece of blue paper. In the corner behind the door,
shining hobnailed shoes stood in a row under the slab of the washstand,
near a bottle of oil with a feather stuck in its mouth; a _Matthieu
Laensberg_ lay on the dusty mantelpiece amid gun-flints, candle-ends,
and bits of amadou. Finally, the last luxury in the apartment was a
"Fame" blowing her trumpets, a picture cut out, no doubt, from some
perfumer's prospectus and nailed to the wall with six wooden shoe-pegs.

Emma's child was asleep in a wicker-cradle. She took it up in the
wrapping that enveloped it and began singing softly as she rocked
herself to and fro.

Léon walked up and down the room; it seemed strange to him to see this
beautiful woman in her nankeen dress in the midst of all this poverty.
Madame Bovary reddened, he turned away, thinking perhaps there had been
an impertinent look in his eyes. Then she put back the baby girl, who
had just vomited over her frock. The nurse at once came to dry her,
protesting that it wouldn't show.

"She gives me other doses," she said; "I am always a-washing of her. If
you would have the goodness to order Camus, the grocer, to let me have a
little soap; it would really be more convenient for you, as I needn't
trouble you then."

"Very well! very well!" said Emma. "Good morning, Madame Rollet," and
she went out, wiping her shoes at the door.

The good woman accompanied her to the end of the garden, talking all the
time of the trouble she had getting up of nights.

"I'm that worn out sometimes as I drop asleep on my chair. I'm sure you
might at least give me just a pound of ground coffee; that'd last me a
month, and I'd take it of a morning with some milk."

After submitting to her thanks, Madame Bovary left. She had gone a
little way down the path when, at the sound of wooden shoes, she turned
round. It was the nurse.

"What is it?"

Then the peasant woman, taking her aside behind an elm tree, began
talking to her of her husband, who with his trade and six francs a year
that the captain--

"Oh, be quick!" said Emma.

"Well," the nurse went on, heaving sighs between each word, "I'm afraid
he'll be put out seeing me have coffee alone; you know men--"

"But you are to have some," Emma repeated; "I will give you some. You
bother me!"

"Oh, dear! my poor, dear lady! you see, in consequence of his wounds he
has terrible cramps in the chest. He even says that cider weakens him."

"Do make haste, Mère Rollet!"

"Well," the latter continued, making a curtsey, "if it weren't asking
too much," and she curtsied once more, "if you would"--and her eyes
begged--"a jar of brandy," she said at last, "and I'd rub your little
one's feet with it; they're as tender as one's tongue."

Once rid of the nurse, Emma again took Monsieur Léon's arm. She walked
fast for some time, then more slowly, and looking straight in front of
her, her eyes rested on the shoulder of the young man, whose frock-coat
had a black-velvet collar. His brown hair fell over it, straight and
carefully arranged. She noticed his nails, which were longer than one
wore them at Yonville. It was one of the clerk's chief occupations to
trim them, and for this purpose he kept a special knife in his
writing-desk.

They returned to Yonville by the waterside. In the warm season the
bank, wider than at other times, showed to its foot the garden walls,
whence a few steps led to the river. It flowed noiselessly, swift, and
cold to the eye; long, thin grasses huddled together in it as the
current drove them, and spread themselves upon the limpid water like
streaming hair; sometimes at the top of the reeds or on the leaf of a
water-lily an insect with thin legs crawled or rested. The sun pierced
with a ray the small blue bubbles of the waves that, breaking, followed
each other; branchless old willows mirrored their gray backs in the
water; beyond, all around, the meadows seemed empty. It was the
dinner-hour at the farms, and the young woman and her companion heard
nothing as they walked but the fall of their steps on the earth of the
path, the words they spoke, and the sound of Emma's skirts rustling
around her.

The walls of the gardens, with pieces of bottle on their coping, were as
hot as the glass windows of a conservatory. Wallflowers had sprung up
between the bricks, and with the tip of her open sunshade Madame Bovary,
as she passed, made some of their faded flowers crumble into a yellow
dust, or a spray of overhanging honeysuckle and clematis caught in its
fringe and dangled for a moment over the silk.

They were talking of a troupe of Spanish dancers who were expected
shortly at the Rouen theatre.

"Are you going?" she asked.

"If I can," he answered.

Had they nothing else to say to one another? Yet their eyes were full of
more serious speech, and while they forced themselves to find trivial
phrases they felt the same languor stealing over them both. It was the
whisper of the soul, deep, continuous, dominating that of their voices.
Surprised with wonder at this strange sweetness, they did not think of
speaking of the sensation or of seeking its cause. Coming joys, like
tropical shores, throw over the immensity before them their inborn
softness, an odorous wind, and we are lulled by this intoxication
without a thought of the horizon that we do not even know.

In one place the ground had been trodden down by the cattle; they had to
step on large green stones put here and there in the mud. She often
stopped a moment to look where to place her foot, and tottering on the
stone that shook, her arms outspread, her form bent forward with a look
of indecision, she would laugh, afraid of falling into the puddles of
water.

When they arrived in front of her garden, Madame Bovary opened the
little gate, ran up the steps and disappeared.

Léon returned to his office. His chief was away; he just glanced at the
briefs, then cut himself a pen, and at last took up his hat and went
out.

He went to La Pâture at the top of the Argueil hills at the beginning of
the forest; he threw himself upon the ground under the pines and gazed
at the sky through his fingers.

"How bored I am!" he said to himself, "how bored I am!"

He thought he was to be pitied for living in this village, with Homais
for a friend and Monsieur Guillaumin for master. The latter, entirely
absorbed by his business, wearing gold-rimmed spectacles and red
whiskers over a white cravat, understood nothing of mental refinements,
although he affected a stiff English manner, which in the beginning had
impressed the clerk.

As to the chemist's spouse, she was the best wife in Normandy, gentle as
a sheep, loving her children, her father, her mother, her cousins,
weeping for others' woes, letting everything go in her household, and
detesting corsets; but so slow of movement, such a bore to listen to, so
common in appearance, and of such restricted conversation, that although
she was thirty, he only twenty, although they slept in rooms next each
other and he spoke to her daily, he never thought that she might be a
woman for another, or that she possessed anything else of her sex than
the gown.

And what else was there? Binet, a few shopkeepers, two or three
publicans, the curé, and, finally, Monsieur Tuvache, the mayor, with his
two sons, rich, crabbed, obtuse persons, who farmed their own lands and
had feasts among themselves, bigoted to boot, and quite unbearable
companions.

But from the general background of all these human faces Emma's stood
out isolated and yet farthest off; for between her and him he seemed to
see a vague abyss.

In the beginning he had called on her several times along with the
druggist. Charles had not appeared particularly anxious to see him
again, and Léon did not know what to do between his fear of being
indiscreet and the desire for an intimacy that seemed almost
impossible.


IV.

SILENT HOMAGE.


When the first cold days set in Emma left her bedroom for the
sitting-room, a long apartment with a low ceiling, in which there was on
the mantelpiece a large bunch of coral spread out against the
looking-glass. Seated in her armchair near the window, she could see
the villagers pass along the pavement.

Twice a day Léon went from his office to the Lion d'Or. Emma could hear
him coming from afar; she leant forward listening, and the young man
glided past the curtain, always dressed in the same way, and without
turning his head. But in the twilight, when, her chin resting on her
left hand, she let the embroidery she had begun fall on her knees, she
often shuddered at the apparition of this shadow suddenly gliding past.
She would get up and order the table to be laid.

Monsieur Homais called at dinner-time. Skull-cap in hand, he came in on
tiptoe, in order to disturb no one, always repeating the same phrase,
"Good evening, everybody." Then, when he had taken his seat at table
between the pair, he asked the doctor about his patients, and the latter
consulted him as to the probability of their payment. Next they talked
of what was in the paper. Homais by this hour knew it almost by heart,
and he repeated it from end to end, with the reflections of the
penny-a-liners, and all the stories of individual catastrophes that had
occurred in France or abroad. But the subject becoming exhausted, he was
not slow in throwing out some remarks on the dishes before him.
Sometimes even, half-rising, he delicately pointed out to Madame the
tenderest morsel, or turning to the servant, gave her some advice on the
manipulation of stews and the hygiene of seasoning. He talked aroma,
osmazome, juices, and gelatine in a bewildering manner. Moreover,
Homais, with his head fuller of recipes than his shop of jars, excelled
in making all kinds of preserves, vinegars, and sweet liqueurs; he knew
also all the last inventions in economic stoves, together with the art
of preserving cheeses and of curing sick wines.

At eight o'clock Justin came to fetch him to shut up the shop. Then
Monsieur Homais gave him a sly look, especially if Félicité was there,
for he had noticed that his apprentice was fond of the doctor's house.

"The young dog," he said, "is beginning to have ideas, and the devil
take me if I don't believe he's in love with your servant!"

But a more serious fault with which he reproached Justin was his
constantly listening to conversation. On Sunday, for example, one could
not get him out of the drawing-room, whither Madame Homais had called
him to fetch the children, who were falling asleep in the armchairs,
and dragging down with their backs calico chair-covers that were too
large.

Not many people came to these soirées at the chemist's, his
scandal-mongering and political opinions having successively alienated
various respectable persons from him. The clerk never failed to be
there. As soon as he heard the bell he ran to meet Madame Bovary, took
her shawl, and put away under the shop-counter the thick list shoes that
she wore over her boots when there was snow.

First they played some hands at trente-et-un; next Monsieur Homais
played écarté with Emma; Léon behind her gave her advice. Standing up
with his hands on the back of her chair, he saw the teeth of her comb
that bit into her chignon. With every movement that she made to throw
her cards the right side of her bodice was drawn up. From her turned-up
hair a dark color fell over her back, and growing gradually paler, lost
itself little by little in the shade. Then her skirt fell on both sides
of her chair, puffing out, full of folds, and reaching the floor. When
Léon occasionally felt the sole of his boot resting on it, he drew back
as if he had trodden upon some one.

When the game of cards was over, the druggist and the Doctor played
dominoes, and Emma, changing her place, leant her elbow on the table,
turning over the leaves of "L'Illustration." She had brought her ladies'
journal with her. Léon sat down near her; they looked at the engravings
together, and waited for each other at the bottom of the pages. She
often begged him to read her the verses; Léon declaimed them in a
languid voice, to which he carefully gave a dying fall in the love
passages. But the noise of the dominoes annoyed him. Monsieur Homais was
strong at the game; he could beat Charles and give him a double-six.
Then, the three hundred finished, they both stretched themselves out in
front of the fire, and were soon asleep. The fire was dying out in the
cinders; the teapot was empty, Léon was still reading. Emma listened to
him, mechanically turning round the lamp-shade, on the gauze of which
were painted clowns in carriages, and tight-rope dancers with their
balancing-poles. Léon stopped, pointing with a gesture to his sleeping
audience; then they talked in low tones, and their conversation seemed
the more sweet to them because it was unheard.

Thus a kind of bond was established between them, a constant commerce of
books and of romances. Monsieur Bovary, little given to jealousy, did
not trouble himself about it.

On his birthday he received a beautiful phrenological head, all marked
with figures to the thorax, and painted blue. This was an attention of
the clerk's. He showed him many others, even to doing errands for him at
Rouen; and the book of a novelist having made the mania for cactuses
fashionable, Léon bought some for Madame Bovary, bringing them back on
his knees in the "Hirondelle," pricking his fingers with their stiff
hairs.

She had a board with a balustrade fixed against her window to hold the
pots. The clerk, too, had his small hanging garden; they saw each other
tending their flowers at their windows.

Of the windows of the village there was one yet more often occupied; for
on Sundays, from morning to night, and every morning when the weather
was bright, one could see at the dormer-window of a garret the profile
of Monsieur Binet bending over his lathe, whose monotonous humming could
be heard at the Lion d'Or.

One evening on coming home Léon found in his room a rug in velvet and
wool with leaves on a pale ground. He called Madame Homais, Monsieur
Homais, Justin, the children, the cook; he spoke of it to his chief;
every one wished to see this rug. Why did the doctor's wife give the
clerk presents? It looked queer. They decided that she must be in love
with him.

He made this seem likely, so ceaselessly did he talk of her charms and
of her wit; so much so, that Binet once roughly answered him:

"What does it matter to me since I'm not in her set?"

He tortured himself to find out how he could make his declaration to
her, and, always halting between the fear of displeasing her and the
shame of being such a coward, he wept with discouragement and desire.
Then he took energetic resolutions, wrote letters that he tore up, put
it off to times that he again deferred. Often he set out with the
determination to dare all; but this resolution soon deserted him in
Emma's presence, and when Charles, dropping in, invited him to jump into
his chaise to go with him to see some patient in the neighborhood, he at
once accepted, bowed to madame, and went out. Her husband, was he not
something belonging to her?

As to Emma, she did not ask herself whether she loved. Love, she
thought, must come suddenly, with great outbursts and lightnings,--a
hurricane of the skies, which falls upon life, revolutionizes it, roots
up the will like a leaf, and sweeps the whole heart into the abyss. She
did not know that on the terraces of houses lakes are formed when the
pipes are choked, and she would thus have remained in her security when
she suddenly discovered a rent in its wall.


V.

SMOTHERED FLAMES.


It was a Sunday in February, an afternoon when the snow was falling.

They had all, Monsieur and Madame Bovary, Homais, and Monsieur Léon,
gone to see a yarn-mill that was being built in the valley a mile and
half from Yonville. The druggist had taken Napoléon and Athalie to give
them some exercise, and Justin accompanied them, carrying the umbrellas
on his shoulder.

Nothing, however, could be less curious than this curiosity. A great
piece of waste ground, on which pell-mell, amid a mass of sand and
stones, were a few brake-wheels, already rusty, surrounded by a
quadrangular building pierced by a number of little windows. 
Borrow's right instinct was to get work which would take him abroad; he
failed, and so he travelled because travel offered him relief from his
melancholy and unrest. Whether or no he "satisfied his roving demon
for a time," as Mr.

Walling puts it, is unknown. What is known is that he did not make this
journey a subject of mystery or boasting, and that he stayed in
England thereafter. He had tasted comfort and celebrity; he had a wife;
he was an older man, looking weak in the eyes by the time he was
fifty; and he had no motive for travel except discontent with staying
at home.

He tried to get away again on a mission to the Convent of St. Catherine,
on Mount Sinai, to acquire manuscripts for the British Museum;
but he failed, and the manuscripts went to St. Petersburg instead of
Bloomsbury.

In 1843 Henry Wyndham Phillips, R.A., painted his portrait. He was
a restless sitter until the painter remarked: "I have always heard,
Mr.

Borrow, that the Persian is a very fine language; is it so?" "It is,
Phillips; it is." "Perhaps you will not mind reciting me something in the
Persian tongue?" said Phillips. "Dear me, no; certainly not." And then
"Mr. Borrow's face lit up with the light that Phillips longed for,
and he kept declaiming at the top of his voice, while the painter made
the most of his opportunity." {205} According to the story, Phillips
had the like success with Turkish and Armenian, and successfully
stilled Borrow's desire "to get out into the fresh air and sunlight."

In the same way, writing and literary ambition kept Borrow from
travel.

He stayed at home and he wrote "Lavengro," where, speaking of the rapid
flow of time in the years of his youth, he says: "Since then it has
flagged often enough; sometimes it has seemed to stand entirely still:

and the reader may easily judge how it fares at the present, from the
circumstance of my taking pen in hand, and endeavouring to write
down the passages of my life--a last resource with most people."

At one moment he got satisfaction from professing scorn of authorship,
at another, speaking of Byron, he reflected:
"Well, perhaps after all it was better to have been mighty Milton
in his poverty and blindness--witty and ingenious Butler consigned
to the tender mercies of bailiffs, and starving Otway; they might
enjoy more real pleasure than this lordling; they must have been
aware that the world would one day do them justice--fame after death
is better than the top of fashion in life.

They have left a fame behind them which shall never die, whilst this
lordling--a time will come when he will be out of fashion and forgotten.
And yet I don't know; didn't he write Childe Harold and that
ode? Yes, he wrote Childe Harold and that ode. Then a time will scarcely
come when he will be forgotten. Lords, squires, and cockneys may pass
away, but a time will scarcely come when Childe Harold and that ode
will be forgotten. He was a poet, after all--and he must have known it;
a real poet, equal to--to--what a destiny!"
It is said that in actual life Borrow refused to be introduced to a Russian
scholar "simply because he moved in the literary world." {206}
Yet again he made the glorious Gypsy say that he would rather be a
book- writer than a fighting-man, because the book-writers "have
so much to say for themselves even when dead and gone":
"'When they are laid in the churchyard, it is their own fault if
people a'n't talking of them.

Who will know, after I am dead, or bitchadey pawdel, that I was once
the beauty of the world, or that you, Jasper, were--'
"'The best man in England of my inches.

That's true, Tawno--however, here's our brother will perhaps let the
world know something about us.'"
I should think, too, that Borrow was both questioner and answerer
in the conversation with the literary man who had the touching
mania:
"'With respect to your present troubles and anxieties, would it not
be wise, seeing that authorship causes you so much trouble and
anxiety, to give it up altogether?'

"'Were you an author yourself,' replied my host, 'you would not talk
in this manner; once an author, ever an author--besides, what could
I do?

return to my former state of vegetation? no, much as I endure, I do not
wish that; besides, every now and then my reason tells me that these
troubles and anxieties of mine are utterly without foundation;
that whatever I write is the legitimate growth of my own mind, and
that it is the height of folly to afflict myself at any chance
resemblance between my own thoughts and those of other writers,
such resemblance being inevitable from the fact of our common human
origin. . . ."

Knapp gives at length a story showing what an author Borrow was,
and how little his travels had sweetened him.

He had long promised to review Ford's "Handbook for Spain," when it should
appear.

In 1845 he wrote an article and sent it in to the "Quarterly" as a review
of the Handbook. It had nothing to do with the book and very little to
do with the subject of the book, and Lockhart, the "Quarterly" editor,
suggested turning it into a review by a few interpolations and extracts.
Borrow would not have the article touched. Both Lockhart and
Ford advised him to send it to "Fraser's" or another magazine
where it was certain to be welcomed as a Spanish essay by the author of
"The Bible in Spain." But no: and the article was never printed anywhere.

Yet Borrow was not settling down to authorship pure and simple. He flew
into a passion because a new railway line, in 1846, ran through
his estate.

He flew into a passion, did nothing, and remained on his estates until
1853, when he and his family went into lodgings at Yarmouth. I have
not discovered how much he profited by the intrusion of the railway,
except when he pilloried the contractor, his neighbour, Mr. Peto, as
Flamson, in the Appendix to "The Romany Rye." Then he tried again
to be put on the Commission of the Peace, with no success. He probably
spent much of his time in being either suspicious, or ambitious, or
indignant.
In 1847, for example, he suspected his friend Dr. Bowring--his "only friend"
in 1842--of using his work to get for himself the consulship at Canton,
which he was professing to obtain for Borrow. The result was the
foaming abuse of "The Romany Rye," where Bowring is the old Radical. The
affair of the Sinai manuscripts followed close on this. All that
he saw of foreign lands was at the Exhibition of 1851, where he
frequently accosted foreigners in their own tongue, so that it began
to be whispered about that he was "uncanny": he excited so much
remark that his daughter thought it better to drag him away.

He was suffering from ill-health and untranquility of mind which
gave his mother anxiety, though his physical strength appears not
to have degenerated, for in 1853, at Yarmouth, he rescued a man out
of a stormy sea.

He was an unpleasant companion for those whom he did not like or could
not get on with. Thackeray tried to get up a conversation with him,
his final effort being the question, "Have you seen my 'Snob
Papers' in 'Punch'?" To which Borrow answered: "In 'Punch'? It is a
periodical I never look at." He once met Miss Agnes Strickland:

"Borrow was unwilling to be introduced, but was prevailed on to submit.

He sat down at her side; before long she spoke with rapture of his works,
and asked his permission to send him a copy of her 'Queens of
England.'

He exclaimed, 'For God's sake, don't, madam, I should not know where
to put them or what to do with them.'

On this he rose, fuming, as was his wont when offended, and said to
Mr. Donne, 'What a damned fool that woman is!'

The fact is that, whenever Borrow was induced to do anything unwillingly,
he lost his temper." {208}

The friend who tells this story, Gordon Hake, a poet and doctor at Bury
St.

Edmunds, tells also that once when he was at dinner with a banker
who had recently "struck the docket" to secure payment from a friend
of Borrow's, and the banker's wife said to him: "Oh Mr.

Borrow, I have read your books with so much pleasure!" the great man
exclaimed: "Pray, what books do you mean, madam? Do you mean my account
books?"

How touchy he was, Mr.

Walling shows, by his story of Borrow in Cornwall neglecting a lady all
one evening because she bore the name of the man his father had
knocked down at Menheniot Fair.

Several stories of his crushing remarks prove nothing but that he was
big and alarming and uncontrolled.

{picture: Gordon Hake. From the painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. By
kind permission of Mrs. George Gordon Hake: page209.jpg}
Very little record of his friendly intercourse with men at this middle
period remains.

Several letters, of 1853, 1856 and 1857, alone survive to show that
he met and received letters from Fitzgerald.

That Fitzgerald enjoyed an evening with him in 1856 tells us little; and
even so it appears that Fitzgerald only wanted to ask him to read some
of the "Northern Ballads"--"but you shut the book"--and that he doubted
whether Borrow wished to keep up the acquaintance. They had friends in
common, and Fitzgerald had sent Borrow a copy of his "Six Dramas
of Calderon," in 1853, confessing that he had had thoughts of sending
the manuscript first for an inspection.

He also told Borrow when he was about to make the "dangerous experiment"
of marriage with Miss Barton "of Quaker memory."

In 1857 Borrow came to see him and had the loan of the "Rubaiyat"
in manuscript, and Fitzgerald showed his readiness to see more of
the "Great Man."

In 1859 he sent Borrow a copy of "Omar." He found Borrow's "masterful
manners and irritable temper uncongenial," {209} but succeeded, unlike
many other friends, in having no quarrel with him.

Near the end of his life, in 1875, it was Borrow that tried to renew the
acquaintance, but in vain, for Fitzgerald reminded him that friends
"exist and enjoy themselves pretty reasonably without me," and asked,
was not being alone better than having company?

If Borrow had little consideration for others' feelings, his
consideration for his own was exquisite, as this story, belonging
to 1856, may help to prove:
"There were three personages in the world whom he always had a
desire to see; two of these had slipped through his fingers, so he
was determined to see the third.

'Pray, Mr. Borrow, who were they?'

He held up three fingers of his left hand and pointed them off with
the forefinger of the right: the first, Daniel O'Connell; the second,
Lamplighter (the sire of Phosphorus, Lord Berners's winner of the
Derby); the third, Anna Gurney. . . ."

One spring day during the Crimean War, when he was walking round Norfolk,
he sent word to Anna Gurney to announce his coming, and she was
ready to receive him.

"When, according to his account, he had been but a very short time
in her presence, she wheeled her chair round and reached her hand
to one of her bookshelves and took down an Arabic Grammar, and put
it into his hand, asking for explanation of some difficult point,
which he tried to decipher; but meanwhile she talked to him
continuously; when, said he, 'I could not study the Arabic Grammar
and listen to her at the same time, so I threw down the book and
ran out of the room.'

He seems not to have stopped running till he reached Old Tucker's
Inn, at Cromer, where he renewed his strength, or calmed his temper,
with five excellent sausages, and then came on to Sheringham. . .
." {210a}
The distance is a very good two miles, and Borrow's age was
forty-nine.

He is said also to have been considerate towards his mother, the
poor, and domestic animals.

Probably he and his mother understood one another.

When he could not write to her, he got his wife to do so; and from
1849 she lived with them at Oulton.

As to the poor, Knapp tells us that he left behind him letters of gratitude
or acknowledgment from individuals, churches, and chapels.

As to animals, once when he came upon some men beating a horse that
had fallen, he gave it ale of sufficient quantity and strength to
set it soon upon the road trotting with the rest of its kind, after
the men had received a lecture. {210b} It is also related that when
a favourite old cat crawled out to die in the hedge he brought it
into the house, where he "laid it down in a comfortable spot and
watched it till it was dead."

His horse, Sidi Habismilk, the Arab, seems to have returned his
admiration and esteem. He said himself, in "Wild Wales," after expressing
his relief that a boy and dog had not seen a weazel that ran across
his path:
"I hate to see poor wild animals persecuted and murdered, lose my
appetite for dinner at hearing the screams of a hare pursued by
greyhounds, and am silly enough to feel disgust and horror at the
squeals of a rat in the fangs of a terrier, which one of the sporting
tribe once told me were the sweetest sounds in 'natur.'"

CHAPTER XXIV--"LAVENGRO" AND "THE ROMANY RYE"

Instead of travelling over the world Borrow wrote his autobiography and
spent so many years on it that his contempt for the pen had some excuse.

I have already said almost all there is to say about these labours.
{212} Knapp has shown that they were protracted to include matters
relating to Bowring and long posterior to the period covered by the
autobiography, and that the magnitude of these additions compelled
him to divide the book in two.

The first part was "Lavengro," published in 1851, with an ending
that is now, and perhaps was then, obviously due to the knife.

The sceptical and hostile criticism of "Lavengro" delayed the appearance
of the remainder of the autobiography, "The Romany Rye."

Borrow had to reply to his critics and explain himself. This he did
in the Appendix, and thus changed, the book was finished in 1853
or 1854.

Something in Murray's attitude while they were discussing publication
mounted Borrow on the high horse, and yet again he fumed because
Murray had expressed a private opinion and had revealed his feeling
that the book was not likely to make money for anyone.

{picture: Cancelled title-page of "Lavengro". (Photographed from the
Author's corrected proof copy, by kind permission of Mr. Kyllmann and
Mr.

Thos. Seccombe.) Photo: W. J. Roberts: page212.jpg}
"Lavengro" and "The Romany Rye" describe the author's early adventures
and, at the same time, his later opinions and mature character. In some
places he turns openly aside to express his feeling or opinion at the
time of writing, as, for example, in his praise of the Orangemen, or,
on the very first page, where he claims to spring from a family
of gentlemen, though "not very wealthy," that the reader may see
at once he is "not altogether of low and plebeian origin."

But by far more important is the indirect self-revelation when he is
recalling that other distant self, the child of three or of ten, the youth
of twenty.

Ford had asked Borrow for a book of his adventures and travels, something
"thick and slab," to follow "The Bible in Spain." The result shows that
Borrow had almost done with outward adventure. "The Bible in Spain" had
an atmosphere composed at best of as much Spain as Borrow. But the
autobiography is pure inward Borrow: except a few detachable incidents
there is nothing in it which is not Borrow's creation, nothing
which would have any value apart from his own treatment of it.

A man might have used "The Bible in Spain" as a kind of guide to
men and places in 1843, and it is possible he would not have been
wholly disappointed.

The autobiography does not depend on anything outside itself, but creates
its own atmosphere and dwells in it without admitting that of the outer
world--no: not even by references to events like the campaign
of Waterloo or the funeral of Byron; and, as if conscious that this
other atmosphere must be excluded, Borrow has hardly mentioned a name
which could act upon the reader as a temporary check to the charm.
When he does recall contemporary events, and speaks as a Briton to
Britons, the rant is of a brave degree that is almost as much his
own, and it makes more intense than ever the solitude and inwardness
of the individual life going on side by side with war and with
politics.

"Pleasant were those days of my early boyhood; and a melancholy pleasure
steals over me as I recall them. Those were stirring times of which I
am speaking, and there was much passing around me calculated to
captivate the imagination. The dreadful struggle which so long convulsed
Europe, and in which England bore so prominent a part, was then at its
hottest; we were at war, and determination and enthusiasm shone in every
face; man, woman and child were eager to fight the Frank, the hereditary,
but, thank God, never dreaded enemy of the Anglo-Saxon race. 'Love your
country and beat the French, and then never mind what happens,'
was the cry of entire England.

Oh those were days of power, gallant days, bustling days, worth
the bravest days of chivalry, at least; tall battalions of native
warriors were marching through the land; there was the glitter of
the bayonet and the gleam of the sabre; the shrill squeak of the
fife and loud rattling of the drum were heard in the streets of
county towns, and the loyal shouts of the inhabitants greeted the
soldiery on their arrival or cheered them at their departure.

And now let us leave the upland and descend to the sea-board; there
is a sight for you upon the billows!

A dozen men-of-war are gliding majestically out of port, their long buntings
streaming from the top-gallant masts, calling on the skulking Frenchman
to come forth from his bights and bays; and what looms upon us yonder
from the fog-bank in the East? A gallant frigate towing behind her the
long low hull of a crippled privateer, which but three short days ago
had left Dieppe to skim the sea, and whose crew of ferocious hearts
are now cursing their impudence in an English hold. Stirring times those,
which I love to recall, for they were days of gallantry and
enthusiasm, and were moreover the days of my boyhood."

"Pleasant were those days," and there is a "melancholy pleasure" in
recalling them. The two combine in this autobiography with strange
effect, for they set the man side by side with the child as an invisible
companion haunting him.

Besides, the ringing over a little earlier warned the lads
of catechism hour.

Already a few who had arrived were playing marbles on the stones of the
cemetery. Others, astride the wall, swung their legs, kicking with their
clogs the large nettles growing between the little enclosure and the
newest graves. This was the only green spot. All the rest was but
stones, always covered with a fine powder, despite the vestry-broom.

The children in list shoes ran about there as if it were an enclosure
made for them. The shouts of their voices could be heard through the
humming of the bell. This grew less and less with the swinging of the
great rope that, hanging from the top of the belfry, dragged its end on
the ground. Swallows flitted to and fro uttering little cries, cut the
air with the edge of their wings, and swiftly returned to their yellow
nests under the tiles of the coping. At the end of the church a lamp was
burning, the wick of a night-light in a glass hung up. Its light from a
distance looked like a white stain trembling in the oil. A long ray of
the sun fell across the nave and seemed to darken the lower sides and
the corners.

"Where is the curé?" asked Madame Bovary of one of the lads, who was
amusing himself by shaking a swivel in a hole too large for it.

"He is just coming," he answered.

And in fact the door of the presbytery grated; Abbé Bournisien appeared;
the children, pell-mell, fled into the church.

"These young scamps!" murmured the priest, "always the same!" Then,
picking up a catechism all in rags that he had struck with his foot,
"They respect nothing!" But as soon as he caught sight of Madame Bovary,
"Excuse me," he said; "I did not recognize you."

He thrust the catechism into his pocket, and stopped short, balancing
the heavy vestry key between his two fingers.

The light of the setting sun that fell full upon his face paled the
lasting of his cassock, shiny at the elbows, ravelled at the hem. Grease
and tobacco stains followed along his broad chest the lines of the
buttons, and grew more numerous the farther they were from his
neckcloth, in which the massive folds of his red chin rested; this was
dotted with yellow spots, that disappeared beneath the coarse hair of
his greyish beard. He had just dined, and was breathing noisily.

"How are you?" he added.

"Not well," replied Emma; "I am ill."

"Well, and so am I," answered the priest. "These first warm days weaken
one most remarkably, don't they? But, after all, we are born to suffer,
as St. Paul says. But what does Monsieur Bovary think of it?"

"He!" she said with a gesture of contempt.

"What!" replied the good fellow, quite astonished, "doesn't he prescribe
something for you?"

"Ah!" said Emma, "it is no earthly remedy I need."

But the curé from time to time looked into the church, where the
kneeling boys were shouldering one another, and tumbling over like packs
of cards.

"I should like to know--" she went on.

"You lock out, Riboudet," cried the priest in an angry voice; "I'll warm
your ears, you imp!" Then turning to Emma. "He's Boudet the carpenter's
son; his parents are well off, and let him do just as he pleases. Yet he
could learn quickly if he would, for he is very sharp. And so sometimes
for a joke I call him _Ri_boudet (like the road one takes to go to
Maromme), and I even say '_Mon_ Riboudet.' Ha! ha! '_Mont_ Riboudet.'
The other day I repeated that jest to Monsignor, and he laughed at it;
he condescended to laugh at it. And how is Monsieur Bovary?"

She seemed not to hear him. And he went on:

"Always very busy, no doubt; for he and I are certainly the busiest
people in the parish. But he is doctor of the body," he added with a
thick laugh, "and I of the soul."

She fixed her pleading eyes upon the priest. "Yes," she said, "you
solace all sorrows."

"Ah! don't talk to me of it, Madame Bovary. This morning I had to go to
Bas-Diauville for a cow that was ill; they thought it was under a
spell. All their cows, I don't know how it is--But pardon me!
Longuemarre and Boudet! Bless me! will you leave off?"

And with a bound he ran into the church.

The boys were just then clustering round the large desk, climbing over
the precentor's footstool, opening the missal; and others on tiptoe were
just about to venture into the confessional. But the priest suddenly
distributed a shower of cuffs among them. Seizing them by the collars of
their coats, he lifted them from the ground, and deposited them on their
knees on the stones of the choir, firmly, as if he meant planting them
there.

"Yes," said he, when he returned to Emma, unfolding his large cotton
handkerchief, one corner of which he put between his teeth, "farmers are
much to be pitied."

"Others, too," she replied.

"Assuredly. Town-laborers, for example."

"It is not they--"

"Pardon! I've there known poor mothers of families, virtuous women, I
assure you, real saints, who wanted even bread."

"But those," replied Emma, and the corners of her mouth twitched as she
spoke, "those, Monsieur le Curé, who have bread and have no--"

"Fire in the winter," said the priest.

"Oh, what does that matter?"

"What! What does it matter? It seems to me that when one has firing and
food--for, after all--"

"My God! my God!" she sighed.

"Do you feel unwell?" he asked, approaching her anxiously. "It is
indigestion, no doubt? You must get home, Madame Bovary; drink a little
tea, that will strengthen you, or else a glass of fresh water with a
little moist sugar."

"Why?" And she looked like one awaking from a dream.

"Well, you see, you were putting your hand to your forehead. I thought
you felt faint." Then, bethinking himself, "But you were asking me
something? What was it? I really don't remember."

"I? Nothing! nothing!" repeated Emma.

And the glance she cast round her slowly fell upon the old man in the
cassock. They looked at one another face to face without speaking.

"Then, Madame Bovary," he said at last, "excuse me, but duty first, you
know; I must look after my good-for-nothings. The first communion will
soon be upon us, and I fear we shall be behind after all. So after
Ascension Day I keep them _recta_ an extra hour every Wednesday. Poor
children! One cannot lead them too soon into the path of the Lord, as,
moreover, he has himself recommended us to do by the mouth of His Divine
Son. Good health to you, madame; my respects to your husband."

And he went into the church making a genuflexion as soon as he reached
the door.

Emma saw him disappear between the double row of forms, walking with
heavy tread, his head a little bent over his shoulder, and with his two
hands half-open behind him.

Then she turned on her heel with one movement, like a statue on a pivot,
and went homewards. But the loud voice of the priest, the clear voices
of the boys still reached her ears, and went on behind her.

"Are you a Christian?"

"Yes, I am a Christian?"

"What is a Christian?"

"He who, being baptized--baptized--baptized--"

She went up the steps of the staircase holding on to the banisters, and
when she was in her room threw herself into an armchair.

The whitish light of the window-panes fell with soft undulations. The
furniture in its place seemed to have become more immobile, and to lose
itself in the shadow as in an ocean of darkness. The fire was out, the
clock went on ticking, and Emma vaguely marvelled at this calm of all
things while within herself was such tumult But little Berthe was there,
between the window and the work-table, tottering on her knitted shoes,
and trying to come to her mother to catch hold of the ends of her
apron-strings.

"Leave me alone," said the latter, putting her from her with her hand.

The little girl soon came up closer against her knees, and leaning on
them with her arms, she looked up with her large blue eyes, while a
small thread of pure saliva dribbled from her lips on to the silk apron.

"Leave me alone," repeated the young woman quite irritably.

Her face frightened the child, who began to scream.

"Will you leave me alone?" she said, pushing her with her elbow.

Berthe fell at the foot of the drawers against the brass handle, cutting
against it her cheek, which began to bleed. Madame Bovary sprang to lift
her up, broke the bell-rope, called for the servant with all her might,
and she was just going to curse herself when Charles appeared. It was
the dinner-hour; he had come home.

"Look, dear!" said Emma, in a calm voice, "the little one fell down
while she was playing, and has hurt herself."

Charles reassured her; the case was not a serious one, and he went for
some sticking plaster.

Madame Bovary did not go downstairs to the dining-room; she wished to
remain alone to look after the child. Then, watching her sleep, the
little anxiety she felt gradually wore off, and she seemed very stupid
to herself, and very good to have been so worried just now at so little.
Berthe, in fact, no longer sobbed. Her breathing now imperceptibly
raised the cotton covering. Big tears lay in the corner of the
half-closed eyelids, through whose lashes one could see two pale sunken
pupils; the plaster stuck on her cheek drew the skin obliquely.

"It is very strange," thought Emma, "how ugly this child is!"

When at eleven o'clock Charles came back from the chemist's shop,
whither he had gone after dinner to return the remainder of the
sticking-plaster, he found his wife standing by the cradle.

"I assure you it's nothing," he said, kissing her on the forehead.
"Don't worry, my poor darling; you will make yourself ill."

He had stayed a long time at the chemist's. Although he had not seemed
much moved, Homais, nevertheless, had exerted himself to buoy him up, to
"keep up his spirits." Then they had talked of the various dangers that
threaten childhood, of the carelessness of servants. Madame Homais knew
something of it, having still upon her chest the marks left by a basin
full of soup that a cook had formerly dropped on her pinafore, and her
good parents took no end of trouble for her. The knives were not
sharpened, nor the floors waxed; there were iron gratings to the windows
and strong bars across the fireplace; the little Homaises, in spite of
their spirit, could not stir without some one watching them; at the
slightest cold their father stuffed them with pectorals; and until they
were turned four they all, without pity, had to wear wadded
head-protectors. This, it is true, was a fancy of Madame Homais's; her
husband was inwardly afflicted at it. Fearing the possible consequences
of such compression to the intellectual organs, he even went so far as
to say to her, "Do you want to make Caribs or Botocudos of them?"

Charles, however, had several times tried to interrupt the conversation.
"I should like to speak to you," he had whispered in the clerk's ear,
who went upstairs in front of him.

"Can he suspect anything?" Léon asked himself. His heart beat, and he
racked his brain with surmises.

At last, Charles, having shut the door, asked him to see himself what
would be the price at Rouen of a fine daguerreotype. It was a
sentimental surprise he intended for his wife, a delicate attention--his
portrait in a frock-coat. But he wanted first to know how much it would
be. The inquiries would not put Monsieur Léon out, since he went to town
almost every week.

Why? Monsieur Homais suspected some "young man's affair" at the bottom
of it, an intrigue. But he was mistaken. Léon was after no love-making.
He was sadder than ever, as Madame Lefrançois saw from the amount of
food he left on his plate. To find out more about it she questioned the
tax-collector. Binet answered roughly that he wasn't paid by the
police.

All the same, his companion seemed very strange to him, for Léon often
threw himself back in his chair, and stretching out his arms, complained
vaguely of life.

"It's because you don't take enough recreation," said the collector.

"What recreation?"

"If I were you I'd have a lathe."

"But I don't know how to turn," answered the clerk.

"Ah! that's true," said the other, rubbing his chin with an air of
mingled contempt and satisfaction.

Léon was weary of loving without any result; moreover, he was beginning
to feel that depression caused by the repetition of the same kind of
life, when no interest inspires and no hope sustains it. He was so bored
with Yonville and the Yonvillers, that the sight of certain persons, of
certain houses, irritated him beyond endurance; and the chemist, good
fellow though he was, was becoming absolutely unbearable to him. Yet the
prospect of a new condition of life frightened as much as it seduced
him.

This apprehension soon changed into impatience, and then Paris from afar
sounded its fanfare of masked balls with the laugh of grisettes. As he
was to finish reading there, why not set out at once? What prevented
him? And he began making home preparations; he arranged his occupations
beforehand. He furnished in his head an apartment. He would lead an
artist's life there! He would take lessons on the guitar! He would have
a dressing-gown, a Basque cap, blue velvet slippers! He even already
was admiring two crossed foils over his chimney-piece, with a
death's-head on the guitar above them.

The difficulty was the consent of his mother; nothing, however, seemed
more reasonable. Even his employer advised him to go to some other
chambers where he could advance more rapidly. Taking a middle course,
then, Léon looked for some place as second clerk at Rouen; found none,
and at last wrote his mother a long letter full of details, in which he
set forth the reasons for going to live at Paris immediately. She
consented.

He did not hurry. Every day for a month Hivert carried boxes, valises,
parcels for him from Yonville to Rouen and from Rouen to Yonville; and
when Léon had packed up his wardrobe, had his three armchairs
restuffed, bought a stock of cravats, in a word, had made more
preparations than for a voyage round the world, he put it off from week
to week, until he received a second letter from his mother urging him to
leave, since he wanted to pass his examination before the vacation.

When the moment for the farewells had come, Madame Homais wept, Justin
sobbed; Homais, as a man of nerve, concealed his emotion; he wished to
carry his friend's overcoat himself as far as the gate of the notary,
who was taking Léon to Rouen in his carriage. The latter had just time
to bid farewell to Monsieur Bovary.

When he reached the head of the stairs he stopped, he was so out of
breath. On his coming in, Madame Bovary rose hurriedly.

"It is I again!" said Léon.

"I was sure of it!"

She bit her lips, and a rush of blood flowing under her skin made her
red from the roots of her hair to the top of her collar. She remained
standing, leaning with her shoulder against the wainscot.

"The doctor is not here?" he went on.

"He is out." She repeated, "He is out."

Then there was silence. They looked one at the other, and their
thoughts, confounded in the same agony, clung close together like two
throbbing breasts.

"I should like to kiss Berthe," said Léon.

Emma went down a few steps and called Félicité.

He threw one long look around him that took in the walls, the brackets,
the fireplace, as if to penetrate everything, carry away everything. But
she returned, and the servant brought Berthe, who was swinging a
windmill roof downward at the end of a string. Léon kissed her several
times on the neck.

"Good-bye, poor child! good-bye, dear little one! good-bye!"

And he gave her back to her mother.

"Take her away," she said.

They remained alone--Madame Bovary, her back turned, her face pressed
against a window-pane; Léon held his cap in his hand, knocking it softly
against his thigh.

"It is going to rain," said Emma.

"I have a cloak," he answered.

"Ah!"

She turned round, her chin lowered, her forehead bent forward. The light
fell on it as on a piece of marble to the curve of the eyebrows, without
one's being able to guess what Emma was seeing in the horizon or what
she was thinking within herself.

"Well, good-bye," he sighed.

She raised her head with a quick movement.

"Yes, good-bye--go!"

They advanced toward each other; he held out his hand; she hesitated.

"In the English fashion, then," she said, giving her own hand wholly to
him, and forcing a laugh.

Léon felt it between his fingers, and the very essence of all his being
seemed to pass down into that moist palm. Then he opened his hand; their
eyes met again, and he disappeared.

When he reached the market-place, he stopped and hid behind a pillar to
look for the last time at this white house with the four green blinds.
He thought he saw a shadow behind the window in the room; but the
curtain, sliding along the pole as though no one were touching it,
slowly opened its long oblique folds, that spread out with a single
movement, and thus hung straight and motionless as a plaster wall. Léon
set off running.

From afar he saw his employer's gig in the road, and by it a man in a
coarse apron holding the horse. Homais and Monsieur Guillaumin were
talking. They were waiting for him.

"Embrace me," said the chemist with tears in his eyes. "Here is your
coat, my good friend. Mind the cold; take care of yourself; look after
yourself."

"Come, Léon, jump in," said the notary.

Homais bent over the splash-board, and in a voice broken by sobs,
uttered these three sad words:

"A pleasant journey!"

"Good-night," said Monsieur Guillaumin. "Give him his head."

They set out, and Homais went back.

          *     *     *     *     *

Madame Bovary had opened her window overlooking the garden and watched
the clouds. They were gathering round the sunset on the side of Rouen,
and swiftly rolled back their black columns, behind which the great rays
of the sun looked out like the golden arrows of a suspended trophy,
while the rest of the empty heavens was white as porcelain. But a gust
of wind bowed the poplars, and suddenly the rain fell; it pattered
against the green leaves. Then the sun reappeared, the hens clucked,
sparrows shook their wings in the damp thickets, and the pools of water
on the gravel as they flowed away carried off the pink flowers of an
acacia.

"Ah! how far off he must be already!" she thought.

Monsieur Homais, as usual, came at half-past six during dinner.

"Well," said he, "so we've sent off our young friend!"

"So it seems," replied the doctor. Then turning on his chair: "Any news
at home?"

"Nothing much. Only my wife was a little moved this afternoon. You know
women--a nothing upsets them, especially my wife. And we should be wrong
to object to that, since their nervous organization is much more
malleable than ours."

"Poor Léon!" said Charles. "How will he live at Paris? Will he get used
to it?"

Madame Bovary sighed.

"Get along!" said the chemist, smacking his lips. "The outings at
restaurants, the masked balls, the champagne--all that'll be jolly
enough, I assure you."

"I don't think he'll go wrong," objected Bovary.

"Nor do I," said Monsieur Homais quickly; "although he'll have to do
like the rest for fear of passing for a Jesuit. And you don't know what
a life those dogs lead in the Latin Quarter with actresses. Besides,
students are thought a great deal of at Paris. Provided they have a few
accomplishments, they are received in the best society; there are even
ladies of the Faubourg Saint-Germain who fall in love with them, which
subsequently furnishes them opportunities for making very good matches."

"But," said the doctor, "I fear for him that down there--"

"You are right," interrupted the chemist; "that is the reverse of the
medal. And one is constantly obliged to keep one's hand in one's pocket
there. Thus, we will suppose you are in a public garden. An individual
presents himself, well dressed, even wearing an order, whom any one
would take for a diplomatist. He approaches you, he insinuates himself;
offers you a pinch of snuff, or picks up your hat. Then you become more
intimate; he takes you to a café, invites you to his country-house,
introduces you, between two drinks, to all sorts of people; and three
fourths of the time it's only to plunder your watch or lead you into
some pernicious step."

"That is true," said Charles; "but I was thinking especially of
illnesses--of typhoid fever, for example, that attacks students from the
provinces."

Emma shuddered.

"Because of the change of regimen," continued the chemist, "and of the
perturbation that results therefrom in the whole system. And then the
water at Paris, don't you know! The dishes at restaurants, all the
spiced food, end by heating the blood, and are not worth, whatever
people may say of them, a good soup. For my own part, I have always
preferred plain living; it is more healthful. So when I was studying
pharmacy at Rouen, I boarded in a boardinghouse; I dined with the
professors."

And thus he went on, expounding his opinions generally and his personal
likings, until Justin came to fetch him for a mulled egg that was
wanted.

"Not a moment's peace!" he cried; "always at it! The roughness, the
merely accurate irrelevant detail here and there, the mention of his
journal, and the references to well-known and substantial people, win
from us an openness and simplicity of reception which ensure a
success for it beyond that of most fictions.

I cannot refuse complete belief in the gigantic Jew, Abarbanel, for
example, when Borrow has said:
"I had now a full view of his face and figure, and those huge
featured and Herculean form still occasionally revisit me in my
dreams.

I see him standing in the moonshine, staring me in the face with his
deep calm eyes." I do not feel bound to believe that he had met the
Italian of Corunna twenty years before at Norwich, though
to a man with his memory for faces such re-appearances are likely to
happen many times as often as to an ordinary man. But I feel no doubt
about Judah Lib, who spoke to him at Gibraltar: he was "about to exclaim,
'I know you not,' when one or two lineaments struck him, and he
cried, though somewhat hesitatingly, 'surely this is Judah Lib.'"

He continues: "It was in a steamer in the Baltic in the year '34,
if I mistake not."

That he had this strong memory is certain; but that he knew it, and
was proud of it, and likely to exaggerate it, is almost equally
certain.

It was natural that such a knight should have squires of high degree,
as Francisco the Basque and the two Antonios, Gypsy and Greek. Antonio
the Greek left Borrow to serve a count as cook, but the count attacked
him with a rapier, whereupon he gave notice in the following manner:

"Suddenly I took a large casserole from the fire in which various
eggs were frying; this I held out at arm's length, peering at it along
my arm as if I were curiously inspecting it--my right foot advanced,
and the other thrown back as far as possible.

All stood still, imagining, doubtless, that I was about to perform some
grand operation; and so I was: for suddenly the sinister leg advancing,
with one rapid _coup de pied_ I sent the casserole and its contents
flying over my head, so that they struck the wall far behind me. This
was to let them know that I had broken my staff and had shaken the dust
off my feet. So casting upon the count the peculiar glance of the
Sceirote cooks when they feel themselves insulted, and extending my
mouth on either side nearly as far as the ears, I took down my haversack
and departed, singing as I went the song of the ancient Demos, who,
when dying, asked for his supper, and water wherewith to lave his
hands:

[Greek verse]
And in this manner, mon maitre, I left the house of the Count of ---."

The morning after Francisco died, when Borrow was lying in bed ruminating
on his loss, he heard someone cleaning boots and singing in an unknown
tongue, so he rang the bell. Antonio appeared. He had, he said, engaged
himself to the Prime Minister at a high salary, but on hearing of Borrow's
loss, he "told the Duke, though it was late at night, that he would
not suit me; and here I am."

Again he left Borrow. When he returned it was in obedience to a dream,
in which he saw his master ride on a black horse up to his inn--yet
this was immediately after Borrow's landing on his third visit to
Spain, of which "only two individuals in Madrid were aware." This Greek
was acquainted with all the cutthroats in Galicia; he could tell a
story like Sterne, and in every way was a servant who deserved no less
a master than _Monsieur Georges_.

Francisco has already sufficiently adorned these pages. As for
the other Antonio, the Gypsy, he guided Borrow through the worst
of Spain on his way to Madrid.

This he offered to do in such terms that Borrow's hint at the possible
danger of accepting it falls flat. He was as mysterious as Borrow
himself, and being asked why he was taking this particular road, he
answered: "It is an affair of Egypt, brother, and I shall not acquaint
you with it; peradventure it relates to a horse or an ass, or peradventure
it relates to a mule or a _macho_; it does not relate to yourself,
therefore I advise you not to inquire about it--_Dosta_. . . ." He
carried a loadstone in his bosom and swallowed some of the dust of it,
and it served both for passport and for prayers.
She bought a gothic prie-Dieu, and in a month spent
fourteen francs on lemons for polishing her nails; she wrote to Rouen
for a blue cashmere gown; she chose one of Lheureux's finest scarves,
and wore it knotted round her waist over her dressing-gown; and, with
closed blinds and a book in her hand, she lay stretched out on a couch
in this garb.

She often changed her coiffure; she did her hair _à la Chinoise_, in
flowing curls, in plaited coils; she parted it on one side and rolled it
under like a man's.

She wished to learn Italian; she bought dictionaries, a grammar, and a
supply of white paper. She tried serious reading, history, and
philosophy. Sometimes in the night Charles woke up with a start,
thinking he was being called to a patient. "I'm coming," he stammered;
and it was the noise of a match Emma had struck to relight the lamp. But
her reading fared like her pieces of embroidery, all of which, only
just begun, filled her cupboard; she took it up, left it, passed on to
other books.

She had attacks in which she could easily have been driven to commit any
folly. She maintained one day, in opposition to her husband, that she
could drink off a large glass of brandy, and, as Charles was stupid
enough to dare her to, she swallowed the brandy to the last drop.

In spite of her vaporish airs (as the housewives of Yonville called
them), Emma, all the same, never seemed gay, and usually she had at the
corners of her mouth that immobile contraction that puckers the faces of
old maids, and those of men whose ambition has failed. She was pale all
over, white as a sheet; the skin of her nose was drawn at the nostrils,
her eyes looked at you vaguely. After discovering three gray hairs on
her temples, she talked much of her old age.

She often fainted. One day she even spat blood, and, as Charles fussed
round her showing his anxiety--

"Bah!" she answered, "what does it matter?"

Charles fled to his study and wept there, both his elbows on the table,
sitting in an armchair at his bureau under the phrenological head.

Then he wrote to his mother to beg her to come, and they had many long
consultations together on the subject of Emma.

What should they decide? What was to be done since she rejected all
medical treatment?

"Do you know what your wife wants?" He is now going amongst the Moors;
and when he arrives in their country, you will hear him, should you be
there, converse as fluently in their gibberish as in Christiano--nay,
better, for he is no Christian himself. He has been several times on
board my vessel already; but I do not like him, as I consider that
he carries something about with him which is not good."

The American at Tangier is perplexed by his speaking both Moorish
and Gaelic, by hearing from an Irish woman that he is "a fairy man."

He does not confine himself to the mysterious sublime. He tells us,
for example, that Mendizabal, the Prime Minister, was a huge athletic
man, "somewhat taller than myself, who measure six-feet-two without
my shoes."

Several times he was mistaken for a Jew, and once for a Rabbi, by the Jews
themselves. Add to this the expression that he put on for the benefit
of the farrier at Betanzos: he was stooping to close the vein that had
been opened in the leg of his horse, and he "looked up into the farrier's
face, arching his eyebrows. '_Carracho_! what an evil wizard!'
muttered the farrier, as he walked away."

{picture: Mendizabal, The Spanish Minister: page194.jpg}
In the wilds he grew a beard--he had one at Jaraicejo--and it is perhaps
worth noticing this, to rebut the opinion that he could not grow a beard,
and that he was therefore as other men are with the same disability.

He speaks more than once of his shedding tears, and at Lisbon he
kissed the stone above Fielding's grave.

But these are little things of little importance in the landscape
portrait which emerges from the whole of the book, of the grave
adventurer, all but always equal in his boldness and his discretion, the
lord of those wild ways and wild men, who "rides in the whirlwind and
directs the storm" all over Spain.

In brief, he is the very hero that a wondering and waiting audience
would be satisfied to see appearing upon such a stage. Except Dante on
his background of Heaven and Hell, and Byron on his background of Europe
and Time, no writer had in one book placed himself with greater
distinction before the world. His glory was threefold. He was the man
who was a Gypsy in politics, because he had lived with Gypsies so long.
He was the man who said to the Spanish Prime Minister: "It is a pleasant
thing to be persecuted for the Gospel's sake." He was the man of whom
it was said _by an enemy_, after the affair of Benedict Mol, that
_Don Jorge_ was at the bottom of half the knavish farces in Spain.

Very little of Borrow's effectiveness can seriously be attributed to
this or that quality of style, for it will all amount to saying that
he had an effective style. But it may be permissible to point out that
it is also a style that is unnoticeable except for what it effects.
It runs at times to rotten Victorianism, both heavy and vague, as when
he calls _El Greco_ or Domenico "a most extraordinary genius, some
of whose productions possess merit of a very high order."

He is capable of calling the eye the "orb of vision," and the
moon "the beauteous luminary." I quote a passage lest it should seem
incredible:

"The moon had arisen when we mounted our horses to return to the
village, and the rays of the beauteous luminary danced merrily on the
rushing waters of the Tagus, silvered the plain over which we were
passing, and bathed in a flood of brightness the bold sides of the
calcareous hill of Villaluengo, the antique ruins which crowned
its brow. . . ."

Description, taking him away from men and from his active self, often
lured him into this kind of thing.

And, nevertheless, such is Borrow that I should by no means employ
a gentleman of refinement to go over "The Bible in Spain" and cross
out the like.

It all helps in the total of half theatrical and wholly wild exuberance
and robustness.

Another minute contributory element of style is the Biblical phrasing.

His home and certainly his work for the Society had made him familiar
with the Bible.

He quotes it several times in passages which bring him into comparison,
if not equality, with Jesus and with Paul.

A little after quoting, "Ride on, because of the word of righteousness,"
he writes: "I repaired to the aqueduct, and sat down beneath the
hundred and seventh arch, where I waited the greater part of the
day, _but he came not_, _whereupon I arose and went into the city_."

He is fond of "even," saying, for example, or making Judah Lib say,
"He bent his way unto the East, _even to Jerusalem_."

The "beauteous luminary" vein and the Biblical vein may be said to be
inseparable from the long cloak, the sombrero, the picturesque romance
and mystery of Spain, as they appeared to one for whom romance and
mystery alike were never without pomp.

But with all his rant he is invariably substantial, never aerial, and he
chequers it in a Byronic manner with a sudden prose reference to bugs,
or a question, or a piece of dialogue.

His dialogue can hardly be over-praised.

It is life-like in its effect, though not in its actual phrases, and it
breaks up the narrative and description over and over again at the
right time.

What he puts into the mouth of shepherds with whom he sits round
the fire is more than twice as potent as if it were in his own
narrative; he varies the point of view, and yet always without
allowing himself to disappear from the scene--he, the _senor_
traveller.

These spoken words are, it is true, in Borrow's own style, with
little or no colloquialism, but they are simpler.

They also, in their turn, are broken up by words or phrases from
the language of the speaker.

The effect of this must vary with the reader.

The learned will not pause, some of the unlearned will be impatient. But
as a glossary was afterwards granted at Ford's suggestion, and is
now to be had in the cheapest editions of "The Bible in Spain,"
these few hundred Spanish or Gypsy words are at least no serious
stumbling block.

I find them a very distinct additional flavour in the style. A good writer
can afford these mysteries. Children do not boggle at the unpronounceable
names of a good book like "The Arabian Nights," but rather use them
as charms, like Izaak Walton's marrow of the thighbone of a heron or
a piece of mummy. The bullfighter speaks:

"'Cavaliers and strong men, this cavalier is the friend of a friend
of mine.

_Es mucho hombre_. There is none like him in Spain.

He speaks the crabbed _Gitano_, though he is an _Inglesito_.'
"'We do not believe it,' replied several grave voices. 'It is not possible.'

"'It is not possible, say you? I tell you it is.--Come forward,
Balseiro, you who have been in prison all your life, and are always
boasting that you can speak the crabbed _Gitano_, though I say you
know nothing of it--come forward and speak to his worship in the
crabbed _Gitano_.'
"A low, slight, but active figure stepped forward. He was in his shirt
sleeves, and wore a _montero_ cap; his features were handsome, but
they were those of a demon.

"He spoke a few words in the broken Gypsy slang of the prison,
inquiring of me whether I had ever been in the condemned cell, and
whether I knew what a _gitana_ was.

"'_Vamos Inglesito_,' shouted Sevilla, in a voice of thunder, 'answer
the _monro_ in the crabbed _Gitano_.'
"I answered the robber, for such he was, and one, too, whose name will
live for many years in the ruffian histories of Madrid--I answered him
in a speech of some length, in the dialect of the Estremenian
Gypsies.

"'I believe it is the crabbed _Gitano_,' muttered Balseiro.

'It is either that or English, for I understand not a word of it.'
"'Did I not say to you,' cried the bullfighter, 'that you knew nothing
of the crabbed _Gitano_? But this _Inglesito_ does. I understood all he
said. _Vaya_, there is none like him for the crabbed _Gitano_. He is a
good _ginete_, too; next to myself, there is none like him, only
he rides with stirrup leathers too short.

--_Inglesito_, if you have need of money, I will lend you my purse. All
I have is at your service, and that is not a little; I have just
gained four thousand _chules_ by the lottery.

Courage, Englishman! Another cup. I will pay all--I, Sevilla!'
"And he clapped his hand repeatedly on his breast, reiterating, 'I,
Sevilla! I--'"

Borrow breaks up his own style in the same way with foreign words.
As Ford said in his "Edinburgh Review" criticism:

"To use a Gypsy term for a linguist, 'he knows the seven jargons'; his
conversations and his writings resemble an intricate mosiac, of
which we see the rich effect, without comprehending the design. . . .

Mr. Borrow, in whose mouth are the tongues of Babel, selects, as he
dashes along _currente calamo_, the exact word for any idiom which best
expresses the precise idea which sparkles in his mind."

This habit of Borrow's should be compared with Lamb's archaisms, but,
better still, with Robert Burton's interlardation of English and Latin
in "The Anatomy of Melancholy."

Here again what I may call his spotted dog style is only a part of
the whole, and as the whole is effective, we solemnly conclude that
this is due in part to the spotted dog. My last word is that here, as
always in a good writer, the whole is greater than the mere sum
of the parts, just as with a bad writer the part is always greater
than the whole.

Or a truer way of saying this is that many elements elude
discovery, and therefore the whole exceeds the discoverable parts. Nor
is this the whole truth, for the mixing is much if not all, and neither
Borrow nor any critic knows anything about the mixing, save that
the drink is good that comes of it.

CHAPTER XXIII--BETWEEN THE ACTS

Six three-volume editions of "The Bible in Spain" were issued within the
first twelve months: ten thousand copies of a cheap edition were sold
in four months. In America it was sold rapidly without benefit to
Borrow.
It was translated into German in 1844 and French in 1845.

Borrow came up to town and did not refuse to meet princes, bishops,
ambassadors, and members of Parliament. He was pleased and flattered
by the sales and the reviews, and declared that he had known it would
succeed.

He did not quite know what to say to an invitation from the Royal
Institution, but as to the Royal Academy, it would "just suit him,"
because he was a safe man, he said, fitted by nature for an
Academician.

He did not think much of episcopal food, wine, or cigars. He was careful
of his hero and disliked hearing him abused or treated indifferently.
If he had many letters, he answered but few. He had made nothing yet
out of literature because the getting about to receive homage,
etc., had been so expensive:
he did not care, for he hated to speak of money matters, yet he
could not but mention the fact.

When the money began to arrive he did not resent it by any means, as
he was to buy a blood horse with it--no less. His letters have a
jolly, bullying, but offhand and jerky tone, and they are very
short.

He gives Murray advice on publishing and is willing to advise the Government
how to manage the Irish--"the blackguards."
He was now, by virtue of his wife, a "landed proprietor," and filled
the part with unction, though but little satisfaction.

For he was not a magistrate, and he had to get up in the middle of the
night to look after "poachers and thieves," as he says in giving
a reason for an illness.

In the summer-house at Oulton hung his father's coat and sword, but it
is to be noticed that to the end of his life an old friend held it "doubtful
whether his father commenced his military career with a commission."
Borrow probably realised the importance of belonging to the ruling classes
and having a long steady pedigree. "If report be true," says the same
friend, {201} "his mother was of French origin, and in early life
an actress."

The foreignness as an asset overcame his objection to the French,
and "an actress" also sounded unconventional.

The friend continues: "But the subject of his family was one on
which Borrow never touched.

He would allude to Borrowdale as the country whence they came, and
then would make mysterious allusions to his father's pugilistic
triumphs. But this is certain, that he has not left a single relation
behind him." Yet he had many relatives in Cornwall and did not scorn to
visit their houses. He would only talk of his works to intimate friends,
and "when he went into company it was as a gentleman, not because
he was an author."
Lady Eastlake, in March, 1844, calls him "a fine man, but a most
disagreeable one; a kind of character that would be most dangerous in
rebellious times--one that would suffer or persecute to the utmost.
His face is expressive of wrong-headed determination."
A little earlier than this, in October, 1843, Caroline Fox saw him
"sitting on one side of the fire and his old mother on the other."
It was known to her that "his spirits always sink in wet weather, and
to-day was very rainy, but he was courteous and not displeased
to be a little lionised, for his delicacy is not of the most susceptible."
He was "a tall, ungainly, uncouth man," in her opinion, "with great
physical strength, a quick penetrating eye, a confident manner, and a
disagreeable tone and pronunciation." In no place does he make anyone
praise his voice, and, as he said, it reminded one Spanish woman
of a German clockmaker's.

But Borrow was not happy or at ease. He took a riding tour in the east
of England; he walked, rowed and fished; but that was not enough. He
was restless, and yet did not get away. Evidently he did not conceal
the fact that he thought of travelling again. He had talked about
Africa and China: he was now talking about Constantinople and
Africa.

He was often miserable, though he had, so far as he knew, "no
particular disorder." If at such times he was away from Oulton, he
thought of his home as his only refuge in this world; if he was at
home he thought of travel or foreign employment. His disease was,
perhaps, now middle age, and too good a memory in his blood and in his
bones. Whatever it was it was apparently not curable by his kind of
Christianity, nor by a visit from the genial Ford, and a present
of caviare and pheasant; nor by the never-out-of-date reminder
from friends that he was very well off, etc. If he had been caught by
Dissenters, as he should have been, he might by this time have had
salvation, and an occupation for life, in founding a new truculent
sect of Borrovians.

As the Rev. the Romany Rye he might have blazed in an entertaining and
becoming manner. As "a sincere member of the old- fashioned Church
of England, in which he believes there is more religion, and
consequently less cant, than in any other Church in the world," there was
nothing for him to do but sit down at Oulton and contemplate the fact.
This and the other fact that "he eats his own bread, and is one of
the very few men in England who are independent in every sense of
the word," were afterwards to be made subjects for public rejoicing
in the Appendix to "The Romany Rye."

But in his discontent at the age of forty it cannot have been entirely
satisfactory, however flattering, to hear Ford, in the "Edinburgh,"
saying:
"We wish he would, on some leisure day, draw up the curtain of his
own eventful biography.

We collected from his former work that he was not always what he now is.
The pursuits and society of his youth scarcely could be denominated,
in Troloppian euphemism, _la creme de la creme_; but they stood him
in good stead; then and there was he trained for the encounter of
Spain . . . whilst sowing his wild oats, he became passionately
fond of horseflesh. . . .

"How much has Mr. Borrow yet to remember, yet to tell! let him not
delay.

His has been a life, one day of which is more crowded than is the
fourscore-year vegetation of a squire or alderman. . . .

Everything seems sealed on a memory, wax to receive and marble to retain.
He is not subjective. He has the new fault of not talking about self.
We vainly want to know what sort of person must be the pilgrim in
whose wanderings we have been interested.

That he has left to other pens. . . ."

Then Ford went on to identify Borrow with the mysterious Unknown of
Colonel Napier's newly-published book.

He began to write his autobiography to fulfil the expectations of Ford
and his own public.

It was not until 1844, exactly four years after his return from Spain,
that he set out again on foreign travel.

He made stops at Paris, Vienna, Constantinople, Venice, and Rome, but
spent most of his time in Hungary and Roumania, visiting the Gypsies
and compiling a "vocabulary of the Gypsy language as spoken in Hungary
and Transylvania," which still exists in manuscript. He was seven
months away altogether.

Knapp possessed documents proving that Borrow was at this and that
place, and the Gypsy vocabulary is in the British Museum, but little
other record of these seven months remains.

Homais drew back with stupefaction. She came down three steps and
whispered in his ear:

"What! you didn't know it? There'll be an execution in next week. It's
Lheureux who is selling him up; he has killed him with bills."

"What a terrible catastrophe!" cried the chemist, who always found
expressions in harmony with all imaginable circumstances.

Then the landlady began telling him this story, that she had heard from
Théodore, Monsieur Guillaumin's servant, and although she detested
Telher, she blamed Lheureux. He was "a wheedler, a sneak."

"There!" she said. "Look at him! he is in the market; he is bowing to
Madame Bovary, who's got on a green bonnet. Why, she's taking Monsieur
Boulanger's arm."

"Madame Bovary!" exclaimed Homais. "I must go at once and pay her my
respects. Perhaps she'd be very glad to have a seat in the enclosure
under the peristyle." And, without heeding Madame Lefrançois, who was
calling him back to tell him more about it, the druggist walked off
rapidly with a smile on his lips, with straight knees, bowing
exuberantly right and left, and taking up much room with the large
tails of his frock-coat that fluttered behind him in the wind.

Rodolphe, having caught sight of him from afar, hurried on, but Madame
Bovary lost her breath; so he walked more slowly, and, smiling at her,
said in a rough tone:

"It's only to get away from that fat fellow, you know, the druggist."
She pressed his elbow.

"What's the meaning of that?" he asked himself. And he looked at her out
of the corner of his eyes.

Her profile was so calm that one could guess nothing from it. It stood
out in the light from the oval of her bonnet, with pale ribbons on it
like the leaves of reeds. Her eyes with their long curved lashes looked
straight before her, and though wide open, they seemed slightly puckered
by the cheekbones, because of the blood pulsing gently under the
delicate skin. A pink line ran along the partition between her nostrils.
Her head leaned towards her shoulder, and the pearly tips of her white
teeth were seen between her lips.

"Is she making fun of me?" thought Rodolphe.

Emma's gesture, however, had only been meant for a warning; for Monsieur
Lheureux was accompanying them, and spoke now and again as if to enter
into the conversation.

"What a superb day! Everybody is out! The wind is east!"

And neither Madame Bovary nor Rodolphe answered him, while at the
slightest movement made by them he drew near, saying, "I beg your
pardon!" and raised his hat.

When they reached the farrier's house, instead of following the road up
to the fence, Rodolphe suddenly turned down a path, drawing with him
Madame Bovary. He called out:

"Good evening, Monsieur Lheureux! See you again presently."

"How you got rid of him!" she said, laughing.

"Why," he went on, "allow oneself to be intruded upon by others? And as
to-day I have the happiness of being with you----"

Emma blushed. He did not finish his sentence. Then he talked of the fine
weather and of the pleasure of walking on the grass. A few daisies had
sprung up again.

"Here are some pretty Easter daisies," he said, "and enough of them to
furnish oracles to all the amorous maids in the place." He added, "Shall
I pick some? What do you think?"

"Are you in love?" she asked, coughing a little.

"H'm, h'm! who knows?" answered Rodolphe.

The meadow began to fill, and the housewives, hustled one with their
great umbrellas, their baskets, and their babies. One had often to get
out of the way of a long file of country folk, servant-maids with blue
stockings, flat shoes, and silver rings, who smelled of milk when one
passed close to them. They walked along holding one another by the hand,
and thus they spread over the whole field from the row of open trees to
the banquet tent. But this was the examination time, and the farmers one
after the other entered a kind of enclosure formed by a long cord
supported on sticks.

The beasts were there, their noses toward the cord, and making a
confused line with their unequal rumps. Drowsy pigs were burrowing in
the earth with their snouts, calves were bleating, lambs baaing; the
cows, on knees folded in, were stretching their bellies on the grass,
slowly chewing the cud, and blinking their heavy eyelids at the gnats
that buzzed round them. Ploughmen with bare arms were holding by the
halter prancing stallions that neighed with dilated nostrils, looking
toward the mares. These stood quietly, stretching out their heads and
flowing manes, while their foals rested in their shadow, or now and then
came and sucked them. And above the long undulation of these crowded
animals one saw some white mane rising in the wind like a wave, or some
sharp horns sticking out, and the heads of men running about. Apart,
outside the enclosure, a hundred paces off, was a large black bull,
muzzled, with an iron ring in its nostrils, who moved no more than if he
had been in bronze. A child in rags was holding him by a rope.

Between the two lines the committee-men were walking with heavy steps,
examining each animal, then consulting one another in a low voice. One
who seemed of more importance now and then took notes in a book as he
walked along. This was the president of the jury, Monsieur Derozerays de
la Panville. As soon as he recognized Rodolphe he came forward quickly,
and smiling amiably, said:

"What! Monsieur Boulanger, you are deserting us?"

Rodolphe protested that he was just coming. But when the president had
disappeared:

"_Ma foi!_" said he, "I shall not go. Your company is better than his."

And while poking fun at the show, Rodolphe, to move about more easily,
showed the gendarme his blue card, and even stopped now and then in
front of some fine beast which Madame Bovary did not at all admire. He
noticed this and began jeering at the Yonville ladies and their dresses;
then he apologized for the negligence of his own. He had that
incongruity of common and elegant in which the habitually vulgar think
they see the revelation of an eccentric existence, of the perturbations
of sentiment, the tyrannies of art, and always a certain contempt for
social conventions, that seduces or exasperates them. Thus his cambric
shirt with plaited cuffs was blown out by the wind in the opening of his
waistcoat of gray ticking, and his broad-striped trousers disclosed at
the ankle nankeen boots with patent leather gaiters. These were so
polished that they reflected the grass. He trampled on horses' dung with
them, one hand in the pocket of his jacket and his straw hat on one
side.

"Besides," added he, "when one lives in the country----"

"It's waste of time," said Emma.

"That is true," replied Rodolphe. "To think that not one of these people
is capable of understanding even the cut of a coat!"

Then they talked about provincial mediocrity, of the lives it crushed,
the illusions lost there.

"And I too," said Rodolphe, "am drifting into depression."

"You!" she said in astonishment; "I thought you very light-hearted."

"Ah! yes. I seem so, because in the midst of the world I know how to
wear the mask of a scoffer upon my face; and yet, how many a time at the
sight of a cemetery by moonlight have I not asked myself whether it were
not better to join those sleeping there!"

"Oh! and your friends?" she said. "You do not think of them."

"My friends! What friends? Have I any? Who cares for me?" And he
accompanied the last words with a kind of whistling of the lips.

But they were obliged to separate from each other because of a great
pile of chairs that a man was carrying behind them. He was so overladen
with them that one could only see the tips of his wooden shoes and the
ends of his two outstretched arms. It was Lestiboudois, the gravedigger,
who was carrying the church chairs about among the people. Alive to all
that concerned his interests, he had hit upon this means of turning the
show to account; and his idea was succeeding, for he no longer knew
which way to turn. In fact, the villagers, who were hot, quarreled for
these seats, whose straw smelled of incense, and they lent against the
thick backs, stained with the wax of candles, with a certain veneration.

Madame Bovary again took Rodolphe's arm; he went on as if speaking to
himself:

"Yes, I have missed so many things. Always alone! Ah! if I had some aim
in life, if I had met some love, if I had found some one! Oh, how I
would have spent all the energy of which I am capable, surmounted
everything, overcome everything!"

"Yet it seems to me," said Emma, "that you are not to be pitied."

"Ah! you think so?" said Rodolphe.

"For, after all," she went on, "you are free----" she hesitated,
"rich----"

"Do not mock me," he replied.

And she protested that she was not mocking him, when the report of a
cannon resounded. Immediately all began hustling one another pell-mell
toward the village.

It was a false alarm. The prefect seemed not to be coming, and the
members of the jury felt much embarrassed, not knowing if they ought to
begin the meeting or still wait.

At last at the end of the Place a large hired landau appeared, drawn by
two thin horses, whom a coachman in a white hat was whipping lustily.
Binet had only just time to shout, "Present arms!" and the colonel to
imitate him. All ran toward the enclosure; every one pushed forward. A
few even forgot their collars; but the equipage of the prefect seemed to
anticipate the crowd, and the two yoked jades, trapesing in their
harness, came up at a little trot in front of the peristyle of the town
hall at the very moment when the National Guard and firemen deployed,
beating drums and marking time.

"Present!" shouted Binet.

"Halt!" shouted the colonel. "Left about, march."

And after presenting arms, during which the clang of the band, letting
loose, rang out like a brass kettle rolling downstairs, all the guns
were lowered. Then were seen stepping down from the carriage a gentleman
in a short coat with silver braiding, with bald brow, and wearing a tuft
of hair at the back of his head, of a sallow complexion and the most
benign appearance. His eyes, very large and covered by heavy lids, were
half-closed to look at the crowd, while at the same time he raised his
sharp nose, and forced a smile upon his sunken mouth. He recognized the
mayor by his scarf, and explained to him that the prefect was not able
to come. He himself was a councilor at the prefecture; then he added a
few apologies. Monsieur Tuvache answered them with compliments; the
other confessed himself nervous; and they remained thus, face to face,
their foreheads almost touching, with the members of the jury all round,
the municipal council, the notable personages, the National Guard and
the crowd. The councilor pressing his little cocked hat to his breast
repeated his bows, while Tuvache, bent like a bow, also smiled,
stammered, tried to say something, protested his devotion to the
monarchy and the honor that was being done to Yonville.

Hippolyte, the groom from the inn, took the head of the horses from the
coachman, and, limping along with his club-foot, led them to the door of
the "Lion d'Or," where a number of peasants collected to look at the
carriage. The drum beat, the howitzer thundered, and the gentlemen one
by one mounted the platform, where they sat down in red utrecht velvet
armchairs that had been lent by Madame Tuvache.

All these people looked alike. Their fair flabby faces, somewhat tanned
by the sun, were the color of sweet cider, and their puffy whiskers
emerged from stiff collars, kept up by white cravats with broad bows.
All the waistcoats were of velvet, double-breasted; all the watches had,
at the end of a long ribbon, an oval cornelian seal; every one rested
his two hands on his thighs, carefully stretching the stride of his
trousers, whose unsponged glossy cloth shone more brilliantly than the
leather of his heavy boots.

The ladies of the company stood at the back under the vestibule between
the pillars, while the common herd was opposite, standing up or sitting
on chairs. As a matter of fact, Lestiboudois had brought thither all
those that he had moved from the field, and he even kept running back
every minute to fetch others from the church. He caused such confusion
with this piece of business that one had great difficulty in getting to
the small steps of the platform.

"I think," said Monsieur Lheureux to the chemist, who was passing to his
place, "that they ought to have put up two Venetian masts with something
rather severe and rich for ornaments; it would have been a very pretty
effect."

"To be sure," replied Homais; "but what can you expect? The mayor took
everything on his own shoulders. He hasn't much taste. Poor Tuvache! and
he is even completely destitute of what is called the genius of art."

Rodolphe, meanwhile, with Madame Bovary, had gone up to the first floor
of the townhall, to the "council-room," and as it was empty, he declared
that they could enjoy the sight there more comfortably. He fetched three
stools from the round table under the bust of the monarch, and having
carried them to one of the windows, they sat down by each other.

There was commotion on the platform, long whisperings, much parleying.
At last the councilor got up. They knew now that his name was Lieuvain,
and in the crowd the name was passed from one to the other. After he had
collated a few pages, and bent over them to see better, he began:

"Gentlemen! May I be permitted first of all (before addressing you on
the object of our meeting to-day, and this sentiment, will, I am sure,
be shared by you all), may I be permitted, I say, to pay a tribute to
the higher administration, to the government, to the monarch, gentlemen,
our sovereign, to that beloved king, to whom no branch of public or
private prosperity is a matter of indifference, and who directs with a
hand at once so firm and wise the chariot of the state amid the
incessant perils of a stormy sea, knowing, moreover, how to make peace
respected as well as war, industry, commerce, agriculture, and the fine
arts."

"I ought," said Rodolphe, "to get back a little further."

"Why?" said Emma.

But at this moment the voice of the councilor rose to an extraordinary
pitch. He declaimed:

"This is no longer the time, gentlemen, when civil discord ensanguined
our public places, when the landlord, the business-man, the working-man
himself, falling asleep at night, lying down to peaceful sleep, trembled
lest he should be awakened suddenly by the noise of incendiary tocsins,
when the most subversive doctrines audaciously sapped foundations."

"Well, some one down there might see me," Rodolphe resumed, "then I
should have to invent excuses for a fortnight; and with my bad
reputation----"

"Oh, you are slandering yourself," said Emma.

"No! It is dreadful, I assure you."

"But, gentlemen," continued the councilor, "if, banishing from my memory
the remembrance of these sad pictures, I carry my eyes back to the
actual situation of our dear country, what do I see there? Everywhere
commerce and the arts are flourishing; everywhere new means of
communication, like so many new arteries in the body of the state,
establish within it new relations. Our great industrial centers have
recovered all their activity; religion, more consolidated, smiles in all
hearts; our ports are full, confidence is born again, and France
breathes once more!"

"Besides," added Rodolphe, "perhaps from the world's point of view they
are right."

"How so?" she asked.

"What!" said he. "Do you not know that there are souls constantly
tormented? They need by turns to dream and to act, the purest passions
and the most turbulent joys, and thus they fling themselves into all
sorts of fantasies, of follies."

Then she looked at him as one looks at a traveler who has voyaged over
strange lands, and went on:

"We have not even this distraction, we poor women!"

"A sad distraction, for happiness isn't found in it."

"But is it ever found?" she asked.

"Yes; one day it comes," he answered.

"And this is what you have understood," said the councilor. "You
farmers, agricultural laborers! you pacific pioneers of a work that
belongs wholly to civilization! you men of progress and morality, you
have understood, I say, that political storms are even more redoubtable
than atmospheric disturbances!"

"It comes one day," repeated Rodolphe, "one day suddenly, and when one
is despairing of it. Then the horizon expands; it is as if a voice
cried, 'It is here!' You feel the need of confiding the whole of your
life, of giving everything, sacrificing everything to this being. There
is no need for explanations; they understand one another. They have seen
each other in dreams!" He looked at her. "In fine, here it is, this
treasure so sought after, here before you. It glitters, it flashes; yet
one still doubts, one does not believe it; one remains dazzled, as if
one went out from darkness into light!"

And as he ended Rodolphe suited the action to the word. He passed his
hand over his face, like a man seized with giddiness. Then he let it
fall on Emma's. She took hers away.

"And who would be surprised at it, gentlemen? He only who was so blind,
so plunged (I do not fear to say it), so plunged in the prejudices of
another age as still to misunderstand the spirit of agricultural
populations. Where, indeed, is to be found more patriotism than in the
country, greater devotion to the public welfare, more intelligence, in a
word? And, gentlemen, I do not mean that superficial intelligence, vain
ornament of idle minds, but rather that profound and balanced
intelligence that applies itself above all else to useful objects, thus
contributing to the good of all, to the common amelioration and to the
support of the state, born of respect for law and the practice of
duty----"

"Ah! again!" said Rodolphe. "Always 'duty.' I am sick of the word. They
are a lot of old blockheads in flannel vests and of old women with
foot-warmers and rosaries who constantly drone into our ears 'Duty,
duty!' Ah! by Jove! one's duty is to feel what is great, cherish the
beautiful, and not accept all the conventions of society with the
ignominy that it imposes upon us."

"Yet--yet----" objected Madame Bovary.

"No, no! Why cry out against the passions? Are they not the one
beautiful thing on the earth, the source of heroism, of enthusiasm, of
poetry, music, the arts, of everything, in a word?"

"But one must," said Emma, "to some extent bow to the opinion of the
world and accept its moral code."

"Ah! but there are two," he replied. "The small, the conventional, that
of men, that which constantly changes, that brays out so loudly, that
makes such a commotion here below, of the earth earthy, like the mass of
imbeciles you see down there. But the other, the eternal, that is about
us and above, like the landscape that surrounds us, and the blue heavens
that give us light."

Monsieur Lieuvain had just wiped his mouth with a pocket-handkerchief.
He continued:

"And what should I do here, gentlemen, pointing out to you the uses of
agriculture? Who supplies our wants? who provides our means of
subsistence? Is it not the agriculturist? The agriculturist, gentlemen,
who, sowing with laborious hand the fertile furrows of the country,
brings forth the corn, which, being ground, is made into a powder by
means of ingenious machinery, comes out thence under the name of flour,
and from there, transported to our cities, is soon delivered at the
baker's, who makes it into food for poor and rich alike. Again, is it
not the agriculturist who fattens, for our clothes, his abundant flocks
in the pastures? For how should we clothe ourselves, how nourish
ourselves, without the agriculturist? And, gentlemen, is it even
necessary to go so far for examples? Who has not frequently reflected
on all the momentous things that we get out of that modest animal, the
ornament of poultry-yards, that provides us at once with a soft pillow
for our bed, with succulent flesh for our tables, and eggs? But I should
never end if I were to enumerate one after the other all the different
products which the earth, well cultivated, like a generous mother,
lavishes upon her children. Here it is the vine, elsewhere the
apple-tree for cider, there colza, farther on cheeses and flax.
Gentlemen, let us not forget flax, which has made such great strides of
late years, and to which I will more particularly call your attention."

He had no need to call it, for all the mouths of the multitude were wide
open, as if to drink in his words. Tuvache by his side listened to him
with starting eyes. Monsieur Derozerays from time to time softly closed
his eyelids, and farther on the chemist, with his son Napoléon between
his knees, put his hand behind his ear in order not to lose a syllable.
The chins of the other members of the jury went slowly up and down in
their waistcoats in sign of approval. The firemen at the foot of the
platform rested on their bayonets; and Binet, motionless, stood with
out-turned elbows, the point of his sabre in the air. Perhaps he could
hear, but certainly he could see nothing, because of the visor of his
helmet, that fell down on his nose. Lablache Laboring men, the ways of
Lachrymose tone disgusting Lacordaire La Fontaine La Harpe Lamaitre,
Frederick Lamartine Lamentation Language Laocoon, the Larynx, the
coloring of lowering the the thermometer of the sensitive life Larynxes,
artificial Latin prosody Laugh, signification of the its composition
Law, definition of application of the, to various arts Legouvé
Legs, the, and their attitudes Leibnitz Leroux, Pierre Liars do not
elevate their shoulders Life, the sensitive state principal elements
of the phenomena of Light Lind, Jenny Literary remains of Delsarte
Literature, the law applied to Littré's Dictionary Logic often in
default Longus Louvre, false pictures in the Love gives more than
it receives Lovers, the gaze of Loyson, Father Lucht, Auguste Lully
Lungs, the Lyric art 

M.

Malherbe Malibran Man the three phases of either painter, poet, scientist,
or mystic three types in the object of art a triplicity of persons the
agent of Æsthetics when a man shrinks unfamiliar to himself Marcello
Marie, Franck Mars Martellato Massenet Materialism Measure in oratorical
diction Medallion of inflection Mediocrity Medium voice, the expression
of moral emotions the normal voice Melody Menace, the head and hand Mengs
Mental or reflective state Mercié
Mind, the intellectual state Mode simpliste Modest people turn out the
elbow Mohere Monsabre, Father Moral or affective state Mother, the voice
of the Mother vowel, the Motion, distinction and vulgarity of Mouth,
the no contraction of back part openings of, for various vowels a
vital thermometer Movements from various centres flexor, rotary,
and abductory initial forms of Mucous membrane, transmitter of sound
Muscular machinery (gesture), the language of emotion Music, the
seven notes of a succession of sounds Musset 

N.

His arms were folded across his knees, and thus lifting his face toward
Emma, close by her, he looked fixedly at her. She noticed in his eyes
small golden lines radiating from black pupils; she even smelled the
perfume of the pomade that made his hair glossy. Then a faintness came
over her; she recalled the Viscount who had waltzed with her at
Vaubyessard, and his beard exhaled like this hair an odor of vanilla
and citron, and mechanically she half-closed her eyes the better to
breathe it in. But in making this movement, as she leaned back in her
chair, she saw in the distance, right on the line of the horizon, the
old diligence the "Hirondelle," that was slowly descending the hill of
Leux, dragging after it a long trail of dust. It was in this yellow
carriage that Léon had so often come back to her, and by this route down
there that he had gone for ever. She fancied she saw him opposite at his
window; then all grew confused; clouds gathered; it seemed to her that
she was again turning in the waltz under the light of the lusters on the
arm of the Viscount, and that Léon was not far away, that he was coming;
and yet all the time she was conscious of the scent of Rodolphe's head
by her side. This sweetness of sensation pierced through her old
desires, and these, like grains of sand under a gust of wind, eddied to
and fro in the subtle breath of the perfume which suffused her soul. She
opened wide her nostrils several times to drink in the freshness of the
ivy round the capitals. She took off her gloves, she wiped her hands,
then fanned her face with her handkerchief, while athwart the throbbing
of her temples she heard the murmur of the crowd and the voice of the
councilor intoning his phrases. He said:

"Continue, persevere; listen neither to the suggestions of routine, nor
to the over-hasty councils of a rash empiricism. Apply yourselves, above
all, to the amelioration of the soil, to good manures, to the
development of the equine, bovine, ovine, and porcine races. Let these
shows be to you pacific arenas, where the victor in leaving it will hold
forth a hand to the vanquished, and will fraternize with him in the
hope of better success. And you, aged servants, humble domestics, whose
hard labor no Government up to this day has taken into consideration,
come hither to receive the reward of your silent virtues, and be assured
that the state henceforward has its eye upon you; that it encourages
you, protects you; that it will accede to your just demands, and
alleviate as much as in it lies the burden of your painful sacrifices."

Monsieur Lieuvain then sat down; Monsieur Derozerays got up, beginning
another speech. His was not perhaps so florid as that of the councilor,
but it recommended itself by a more direct style, that is to say, by
more special knowledge and more elevated considerations. Thus the praise
of the Government took up less space in it; religion and agriculture
more. He showed in it the relations of these two, and how they had
always contributed to civilization. Rodolphe with Madame Bovary was
talking dreams, presentiments, magnetism. Going back to the cradle of
society, the orator painted those fierce times when men lived on acorns
in the heart of woods. Then they had left off the skins of beasts, had
put on cloth, tilled the soil, planted the vine. Was this a good, and in
this discovery was there not more of injury than of gain? Monsieur
Derozerays set himself this problem. From magnetism little by little
Rodolphe had come to affinities, and while the president was citing
Cincinnatus and his plough, Diocletian planting his cabbages, and the
emperors of China inaugurating the year by the sowing of seed, the young
man was explaining to the young woman that these irresistible
attractions find their cause in some previous state of existence.

"Thus we," he said, "why did we come to know one another? What chance
willed it? It was because across the infinite, like two streams that
flow but to unite, our special bents of mind had driven us toward each
other."

And he seized her hand; she did not withdraw it.

"For good farming generally!" cried the president.

"Just now, for example, when I went to your house."

"To Monsieur Bizat of Quincampoix."

"Did I know I should accompany you?"

"Seventy francs."

"A hundred times I wished to go; and I followed you--I remained."

"Manures!"

"And I shall remain to-night, to-morrow, all other days, all my life!"

"To Monsieur Caron of Argueil, a gold medal!"

"For I have never in the society of any other person found so complete a
charm."

"To Monsieur Bain of Givry-Saint-Martin."

"And I shall carry away with me the remembrance of you."

"For a merino ram!"

"But you will forget me; I shall pass away like a shadow."

"To Monsieur Belot of Nôtre-Dame."

"Oh, no! I shall be something in your thought, in your life, shall I
not?"

"Porcine race; prizes--equal, to Messrs. Lehérissé and Cullembourg,
sixty francs!"

Rodolphe was pressing her hand, and he felt it all warm and quivering
like a captive dove that tries to fly away; but, whether she was trying
to take it away or whether she was answering his pressure, she made a
movement with her fingers. He exclaimed--

"Oh, I thank you! You do not repulse me! You are good! You understand
that I am yours! Let me look at you; let me contemplate you!"

A gust of wind that blew in at the window ruffled the cloth on the
table, and in the square below all the great caps of the peasant women
were uplifted by it like the wings of white butterflies fluttering.

"Use of oil-cakes," continued the president. He was hurrying on:
"Flemish manure--flax-growing--drainage--long leases--domestic service."

Rodolphe was no longer speaking. They looked at one another. A supreme
desire made their dry lips tremble, and softly, without an effort, their
fingers intertwined.

"Catherine Nicaise Elizabeth Leroux, of Sassetot-la-Guerrière, for
fifty-four years of service at the same farm, a silver medal--value,
twenty-five francs!"

"Where is Catherine Leroux?" repeated the councilor.

She did not present herself, and one could hear voices whispering:

"Go up!"

"Don't be afraid!"

"Oh, how stupid she is!"

"Well, is she there?" cried Tuvache.

"Yes; here she is."

"Then let her come up!"

Then there came forward on the platform a little old woman with timid
bearing, who seemed to shrink within her poor clothes. On her feet she
wore heavy wooden clogs, and from her hips hung a large blue apron. Her
pale face framed in a borderless cap was more wrinkled than a withered
russet apple, and from the sleeves of her red jacket hung down two large
hands with knotty joints. The dust of barns, the potash of washings, and
the grease of wools had so incrusted, roughened, hardened these, that
they seemed dirty, although they had been rinsed in clear water; and by
dint of long service they remained half open, as if to bear humble
witness for themselves of so much suffering endured. Something of
monastic rigidity dignified her face. Nothing of sadness or of emotion
weakened that pale look. In her constant living with animals she had
caught their dumbness and their calm. It was the first time that she
found herself in the midst of so large a company, and inwardly scared by
the flags, the drums, the gentlemen in frock-coats, and the order of the
councilor, she stood motionless, not knowing whether to advance or run
away, nor why the crowd was pushing her and the jury were smiling at
her. Thus stood before these radiant bourgeois this half-century of
servitude.

"Approach, venerable Catherine Nicaise Elizabeth Leroux!" said the
councilor, who had taken the list of prize-winners from the president;
and, looking at the piece of paper and the old woman by turns, he
repeated in a fatherly tone:

"Approach! approach!"

"Are you deaf?" said Tuvache, fidgeting in his armchair; and he began
shouting in her ear, "Fifty-four years of service. A silver medal!
Twenty-five francs! For you!"

Then, when she had her medal, she looked at it, and a smile of beatitude
spread over her face; and as she walked away they could hear her
muttering:

"I'll give it to our curé up home, to say some masses for me!"

"What fanaticism!" exclaimed the chemist, leaning across to the notary.

The meeting was over, the crowd dispersed, and now that the speeches had
been read, each one fell back into his place again, and everything into
the old grooves; the masters bullied the servants, and these struck the
animals, indolent victors, going back to the stalls, a green crown on
their horns.

The National Guards, however, had gone up to the first floor of the
townhall with buns spitted on their bayonets, and the drummer of the
battalion carried a basket with bottles. Madame Bovary took Rodolphe's
arm; he saw her home; they separated at her door; then he walked about
alone in the meadow while he waited for the time of the banquet.

The feast was long, noisy, ill served; the guests were so crowded that
they could hardly move their elbows; and the narrow planks used for
forms almost broke down under their weight. They ate hugely. Each one
stuffed himself on his own account. Sweat stood on every brow, and a
whitish steam, like the vapor of a stream on an autumn morning, floated
above the table between the hanging lamps. Rodolphe, leaning against the
calico of the tent, was thinking so earnestly of Emma that he heard
nothing. Behind him on the grass the servants were piling up the dirty
plates; his neighbors were talking; he did not answer them; they filled
his glass, and there was silence in his thoughts in spite of the growing
noise. He was dreaming of what she had said, of the line of her lips;
her face, as in a magic mirror, shone on the plates of the shakos, the
folds of her gown fell along the walls, and days of love unrolled to
all infinity before him in the vistas of the future.

He saw her again in the evening during the fireworks, but she was with
her husband. Madame Homais, and the druggist, who was worrying about the
danger of stray rockets, and every moment he left the company to go and
give some advice to Binet.

The pyrotechnic pieces sent to Monsieur Tuvache had, through an excess
of caution, been shut up in his cellar, and so the damp powder would not
light, and the principal set piece, that was to represent a dragon
biting his tail, failed completely. Now and then a meager Roman-candle
went off; then the gaping crowd sent up a shout that mingled with the
cry of the women, whose waists were being squeezed in the darkness. Emma
silently nestled gently against Charles's shoulder; then, raising her
chin, she watched the luminous rays of the rockets against the dark sky.
Rodolphe gazed at her in the light of the burning lanterns.

mountain. {271d}
"The old inn {271e}--the blind woman. {271f} Arrival of the odd-looking
man and the two women I had passed on the road.

The collier [on] {271g} the ass gives me the real history of Bosvile.
Written in Roche Castle, a kind of oblong tower built on the rock--there
is a rock within it, a huge crag standing towards the East in what
was perhaps once a door. It turned out to be a chapel. {271h}

"The castle is call'd in Welsh Castel y Garn, a translation of Roche. The
girl and water--B---? (Nanny) Dallas. {272a} Dialogue with the Baptist
{272b} who was mending the roads.

"Splendid view of sea--isolated rocks to the South. Sir las {272c}
headlands stretching S.

Descent to the shore. New Gall Bridge. {272d} The collier's wife. Jemmy
Remaunt {272e} was the name of man on the ass.

Her own husband goes to work by the shore. The ascent round the hill.
Distant view of Roche Castle.

The Welshers, the little village {272f}--all looking down on the
valley appropriately called Y Cwm.

Dialogue with tall man Merddyn? {272g}--The Dim o Clywed."
Not much of this second tour can be shown to have been used in "Wild
Wales," where he alludes to it in the ninety-third chapter, saying
that he "long subsequently" found some of the wildest solitudes and
most romantic scenery among the mountains about Tregaron; but the
collier may have given him the suggestion for the encounter with
Bosvile in the ninety-eighth chapter.

The spelling points to Borrow's ignorance of the relation of pronunciation
and orthography.

In 1858 Borrow's mother died at Oulton and was buried in Oulton
churchyard.

During October and November in that year, partly to take his mind
from his bereavement, he was walking in the Scottish Highlands and
Islands.

His note-book contains "nothing of general interest," says Knapp, except
an imperfect outline of the journey, showing that he was at Oban,
Tobermory, the Mull of Cantire, Glasgow, Perth, Aberdeen, Inverness,
Dingwall, Tain, Dornoch, Helmsdale, Wick, John o'Groats, Thurso,
Stromness, Kirkwall, and Lerwick.

In 1860, after taking a house at 20, Hereford Square, West Brompton, he
and his wife and stepdaughter went to Dublin, and himself walked to
Connemara and the Giant's Causeway.

His wife thought this journey "full of adventure and interest," but he
left no record of it. They were again in Ireland in 1866, Miss Clarke
having lately married a Dr. MacOubrey, of Belfast. Borrow himself crossed
over to Stranraer and had a month's walking in Scotland, to Glen
Luce, Castle Douglas, Dumfries, Ecclefechan, Carlisle, Gilnochie,
Hawick, Jedburgh, Yetholm, Kelso, Melrose, Coldstream, Berwick, and
Edinburgh. He talked to the people, admired the scenery, bathed, and
enjoyed his meals. He left the briefest of journals, but afterwards, in
"Romano Lavo-Lil," published an account of the "Gypsy toon" of
Kirk Yetholm and how he was introduced to the Gypsy Queen. He dropped his
umbrella and flung his arms three times up into the air and asked her
in Romany what her name was, and if she was a mumper or a true Gypsy.
She asked him what was the meaning of this "gibberish," but he describes
how gradually he made her declare herself, and how she examined him in
Gypsy and at last offered him a chair, and entered into "deep
discourse" about Gypsy matters.

He talked as he did to such people, saying "Whoy, I calls that a juggal,"
etc. He found fault with her Romany, which was thin and mixed with
Gaelic and cant words. She told him that he reminded her of her grandfather,
Will Faa, "being a tall, lusty man like himself, and having a
skellying look with the left eye, just like him." He displayed his
knowledge of the affairs of the tribe, both in her country and in
England. She told him that she had never heard so much Romany before.
She promised to receive him next day, but was out when he called.
He found her at St. George's Fair, near Roxburgh Castle, and she pointed
him out several other Gypsies, but as she assured him they knew
not a word of Romany and would only be uncivil to him, he left them
to "pay his respects at the tomb of Walter Scott, a man with whose
principles he had no sympathy, but for whose genius he had always
entertained the most intense admiration."

In 1868 he took an autumn walk through Sussex and Hampshire while his wife
was at Bognor. In the next year his wife died, after being afflicted
for some time by troubles connected with her property, by dropsy,
valvular disease of the heart, and "hysteria."

Borrow was melancholy and irritable, but apparently did not go for
another walk in Scotland as was suggested for a cure; nor ever again
did he get far afield on foot.

CHAPTER XXIX--"WILD WALES"
In 1862, between Borrow's two visits to Ireland, his "Wild Wales"
was published.

It had been heralded by an advertisement in 1857, by the publication
of the "Sleeping Bard" in 1860, and by an article on "The Welsh
and their Literature" in the "Quarterly" for January, 1861.

This article quotes "an unpublished work called 'Wild Wales'" and
"Mr.

Borrow's unpublished work, 'Celtic Bards, Chiefs and Kings.'"

It opened with a vivid story of the coming of Hu Gadarn and his Cymry
to Britain:

"Hu and his people took possession of the best parts of the island,
either driving the few Gaels to other districts or admitting them
to their confederacy.

As the country was in a very wild state, much overgrown with forests
in which bears and wolves wandered, and abounding with deep stagnant
pools, which were the haunts of the avanc or crocodile, Hu forthwith
set about clearing it of some of its horrors, and making it more fit
to be the abiding place of civilised beings.

He made his people cut down woods and forests, and destroy, as
far as was possible, wild beasts and crocodiles.

He himself went to a gloomy pool, the haunt of the king of the
efync, baited a huge hook attached to a cable, flung it into the
pool, and when the monster had gorged the snare drew him out by
means of certain gigantic oxen, which he had tamed to the plough,
and burnt his horrid, wet, scaly carcass on a fire.

He then caused enclosures to be made, fields to be ploughed and
sown, pleasant wooden houses to be built, bees to be sheltered and
encouraged, and schools to be erected where song and music were
taught.

O a truly great man was Hu Gadarn! though a warrior, he preferred the
sickle and pruning hook to the sword, and the sound of the song
and lute to the hoarse blast of the buffalo's horn:
"The mighty Hu with mead would pay The bard for his melodious lay;
The Emperor of land and sea And of all living things was he."

This probably represents Borrow's view of early history, simple,
heroical and clear, as it would have been had he been in command
of it.

The article professed to be a review of Borrow's "Sleeping Bard,"
and was in fact by Borrow himself.

He had achieved the supreme honour of reviewing his own work, and, as it
fell out, he persuaded the public to buy every copy.

Very few were found to buy "Wild Wales," notwithstanding.

The first edition of a thousand copies lasted three years; the
second, of three thousand, lasted twenty-three years.

Borrow was ridiculed for informing his readers that he paid his bill at
a Welsh inn, without mentioning the amount. He was praised for having
written "the first clever book . . . in which an honest attempt is made
to do justice to the Welsh literature," for knowing far more than most
educated Welshmen about that literature, and for describing his travels
and encounters "with much of the freshness, humour and geniality of
his earlier days," for writing in fact "the best book about Wales ever
published."
Certainly no later book which could be compared with it has been as
good, or nearly as good. As for its predecessors, the "Itinerary" and
the "Description" of Gerald of Wales, even setting aside the charm
of antiquity, make a book that is equal to "Wild Wales" for
originality, vivacity and truth.

Of the antiquarian and picturesque travellers in the late eighteenth
century and early nineteenth none wrote anything that is valuable
except for some facts and some evidence of taste.

Borrow himself probably knew few or none of them, though he mentions
Gerald.
There is no evidence that he knew the great nineteenth-century collections
of Welsh manuscripts and translations. He says nothing of the "Mabinogion."
He had apparently never heard of the pedestrian Iolo Morganwg. He perhaps
never saw Stephens' "Literature of the Kymry."

His knowledge was picked up anyhow and anywhere from Welsh texts
and Lhuyd's "Archaeologia," without system and with very little
friendly discussion or comparison.

Wales, therefore, was to him as wonderful as Spain, and equally
uncharted.

What he saw did not spoil the visionary image, and his enthusiasm
coupled with curiosity gives the book of his travels just the
continuous impulse which he never found for his Cornish, Manx, Irish
or Scottish notes.

He was able to fill the book with sympathetic observation and genial
self-revelation.

The book is of course a tourist's book. Borrow went through the country
as a gentleman, running no risks, and having scarcely an object except
to see what was to be seen and to please himself. He got, as he probably
counted on getting, the consideration due to a gentleman who can
pay his way and meets only the humbler sort of people, publicans,
farmers, drovers, labourers, sextons, parish clerks, and men upon
the road.

He seldom stayed more than a night or an hour or two anywhere.

His pictures, therefore, are the impressions of the moment, wrought
up at leisure. His few weeks in Wales made a book of the same size
as an equal number of years in Spain.

Sometimes he writes like a detached observer working from notes,
and the result has little value except in so far as it is a pure
record of what was to be seen at such and such a place in the year
1854.

There are many short passages apparently straight from his notes, dead
and useless. The description of Llangollen Fair, on August 21, is of
this kind, but superior, and I shall quote it entire:
"The day was dull with occasional showers.

I went to see the fair about noon. It was held in and near a little
square in the south-east quarter of the town, of which square the
police-station is the principal feature on the side of the west,
and an inn, bearing the sign of the Grapes, on the east.

The fair was a little bustling fair, attended by plenty of people from
the country, and from the English border, and by some who appeared to
come from a greater distance than the border. A dense row of carts extended
from the police-station, half across the space.

These carts were filled with pigs, and had stout cord nettings drawn
over them, to prevent the animals escaping.

By the sides of these carts the principal business of the fair appeared
to be going on--there stood the owners, male and female, higgling
with Llangollen men and women, who came to buy.

The pigs were all small, and the price given seemed to vary from
eighteen to twenty-five shillings.

Those who bought pigs generally carried them away in their arms;
and then there was no little diversion; dire was the screaming of
the porkers, yet the purchaser invariably appeared to know how to
manage his bargain, keeping the left arm round the body of the swine
and with the right hand fast gripping the ear--some few were led
away by strings.

There were some Welsh cattle, small of course, and the purchasers
of these seemed to be Englishmen, tall burly fellows in general,
far exceeding the Welsh in height and size.

"Much business in the cattle-line did not seem, however, to be going
on.

Now and then a big fellow made an offer, and held out his hand for
a little Pictish grazier to give it a slap--a cattle bargain being
concluded by a slap of the hand--but the Welshman generally turned
away, with a half-resentful exclamation.

There were a few horses and ponies in a street leading into the
fair from the south.

"I saw none sold, however.

A tall athletic figure was striding amongst them, evidently a jockey and
a stranger, looking at them and occasionally asking a slight
question of one or another of their proprietors, but he did not buy.

He might in age be about eight-and-twenty, and about six feet and
three-quarters of an inch in height; in build he was perfection
itself--a better-built man I never saw.

He wore a cap and a brown jockey coat, trowsers, leggings, and highlows,
and sported a single spur. He had whiskers--all jockeys should have
whiskers--but he had what I did not like, and what no genuine jockey
should have, a moustache, which looks coxcombical and Frenchified--but
most things have terribly changed since I was young.

Three or four hardy-looking fellows, policemen, were gliding about in their
blue coats and leather hats, holding their thin walking-sticks
behind them; conspicuous amongst whom was the leader, a tall lathy
North Briton with a keen eye and hard features.

Now if I add there was much gabbling of Welsh round about, and here
and there some slight sawing of English--that in the street leading
from the north there were some stalls of gingerbread and a table
at which a queer-looking being with a red Greek-looking cap on his
head, sold rhubarb, herbs, and phials containing the Lord knows
what, and who spoke a low vulgar English dialect,--I repeat, if I
add this, I think I have said all that is necessary about Llangollen
Fair."

But this is a somewhat exceptional passage, and the same
detachment is rarely found except in his descriptions of scenery,
which are short and serve well enough to remind the reader of the
great hills, the rapid waters, the rocks, and the furnaces, chimneys
and pits.

Borrow certainly does remind us of these things. In the first
place he does so by a hundred minute and scattered suggestions of
the romantic and sublime, and so general that only a pedant will
object to the nightingales which he heard singing in August near
Bethesda.

He gives us black mountains, gloomy shadows, cascades falling into
lakes, "singular-looking" rocks, and mountain villages like one in
Castile or La Mancha but for the trees, mountains that made him exclaim:
"I have had Heaven opened to me," moors of a "wretched russet colour,"
"black gloomy narrow glens." He can also be precise and connoisseur-like,
as when he describes the cataract at Llan Rhaiadr:

"What shall I liken it to? I scarcely know, unless to an immense
skein of silk agitated and disturbed by tempestuous blasts, or to the
long tail of a grey courser at furious speed. Through the profusion
of long silvery threads or hairs, or what looked such, I could
here and there see the black sides of the crag down which the Rhyadr
precipitated itself with something between a boom and a roar."
He is still more a connoisseur when he continues:

"I never saw water falling so gracefully, so much like thin beautiful
threads as here. Yet even this cataract has its blemish. What beautiful
object has not something which more or less mars its loveliness?

There is an ugly black bridge or semicircle of rock, about two feet in
diameter and about twenty feet high, which rises some little way
below it, and under which the water, after reaching the bottom, passes,
which intercepts the sight, and prevents it from taking in the
whole fall at once.

This unsightly object has stood where it now stands since the day of
creation, and will probably remain there to the day of judgment.
Then far away, beyond the wood, on the other hills, she
heard a vague prolonged cry, a voice which lingered, and in silence she
heard it mingling like music with the last pulsations of her throbbing
nerves. Rodolphe, a cigar between his lips, was mending with his
penknife one of the two broken bridles.

They returned to Yonville by the same road. On the mud they saw again
the traces of their horses side by side, the same thickets, the same
stones in the grass; nothing around them seemed changed; and yet for her
something had happened more stupendous than if the mountains had moved
in their places. Rodolphe now and again bent forward and took her hand
to kiss it.

She was charming on horseback--upright, with her slender waist, her knee
bent on the mane of her horse, her face something flushed by the fresh
air in the red of the evening.

On entering Yonville she made her horse prance in the road. People
looked at her from the windows.

At dinner her husband thought she looked well, but she pretended not to
hear him when he inquired about her ride, and she remained sitting there
with her elbow at the side of her plate between the two lighted candles.

"'Emma!" he said.

"What?"

"Well, I spent the afternoon at Monsieur Alexandre's. He has an old cob,
still very fine, only a little broken-kneed, that could be bought, I am
very sure, for a hundred crowns." He added, "And thinking it might
please you, I have bespoken it--bought it. Have I done right? Do tell
me!"

She nodded her head in assent; then a quarter of an hour later--

"Are you going out to-night?" she asked.

"Yes. Why?"

"Oh, nothing, nothing, my dear!"

And as soon as she had got rid of Charles she went and shut herself up
in her room.

At first she felt stunned; she saw the trees, the paths, the ditches,
Rodolphe, and she again felt the pressure of his arm, while the leaves
rustled and the reeds whistled.

But when she saw herself in the glass she wondered at her face. Never
had her eyes been so large, so black, of so profound a depth. Something
subtle about her being transfigured her. She repeated, "I have a lover!
a lover!" delighting at the idea as if a second puberty had come to her.
So at last she was to know those joys of love, that fever of happiness
of which she had despaired! She was entering upon marvels where all
would be passion, ecstasy, delirium. An azure infinity encompassed her,
the heights of sentiment sparkled under her thought, and ordinary
existence appeared remote, far below in the shade, through the
interspaces of these heights.

Then she recalled the heroines of the books that she had read, and the
lyric legion of these adulterous women began to sing in her memory with
the voice of sisters that charmed her. She became herself, as it were,
an actual part of these imaginings, and realized the love-dream of her
youth as she saw herself in this type of amorous women whom she had so
envied. Besides, Emma felt a satisfaction of revenge. Had she not
suffered enough? But now she triumphed, and the love so long pent up
burst forth in full joyous bubblings. She tasted it without remorse,
without anxiety, without trouble.

The day following passed with a new sweetness. They made vows to one
another. She told him of her sorrows. Rodolphe interrupted her with
kisses; and she, looking at him through half-closed eyes, asked him to
call her again by her name--to say that he loved her. They were in the
forest, as yesterday, in the shed of some wooden-shoe maker. The walls
were of straw, and the roof so low they had to stoop. They were seated
side by side on a bed of dry leaves.

From that day forth they wrote to one another regularly every evening.
Emma placed her letter at the end of the garden, by the river, in a
fissure of the wall. Rodolphe came to fetch it, and put another there,
that she always found fault with as too short.

One morning, when Charles had gone out before daybreak, she was seized
with the fancy to see Rodolphe at once. She would go quickly to La
Huchette, stay there an hour, and be back again at Yonville while every
one was still asleep. This idea made her pant with desire, and she soon
found herself in the middle of the field, walking with rapid steps,
without looking behind her.

Day was just breaking. Emma from afar recognized her lover's house. Its
two dove-tailed weathercocks stood out black against the pale dawn.

Beyond the farmyard there was a detached building that she thought must
be the château. She entered it as if the doors at her approach had
opened wide of their own accord. A large straight staircase led up to
the corridor, Emma raised the latch of a door, and suddenly at the end
of the room she saw a man sleeping. It was Rodolphe. She uttered a cry.

"You here? You here?" he repeated, "How did you manage to come? Ah! your
dress is damp."

"I love you," she answered, passing her arms round his neck.

This first piece of daring successful, now every time Charles went out
early Emma dressed quickly and slipped on tiptoe down the steps that led
to the waterside.

But when the plank for the cows was taken up, she had to go by the walls
alongside of the river; the bank was slippery; in order not to fall she
caught hold of the tufts of faded wallflowers. Then she went across
ploughed fields, in which she sank, stumbling, and clogging her thin
shoes. Her scarf, knotted round her head, fluttered to the wind in the
meadows. She was afraid of the oxen; she began to run; she arrived out
of breath, with rosy cheeks, and breathing out from her whole person a
fresh perfume of sap, of verdure, of the open air. At this hour Rodolphe
still slept. It was like a spring morning coming into his room.

The yellow curtains along the windows let a heavy, whitish light enter
softly. Emma felt about, opening and closing her eyes, while the drops
of dew hanging from her hair formed, as it were, a topaz aureole around
her face. Rodolphe, laughing, drew her to him and pressed her to his
breast.

Then she examined the apartment, opened the drawers of the tables,
combed her hair with his comb, and looked at herself in his
shaving-glass. Often she even put between her teeth the big pipe that
lay on the table by the bed, amongst lemons and pieces of sugar near a
bottle of water.

It took them a good quarter of an hour to say good-bye. Then Emma wept.
She would have wished never to leave Rodolphe. Something stronger than
herself forced her to him; so much so, that one day, seeing her come
unexpectedly, he frowned as one put out.

"What is the matter with you?" she said. "Are you ill? Tell me!"

At last he declared with a serious air that her visits were becoming
imprudent--that she was compromising herself.


X.

LOVERS' VOWS.


Gradually Rodolphe's fears took possession of her. At first, love had
intoxicated her, and she had thought of nothing beyond. But now that he
was indispensable to her life, she feared to lose anything of this, or
even that it should be disturbed. When she came back from his house, she
looked all about her, anxiously watching every form that passed in the
horizon, and every village window from which she could be seen. She
listened for steps, cries, the noise of the ploughs, and she stopped
short, white, and trembling more than the aspen leaves swaying overhead.

One morning as she was thus returning, she suddenly thought she saw the
long barrel of a carbine that seemed to be aimed at her. It stuck out
sideways from the end of a small tub half-buried in the grass on the
edge of a ditch. Emma, half-fainting with terror, nevertheless walked
on, and a man stepped out of the tub like a Jack-in-the-box. He had
gaiters buckled up to the knees, his cap pulled down over his eyes,
trembling lips, and a red nose. It was Captain Binet lying in ambush for
wild ducks.

"You ought to have called out long ago!" he exclaimed. "When one sees a
gun, one should always give warning."

The tax-collector was thus trying to hide the fright he had had, for a
prefectorial order having prohibited duck-hunting except in boats,
Monsieur Binet, despite his respect for the laws, was infringing them,
and so he every moment expected to see the rural guard turn up. But this
anxiety whetted his pleasure, and, all alone in his tub, he
congratulated himself on his luck and on his cleverness.

At sight of Emma he seemed relieved from a great weight, and at once
entered upon a conversation.

"It isn't warm; it's nipping."

Emma answered nothing. He went on--

"And you're out so early?"

"Yes," she said stammering; "I am just coming from the nurse where my
child is."

"Ah! very good! very good! For myself, I am here, just as you see me,
since break of day; but the weather is so muggy, that unless one had the
bird at the mouth of the gun----"

"Good evening, Monsieur Binet," she interrupted him, turning on her
heel.

"Your servant, madame," he replied drily; and he went back into his tub.

Emma regretted having left the tax-collector so abruptly. No doubt he
would form unfavorable conjectures. The story about the nurse was the
worst possible excuse, every one at Yonville knowing that the little
Bovary had been at home with her parents for a year. Besides, no one was
living in this direction; this path led only to La Huchette. Binet,
then, would guess whence she came, and he would not keep silence; he
would talk, that was certain. She remained until evening racking her
brain with every conceivable lying project, and had constantly before
her eyes that imbecile with the game-bag.

Charles after dinner, seeing her gloomy, proposed, by way of
distraction, to take her to the chemist's, and the first person she
caught sight of in the shop was the tax-collector again. He was standing
in front of the counter, lighted by the gleams of the red bottle, and
was saying:

"Please give me half an ounce of vitriol."

"Justin," cried the druggist, "bring us the sulphuric acid." Then to
Emma, who was going up to Madame Homais' room, "No, stay here; it isn't
worth while going up; she is just coming down. Warm yourself at the
stove in the meantime. Excuse me. Good-day, doctor" (for the chemist
much enjoyed pronouncing the word "doctor," as if addressing another by
it reflected on himself some of the grandeur that he found in it). "Now,
take care not to upset the mortars! You'd better fetch some chairs from
the little room; you know very well that the armchairs are not to be
taken out of the drawing-room."

And to put his armchair back in its place he was darting away from the
counter, when Binet asked him for half an ounce of sugar acid.

"Sugar acid!" said the chemist contemptuously, "don't know it; I'm
ignorant of it! But perhaps you want oxalic acid. It is oxalic acid,
isn't it?"

Binet explained that he wanted a corrosive to make himself some
copper-water with which to remove rust from his hunting things.

Emma shuddered. The chemist began, saying:

"Indeed the weather is not propitious on account of the damp."

"Nevertheless," replied the tax-collector, with a sly look, "there are
people who like it."

She was stifling.

"And give me----"

"Will he never go?" thought she.

"Half an ounce of resin and turpentine, four ounces of yellow wax, and
three half ounces of animal charcoal, if you please, to clean the
varnished leather of my togs."

The chemist was beginning to cut the wax when Madame Homais appeared,
Irma in her arms, Napoléon by her side, and Athalie following. She sat
down on the velvet seat by the window, and the lad squatted down on a
footstool, while his eldest sister hovered round the jujube box near her
papa. The latter was filling funnels and corking phials, sticking on
labels, making up parcels. Around him all were silent; only from time to
time were heard the weights jingling in the balance, and a few low words
from the chemist giving directions to his pupil.

"And how's the little woman?" suddenly asked Madame Homais.

"Silence!" exclaimed her husband, who was writing down some figures in
his waste-book.

"Why didn't you bring her?" she went on in a low voice.

"Hush! hush!" said Emma, pointing with her finger to the chemist.

But Binet, quite absorbed in looking over his bill, had probably heard
nothing. At last he went out. Then Emma, relieved, uttered a deep sigh.

"How hard you are breathing!" said Madame Homais.

"Well, you see, it's rather warm," she replied.

The next day the lovers discussed how to arrange their rendezvous. Emma
wanted to bribe her servant with a present, but it would be better to
find some safe house at Yonville. Rodolphe promised to look for one.

All through the winter, three or four times a week, in the dead of night
he came to the garden. Emma had on purpose taken away the key of the
gate, which Charles thought lost.

To call her, Rodolphe threw a sprinkle of sand at the shutters. She
jumped up with a start; but sometimes he had to wait, for Charles had a
mania for chatting by the fireside, and he would not stop. She was wild
with impatience; if her eyes could have done it, she would have hurled
him out at the window. At last she would begin to undress, then take up
a book, and go on reading very quietly as if the book amused her. But
Charles, who was in bed, called to her to come too.

"Come, now, Emma," he said, "it is time."

"Yes, I am coming," she answered.

Then, as the candles dazzled him, he turned to the wall and fell asleep.
She escaped, smiling, palpitating, undressed.

Rodolphe had a large cloak; he wrapped her in it, and putting his arm
around her waist, he drew her without a word to the end of the garden.

It was in the arbor, on the same seat of old sticks where formerly Léon
had looked at her so amorously on the summer evenings. She never thought
of him now.

The stars shone through the leafless jasmine branches. Behind them they
heard the river flowing, and now and again on the bank the rustling of
the dry reeds. Masses of shadow here and there loomed out in the
darkness and sometimes, vibrating with one movement, they rose up and
swayed like immense black waves pressing forward to engulf them. The
cold of the nights made them clasp closer; the sighs of their lips
seemed to them deeper; their eyes, that they could hardly see, larger;
and in the midst of the silence low words were spoken that fell on their
souls sonorous, crystalline, and reverberating in multiplied vibrations.

When the night was rainy, they took refuge in the consulting-room
between the car-shed and the stable. She lighted one of the kitchen
candles that she had hidden behind the books. Rodolphe settled down
there as if at home. The sight of the library, of the bureau, of the
whole apartment, in fine, excited his merriment, and he could not
refrain from making jokes about Charles, which rather embarrassed Emma.
She would have liked to see him more serious, and even on occasions more
dramatic; as, for example, when she thought she heard a noise of
approaching steps in the alley.

"Some one is coming!" she said.

He blew out the light.

"Have you your pistols?"

"Why?"

"Why, to defend yourself," replied Emma.

"From your husband? Oh, poor devil!" And Rodolphe finished his sentence
with a gesture that said, "I could crush him with a flip of my finger."

She was wonder-stricken at his bravery, although she felt in it a sort
of indecency and a naïve coarseness that scandalized her.

Rodolphe reflected a good deal on the affair of the pistols. If she had
spoken seriously, it was very ridiculous, he thought, even odious; for
he had no reason to hate the good Charles, not being what is called
devoured by jealousy; and on this subject Emma had treated him to a
lecture, which he did not think in the best taste.

Besides, she was growing very sentimental. She had insisted on
exchanging miniatures; they had cut handfuls of hair, and now she was
asking for a ring--a real wedding-ring, in sign of an eternal union. She
often spoke to him of the evening chimes, of the voices of nature. Then
she talked to him of her mother--hers! and of his mother--his! Rodolphe
had lost his twenty years ago. Emma none the less consoled him with
caressing words as one would soothe a forsaken child, and she sometimes
even said to him, gazing at the moon:

"I am sure that above there together they approve of our love."

But she was so pretty! He had possessed so few women of such
ingenuousness. This love without debauchery was a new experience for
him, and, drawing him out of his lazy habits, caressed at once his pride
and his sensuality. Emma's enthusiasm, which his bourgeois good sense
disdained, seemed to him in his heart of hearts charming, since it was
lavished on him. Then, sure of being loved, he no longer kept up
appearances, and insensibly his ways changed.

He had no longer, as formerly, words so gentle that they made her cry,
nor passionate caresses that made her mad; so that their great love,
which engrossed her life, seemed to lessen beneath her like the water
of a stream absorbed into its channel, and she could see the bed of it.
She would not believe it; she redoubled in tenderness, and Rodolphe
concealed his indifference less and less.

She did not know whether she regretted yielding to him, or whether she
did not wish, on the contrary, to enjoy him the more. The humiliation of
feeling herself weak was turning to rancour, tempered by their
voluptuous pleasures. It was not affection; it was like a continual
seduction. He subjugated her; she almost feared him.

John mingles with my bowl Saints in crape and lawn --, his soul is
with the Salt of the earth Samson, the Philistines be upon thee Satan,
get thee behind me Satire's my weapon --in disguise Saul and Jonathan,
undivided in death Savage, wild in woods, the noble Saviour's,
the, birth is celebrated Scars, he jests at Sceptre, a barren, in
my gripe Schemes, best laid School, the village master taught his
little Science, O star-eyed Scoff, came to Scorn, he will laugh
thee to --, what a deal of, looks beautiful --, fixed figure, for
the time of --, laughed his word to Scraps of learning dote, on
Screw your courage Scripture, the Devil can cite Scylla, your father
Sea, light that never was on --, mysterious union with the --, first
that burst into that Sea, alone, alone, on a wide --, like ships
that have gone down at --, glad waters of the dark blue --, the
open Seals of love Second childishness Sect, slave to no See oursel's
as others see us Seek and ye shall find Seems, madam, I know not
Self-slaughter, canon 'gainst Sensations sweet Sense, one for --,
want of decency is want of Sentiment, pluck the eye of Sepulchres,
whited Sermons in stones Serpent sting thee twice Serpents, be ye
wise as Servant can make drudgery divine Service, I have done the
state some Servitude, base laws of Shade, sitting in a pleasant --,
a more welcome --, ah, pleasing --, softening into shade --, boundless
contiguity of --of that which once was great Shadow, life is but a
walking Shadow, float double, swan and Shadows come like --, coming
events cast their, before Shaft that made him die --at random sent
Shakespeare, sweetest, Fancy's child Shall I, wasting in despair
Shame, an erring sister's --, blush of maiden Shape, take any, but
that --, thou com'st in such a questionable --, execrable --, if
shape it might be called Shapes and beckoning shadows She walks in
beauty Shears, Fury with the abhorred Shell, convolutions of a --,
music slumbers in the Shepherd, habt any philosophy in thee Sheridan,
broke the die in moulding Ship, idle as a painted Ships that have
gone down at sea --that sailed for sunny isles Shocks, the thousand
natural Shoe has power to wound Shoot, to teach the young idea how
to Shore, rapture on the lonely --, dull, tame Show, that within
which passeth --, a driveller and a Shrewsbury clock, fought a long
hour by Should auld acquaintance Shrine of the mighty Shut, shut
the door Sigh, passing tribute of a --no more, ladies Sighed and
looked again --unutterable things Sign, dies and makes no Sight,
out of, out of mind --, loved not at first Seigniors, grave and
reverend Silence is the perfectest herald of joy --in love bewrays
more woe --, ye wolves --, come then, expressive Siloa's brook
Simplicity a child Sin, fools make a mock at --of the world --,
wages of, is death --, no, for a man to labor in his vocation Single
blessedness Sinned against, more Sinning, more sinned against than
Sins, charity shall cover the multitude of Sion hill delight thee
more Sires, few sons attain the praise of their Sires, green graves
of your Sirups, drowsy, of the world Six hundred pounds a year
Sixpence, I give thee Skies, looks commencing with the --, raised
a mortal to the Skill, is but a barbarous Sky, forehead of the
morning --, the storm that howl along the --, souls are ripened in
our northern --, star sinning in the --, canopied by the blue Slain,
thrice he slew the Slaughter, lamb to the --forbade to wade through
Slave, base is the, that pays Slavery or death, which to choose --a
bitter draught Slaves, what can ennoble -, Britons never will be
Sleep, he giveth his beloved --of a laboring man --, folding the
hands to --, our life is rounded with a --knits up the raveled
sleave of care --, gentle sleep --, some must watch, while some
must --, tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy Sleep, undisturbed
--, blessings on him who invented --, the mantle that covers all
human thought Sleeve, wear my heart upon my Slept, thought her dying
when she Sloth finds the down pillow hard Slough of despond Sluggard,
't is the voice of the Slumber, a little Small Latin and less Greek
--things compared with great Smell, ancient and fish like Smels,
throwe her swete, al around Smile that glowed celestial --, to share
the good man's Smiles, seldom he --, kisses, tears, and Snails, her
pretty feet, like Snake, we hat'e scotched the --like a wounded
Sneer, without sneering --, laughing devil in his Snow whiter than
the driven Snug as a bug Society where none intrudes Soldier full
of strange oaths Solid men of Boston Solitude is sometimes but
society --, how passing sweet is --, where are thy charms --, inward
eye of --, makes a, and calls it peace Something too much of this
Son of his own works Song of Percy and Douglass Sophonisba, O Sorrow,
pluck from the memory a rooted --, wear a golden --, parting is
such sweet --, to pine with feare and --, her rent is --, some
natural Sorrow returned with the morn Sorrows come not single --,
transient Soul, the iron entered into his --, lose his own --. thou
hast much goods --, harrow up thy --, lay not that flattering unction
to your --, to fret thy, with crosses --is form --of the age --like
seasoned timber --, a happy --'s dark cottage --, take the prisoned
--under the ribs of death Soul, pride and haughtiness of --smiles
at the drawn dagger --, the flow of --, palace of the soul --is
wanting there --, that eye was in itself a --is dead that slumbers
Souls, immediate jewel of their --sympathize with sounds --,
corporations have no Sound and fury --, persuasive --, an echo to
the sense --the clarion --, sweet is every Sounding brass Source
of sympathetic tears South, o'er my ear like the sweet Sow, wrong,
by the ear Soweth, shall reap, as he Space and time annihilate Spare
the rod Sparks fly upward Sparrow, caters for the --, providence
in the fall of a --, fall, or hero perish Speak of me as I am Spears
into pruning-hooks Speculation in those eyes Speech, thought deeper
than Speed the going guest --the parting guest Spenser, renowned
Spin, nor toil not Spirit wounded --, haughty --return unto God
--indeed is willing --, present in --stirring drum --of my dream
--or more welcome shade Spiriting, do my, gently Spirits are not
finely touched --from the vasty deep --twain Spite,-in learned
doctors Splenetive and rash Spoken at random Sponge, drink no more
than a Spot is cursed, the Springes to catch woodcocks Spur to pride
the sides of my intent Squeak as naturally as pigs Stage, where
every man must play --, all the world's n --, struts and frets his
hour upon the --, the wonder of our --, veteran on the --, poor,
degraded Stale, Hat, and unprofitable Stand and wait Stanley, on
Stanza, who pens a Star, love a bright, particular --, thy soul was
like a --, stay the morning Stars, shooting, attend --hide their
diminished heads --, battlements bore Starts, everything by State,
a pillar of --, what constitutes a Statue that enchants the world
Stealth, do good by Steed, farewell the neighing Steel, though
locked up in --, my man 's as true as --, grapple with hooks of
Sticking place, screw your courage to the Still to be neat --achieving,
still pursuing Sting, O death, where is thy Stir, the fretful
Stoicism, the Romans call it Stolen, not wanting what is Stomach's
sake, a little wine for the Stone, fling but a --, underneath this,
doth lie --, we raised not a Stones, sermons in --prate of my
whereabouts --of Rome Stories, long, dull, and old Storm, pelting
of this pitiless --, directs the Storms of life, rainbow to the
Story, I have none to tell Strange, 't was passing Strangers, to
entertain --, by, honored Straw, tickled with a Streets, a lion is
in the --, squeak and gibber in the Strength, king's name is a tower
of --, lovely in your Strife, dare the elements to Striving to
better Strong, battle not to the --upon the stronger side --without
rage Studies, still air of delightful Study, much, is weariness
Stuff as dreams are made of --, ambition 's made of sterner Sublime,
to suffer and be strong --and the ridiculous Success, 't is not in
mortals to command Suffer, how sublime to Sufferance is the badge
Suffering ended with the day --, child of Suing long to bide
Sullenness against nature Sum of more, giving thy Summer, made
glorious --of your youth Summons, upon a fearful Summits, clad in
colors of the air Sun, no new thing under the --of righteousness
arise --let not the, go down upon, your wrath --, doubt the, doth
move --goes round, take all the rest the --, benighted walks under
the midday --, as the dial to the --, farthing candle to the --,
hail the rising --, hold their glimmering taper to the --. world
without a Sunday shines no Sabbath day Sunlight drinketh dew Sunshine
made, and in the shady place Suspicion haunts the guilty mind Swan
on St.

Mary's lake --, sweet, of Avon Sweet, so coldly Sweet day, so cool, so
calm Sweetness, linked, long drawn out --, waste its Swift, race not
to the --expires, a driveller Swine, cast not your pearls before Swoop,
at one fell Sword, glorious by my --, another's, has laid him low
Sword, pen mightier than the Swords into plowshares Syllable men's
names
Table on a roar Take, O take those lips away --her up tenderly Tale
that is told --, and thereby hangs a --, tedious as a twice-told
--, an honest, speeds best --unfold --, a round, unvarnished --,
every shepherd tells his --the moon takes up the wondrous --, to
point a moral, or adorn a --so sad, so tender --, makes up life's
--, as 't was said to me --, 't is an old --, a schoolboy's --which
holdeth children from play Talk, I never spend an hour's --, ye
gods, how lie will Tall oaks from little acorns grow Tam was glorious
Taste of your quality Tear, some melodious --, he gave to misery a
--in her eye --, betwixt a smile and --, every woe can claim Tears,
if you have --such as angels weep Tears, iron, down Plato's cheek
--sacred source of --, baptized in --, too deep for --, flattered
to --from despair --, idle tears Temple, nothing ill can dwell in
such a Temples, groves were God's first Tenderly, take her up Tenor,
noiseless, of their way Terror, there is no, in your threats Text,
a rivulet of That it should come to this Theban, talk with this
learned There, 't is neither here nor Thespis, the first professor
of our art Thetis, lap of They conquer love that run away Thick and
thin, to dash through Thief in the night, will come as a --doth
'fear each bush Thing, acting of a dreadful --, never says a foolish
Things left undone --, unutterable --, God's sons are Think too
little, and talk too much --those that, must govern Thinks most,
lives most Thorn, withering on the virgin Thou art the man Thought,
thy wish was father of that --sicklied o'er with the pale cast of
--, would almost say her body --, armor is his honest --, whistled
for want of --, too much thinking to have common --, not, one immoral
--, the dome of --, the power of --, deeper than speech Thoughts,
a dark soul and foul --that breathe --too deep for tears --, great
Thousand, one shall become a Thread of his verbosity Thrift, thrift,
Horatio --may follow fawning Thrones, dominations Throng the lowest
of your Thumbs, by the pricking of my Thunder, lightning, or in
rain Thwack, with many a stiff Thyme, whereon the wild, grows Tide
in the affairs of men Tidings, dismal, when he frowned Tie, the
silken Tilt at all I meet Timber, seasoned, never gives Time and
the hour --, to the last syllable of recorded --so hallowed and
gracious --, not of an age, but for all --shall throw a dart at
thee --, how small a part of --, with thee conversing, I forgot all
--, what will it not subdue --'s noblest offspring --, we take no
note of --toiled after him in vain --adds increase to her truth
--has not cropt the roses --, noiseless foot of --count by heart-throbs
--, footprints on the band of --has laid his hand gently --, break
the legs of Times that try men's souls Tinkling symbols Toad, ugly
and venomous To be or not to be To-day, be wise Toe, on the light
fantastic Toil, envy, want the jail --, those who think must govern
those who --and trouble, why all this Tolerable and not to be endured
Tomb of him who would have made glad the world Tombs, hark from the
To-morrow, boast not thyself of --and to-morrow --, do thy worst
--, already walks Tongue, braggart with my --let the canded --that
Shakespeare spake --, music's golden Tongues in trees Too late I
stayed Tooth for tooth --sharper than a serpent's Toothache,
philosopher that could endure the Torrent of a woman's will --,
roll darkling down the --, and whirlwind's roar Torrents, motionless
Touch not, taste not --harmonious Towered cities please us Towers,
the cloud-capt Trade's proud empire Train up a child Train, a
melancholy Traitors, our doubts are Traps, Cupid kills with Tray,
Blanch, and Sweetheart Treasure is, your heart will be where your
Tree, like a green bay --is known by his fruit Tree's inclined, as
the twig is bent --of deepest root is found Trees, tongues in Tribe,
the badge of our --, richer than all his Trick worth two of that
Tricks, fantastic Tried, she is to blame who has been Trifles light
as air Triton of the minnows Troop, farewell the plumed Trope, out
there flew a Trouble, war, he sung, is toil and Troubles, arms
against a sea of Trowel, laid on with a Troy, half his, was burned
--, fired another True so sad, so tender, and so Truth, doubt, to
be a liar --in every shepherd's tongue --from pole to pole --,
whispering tongues can poison --crushed to earth --, bright countenance
of Turf, green be the Tweedledum and Tweedledee Twilight gray, in
sober livery Two strings to his bow Type of the wise
Unadorned, adorned the most Unanimity is wonderful Uncertain, coy,
and hard to please Uncle, O my prophetic soul I my Underneath this
stone doth lie --sable hearse Uneasy lies the head Unfit, for all
things Unfortunate, one more Unity, to dwell together in Universe,
born for the Unknown, too early seen --, argues yourselves Unseen,
born to blush Unwept, unhonored and unsung Unwhipped of justice
Uses, to what base Utterance of the early gods Utica, no pent-up

Vale of life --, meanest floweret of the Valiant taste of death but
once Vallombrosa, leaves that strew the brooks in Valor, discretion
the better part --is oozing out Vanity and vexation of spirit Vanity
of vanities Variety, her infinite --'s the spice of life Vase, you
may shatter the Vault, the deep, damp --, fretted Vaulting ambition
Vein, I am not in the Venice, I stood in Verbosity, thread of his
Verge enough Vernal seasons of the year Verse, married to immortal
--, wisdom married to immortal Verses, for rhyme the rudder is
Veteran, superfluous lags the Vice, when, prevails --is a monster
Vices, small --, our pleasant Vienna, looker-on here at Victims,
the little, play Victorious o'er all the ills of life View, when
will the landscape tire the Village master taught Villain, one
murder makes a Violet, nodding grows --, throw a perfume on the
--by a mossy stone Violets, breathes upon a bank of --plucked ne'er
grow again Virtue of necessity --, assume a --is her own reward
--alone is happiness --makes the bliss --, homage that vice pays
to Virtue linked with one Virtues, we write in water --, be to her,
very kind Virtuous, dost think because thou art Visage, on his bold
Visible, darkness Vision, write the, and make it plain --, baseless
fabric of a --and faculty divine Visits, like angel's --like those
of angels Vocation, 't is my Voice, a still, small --, I hear a,
you cannot --of nature cries from the tomb --in my dreaming ear
melted Voices, earth with her thousand Void, have left an aching
Volume, within that awful Vote that shakes the turrets of the land
Voyage of their life
Waist, hands round the slight Wait, they also serve who stand and
Walk while ye have the light --of virtuous life Wall, weakest goes
to the Want lonely, retired to die Wanting, art found War, let slip
the dogs of --is toil and trouble War, then was the tug of --, my
voice is still for --to the knife Warble his native wood-notes
Warriors feel, stern joy which Watch and pray Watches, our judgments
as our Water, unstable as --, leadeth me beside the still --, drink
no longer --, smooth runs the --, the conscious, saw its God
--everywhere Waters, cast thy bread upon the --, the hell of --,
she walks the Wave o' the sea Waves, here shall thy proud, be stayed
Way of life, fallen into the sear and yellow leaf --, noiseless
tenor of their Way, amend your --of God are just --, untrodden We
watched her breathing Weakest goes to the wall Weariness can snore
upon the flint Wearisome condition of humanity Weep no more, lady
Well, not so deep as a --, not wisely, but too --of English undefyled
Westward the course of empire Whale, very like a What care I how
fair she be --, he knew what's Whatever is, is right Wheel broken
at the cistern --, who breaks a butterfly upon a When shall we three
meet again Whereabout, prate of my Wherefore, for every why he had
a Whining schoolboy Whip, in every honest hand a Whirlwind, they
shall reap the --, ride in the Whispering lovers made --will ne'er
consent Whispers of fancy Whistle, clear as a Whistled as he went
Whither thou goest I will go Who builds a church to God --runs may
read Wicked cease from troubling --flee when no man pursueth Wife,
you are my true and honorable --and children impediments to great
enterprises Wiles, simple Will, he that complies against his Will
turn the current of a woman's --, if she will Willows, hanged our
harps on the Win, they laugh that Wind, did fly on the wings of the
--, they have sown the --bloweth us it listeth --, sits the, in
that corner --, as large a charter as the --, blow, thou winter --,
blow, come wrack --and his nobility --, idle, as the --, blow and
crack your cheeks --. ill, turns none to good --, shrink from
sorrow's keenest --, hope constantly in --, God tempers the Windows
richly dight Wine for the stomach's sake --, good, needs no hush
--of life --, O thou invisible spirit of Wing dropped from an angel's
Wings like a dove --, riches make themselves --, arise with healing
in his --, flies with swallow's Winter, my age is as a lusty --of
our discontent --lingering chills the lap of May Wisdom priced above
rubies --finds a way Wise in your own conceit --saws and modern
instances --be not worldly --folly to be Wisely, loved not Wisest,
virtuousest, discreetest, best --, brightest, meanest of mankind
Wish was father to that thought Wit, brevity is the soul of --, his
whole, in a jest --, true, is nature to advantage, dressed --, that
can creep --, a man in --, accept a miracle instead of Witty in
myself Wits' end, at their --, keen encounter of our --, to madness
near allied Woe, trappings and the suits of --, mockery of --is
life protracted --, heritage of --, truth denies all eloquence to
Wolf dwell with the lamb Woman's reason, no other but a --, O, I
could play the --, she is a --in this humor wooed --, an excellent
thing in --, frailty, thy name is --, lovely Woman's, nature made
thee to temper man --that deliberates is lost --scorned, no fury
like a --'s at best a contradiction --is at heart a rake --will or
won't --'s will, to turn the current of a --'s will, stem the torrent
of a --stoops to folly --, nobly planned --, in our hours of ease
--, light of a dark eye in Womankind, faith in Women, passing the
love of --'s weapons, water-drops --, hear these telltale --wish
to be who love their lords Won, showed how fields were Wonder,
without our special --grew that one small head --of an hour Wooed
that would be Wood, the deep and glooomy --, one impulse, from a
vernal Woodcocks, springes to catch Woods and pastures new --,
pleasure in the pathless Wool, all cry and no Word, for teaching
me that --to throw at a dog Word of Caesar against the world --,
suit the action to the --, whose, no man relies on --at random
spoken --, that fatal Words, familiar as household --, immodest,
admit of no defence --are men's daughters --that burn --are wise
men's counters World, light of the --, children of the --, I hold
the world but as the --, a good deed in a naughty --, full of briers
is this working-day --, how wags the --is given to lying --of happy
days --, start of the majestic --, uses of this --, lash the rascal
naked through the --, give the, the lie --was all before them --,
look round the habitable --, so stands the statue that enchants the
--'s dread laugh --, unintelligible --, fever of the --too much
with us --, I have not loved the --falls, when Rome falls --knows
nothing of its greatest men World's wide enough for thee and me
Worlds, mine arm should conquer twenty --, wreck of matter and the
crush of --, exhausted, and imagined new --, allured to brighter
Worm dieth not Worms have eaten them Worse, greater feeling to the
Worship God, he says Worth, conscience of her --, what is, in
anything --by poverty depressed --makes the man --, sad relic of
departed Wound, he jests at scars that never felt a Wrack, blow
wind, come Wrath, soft answer turneth away --, let not the sun go
down upon your --, nursing her, to keep it warm Wreck of matter
Wretches, poor naked --, feel what, feel --hang that jurymen may
dine Writ, and what is, is writ Writer, pen of a ready Writing,
true ease in Wrong, always in the Wrongs unredressed Year, starry
girdle of the --, saddest days of the Years, we spend our --, love
of life increased with Years, dim with the mist of --, live in
deeds, not Yesterdays have lighted fools Yorick!

    
    It was all very well to vary the potions and change the
poultices; the muscles each day rotted more and more; and at last
Charles replied by an affirmative nod of the head when Mère Lefrançois
asked him if she could not, as a forlorn hope, send for Monsieur Canivet
of Neufchâtel, who was a celebrity.

A doctor of medicine, fifty years of age, enjoying a good position and
self-possessed, Charles's colleague did not refrain from laughing
disdainfully when he had uncovered the leg, mortified to the knee. Then
having flatly declared that it must be amputated, he went off to the
chemist's to rail at the asses who could have reduced a poor man to such
a state. Shaking Monsieur Homais by the button of his coat, he shouted
out in the shop:

"These are the inventions of Paris! These are the ideas of those gentry
of the capital! It is like strabismus, chloroform, lithotrity, a heap of
monstrosities that the Government ought to prohibit. But they want to do
the clever, and they cram you with remedies without troubling about the
consequences. We are not so clever, not we! We are not savants,
coxcombs, fops! We are practitioners; we cure people, and we should not
dream of operating on any one who is in perfect health. Straighten
club-feet! As if one could straighten club-feet! It is as if one wished,
for example, to make a hunchback straight!"

Homais suffered as he listened to this discourse, and he concealed his
discomfort beneath a courtier's smile; for he needed to humour Monsieur
Canivet, whose prescriptions sometimes came as far as Yonville. So he
did not take up the defense of Bovary; he did not even make a single
remark, and, renouncing his principles, he sacrificed his dignity to the
more serious interests of his business.

This amputation of the thigh by Doctor Canivet was a great event in the
village. On that day all the inhabitants got up earlier, and the Grande
Rue, although full of people, had something lugubrious about it, as if
an execution had been expected. At the grocer's they discussed
Hippolyte's illness; the shops did no business, and Madame Tuvache, the
mayor's wife, did not stir from her window, such was her impatience to
see the operator arrive.

He came in his gig, which he drove himself. But the springs of the right
side having at length given way beneath the weight of his corpulence, it
happened that the carriage as it rolled along leaned over a little, and
on the other cushion near him could be seen a large box covered in red
sheep-leather, whose three brass clasps shone grandly.

After he had entered like a whirlwind the porch of the "Lion d'Or," the
doctor, shouting very loud, ordered them to unharness his horse. Then he
went into the stable to see that he was eating his oats all right; for
on arriving at a patient's he first of all looked after his mare and his
gig. People even said about this:

"Ah! Monsieur Camvet's a character!"

And he was the more esteemed for this imperturbable coolness. The
universe to the last man might have died, and he would not have missed
the smallest of his habits.

Homais presented himself.

"I count on you," said the doctor. "Are we ready? Come along!"

But the chemist, turning red, confessed that he was too sensitive to
assist at such an operation.

"When one is a simple spectator," he said, "the imagination, you know,
is impressed. And then I have such a nervous system!"

"Pshaw!" interrupted Canivet; "on the contrary, you seem to me inclined
to apoplexy. Besides, that doesn't astonish me, for you chemist fellows
are always poking about your kitchens, which must end by spoiling your
constitutions. Now just look at me. I get up every day at four o'clock;
I shave with cold water (and am never cold). I don't wear flannels, and
I never catch cold; my carcass is good enough! I live now in one way,
now in another, like a philosopher, taking pot-luck; that is why I am
not squeamish like you, and it is as indifferent to me to carve a
Christian as the first fowl that turns up. Then, perhaps, you will say,
habit! habit!"

Then, without any consideration for Hippolyte, who was sweating with
agony between his sheets, these gentlemen entered into a conversation,
in which the chemist compared the coolness of a surgeon to that of a
general; and this comparison was pleasing to Canivet, who launched out
on the exigencies of his art. He looked upon it as a sacred office,
although the ordinary practitioners dishonoured it. At last, coming back
to the patient, he examined the bandages brought by Homais, the same
that had appeared for the club-foot, and asked for some one to hold the
limb for him. Lestiboudois was sent for, and Monsieur Canivet having
turned up his sleeves, passed into the billiard-room, while the chemist
stayed with Artémise and the landlady, both whiter than their aprons,
and with ears strained towards the door.

Bovary during this time did not dare to stir from his house. He kept
downstairs in the sitting-room by the side of the fireless chimney, his
chin on his breast, his hands clasped, his eyes staring. "What a
mishap!" he thought, "what a mishap!" Perhaps, after all, he had made
some slip. He thought it over, but could hit upon nothing. But the most
famous surgeons also made mistakes; and that is what no one would ever
believe! People, on the contrary, would laugh, jeer! It would spread as
far as Forges, as Neufchâtel, as Rouen, everywhere! Who could say if his
colleagues would not write against him. Polemics would ensue; he would
have to answer in the papers. Hippolyte might even prosecute him. He saw
himself dishonored, ruined, lost; and his imagination, assailed by a
world of hypotheses, tossed amongst them like an empty cask borne by the
sea and floating upon the waves.

Emma, opposite, watched him; she did not share his humiliation; she felt
another--that of having supposed such a man was worth anything. As if
twenty times already she had not sufficiently perceived his mediocrity.

Charles was walking up and down the room; his boots creaked on the
floor.

"Sit down," she said; "you fidget me."

He sat down again.

How was it that she--she, who was so intelligent--could have allowed
herself to be deceived again? and through what deplorable madness had
she thus ruined her life by continual sacrifices? She recalled all her
instincts of luxury, all the privations of her soul, the sordidness of
marriage, of the household, her dream sinking into the mire like wounded
swallows; all that she had longed for, all that she had denied herself,
all that she might have had! And for what? for what?

In the midst of the silence that hung over the village a heart-rending
cry rose on the air. Bovary turned white to fainting. She knit her brows
with a nervous gesture, then went on. And it was for him, for this
creature, for this man, who understood nothing, who felt nothing! For he
was there quite quiet, not even suspecting that the ridicule of his name
would henceforth sully hers as well as his. She had made efforts to love
him, and she had repented with tears for having yielded to another!

"But it was perhaps a valgus!" suddenly exclaimed Bovary, who was
meditating.

At the unexpected shock of this phrase falling on her thought like a
leaden bullet on a silver plate, Emma, shuddering, raised her head in
order to find out what he meant to say; and they looked one at the other
in silence, almost amazed to see each other, so far sundered were they
by their inner thoughts. Charles gazed at her with the dull look of a
drunken man, while he listened motionless to the last cries of the
sufferer, that followed each other in long-drawn modulations, broken by
sharp spasms like the far-off howling of some beast being slaughtered.
Emma bit her wan lips, and rolling between her fingers a piece of coral
that she had broken, fixed on Charles the burning glance of her eyes
like two arrows of fire about to dart forth. Everything in him irritated
her now; his face, his dress, what he did not say, his whole person, his
existence, in fine. She repented of her past virtue as of a crime, and
what still remained of it crumbled away beneath the furious blows of her
pride. She revelled in all the evil ironies of triumphant adultery. The
memory of her lover came back to her with dazzling attractions; she
threw her whole soul into it, borne away towards this image with a fresh
enthusiasm; and Charles seemed to her as much removed from her life, as
absent for ever, as impossible and annihilated, as if he had been about
to die and were passing under her eyes.

There was a sound of steps on the pavement. Charles looked up, and
through the lowered blinds he saw at the corner of the market in the
broad sunshine Dr. Canivet, who was wiping his brow with his
handkerchief. Homais, behind him, was carrying a large red box in his
hand, and both were going towards the chemist's.

Then with a feeling of sudden tenderness and discouragement Charles
turned to his wife saying to her:

"Oh, kiss me, my own!"

"Leave me!" she said, red with anger.

"What is the matter?" he asked, stupefied. "Be calm; compose yourself.
You know well enough that I love you. Come!"

"Enough!" she cried with a terrible look.

And escaping from the room, Emma closed the door so violently that the
barometer fell from the wall and smashed on the floor.

Charles sank back into his armchair overwhelmed, trying to discover
what could be wrong with her, fancying some nervous illness, weeping,
and vaguely feeling something fatal and incomprehensible whirling round
him.

When Rodolphe came to the garden that evening, he found his mistress
waiting for him at the foot of the steps on the lowest stair. They threw
their arms round one another, and all their rancour melted like snow
beneath the warmth of that kiss.


XII.

PREPARATIONS FOR FLIGHT.


They began to love one another again. Often, even in the middle of the
day, Emma suddenly wrote to him, then from the window made a sign to
Justin, who, taking his apron off, quickly ran to La Huchette. Rodolphe
would come; she had sent for him to tell him that she was bored; that
her husband was odious, her life frightful.

"But what can I do?" he cried one day impatiently.

"Ah! if you would--"

She was sitting on the floor between his knees, her hair loose, her look
lost.

"Why, what?" said Rodolphe.

She sighed.

"We would go and live elsewhere--somewhere!"

"You are really mad!" he said laughing. "How could that be possible?"

She returned to the subject; he pretended not to understand, and turned
the conversation.

What he did not understand was all this worry about so simple an affair
as love. She had a motive, a reason, and, as it were, a pendant to her
affection.

Her tenderness, in fact, grew each day with her repulsion to her
husband. The more she gave up herself to the one, the more she loathed
the other. Never had Charles seemed to her so disagreeable, to have such
stodgy fingers, such vulgar ways, to be so dull as when they found
themselves together after her meeting with Rodolphe. Then, while playing
the spouse and virtue, she was burning at the thought of that head whose
black hair fell in a curl over the sunburnt brow, of that form at once
so strong and elegant, of that man, in a word, who had such experience
in his reasoning, such passion in his desires. It was for him that she
filed her nails with the care of a chaser, and that there was never
enough cold-cream for her skin, nor of patchouli for her handkerchiefs.
She loaded herself with bracelets, rings, and necklaces. When he was
coming she filled the two large blue glass vases with roses, and
prepared her room and her person like a courtesan expecting a prince.
The servant had to be constantly washing linen, and all day Félicité did
not stir from the kitchen, where little Justin, who often kept her
company, watched her at work.

With his elbows on the long board on which she was ironing, he greedily
watched all these women's clothes spread out about him, the dimity
petticoats, the fichus, the collars, and the drawers with running
strings, wide at the hips and growing narrower below.

"What is that for?" asked the young fellow, passing his hand over the
crinoline or the hooks and eyes.

"Why, haven't you ever seen anything?" Félicité answered laughing. "As
if your mistress, Madame Homais, didn't wear the same."

"Oh, I daresay! Madame Homais!" And he added with a meditative air, "As
if she were a lady like madame!"

But Félicité grew impatient of seeing him hanging round her. She was six
years older than he, and Théodore, Monsieur Guillaumin's servant, was
beginning to pay court to her.

"Let me alone," she said, moving her pot of starch. "You'd better be off
and pound almonds; you are always dangling about women. Before you
meddle with such things, bad boy, wait till you've got a beard to your
chin."

"Oh, don't be cross! I'll go and clean her boots."

And he at once took down from the shelf Emma's boots, all coated with
mud, the mud of the rendezvous, that crumbled into powder beneath his
fingers, and that he watched as it gently rose in a ray of sunlight.

"How afraid you are of spoiling them!" said the servant, who wasn't so
particular when she cleaned them herself, because as soon as the stuff
of the boots was no longer fresh madame handed them over to her.

Emma had many shoes in her closet that she wore out one after the other,
without Charles allowing himself the slightest observation. So also he
disbursed three hundred francs for a wooden leg that she thought proper
to make a present of to Hippolyte. Its top was covered with cork, and it
had spring joints, a complicated mechanism, covered over by black
trousers ending in a patent-leather boot. But Hippolyte, not daring to
use such a handsome leg every day, begged Madame Bovary to get him
another more convenient one. The doctor, of course, had again to defray
the expense of this purchase.

So little by little the stable-man took up his work again. One saw him
running about the village as before, and when Charles heard from afar
the sharp noise of the wooden leg, he at once went in another direction.

It was Monsieur Lheureux, the shopkeeper, who had undertaken the order;
this provided him with an excuse for visiting Emma. He chatted with her
about the new goods from Paris, about a thousand feminine trifles, made
himself very obliging, and never asked for his money. Emma yielded to
this lazy mode of satisfying all her caprices. Thus she wanted to have a
very handsome riding-whip that was at an umbrella-maker's at Rouen, to
give to Rodolphe. The week after Monsieur Lheureux placed it on her
table.

But the next day he called on her with a bill for two hundred and
seventy francs, not counting the centimes. Emma was much embarrassed;
all the drawers of the writing-table were empty; they owed over a
fortnight's wages to Lestiboudois, two quarters to the servant, for any
quantity of other things, and Bovary was impatiently expecting Monsieur
Derozerays' account, which he was in the habit of paying him every year
about midsummer.

She succeeded at first in putting off Lheureux. At last he lost
patience; he was being sued; his capital was out, and unless he got some
in he should be forced to take back all the goods she had received.

"Oh, very well, take them!" said Emma.

"I was only joking," he replied; "the only thing I regret is the whip.
My word! I'll ask monsieur to return it to me."

"No, no!" she said.

"Ah! I've got you!" thought Lheureux.

And, certain of his discovery, he went out repeating to himself in an
undertone, and with his usual low whistle:

"Good! we shall see! we shall see!"

She was thinking how to get out of this when the servant coming in put
on the mantelpiece a small roll of blue paper "from Monsieur
Derozerays." Emma pounced upon and opened it. It contained fifteen
napoleons; it was the account. She heard Charles on the stairs; threw
the gold to the back of her drawer, and took out the key.

Three days after Lheureux reappeared.

"I have an arrangement to suggest to you," he said. "If, instead of the
sum agreed on, you would take----"

"Here it is," she said, placing fourteen napoleons in his hand.

The tradesman was astounded. Then, to conceal his disappointment, he was
profuse in apologies and proffers of service, all of which Emma
declined; then she remained a few moments fingering in the pocket of her
apron the two five-franc pieces that he had given her in change. She
promised herself she would economise in order to pay back later on.
"Pshaw!" she thought, "he won't think about it again."

                *     *     *

Besides the riding-whip with its silver-gilt handle, Rodolphe had
received a seal with the motto _Amor nel cor_; furthermore, a scarf for
a muffler, and, finally, a cigar-case exactly like the Viscount's, that
Charles had formerly picked up in the road, and that Emma had kept.
These presents, however, humiliated him; he refused several; she
insisted, and he ended by obeying, thinking her tyrannical and
over-exacting.

Then she had strange ideas.

"When midnight strikes," she said, "you must think of me."

And if he confessed that he had not thought of her, there were floods of
reproaches that always ended with the eternal question:

"Do you love me?"

"Why, of course I love you," he answered.

"A great deal?"

"Certainly!"

"You haven't loved any others?"

"Did you think you'd got a virgin?" he exclaimed laughing.

Emma wept, and he tried to console her, adorning his protestations with
puns.

"Oh," she went on, "I love you! I love you so that I could not live
without you, do you see? There are times when I long to see you again,
when I am torn by all the anger of love. I ask myself, where is he?
Perhaps he is talking to other women. They smile upon him; he
approaches. Oh no! no one else pleases you. There are some more
beautiful, but I love you best. I know how to love best. I am your
servant, your concubine! You are my king, my idol! You are good, you are
beautiful, you are clever, you are strong!"

He had so often heard these things said that they did not strike him as
original. Emma was like all his mistresses; and the charm of novelty,
gradually falling away like a garment, laid bare the eternal monotony of
passion, that has always the same forms and the same language. He did
not distinguish, this man of so much experience, the difference of
sentiment beneath the sameness of expression. Because lips libertine
and venal had murmured such words to him, he believed but little in the
candour of hers; exaggerated speeches hiding mediocre affections must be
discounted; as if the fulness of the soul did not sometimes overflow in
the emptiest metaphors, since no one can ever give the exact measure of
his needs, nor of his conceptions, nor of his sorrows; and since human
speech is like a cracked tin kettle, on which we hammer out tunes to
make bears dance when we long to move the stars.

But with that superior critical judgment that belongs to him, who, in no
matter what circumstance, holds back, Rodolphe saw other delights to be
got out of this love. He thought all modesty in the way. He treated her
quite _sans façon_. He made of her something supple and corrupt. Hers was
an idiotic sort of attachment, full of admiration for him, of
voluptuousness for her, a beatitude that benumbed her; her soul sank
into this drunkenness, shrivelled up, drowned in it, like Clarence in
his butt of Malmsey.

By the mere effect of her love Madame Bovary's manners changed. Her
looks grew bolder, her speech more free; she even committed the
impropriety of walking out with Monsieur Rodolphe, a cigarette in her
mouth, "as if to defy the people." At last those who still doubted
doubted no longer when one day they saw her getting out of the
"Hirondelle" her waist squeezed into a waistcoat like a man; and Madame
Bovary senior, who, after a fearful scene with her husband, had taken
refuge at her son's, was not the least scandalised of the women-folk.
Many other things displeased her. First, Charles had not attended to
her advice about the forbidding of novels; then the "ways of the house"
annoyed her; she allowed herself to make some remarks, and there were
quarrels, especially one on account of Félicité.

Madame Bovary senior, the evening before, passing along the passage, had
surprised her in company of a man--a man with a brown collar, about
forty years old, who, at the sound of her step, had quickly escaped
through the kitchen. Then Emma began to laugh, but the good lady grew
angry, declaring that unless morals were to be laughed at one ought to
look after those of one's servants.

"Where were you brought up?" asked the daughter-in-law, with so
impertinent a look that Madame Bovary asked her if she were not perhaps
defending her own case.

"Leave the room!" said the young woman, springing up with a bound.

"Emma! Mamma!" cried Charles, trying to reconcile them.

But both had fled in their exasperation. Emma was stamping her feet as
she repeated--

"Oh! what manners! What a peasant!"

He ran to his mother; she was beside herself. She stammered:

"She is an insolent, giddy-headed thing, or perhaps worse!"

And she was for leaving at once if the other did not apologize.

So Charles went back again to his wife and implored her to give way; he
knelt to her; she ended by saying--

"Very well! I'll go to her."

And in fact she held out her hand to her mother-in-law with the dignity
of a marchioness as she said:

"Excuse me, madame."

Then having gone up again to her room, she threw herself flat on her bed
and cried there like a child, her face buried in the pillow.

She and Rodolphe had agreed that in the event of anything extraordinary
occurring, she should fasten a small piece of white paper to the blind,
so that if by chance he happened to be in Yonville, he could hurry to
the lane behind the house. Emma made the signal; she had been waiting
three-quarters of an hour when she suddenly caught sight of Rodolphe at
the corner of the market. She felt tempted to open the window and call
him, but he had already disappeared. She fell back in despair.

Soon, however, it seemed to her that some one was walking on the
pavement. It was he, no doubt. She went downstairs, crossed the yard. He
was there outside. She threw herself into his arms.

"Do take care!" he said.

"Ah! if you knew!" she replied.

And she began telling him everything, hurriedly, disjointedly,
exaggerating the facts, inventing many, and so prodigal of parentheses
that he understood nothing of it.

"Come, my poor angel, courage! Be comforted! be patient!"

"But I have been patient; I have suffered for four years. A love like
ours ought to show itself in the face of heaven. They torture me! I can
bear it no longer! Save me!"

She clung to Rodolphe. Her eyes, full of tears, flashed like flames
beneath a wave; her breast heaved; he had never loved her so much, so
that he lost his head and said:

"What is it? What do you wish?"

"Take me away," she cried, "carry me off! Oh, I entreat you!"

And she threw herself upon his mouth, as if to seize there the
unexpected consent it breathed forth in a kiss.

"But----" Rodolphe resumed.

"What?"

"Your little girl!"

She reflected a few moments, then replied--

"We will take her! It can't be helped!"

"What a woman!" he said to himself, watching her as she went. For she
had run into the garden. Some one was calling her.

On the following days Madame Bovary senior was much surprised at the
change in her daughter-in-law. Emma, in fact, was showing herself more
docile, and even carried her deference so far as to ask for a recipe for
pickling gherkins.

Was it the better to deceive them both? Or did she wish by a sort of
voluptuous stoicism to feel the more profoundly the bitterness of the
things she was about to leave?

But she paid no heed to them; on the contrary, she lived as if lost in
the anticipated delight of her coming happiness. It was an eternal
subject for conversation with Rodolphe. She leant on his shoulder
murmuring--

"Ah! when we are in the mail-coach! Do you think about it? Can it be? It
seems to me that the moment I feel the carriage start, it will be as if
we were rising in a balloon as if we were setting out for the clouds.
Do you know that I count the hours? And you?"

Never had Madame Bovary been so beautiful as at this period; she had
that indefinable beauty that results from joy, from enthusiasm, from
success, and that is only the harmony of temperament with circumstances.
Her desires, her sorrows, the experience of pleasure, and her ever-young
illusions, that had, as soil and rain and winds and the sun make flowers
grow, gradually developed her, and she at length blossomed forth in all
the plenitude of her nature. Her eyelids seemed chiselled expressly for
her long amorous looks in which the pupil disappeared, while a strong
inspiration expanded her delicate nostrils and raised the fleshy corner
of her lips, shaded in the light by a little black down. One would have
thought that an artist apt in conception had arranged the curls of hair
upon her neck; they fell in a thick mass, negligently, and with the
changing chances of their adultery, that unbound them every day. Her
voice now took more mellow inflections, her figure also; something
subtle and penetrating escaped even from the folds of her gown and from
the line of her foot. Charles, as when they were first married, thought
her delicious and quite irresistible.

When he came home in the middle of the night, he did not dare to wake
her. The porcelain night-light threw a round trembling gleam upon the
ceiling, and the drawn curtains of the little cot formed, as it were, a
white hut standing out in the shade, and by the bedside Charles looked
at them. He seemed to hear the light breathing of his child. She would
grow big now; every season would bring rapid progress. He already saw
her coming from school as the day drew in, laughing, with ink-stains on
her jacket, and carrying her basket on her arm. Then she would have to
be sent to a boarding-school; that would cost much; how was it to be
done? Then he reflected. He thought of hiring a small farm in the
neighborhood, that he would superintend every morning on his way to his
patients. He would save up what he brought in; he would put it in the
savings-bank. Then he would buy shares somewhere, no matter where;
besides, his practice would increase; he counted upon that, for he
wanted Berthe to be well-educated, to be accomplished, to learn to play
the piano. Ah! how pretty she would be later on when she was fifteen,
when, resembling her mother, she would, like her, wear large straw hats
in the summer-time; from a distance they would be taken for two sisters.
He pictured her to himself working in the evening by their side beneath
the light of the lamp; she would embroider him slippers; she would look
after the house; she would fill all the home with her charm and her
gaiety. At last, they would think of her marriage; they would find her
some good young fellow with a steady business; he would make her happy;
this would last for ever.

Emma was not asleep; she pretended to be; and while he dozed off by her
side she awakened to other dreams.

To the gallop of four horses she was carried away for a week towards a
new land, whence they would return no more. They went on and on, their
arms entwined, without a word. Often from the top of a mountain there
suddenly glimpsed some splendid city with domes, and bridges, and ships,
forests of citron trees, and cathedrals of white marble, on whose
pointed steeples were storks' nests. They went at a walking-pace because
of the great flag-stones, and on the ground there were bouquets of
flowers, offered you by women dressed in red bodices. They heard the
chiming of bells, the neighing of mules, together with the murmur of
guitars and the noise of fountains, whose rising spray refreshed heaps
of fruit arranged like a pyramid at the foot of pale statues that smiled
beneath playing waters. And then, one night they came to a fishing
village, where brown nets were drying in the wind along the cliffs and
in front of the huts. It was there that they would stay; they would live
in a low, flat-roofed house, shaded by a palm-tree, in the heart of a
gulf, by the sea. They would row in gondolas, swing in hammocks, and
their existence would be easy and large as their silk gowns, warm and
star-spangled as the nights they would contemplate. However, in the
immensity of this future that she conjured up, nothing special stood
forth; the days, all magnificent, resembled each other like waves; and
it swayed in the horizon, infinite, harmonized, azure, and bathed in
sunshine. But the child began to cough in her cot or Bovary snored more
loudly, and Emma did not fall asleep till morning, when the dawn
whitened the window, and when little Justin was already in the square
taking down the shutters of the chemist's shop.

She had sent for Monsieur Lheureux, and had said to him--

"I want a cloak--a large lined cloak with a deep collar."

"You are going on a journey?" he asked.

"No; but--never mind. I may count on you, may I not, and quickly?"

He bowed.

"Besides, I shall want," she went on, "a trunk--not too heavy--handy."

"Yes, yes, I understand. About three feet by a foot and a half, as they
are being made just now."

"And a travelling bag."

"Decidedly," thought Lheureux, "there's a row on here."

"And," said Madame Bovary, taking her watch from her belt, "take this;
you can pay yourself out of it."

But the tradesman cried out that she was wrong; they knew one another;
did he doubt her? What childishness!

She insisted, however, on his taking at least the chain, and Lheureux
had already put it in his pocket and was going, when she called him
back.

"You will leave everything at your place. As to the cloak"--she seemed
to be reflecting--"do not bring it either; you can give me the maker's
address, and tell him to have it ready for me."

It was the next month that they were to run away. She was to leave
Yonville as if she was going on some business to Rouen. Rodolphe would
have booked the seats, procured the passports, and even have written to
Paris in order to have the whole mail-coach reserved for them as far as
Marseilles, where they would buy a carriage, and go on thence without
stopping to Genoa. She would take care to send her luggage to Lheureux',
whence it would be taken direct to the "Hirondelle," so that no one
would have any suspicion. And in all this there never was any allusion
to the child. Rodolphe avoided speaking of her; perhaps he no longer
thought about it.

He wished to have two more weeks before him to arrange some affairs;
then at the end of a week he wanted two more; then he said he was ill;
next he went on a journey. The month of August passed, and, after all
these delays, they decided that it was to be irrevocably fixed for the
4th September--a Monday.

At length the Saturday before arrived.

Rodolphe came in the evening earlier than usual.

"Everything is ready?" she asked him.

"Yes."

Then they walked round a garden-bed, and went to sit down near the
terrace on the curb-stone of the wall.

"You are sad," said Emma.

"No; why?"

And yet he looked at her strangely in a tender fashion.

"Is it because you are going away?" she went on; "because you are
leaving what is dear to you--your life? Ah! I understand. I have nothing
in the world! You are all to me; so shall I be to you. I will be your
people, your country; I will tend, I will love you!"

"How sweet you are!" he said, seizing her in his arms.

"Really!" she said with a voluptuous laugh. "Do you love me? Swear it
then!"

"Do I love you--love you? I adore you, my love!"

The moon, full and purple-colored, was rising right out of the earth at
the end of the meadow. She rose quickly between the branches of the
poplars, that hid her here and there like a black curtain pierced with
holes. Then she appeared dazzling with whiteness in the empty heavens
that she lit up, and now sailing more slowly along, let fall upon the
river a great stain that broke up into an infinity of stars; and the
silver sheen seemed to writhe through the very depths like a headless
serpent covered with luminous scales; it also resembled some monster
candelabra all along which sparkled drops of diamonds running together.
The soft night was about them; masses of shadow filled the branches.
The word "extant" may offend a little, but the writer can afford many
such blemishes, for he has life in his pen. He is, as it were himself
substantial, richly-coloured, strange and with big strokes and splashes
he suggests the thing itself. There have been writers since Borrow's
day who have thought to use words so subtly that they are equivalent
to things, but in the end their words remain nothing but words. Borrow
uses language like a man, and we forget his words on account of the
vividness of the things which they do not so much create as evoke. I
do not mean that it can be called unconscious art, for it is naively
conscious and delighting in itself.

The language is that of an orator, a man standing up and addressing
a mass in large and emphatic terms.

He succeeds not only in evoking things that are very much alive, but
in suggesting an artist that is their equal, instead of one, who
like so many more refined writers, is a more or less pathetic
admirer of living things. In this he resembles Byron. It may not be the
highest form of art, but it is the most immediate and disturbing
and genial in its effect.

Finally, the whole book has body. It can be browsed on.

It does not ask a particular mood, being itself the result of no one
mood, but of a great part of one man's life. Turn over half a dozen pages
and a story, or a picture, or a bit of costume, or of superstition, will
invariably be the reward. It reads already like a book rather older than
it really is, but not because it has faded. There was nothing in it to
fade, being too hard, massive and unvarnished.

It remains alive, capable of surviving the Gypsies except in so far as
they live within it and its fellow books.

CHAPTER XX--"THE BIBLE IN SPAIN"
In "The Zincali" Borrow used some of his private notes and others
supplied by Spanish friends, together with parts of letters to the
Bible Society.

It used to be supposed that "The Bible in Spain" was made up almost
entirely from these letters.

But this has now been disproved by the newly published "Letters of
George Borrow to the Bible Society." {163a} These letters are about
half the length of "The Bible in Spain," and yet only about a third
part of them was used by Borrow in writing that book.

Some of his letters were never received by the Society and had
probably been lost on the way.

But this was more of a disaster to the Society than to Borrow.

He kept journals {163b} from which his letters were probably copied
or composed; and he was able, for example, in July, 1836, to send
the Society a detailed and dated account of his entry into Spain
in January, and his intercourse with the Gypsies of Badajoz.

It is also possible that the letters lent to him by the Society
were far more numerous than those returned by him.

He missed little that could have been turned to account, unless it
was the suggestion that if he knew the country his safest way from
Seville to Madrid was to go afoot in the dress of beggar or Gypsy,
and the remark that in Tangier one of his principal associates was
a black slave, whose country was only three days journey from
Timbuctoo. {163c} He had already in 1835 planned to write "a small
volume" on what he was about to see and hear in Spain, and it must
have been from notes or full journals kept with this view that he
drew for "The Zincali" and still more for "The Bible in Spain."

He wrote his journals and letters very much as Cobbett his "Rural
Rides," straight after days in the saddle.

Except when he was presenting a matter of pure business he was not much
troubled by the fact that he was addressing his employers, the
Bible Society.

He did not always begin "Bible" with a capital B, an error corrected
by Mr.

Darlow, his editor. He prefixed "Revd. and dear sir," and thought little
more about them unless to add such a phrase as: "A fact which I
hope I may be permitted to mention with gladness and with decent
triumph in the Lord."

He did not, however, scorn to make a favourable misrepresentation of his
success, as for example in the interview with Mendizabal, which
was reduced probably to the level of the facts in its book form.

The Society were not always pleased with his frankness and confidence,
and the Secretary complained of things which were inconvenient to
be read aloud in a pious assembly, less concerned with sinners than
with repentance, and not easily convinced by the improbable.

He sent them, for example, after a specimen Gypsy translation of the
Gospel of St.

Luke and of the Lord's Prayer, "sixteen specimens of the horrid curses in
use amongst the Spanish Gypsies," with translations into English. These
do not re-appear either in "The Bible in Spain" or in the edition of
Borrow's letters to the Society.

He spared them, apparently, the story of Benedict Moll and many another
good thing that was meant for mankind.

I should be inclined to think that a very great part of "The Bible in
Spain" was written as the letters were, on the spot. Either it was
not sent to the Society for fear of loss, or if copied and sent
to them, it was lost on the way or never returned by Borrow after
he had used it in writing the book, for the letters are just as
careful in most parts as the book, and the book is just as fresh
as the letters.

When he wrote to the Society, he said that he told the
schoolmaster "the Almighty would never have inspired His saints
with a desire to write what was unintelligible to the great mass
of mankind"; in "The Bible in Spain" he said: "It [_i.e._, the
Bible] would never have been written if not calculated by itself
to illume the minds of all classes of mankind."

Continuous letters or journals would be more likely to suit Borrow's
purpose than notes such as he took in his second tour to Wales and
never used.

Notes made on the spot are very likely to be disproportionate, to lay
undue stress on something that should be allowed to recede, and
would do so if left to memory; and once made they are liable to
misinterpretation if used after intervals of any length.

But the flow and continuity of letters insist on some proportion
and on truth at least to the impression of the day, and a balance
is ensured between the scene or the experience on the one hand and
the observer on the other.

"The Zincali" was not published before Borrow realised what a
treasure he had deposited with the Bible Society, and not long
afterwards he obtained the loan of his letters to make a new book
on his travels in Spain.

Borrow's own account, in his preface to the second edition of "The
Zincali," is that the success of that book, and "the voice not only of
England but of the greater part of Europe" proclaiming it, astonished him
in his "humble retreat" at Oulton. He was, he implies, inclined to be
too much elated. Then the voice of a critic--whom we know to have
been Richard Ford--told him not to believe all he heard, but to
try again and avoid all his second hand stuff, his "Gypsy poetry,
dry laws, and compilations from dull Spanish authors."

And so, he says, he began work in the winter, but slowly, and on
through summer and autumn and another winter, and into another spring
and summer, loitering and being completely idle at times, until at
last he went to his summer house daily and finished the book.
But as a matter of fact "The Zincali" had no great success in either
public or literary esteem, and Ford's criticism was passed on the
manuscript, not the printed book.

Borrow and his wife took about six months to prepare the letters for
publication as a book. He took great pains with the writing and only
worked when he was in the mood. His health was not quite good, as he
implies in the preface to "The Zincali," and he tried "the water
system" and also "lessons in singing," to cure his indigestion and
sleeplessness.
He had the advantage of Ford's advice, to avoid fine writing, mere
description, poetry and learned books, and to give plenty of "racy, real,
genuine scenes, and the more out of the way the better," stories of
adventure, extraordinary things, prisons, low life, Gypsies, and so on.

He was now drawing entirely from "his own well," and when the book was
out Ford took care to remark that the author had cast aside the
learned books which he had used as swimming corks in the "Zincali,"
and now "leaped boldly into the tide" unaided. John Murray's reader
sent back the manuscript to be revised and augmented, and after
this was done, "The Bible in Spain" was published, at the end of
1842, when Borrow was thirty- nine.

"The Bible in Spain" was praised and moreover purchased by everyone.
It was translated into French, American, Russian, and printed in America.

The "Athenaeum" found it a "genuine book"; the "Examiner" said that "apart
from its adventurous interest, its literary merit is extraordinary."
Ford compared it with an old Spanish ballad, "going from incident to
incident, bang, bang, bang!" and with Gil Blas, and with Bunyan. Ford,
it must be remembered, had ridden over the same tracks as Borrow in
Spain, but before him, and had written his own book with a combination
of learning and gusto that is one of the rarest of literary virtues.

Like Borrow he wrote fresh from the thing itself when possible,
asserting for example that the fat of the hams of Montanches, when
boiled, "looked like melted topazes, and the flavour defies language,
although we have dined on one this very day, in order to secure
accuracy and undeniable prose."

For the benefit of the public Ford pointed out that "the Bible and
its distribution have been _the_ business of his existence; whenever
moral darkness brooded, there, the Bible in his hand, he forced his
way."

     When Borrow was actually in Spain he was much influenced by the
conditions of the moment.

The sun of Spain would shine so that he prized it above English
civilization.

     The anarchy and wildness of Spain at another time would make him hate
     both men and land. But more lasting than joy in the sun and misery
     at the sight of misery was the feeling that he was "adrift in
     Spain, the land of old renown, the land of wonder and mystery,
with better opportunities of becoming acquainted with its strange
secrets and peculiarities than, perhaps, ever yet were afforded to
any individual, certainly to a foreigner."

When he entered it, by crossing a brook, out of Portugal, he shouted
the Spanish battle-cry in ecstasy, and in the end he described his
five years in Spain as, "if not the most eventful"--he cannot refrain
from that vainglorious dark hint--yet "the most happy years" of his
existence.

Spain was to him "the most magnificent country in the world": it was
also "one of the few countries in Europe where poverty is not treated
with contempt, and I may add, where the wealthy are not blindly
idolized."

     His book is a song of wild Spain when Spain _was_ Spain.
     
     Borrow, as we already know, had in him many of the powers that go to
     make a great book, yet "The Zincali" was not a great book. The
     important power developed or employed later which made "The Bible
     in Spain" a great book was the power of narrative. The writing
     of those letters from Spain to the Bible Society had taught him or
     discovered in him the instinct for proportion and connection which
     is the simplest, most inexplicable and most essential of literary
gifts.

With the help of this he could write narrative that should suggest
and represent the continuity of life.

     He could pause for description or dialogue or reflection without
     interrupting this stream of life. Nothing need be, and nothing
     was, alien to the narrator with this gift; for his writing would now
     assimilate everything and enrich itself continually.
     
     The reader could follow, as he preferred, the Bible distribution
     in particular, or the Gypsies, or Borrow himself, through the long
     ways and dense forests of the book, and through the moral darkness
of Spain.

It could be treated as a pious book, and as such it was attacked by
Catholics, as "Lavengro" still is.

     For certainly Borrow made no secret of his piety. When "a fine
     young man of twenty-seven, the only son of a widowed mother . .
     . the best sailor on board, and beloved by all who were acquainted
     with him" was swept off the ship in which Borrow was sailing,
     and drowned, as he had dreamed he would be, the author exclaimed:
     "Truly wonderful are the ways of Providence!" When a Spanish
     schoolmaster suggested that the Testament was unintelligible
     without notes, Borrow informed him that on the contrary the notes
     were far more difficult, and "it would never have been written if
not calculated of itself to illume the minds of all classes of
mankind."

The Bible was, in his published words, "the well-head of all that is
useful and conducive to the happiness of society"; and he told the
poor Catalans that their souls' welfare depended on their being
acquainted with the book he was selling at half the cost price.

He could write not unlike the author of "The Dairyman's Daughter," as
when he exclaimed: "Oh man, man, seek not to dive into the mystery
of moral good and evil; confess thyself a worm, cast thyself on the
earth, and murmur with thy lips in the dust, Jesus, Jesus!"

    He thought the Pope "the head minister of Satan here on earth,"
    and inspired partly by contempt of Catholics, he declared that
    "no people in the world entertain sublimer notions of the uncreated
    eternal God than the Moors . . . and with respect to Christ, their
ideas even of Him are much more just than those of the Papists."

And he said to the face of the Spanish Prime Minister: "It is a pleasant
thing to be persecuted for the Gospel's sake."

Nor was this pure cant; for he meant at least this, that he loved conflict
and would be fearless and stubborn in battle; and, as he puts it,
he was "cast into prison for the Gospel's sake."

     In 1843, no doubt, what first recommended this book to so many
thousands was the Protestant fervour and purpose of the book, and
the romantic reputation of Spain.

At this day Borrow's Bible distribution is mainly of antiquarian
and sectarian interest.

We should not estimate the darkness of Madrid by the number of Testaments
there in circulation and daily use, nor on the other hand should we
fear, like Borrow, to bring them into contempt by making them too common.
Yet his missionary work makes the necessary backbone of the book.
He was, as he justly said, "no tourist, no writer of books of travels."
His work brought him adventure as no mere wandering could have done.

What is more, the man's methods are still entertaining to those who
care nothing about the distribution itself.

Where he found the remains of a robber's camp he left a New Testament
and some tracts.

To carry the Bibles over the flinty hills of Galicia and the Asturias
he bought "a black Andalusian stallion of great power and strength,
. . . unbroke, savage and furious": the cargo, he says, would
tame the animal. He fixed his advertisement on the church porch at
Pitiegua, announcing the sale of Testaments at Salamanca. He had
the courage without the ferocity of enthusiasm, and in the cause
of the Bible Society he saw and did things which little concerned
it, which in fact displeased it, but keep this book alive with a
great stir and shout of life, with a hundred pages where we are
shown what the poet meant by "forms more real than living men."

We are shown the unrighteous to the very life. What matters it then if
the author professes the opinion that "the friendship of the unrighteous
is never of long duration"?

Nevertheless, these pious ejaculations are not without their value
in the composition of the author's amazing character.

Borrow came near to being a perfect traveller. For he was, on the one
hand, a man whose individuality was carved in clear bold lines,
who had a manner and a set of opinions as remarkable as his appearance.

Thus he was bound to come into conflict with men wherever he went:
he would bring out their manners and opinions, if they had any.

But on the other hand he had abounding curiosity. He was bold but not
rude: on the contrary he was most vigilantly polite. He took snuff,
though he detested it; he avoided politics as much as possible:
"No, no!" he said, "I have lived too long with _Romany chals and
Petulengres_ to be of any politics save Gypsy politics," in spite of
what he had said in '32 and was to say again in '57. When he and the
Gypsy Antonio came to Jaraicejo they separated by Antonio's advice.
The Gypsy got through the town unchallenged by the guard, though
not unnoticed by the townspeople.

But Borrow was stopped and asked by a man of the National Guard whether
he came with the Gypsy, to which he answered, "Do I look a person
likely to keep company with Gypsies?" though, says he, he probably
did. Then the National asked for his passport:

"I remembered having read that the best way to win a Spaniard's heart is
to treat him with ceremonious civility. I therefore dismounted, and
taking off my hat, made a low bow to the constitutional soldier,
saying, 'Senor Nacional, you must know that I am an English gentleman
travelling in this country for my pleasure.

I bear a passport, which on inspecting you will find to be perfectly
regular.

It was given me by the great Lord Palmerston, Minister of England, whom
you of course have heard of here.
At the bottom you will see his own handwriting.

Look at it and rejoice; perhaps you will never have another opportunity.
As I put unbounded confidence in the honour of every gentleman, I leave
the passport in your hands whilst I repair to the posada to
refresh myself. When you have inspected it, you will perhaps oblige me
so far as to bring it to me.

Cavalier, I kiss your hands.'
"I then made him another low bow, which he returned with one still
lower, and leaving him now staring at the passport and now looking at
myself, I went into a posada, to which I was directed by a beggar whom
I met.

"I fed the horse, and procured some bread and barley, as the Gypsy had
directed me. I likewise purchased three fine partridges of a fowler, who
was drinking wine in the posada.

He was satisfied with the price I gave him, and offered to treat me with
a copita, to which I made no objection.
As we sat discoursing at the table, the National entered with the passport
in his hand, and sat down by us.

"_National_.--'Caballero, I return you your passport; it is quite in
form. I rejoice much to have made your acquaintance. I have no doubt that
you can give me some information respecting the present war.'

"_Myself_.

--'I shall be very happy to afford so polite and honourable a
gentleman any information in my power.'"

He won the hearts of the people of Villa Seca by the "formality"
of his behaviour and language; for he tells us that in such remote
places might still be found the gravity of deportment and the
grandiose expressions which are scoffed at as exaggerations in the
romances.

He speaks of himself in one place as strolling about a town or neighbourhood,
entering into conversation with several people whom he met, shopkeepers,
professional men, and others.

Near Evora he sat down daily at a fountain and talked with everyone
who came to it.

He visited the College of the English Catholics at Lisbon, excusing
himself, indeed, by saying that his favourite or his only study was
man.

His knowledge of languages and his un-English appearance made it easier
for him to become familiar with many kinds of men. He introduced himself
among some Jews of Lisbon, and pronounced a blessing: they took him for
a powerful rabbi, and he favoured their mistake so that in a few days he
knew all that related to these people and their traffic. On his journey
in Galicia, when he was nearing Finisterra, the men of the cabin
where he rested took him for a Catalan, and "he favoured their mistake
and began with a harsh Catalan accent to talk of the fish of
Galicia, and the high duties on salt."

He sent Justin as far as
Neufchâtel for ice; the ice melted on the way; he sent him back again.
He called Monsieur Canivet into consultation; he sent for Dr. Larivière,
his old master, from Rouen; he was in despair. What alarmed him most was
Emma's prostration, for she did not speak, did not listen, did not even
seem to suffer, as if her body and soul were both resting together after
all their troubles.

About the middle of October she could sit up in bed supported by
pillows. Charles wept when he saw her eat her first bread-and-jelly. Her
strength returned to her; she got up for a few hours of an afternoon,
and one day, when she felt better, he tried to take her, leaning on his
arm, for a walk round the garden. The sand of the paths was
disappearing beneath the dead leaves; she walked slowly, dragging along
her slippers, and leaning against Charles's shoulder. She smiled all the
time.

They went thus to the bottom of the garden near the terrace. She drew
herself up slowly, shading her eyes with her hand to look. She looked
far off, as far as she could, but on the horizon were only great
bonfires of grass smoking on the hills.

"You will tire yourself, my darling!" said Bovary. And pushing her
gently to make her go into the arbour, "Sit down on this seat; you'll be
comfortable."

"Oh! no; not there!" she said in a faltering voice.

She was seized with giddiness, and from that evening her illness
recommenced, with a more uncertain character, it is true, and more
complex symptoms. Now she suffered in her heart, then in the chest, the
head, the limbs; she had vomitings, in which Charles thought he saw the
first signs of cancer.

And besides this, the poor fellow was worried about money matters.


XIV.

RELIGIOUS FERVOR.


To begin with, he did not know how he could pay Monsieur Homais for all
the physic supplied by him, and though, as a medical man, he was not
obliged to pay for it, he nevertheless blushed a little at such an
obligation. Then the expenses of the household, now that the servant was
mistress, became terrible. Bills rained in upon the house; the tradesmen
grumbled; Monsieur Lheureux especially harassed him. In fact, at the
height of Emma's illness, the latter, taking advantage of the
circumstances to make his bill larger, had hurriedly brought the cloak,
the travelling-bag, two trunks instead of one, and a number of other
things. It was very well for Charles to say he did not want them. The
tradesman answered arrogantly that these articles had been ordered, and
that he would not take them back; besides, it would vex madame in her
convalescence; the doctor had better think it over; in short, he was
resolved to sue him rather than give up his rights and take back his
goods. Charles subsequently ordered them to be sent back to the shop.
Félicité forgot; he had other things to attend to; then thought no more
about them. Monsieur Lheureux returned to the charge, and, by turns
threatening and whining, so managed that Bovary ended by signing a bill
at six months. But hardly had he signed this bill than a bold idea
occurred to him: it was to borrow a thousand francs from Lheureux. So,
with an embarrassed air, he asked if it were possible to get them,
adding that it would be for a year, at any interest he wished. Lheureux
ran off to his shop, brought back the money and dictated another bill,
by which Bovary undertook to pay to his order on the 1st of September
next the sum of one thousand and seventy francs, which, with the hundred
and eighty already agreed to, made just twelve hundred and fifty, thus
lending at six per cent, in addition to one-fourth for commission; and
the things bringing him in a good third at the least, this ought in
twelve months to give him a profit of a hundred and thirty francs. He
hoped that the business would not stop there; that the bills would not
be paid; that they would be renewed; and that his poor little money,
having thriven at the doctor's as at a hospital, would come back to him
one day considerably more plump, and fat enough to burst his bag.

Everything, moreover, succeeded with him. He was adjudicator for a
supply of cider to the hospital at Neufchâtel; Monsieur Guillaumin
promised him some shares in the turf-pits of Gaumesnil, and he dreamt of
establishing a new diligence service between Arcueil and Rouen, which no
doubt would not be long in ruining the ramshackle van of the "Lion
d'Or," and that, travelling faster, at a cheaper rate, and carrying more
luggage, would thus put into his hands the whole commerce of Yonville.

Charles several times asked himself by what means he should next year be
able to pay back so much money. He reflected, imagined expedients, such
as applying to his father or selling something. But his father would be
deaf, and he--he had nothing to sell. Then he foresaw such worries that
he quickly dismissed so disagreeable a subject of meditation from his
mind. He reproached himself with forgetting Emma, as if, all his
thoughts belonging to this woman, it was robbing her of something not to
be constantly thinking of her.

The winter was severe, Madame Bovary's convalescence slow. When it was
fine they wheeled her armchair to the window that overlooked the
square, for she now had an antipathy to the garden, and the blinds on
that side were always down. She wished the horse to be sold; what she
formerly liked now displeased her. All her ideas seemed to be limited to
the care of herself. She stayed in bed taking little meals, rang for the
servant to inquire about her gruel or to chat with her. The snow on the
market-roof threw a white, still light into the room; then the rain
began to fall; and Emma waited daily with a mind full of eagerness for
the inevitable return of some trifling events which nevertheless had no
relation to her. The most important was the arrival of the "Hirondelle"
in the evening. Then the landlady shouted out, and other voices
answered, while Hippolyte's lantern, as he fetched the boxes from the
boot, was like a star in the darkness. At mid-day Charles came in; then
he went out again; next she took some beef-tea, and towards five
o'clock, as the day drew in, the children coming back from school,
dragging their wooden shoes along the pavement, knocked the clapper of
the shutters with their rulers one after the other.

It was at this hour that Monsieur Bournisien came to see her. He
inquired after her health, gave her news, exhorted her to religion in a
coaxing little gossip that was not without its charm. The mere thought
of his cassock comforted her.

One day, when at the height of her illness, she had thought herself
dying, and had asked for the communion; and, while they were making the
preparations in her room for the sacrament, while they were turning the
night-table covered with sirups into an altar, and while Félicité was
strewing dahlia flowers on the floor, Emma felt some power passing over
her that freed her from her pains, from all perception, from all
feeling. Her body, relieved, no longer thought; another life was
beginning; it seemed to her that her being, mounting toward God, would
be annihilated in that love like a burning incense that melts into
vapour. The bed-clothes were sprinkled with holy water, the priest drew
from the holy pyx the white wafer; and it was fainting with a celestial
joy that she put out her lips to accept the body of the Saviour
presented to her. The curtains of the alcove floated gently round her
like clouds, and the rays of the two tapers burning on the night-table
seemed to shine like dazzling halos. Then she let her head fall back,
fancying she heard in space the music of seraphic harps, and perceived
in an azure sky, on a golden throne in the midst of saints holding green
palms, God the Father, resplendent with majesty, who with a sign sent to
earth angels with wings of fire to carry her away in their arms.

This splendid vision dwelt in her memory as the most beautiful thing
that it was possible to dream, so that now she strove to recall her
sensation, that still lasted, however, but in a less exclusive fashion
and with a deeper sweetness. Her soul, tortured by pride, at length
found rest in Christian humility, and, tasting the joy of weakness, she
saw within herself the destruction of her will, that must have left a
wide entrance for the inroads of heavenly grace. There existed, then, in
the place of happiness, still greater joys,--another love beyond all
loves, without pause and without end, one that would grow eternally! She
saw amid the illusions of her hope a state of purity floating above the
earth mingling with heaven, to which she aspired. She wanted to become a
saint. She bought chaplets and wore amulets; she wished to have in her
room, by the side of her bed, a reliquary set in emeralds that she might
kiss it every evening.

The curé marvelled at this humour, although Emma's religion, he thought,
might, from its fervour, end by touching on heresy, extravagance. But
not being much versed in these matters, as soon as they went beyond a
certain limit he wrote to Monsieur Boulard, bookseller to Monsignor, to
send him "something good for a lady who was very clever." The
bookseller, with as much indifference as if he had been sending off
hardware to niggers, packed up, pell-mell, everything that was then the
fashion in the pious book trade. There were little manuals in questions
and answers, pamphlets of aggressive tone after the manner of Monsieur
de Maistre, and certain novels in rose-coloured bindings and with a
honied style, manufactured by troubadour seminarists or penitent
blue-stockings. There were the "Think of it; the Man of the World at
Mary's Feet, by Monsieur de * * *, _décoré_ with many Orders;'" "The
Errors of Voltaire, for the Use of the Young," &c.

Madame Bovary's mind was not yet sufficiently clear to apply herself
seriously to anything; moreover, she began this reading in too much
hurry. She grew provoked at the doctrines of religion; the arrogance of
the polemic writings displeased her by their inveteracy in attacking
people she did not know; and the secular stories, relieved with
religion, seemed to her written in such ignorance of the world, that
they insensibly estranged her from the truths for whose proof she was
looking. Nevertheless, she persevered; and when the volume slipped from
her hands, she fancied herself seized with the finest Catholic
melancholy that an ethereal soul could conceive.

As for the memory of Rodolphe, she had thrust it back to the bottom of
her heart, and it remained there more solemn and more motionless than a
king's mummy in a catacomb. An exhalation escaped from this embalmed
love, that, penetrating through everything, perfumed with tenderness the
immaculate atmosphere in which she longed to live. When she knelt on her
Gothic prie-Dieu, she addressed to the Lord the same suave words that
she had murmured formerly to her lover in the outpourings of adultery.
It was to make faith come; but no delights descended from the heavens,
and she arose with tired limbs and with a vague feeling of a gigantic
dupery.

This searching after faith, she thought, was only one merit the more,
and in the pride of her devoutness Emma compared herself to those grand
ladies of long ago whose glory she had dreamed of over a portrait of La
Vallière, and who, trailing with so much majesty the lace-trimmed
trains of their long gowns, retired into solitudes to shed at the feet
of Christ all the tears of hearts that life had wounded.

Then she gave herself up to excessive charity. She sewed clothes for the
poor, she sent wood to women in childbed; and Charles one day, on coming
home, found three good-for-nothings in the kitchen seated at the table
eating soup. She had her little girl, whom during her illness her
husband had sent back to the nurse, brought home. She wanted to teach
her to read; even when Berthe cried, she was not vexed. She had made up
her mind to resignation, to universal indulgence. Her language about
everything was full of ideal expressions. She said to her child, "Is
your stomach-ache better, my angel?"

Madame Bovary senior found nothing to censure except perhaps this mania
of knitting jackets for orphans instead of mending her own house-linen;
but, harassed with domestic quarrels, the good woman took pleasure in
this quiet house, and she even staid there till after Easter, to escape
the sarcasms of old Bovary, who never failed on Good Friday to order
chitterlings.

Besides the companionship of her mother-in-law, who strengthened her a
little by the rectitude of her judgment and her grave ways, Emma almost
every day had other visitors. These were Madame Langlois, Madame Caron,
Madame Dubreuil, Madame Tuvache, and regularly from two to five o'clock
the excellent Madame Homais, who, for her part, had never believed any
of the tittle-tattle about her neighbor. The little Homais also came to
see her; Justin accompanied them. He went up with them to her bedroom,
and remained standing near the door, motionless and mute. Often even
Madame Bovary, taking no heed of him, began her toilette. She began by
taking out her comb, shaking her head with a quick movement, and when he
for the first time saw all this mass of hair that fell to her knees
unrolling in black ringlets, it was to him, poor child! When a man dies,
he is cast into the earth, and his wife and child sorrow over him.

If he has neither wife nor child, then his father and mother, I suppose;
and if he is quite alone in the world, why, then, he is cast into the
earth, and there is an end of the matter.'
"'And do you think that is the end of man?'
"'There's an end of him, brother, more's the pity.'
"'Why do you say so?'
"'Life is sweet, brother.'
"'Do you think so?'
"'Think so!--There's night and day, brother, both sweet things; sun,
moon, and stars, brother, all sweet things; there's likewise a
wind on the heath.

Life is very sweet, brother; who would wish to die?'

"'I would wish to die--'
"'You talk like a gorgio--which is the same as talking like a
fool--were you a Rommany Chal you would talk wiser.

Wish to die, indeed!--A Rommany Chal would wish to live for ever!"
"'In sickness, Jasper?'
"'There's the sun and stars, brother.'
"'In blindness, Jasper?'
"'There's the wind on the heath, brother; if I could only feel that,
I would gladly live for ever. Dosta, we'll now go to the tents and put
on the gloves; and I'll try to make you feel what a sweet thing
it is to be alive, brother!'"
But how delicate it is, the two lads talking amidst the furze of Mousehold
Heath at sunset.

And so with the rest.

As he grows older the atmosphere thins but never quite fades away; even
Thurtell, the bull-necked friend of bruisers, is as much a spirit as a
man.

Mr.

Watts-Dunton has complained {220} that Borrow makes Isopel taller than
Borrow, and therefore too tall for beauty. But Borrow was not writing
for readers who knew, or for those who, if they knew, always
remembered, that he was six-feet-two.

We know that Lavengro is tall, but we are not told so just before hearing
that Isopel is taller; and the effect is that we think, not too distinctly,
of a girl who somehow succeeds in being very tall and beautiful. If
Borrow had said: "Whereas I was six feet two inches, the
girl was six feet two and three-quarter inches," it would have
been different, and it would not have been Borrow, who, as I say,
was not writing of ponderable, measurable bodies, but of possible
immortal souls curiously dressed in flesh that can be almost as
invisible.

So again, Mr. Watts-Dunton says:

"With regard to Isopel Berners, neither Lavengro, nor the man she
thrashed when he stole one of her flaxen hairs to conjure with,
gives the reader the faintest idea of Isopel's method of attack or
defence, and we have to take her prowess on trust.

In a word Borrow was content to give us the wonderful, without
taking that trouble to find for it a logical basis which a literary
master would have taken.

And instances might easily be multiplied of this exaggeration of Borrow's,
which is apt to lend a sense of unreality to some of the most picturesque
pages of 'Lavengro.'"
But would Mr. Watts-Dunton seriously like to have these scenes touched
up by Driscoll or Sullivan. Borrow did not write for real or imaginary
connoisseurs.

I do not mean that a man need sacrifice his effect upon the ordinary
man by satisfying the connoisseur.

No one, for example, will deny that a ship by Mr. Joseph Conrad is
as beautiful and intelligible as one by Stevenson; but neither would
it be safe to foretell that Mr. Conrad's, the more accurate, will seem
the more like life in fifty years' time.

Borrow is never technical. If he quotes Gypsy it is not for the sake of
the colour effect on those who read Gypsy as they run. His effects are
for a certain distance and in a certain atmosphere where technicality
would be impertinent.

Mr. Hindes Groome {221a} was more justified in saying:

"Mr. Borrow, no doubt, knows the Gypsies well, and could describe them
perfectly.

But his love of effect leads him away. In his wish to impress his reader
with a certain mysterious notion of himself, he colours his Gypsy
pictures (the _form_ of which is quite accurate) in a fantastic style,
which robs them altogether of the value they would have as studies from
life."
For Groome wrote simply as a Gypsy student. He collected data which
can be verified, but do not often give an impression of life, except
the life of a young Cambridge man who is devoted to Gypsies.Such, at any rate, is the opinion of all the Fathers. Finally," he
added, suddenly assuming a mystic tone of voice, while he rolled a pinch
of snuff between his fingers, "if the Church has condemned the theatre,
she must be right; we must submit to her decrees."

"Why," asked the chemist, "should she excommunicate actors? For formerly
they openly took part in religious ceremonies. Yes, in the middle of
the chancel they acted; they performed a kind of farce called
'Mysteries,' which often offended against the laws of decency."

The ecclesiastic contented himself with uttering a groan, and the
chemist went on--

"It's just as it is in the Bible; for there, you know, are more than one
piquant detail, matters really libidinous!"

And on a gesture of irritation from Monsieur Bournisien--

"Ah! you'll admit that it is not a book to place in the hands of a young
girl, and I should be sorry if Athalie----"

"But it is the Protestants, and not we," cried the other impatiently,
"who recommend the Bible."

"No matter," said Homais. "I am surprised that in our days, in this
century of enlightenment, any one should still persist in proscribing an
intellectual relaxation that is inoffensive, moralising, and sometimes
even hygienic; is it not, doctor?"

"No doubt," replied the doctor carelessly, either because, sharing the
same ideas, he wished to offend no one, or else because he had not any
ideas.

The conversation seemed at an end when the chemist thought fit to shoot
a Parthian arrow.

"I've known priests who put on ordinary clothes to go and see dancers
kicking about."

"Come, come!" said the curé.

"Ah! I've known some!" And separating the words of his sentence, Homais
repeated, "I--have--known--some!"

"Well, they did wrong," said Bournisien, resigned to anything.

"By Jove! they go in for more than that," exclaimed the chemist.

"Sir!" replied the ecclesiastic, with such angry eyes that Homais was
intimidated by them.

"I only mean to say," he replied in less brutal a tone, "that toleration
is the surest way to draw people to religion."

"That is true! that is true!" agreed the good fellow, sitting down again
on his chair. But he stayed only a few moments.

Then, as soon as he had gone, Monsieur Homais said to the doctor--

"That's what I call a cock-fight. I beat him, did you see, in a
way!--Now take my advice. Take madame to the theatre, if it were only
for once in your life, to enrage one of these ravens, hang it! If any
one could take my place, I would accompany you myself. Be quick about
it. Lagardy is only going to give one performance; he's engaged to go to
England at a high salary. From what I hear, he's a regular dog; he's
rolling in money; he's taking three mistresses and a cook along with
him. All these great artists burn the candle at both ends; they require
a dissolute life, that stirs the imagination to some extent. But they
die at the hospital, because they haven't the sense when young to lay
by. Well, a pleasant dinner! Good-bye till to-morrow."

The idea of the theatre quickly germinated in Bovary's head, for he at
once communicated it to his wife, who at first refused, alleging the
fatigue, the worry, the expense; but, for a wonder, Charles did not give
in, so sure was he that this recreation would be good for her. 
Galen Garrick Gautier, Théophile Genal (chin) zone, the Géraldon
Gesture, in general is for sentiments its services to humanity reveals
the inner man the direct agent of the heart the interpreter of speech
the interpreter of emotion an elliptical language division of
harmony and dissonance of origin and oratorical value of superior
to the other languages is magnetic the laws of must always precede
speech retroaction joy and fright require backward movement
equilibrium the great law of the hirmonic law of parallelism of
numbers of lack of intelligence indicated by many duration of the
rhythm of importance of the laws of the semeiotic or reason of the
types that characterize its modifying apparatus the inflections of
delineation of spheroidal form of the sense of the heart the spirit
of the inflection of the deaf a series of, for exercises the static
the life of the semeiotic the spirit and rationale of the series
of, applied to the sentiments oftenest expressed the, of interpellation
the, of thanks, affectionate and ceremonious the, of attraction
the, of surprise and assurance the, of devotion the, of interrogative
surprise the, of reiterated interrogation the, of anger the, of
menace the, of an order for leaving the, of reiteration the, of
fright three important rules for how produced dilatory difficulty
in object of definition of without a motive Giraudet, Alfred report
of Delsarte's lecture Gluck God, the spirit of, in all things how
He reveals things a pretext for every Utopia the archetype Good,
the Gospel, the, directs investigation Gounod Grace Great movements
for exaltation of sentiment Greeks, the, had no school of æsthetics
Groans Guéroult, Adolphe Guide-accord, the, of Delsarte Gymnastics,
the grand law of organic the practice of 

H.

Habit Halévy Hand, the, another expression of the face expressions of
the its three presentations criterion of the chart of the digital
face the back and the palmar face the three rhythmic actions the,
in natural surprise the, in death attitudes of the in affirmation
the nine physiognomies of Handel Harmony Harmony, born of contrasts
is in opposition Head, the, movements of the occipital, parietal
and temporal zones the primary agent of movement action of, in
surprise which side is for the soul and which for the senses?

attitudes of Head voice, the how produced interprets mental phenomena
the concentric voice Heart, when to carry the hand to the Hegel
Hervet High head, small brain Hippias Hoffman Horace Hugo Humanity
is crippled Human reason Human science, the alpha and omega of Human
triplicity, the Human word composed of three languages 

I.

Her heart began to beat as soon as she reached the vestibule. She
involuntarily smiled with vanity on seeing the crowd rushing to the
right by the other corridor while she went up the staircase to the
reserved seats. She was as pleased as a child to push with her finger
the large tapestried door. She breathed in with all her might the dusty
smell of the lobbies, and when she was seated in her box she bent
forward with the air of a duchess.

The theatre was beginning to fill; opera-glasses were taken from their
cases, and the subscribers, catching sight of one another, were bowing.
They came to seek relaxation in the fine arts after the anxieties of
business; but "business" was not forgotten; they still talked cotton,
spirits of wine, or indigo. The heads of old men were to be seen,
inexpressive and peaceful, with their hair and complexions looking like
silver medals tarnished by steam of lead. The young beaux were strutting
about in the pit, showing in the opening of their waistcoats their pink
or apple-green cravats, and Madame Bovary from above admired them
leaning on their canes with golden knobs in the open palm of their
yellow gloves.

Now the lights of the orchestra were lit, the lustre, let down from the
ceiling, throwing by the glimmering of its facets a sudden gaiety over
the theatre; then the musicians came in one after the other; and first
there was the protracted hubbub of the basses grumbling, violins
squeaking, cornets trumpeting, flutes and flageolets fifing. Painter,
how a, examines his work Painting, application of the law to Palate,
the Pantomime, secrets of Parietal zone, the soul Particle, the Pasca,
Mme.

Passion of signs Passive attitude, the type of energetic natures Pasta,
Mme.
People, vulgar and uncultured Pergolesi Phenomena, natural, contain
lessons Phidias Philotechnic Association Physiology Plato Poe, Edgar
A.

Poets are born, orators are made Poise lack of, in body Powers, the
Praxiteles Preacher, a, must not be an actor Preposition, the Pricette,
Father Principiants and principiates Processional relations, theory
of reversal of Professors, Delsarte and the four Progressions
Pronoun, the Pronunciation Proudhon Pythagoras 

Q.
Quintilian 

R.Then her remembrance of the
novel helping her to understand the libretto, she followed the story
phrase by phrase, while vague thoughts that came back to her dispersed
at once again with the bursts of music. She gave herself up to the
lullaby of the melodies, and felt all her being vibrate as if the violin
bows were drawn over her nerves. She had not eyes enough to look at the
costumes, the scenery, the actors, the painted trees that shook when any
one walked, and the velvet caps, cloaks, swords--all those imaginary
things that floated amid the harmony as in the atmosphere of another
world. But a young woman stepped forward, throwing a purse to a squire
in green. She was left alone, and the flute was heard like the murmur of
a fountain or the warbling of birds. Lucia attacked her cavatina in G
major bravely. She plained of love; she longed for wings. Emma too,
fleeing from life, would have liked to fly away in an embrace. Suddenly
Edgar-Lagardy appeared.

It is one of those compositions that prove themselves standards, by
begetting imitations; and if the genuine parent is unknown, it will be
ascribed to every body that is supposed (in his own set) to have more wit
than the rest of the world.
They said that a Polish princess having heard him sing one night
on the beach at Biarritz, where he mended boats, had fallen in love
with him. She had ruined herself for him. He had deserted her for other
women, and this sentimental celebrity did not fail to enhance his
artistic reputation. The diplomatic mummer took care always to slip into
his advertisements some poetic phrase on the fascination of his person
and the susceptibility of his soul. -E.

(539) "Robert Bloomfield," says Mr. Crabbe, in his journal for 1817,
"had better have rested as a shoemaker, or even a farmer's boy;
for he would have been a farmer perhaps in time, and now he is an
unfortunate poet."

Poor John Clare, it will be recollected, died in a workhouse.-E.

Letter 287 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.
Sunday Night, Nov. 28, 1784. (page 362)
I have received the parcel of papers you sent me, which I conclude come
from Lord Strafford, and will apply them as well as I possibly
can, you may be sure, but with little hope of doing any good: humanity
is no match for cruelty. There are now and then such angelic beings as
Mr. Hanway and Mr. Howard; but our race in general is pestilently bad and
malevolent. I have been these two years wishing to promote my excellent
friend Mr.
Porter's plan for alleviating the woes of chimney-sweepers, but never
could make impression on three people; on the contrary, have generally
caused a smile.

George Conway's intelligence of hostilities commenced between the
Dutch and Imperialists makes me suppose that France will support
the former--or could they resist?

Yet I had heard that France would not.

Some have thought, as I have done, that a combination of partition
would happen between Austria, France, and Prussia, the modern law
of nations for avoiding wars.

I know nothing: so my conjectures may all be erroneous; especially as
one argues reason; a very inadequate judge, as it leaves passions,
caprices, and accidents, out of its calculation. It does not seem the
interest of France, that the Emperor's power should increase in
their neighbourhood and extend to the sea.

Consequently it is France's interest to protect Holland in concert
with Prussia.
This last is a transient power, and may determine on the death of the
present King; but the Imperial is a permanent force, and must be the
enemy of France, however present connexions may incline the scale.

In any case, I hope we shall no way be hooked into the quarrel not
only from the impotence of our circumstances, but as I think it
would decide the loss of Ireland, which seems tranquillizing:
but should we have any bickering with France, she would renew the
manoeuvres she practised so fatally in America.

These are my politics; I do not know with whose they coincide or disagree,
nor does it signify a straw.

Nothing will depend on my opinion; nor have I any opinion about
them, but when I have nothing at all to do that amuses me more, or
nothing else to fill a letter.

I can give you a sample of my idleness, what may divert Lady Ailesbury and
your academy of arts and sciences for a minute in the evening. It came
into my head yesterday to send a card to Lady Lyttelton, to ask when
she would be in town; here it is in an heroic epistle:- From a castle as
vast as the castles on signs,--
>From a hill that all Africa's molehills outshines, This epistle is sent
to a cottage so small, That the door cannot ope if you stand in the
hall, To a lady who would be fifteen, if her knight And old swain
were as young as Methusalem quite; It comes to inquire, not whether her
eyes Are as radiant as ever, but how many sighs He must vent to the rocks
and the echoes around, (Though nor echo nor rock in the parish is found,)
Before she, obdurate, his passion will meet-- His passion to see her
in Portugal-street?

As the sixth line goes rather too near the core, do not give a copy of it:
however, I should be sorry if it displeased; though I do not believe
it will, but be taken with good-humour as it was meant.(540)
(540) It was taken in perfect good-humour; and Lady Lyttelton
returned the following answer, which Mr.

Walpole owned was better than his address:--
"Remember'd, though old by a wit and a beau!
I shall fancy, ere long, I'm a Ninon L'Enclos:
I must feel impatient such kindness to meet, And shall hasten my flight
into Portugal-street." Ripley Cottage, 28th Nov.

Letter 288 To Miss Hannah More.
Berkeley Square, April 5, 1785.They were
all in a row gesticulating, and anger, vengeance, jealousy, terror, and
stupefaction breathed forth at once from their half-opened mouths. The
outraged lover brandished his naked sword; his guipure ruffle rose with
jerks to the movements of his chest, and he walked from right to left
with long strides, clanking against the boards the silver-gilt spurs of
his soft boots, widening out at the ankles. He, she thought, must have
an inexhaustible love to lavish it upon the crowd with such effusion.
All her small fault-findings faded before the poetry of the part that
absorbed her; and, drawn towards this man by the illusion of the
character, she tried to imagine to herself his life--that life resonant,
extraordinary, splendid, and that might have been hers if fate had
willed it. They would have known one another, loved one another. With
him, through all the kingdoms of Europe she would have travelled from
capital to capital, sharing his fatigues and his pride, picking up the
flowers thrown to him, herself embroidering his costumes. Then each
evening, at the back of a box, behind the golden trellis-work, she would
have drunk in eagerly the expansions of this soul that would have sung
for her alone; from the stage, even as he acted he would have looked at
her. But the mad idea seized her that he was looking at her; it was
certain. She longed to run to his arms, to take refuge in his strength,
as in the incarnation of love itself, and to say to him, to cry out,
"Take me away! carry me with you! let us go! Thine, thine! all my ardour
and all my dreams!"

The curtain fell.

The smell of the gas mingled with that of the breaths, the waving of the
fans, made the air more suffocating. Emma wanted to go out; the crowd
filled the corridors, and she fell back in her armchair with
palpitations that choked her. Charles, fearing that she would faint, ran
to the refreshment-room to get a glass of barley-water.

He had great difficulty in getting back to his seat, for his elbows were
jerked at every step because of the glass he held in his hands, and he
even spilt three-fourths on the shoulders of a Rouen lady in short
sleeves, who feeling the cold liquid running down to her loins, uttered
cries like a peacock, as if she were being assassinated. Her husband,
who was a mill-owner, railed at the clumsy fellow, and while she was
with her handkerchief wiping up the stains from her handsome
cherry-coloured taffeta gown, he angrily muttered about indemnity,
costs, reimbursement. At last Charles reached his wife, saying to her,
quite out of breath:

"_Ma foi!_ I thought I should have had to stay there. There is such a
crowd--_such_ a crowd!"

He added--

"Just guess whom I met up there! Monsieur Léon!"

"Léon?"

"Himself! He's coming along to pay his respects." And as he finished
these words the ex-clerk of Yonville entered the box.

He held out his hand with the ease of a gentleman; and Madame Bovary
extended hers, without doubt obeying the attraction of a stronger will.
She had not felt it since that spring evening when the rain fell upon
the green leaves, and they had said good-bye standing at the window. But
soon recalling herself to the necessities of the situation, with an
effort she shook off the torpor of her memories, and began stammering a
few hurried words.

"Ah, good-day! What! you here?"

"Silence!" cried a voice from the pit, for the third act was beginning.

"So you are at Rouen?"

"Yes."

"And since when?"

"Turn them out! turn them out!" People were looking at them. They were
silent.

But from that moment she listened no more; and the chorus of the guests,
the scene between Ashton and his servant, the grand duet in D major, all
were for her as far off as if the instruments had grown less sonorous
and the characters more remote. She remembered the games at cards at
the chemist's, and the walk to the nurse's, the reading in the arbour,
_tête-à-tête_ by the fireside--all that poor love, so calm and so
protracted, so discreet, so tender and that she had nevertheless
forgotten. And why had he come back? What combination of circumstances
had brought him back into her life. He was standing behind her, leaning
with his shoulder against the wall of the box; now and again she felt
herself shuddering beneath the hot breath from his nostrils falling upon
her hair.

"Does this amuse you?" he said, bending over her so closely that the end
of his moustache brushed her cheek. She replied carelessly:

"Oh, dear me, no, not much."

Then he proposed that they should leave the theatre and go and take an
ice somewhere.

"Oh, not yet; let us stay," said Bovary. "Her hair's undone; this is
going to be tragic."

But the mad scene did not at all interest Emma, and the acting of the
singer seemed to her exaggerated.

"She screams too loud," said she, turning to Charles, who was listening.

"Yes--perhaps--a little," he replied, undecided between the frankness of
his pleasure and his respect for his wife's opinion.

Then with a sigh Léon said:

"The heat is--"

"Unbearable! Yes!"

"Do you feel unwell?" asked Bovary.

"Yes, I am stifling; let us go."

Monsieur Léon put her long lace shawl carefully about her shoulders, and
all three went off to sit down in the harbour, in the open air, outside
the windows of a café.

First they spoke of her illness, although Emma interrupted Charles from
time to time, for fear, she said, of boring Monsieur Léon; and the
latter told them that he had come to spend two years at Rouen in a large
office, in order to get practice in his profession, which was different
in Normandy and Paris. Then he inquired after Berthe, the Homais, Mère
Lefrançois, and as they had, in the husband's presence, nothing more to
say to one another, the conversation soon came to an end.

People coming out of the theatre passed along the pavement, humming or
shouting at the top of their voices, "_O bel ange, ma Lucie!_" Then Léon
playing the dilettante, began to talk music. He had seen Tamburini,
Rubini, Persiani, Grisi, and compared with them, Lagardy, despite his
grand outbursts, was nowhere.

"Yet," interrupted Charles, who was slowly sipping his rum-sherbet,
"they say that he is quite admirable in the last act. I regret leaving
before the end, because it was beginning to amuse me."

"Why," said the clerk, "he will soon give another performance."

But Charles replied that they were going back next day.

"Unless," he added, turning to his wife, "you would like to stay alone,
pussy?"

And changing his tactics at this unexpected opportunity that presented
itself to his hopes, the young man sang the praises of Lagardy in the
last number. It was really superb, sublime. Then Charles insisted--

"You would get back on Sunday. Come, make up your mind. You are wrong
not to stay if you feel that this is doing you the least good."

The tables round them, however, were emptying; a waiter came and stood
discreetly near them. Charles, who understood, took out his purse; the
clerk held back his arm, and did not forget to leave two more pieces of
silver that he made chink on the marble.

"I am really sorry," said Bovary, "about the money which you are----"

The other made a careless gesture full of cordiality, and taking his hat
said--

"It is settled, isn't it? To-morrow, at six o'clock?"

Charles explained once more that he could not absent himself longer, but
that nothing prevented Emma----

"But," she stammered, with a strange smile, "I am not sure----"

"Well, you must think it over. Master Page is called 'George' in three
places, II. 1. 135 and 143, and V. 5. 189, but we have left the text of
the Folios uncorrected, as the mistake may have been Shakespeare's
own.

It is however possible that a transcriber or printer may have mistaken
'Geo.' for 'Tho.'
In I. 3. 89, 90, on the other hand, we have not hesitated to correct the
reading of the Folio, substituting 'Page' for 'Ford,' and 'Ford'
for 'Page,' because, as the early Quartos have the names right, it
seems likely that the blunder was _not_ due to Shakespeare.

    NOTE II.
    
    I. 1. 49. Here again, as in line 40, F2 F3 F4 read 'good,' F1 Q3
    'goot,' but we have not thought it necessary to do more than give
    a specimen of such variations. Capell, in order to make Dr Caius's
    broken English consistent with itself, corrects it throughout and
    substitutes 'de' for 'the,' 'vill' for 'will,' and so forth. As
    a general rule, we have silently followed the first Folio.
    
    
    NOTE III.
    
    I. 1. 114. With regard to this and other passages which Pope,
    Theobald, Malone, &c. have inserted from the early Quartos, our
    rule has been to introduce, between brackets, such, and such only,
    as seemed to be absolutely essential to the understanding of the
    text, taking care to give in the note all those which we have
    rejected.
    
    The fact that so many omissions can be supplied from such mutilated
    copies as the early Quartos, indicates that there may be many
    more omissions for the detection of which we have no clue. The
    text of the _Merry Wives_ given in F1 was probably printed from a
carelessly written copy of the author's MS.

NOTE IV.
I. 3. 95. Perhaps, as in the _Two Gentlemen of Verona_, III. 1.
315, and other passages, some of which are mentioned by Sidney
Walker in his 'Criticisms,' Vol. II. p. 13 sqq., this vexed passage
may be emended by supplying a word. We venture to suggest 'the
revolt of mine _anger_ is dangerous.' The recurrence of the same
letters +anger+ in the word 'dangerous,' might mislead the printer's
eye and cause the omission."                              |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 15: "Under the cartshed" has been changed to "Under     |
    | the cart-shed"                                               |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 19: "than regularly twice a week," has been changed to  |
    | "then regularly twice a week,"                               |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 20: "on the roofs of the out-buildings" has been        |
    | changed to "on the roofs of the outbuildings"                |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 28: "opposite the fire. on a little table" has been     |
    | changed to "opposite the fire, on a little table"            |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 36: In the original, the word tutoyéd is unclear in     |
    | 'He called her "my wife," _tutoyéd_ her'                     |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 40: "a second-hand dogcart," has been changed to        |
    | "a second-hand dog-cart,"                                    |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 86: "a siesta by the water-side." has been changed to   |
    | "a siesta by the waterside."                                 |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 94: "Madame Lafrançois" has been changed to "Madame     |
    | Lefrançois"                                                  |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 111: "Thus Napoleon represented glory" has been changed |
    | to "Thus Napoléon represented glory"                         |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 117: "Yonville by the water-side." has been changed to  |
    | "Yonville by the watersideIt is impossible else to account for
    the sudden change of tone. It might have been conjectured that,
    being a parson, he wished to appear peacefully minded, and therefore
    made his offers of reconciliation aloud and his menaces in an
    under tone, but Caius's reply shews that it was the threat which
    had been made aloud. Evans's valour, it would seem, had already
    evaporated when he had 'a great dispositions to cry' (III. 1. 20)
    and, besides, he had just begun to see that he was being made a
    laughing-stock. As his former speech (74, 75,) is also conciliatory,
    it was probably spoken so as to be heard by Caius only. He wished
    to keep up his credit for courage in the eyes of the bystanders.
    
    In the corresponding scene of the first Quartos we have the words
    'Hark van urd in your ear,' and the meaning of the text may have
    been obscured by some omission in the Folio.
    
    
    NOTE VIII.
    
    IV. 4. 41. No doubt there is an omission here in the Folio, which
    may be partly supplied from the Quarto. But it is probable that
    Mrs Ford gave a still fuller explanation of her device and the
    grounds on which the disguise was recommended to Falstaff, otherwise
    Page would not have been so confident of his falling into the
    snare.
    
    
    NOTE IX.
    
    IV. 5. 49. In the edition of 1778 Steevens reads 'Ay, sir Tike,
    like' ... but it is clear from Farmer's note that it should be
    'Ay, sir Tike,' ... and so it is corrected in the later Editions
    of Steevens. In the Edition annotated by Fanner, mentioned in
    note V., we find another conjecture of his: 'Ay, sir, if you
    like,' ... or it may have been 'Ay, sir, an you like,' for the
    word preceding 'you' has been cut away by the binder.
    
    
    NOTE X.
    
    The stage direction of the early Quartos is: _Enter Sir Hugh like
    a Satyre, and boyes drest like Fayries, Mistresse Quickly, like
the Queene of Fayries; they sing a song about him and afterward
speake._
The Folio enumerates at the commencement of the scene all who take
part in it, including _Anne Page_, _Fairies_, _Quickly_ and _Pistol_,
and in this place has merely _Enter Fairies_. Malone introduced
_Anne Page as the Fairy Queen_, and at the end, _with waxen tapers
on their heads_. He however still assigned the speeches 35-39,
53-74, 82-85, and 88-90 to _Quickly_. Recent Editors have generally
given them to _Anne_, on the ground that it is proved by IV. 6. 20
and V. 3. 11, 12, that she was to 'present the Fairy Queen,' and
that the character of the speeches is unsuitable to Mrs Quickly.
It has been argued, too, that the _Qui._ of the folios, line 35,
may be a misprint for _Qu._, i.e. _Queen_. This however is contradicted
by the fact that Mrs Quickly plays the Queen in the early Quartos,
and that the recurrence of _Qui._, line 88, proves that the printer
of the first Folio used either _Qui._ or _Qu._ indifferently as the
abbreviation of _Quickly_.."                           |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 208: "the arm-chairs are not to be taken" has been      |
    | changed to "the armchairs are not to be taken"               |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 208: "to put his arm-chair back" has been changed to    |
    | "to put his armchair back"                                   |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 230: "He sat down again" has been changed to            |
    | "He sat down again."                                         |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 232: "into his arm-chair overwhelmed" has been changed  |
    | to "into his armchair overwhelmed"                           |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 233: Closing quotation marks have been added to         |
    | "Ah! if you would--"                                         |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 240: Closing quotation marks have been added to         |
    | "Very well! I'll go to her."                                 |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 252: "rumaging" has been changed to "rummaging"         |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 266: "they wheeled her arm-chair" has been changed      |
    | to "they wheeled her armchair"                               |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 270: "with them to her bed-room," has been changed      |
    | to "with them to her bedroom,"                               |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 284: "her arm-chair with palpitations" has been changed |
    | to "her armchair with palpitations"                          |
    |                                                              |
    | Page 288: "the tables round them, however, were emptying:"   |
    | has been changed to "the tables round them, however, were    |
    | emptying;"                                                   |
    +--------------------------------------------------------------Steam-driven air compressors are usually run at a piston speed of
about 350 feet per minute, or from 60-80 revolutions per minute of
compressors of average sizes, say 18" diameter of cylinder. Sixty
revolutions per minute is equal to 120 strokes, or two strokes per
second.