THE PIRATE'S POCKET BOOK

by

DION CLAYTON CALTHROP


[Illustration]


Sisley's Ltd.
Makers Of Beautiful Books
London


            To
            GEORGE,
            BARBARA
            and
            JAMES
            BYAM SHAW

        _with my love_.       1907.


THE
PIRATE'S POCKET BOOK

THIS book you hold in your hand belonged once to a very celebrated
Pirate.

He was so celebrated that the newspapers--of that time--always said nice
things about him, and always knew what he was doing before he did
himself. As he was a very truthful man, he did the things, so that the
editors might not get into trouble.

Which was kind.

'I am thirsting to see those waves near.

Would it be against the manners and customs of sea-places for me
to run down to them so late?'

'Sea-places have no manners and customs.'
Ethel tossed on her hat with a feeling of delight and freedom.

'Oh, are you coming, Dr. Spencer? I did not mean to drag you out.

You had rather rest, and smoke.'

'This is rest,' he answered.

The next moment, the ridge of the shingle was passed, and Ethel's feet
were sinking in the depth of pebbles, her cheeks freshened by the
breeze, her lips salted by the spray tossed in by the wind from the
wave crests.

At the edge of the water she stood--as all others stand there--watching
the heaving from far away come nearer, nearer, curl over in its
pride of green glassy beauty, fall into foam, and draw back, making
the pebbles crash their accompanying 'frsch.'

The repetition, the peaceful majesty, the blue expanse, the straight
horizon, so impressed her spirit as to rivet her eyes and chain
her lips; and she receded step by step before the tide, unheeding
anything else, not even perceiving her companion's eyes fixed on
her, half curiously, half sadly.

'Well, Ethel,' at last he said.

'I never guessed it!' she said, with a gasp. 'No wonder Harry cannot bear
to be away from it. Must we leave it?' as he moved back.

'Only to smooth ground,' said Dr.

Spencer; 'it is too dark to stay here among the stones and crab-pots.'

The summer twilight was closing in; lights shining in the village under
the cliffs, and looking mysterious on distant points of the coast;
stars were shining forth in the pale blue sky, and the young moon
shedding a silver rippled beam on the water.

'If papa were but here!'

said Ethel, wakening from another gaze, and recollecting that she was not
making herself agreeable.

'So you like the expedition?'

'The fit answer to that would be, "It is very pretty," as the Cockney
said to Coleridge at Lodore.'

'So I have converted a Stoneborough fungus!'

'What!

to say the sea is glorious?

A grand conversion!'

'To find anything superior to Minster Street.'

'Ah, you are but half reclaimed! You are a living instance that there
is no content unless one has begun life as a fungus.'

She was startled by his change of tone.

'True, Ethel. Content might have been won, if there had been
resolution to begin without it.'

'I beg your pardon,' she faltered, 'I ought not to have said it. I
forgot there was such a cause.'

'Cause--you know nothing about it.'

She was silent, distressed, dismayed, fearing that she had spoken
wrongly, and had either mistaken or been misunderstood.

'Tell me, Ethel,' he presently said, 'what can you know of what
made me a wanderer?'

'Only what papa told me.'

'He--he was the last person to know.'

'He told me,' said Ethel, hurrying it out in a fright, 'that you
went away--out of generosity--not to interfere with his happiness.'

Then she felt as if she had done a shocking thing, and waited
anxiously, while Dr.

Spencer deliberately made a deep hole in the shingle with his stick.
'Well,' at last he said, 'I thought that matter was unknown to all
men--above all to Dick!'

'It was only after you were gone, that he put things together and made
it out.'

'Did--she--know?'

said Dr. Spencer, with a long breath.

'I cannot tell,' said Ethel.

'And how or why did he tell you?' (rather hurt.)
'It was when first you came.

I am sure no one else knows it.

But he told me because he could not help it; he was so sorry for
you.'

They walked the whole length of the parade, and had turned before Dr.

Spencer spoke again; and then he said, 'It is strange!

My one vision was of walking on the sea-shore with her; and that
just doing so with you should have brought up the whole as fresh
as five-and-thirty years ago!'

'I wish I was more like her,' said Ethel.

No more was wanting to make him launch into the descriptions, dear
to a daughter's heart, of her mother in her sweet serious bloom of
young womanhood, giving new embellishments to the character already
so closely enshrined in his hearer's heart, the more valuable that
the stream of treasured recollection flowed on in partial oblivion
of the person to whom it was addressed, or, at least, that she was
the child of his rival; for, from the portrait of the quiet bright
maiden, he passed to the sufferings that his own reserved nature
had undergone from his friend's outspoken enthusiasm.

The professor's visible preference for the youth of secure prospects,
had not so much discouraged as stung him; and in a moment of
irritation at the professor's treatment, and the exulting hopes of
his unconscious friend, he had sworn to himself, that the first
involuntary token of regard from the young lady towards one or the
other, should decide him whether to win name and position for her
sake, or to carry his slighted passion to the utmost parts of the
earth, and never again see her face.

[Illustration]

No one, not even the most careful observer, would have recognised in the
two dusty figures, the once spruce forms of Captain Thomas Tomb and
Dingy David.

[Illustration]

"Home!" said the young fellow, throwing a diamond at a wave-crest. (When
I say "diamond"--they were always finding them in corners of their
pockets.)

"Home once more!"

"Cinderadustmat!" exclaimed Tomb. "Let me hear you, oh! let me hear you
say the word again!"

"Home," said the young fellow, gazing at the ripe ockapillies hanging
overhead.

[Illustration]

Mastering his ill-concealed emotion, T. T. rose and strode--(when I say
strode--T. T. never walked: he strolled, strutted, strode, or stepped,
invariably)--towards the house.

[Illustration]

Threw open the door!! xxxxxx! o! z! What a sight met his eyes!!

Dust, dust, dust--everywhere.

[Illustration]

Dust met his eye. (When I say that, I mean that he saw dust--over all
the simple cottage furniture he loved.)

He groaned three times.

The young man, who was idly chewing the stone of a cringet, turned and
saw, through the open door, dust, dust, dust.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Leaping to his feet, he rushed to the Captain's side.

"Captain," said he, "we must have a Charwoman."

(I say charwoman, meaning a woman who is paid to do work that other
servants are hired to do, but will not.)

[Illustration]

In less time than it takes to skin an acquadatoric, Dingy David was in
the rowing-boat making for the shore of the mainland.

[Illustration]

Sixty-eight hours of hard rowing, without a rest, brought the strong
young fellow to the coast.

It was night.

[Illustration: Pause--excited reader.]

A light burned in the window of the lonely cottage that stood upon the
shore.

[Illustration]

It was the work of a moment for Dingy David to seize upon the beautiful
maiden who was writing jam labels, by the light of a solitary candle.

Such are the lives of the humble.

[Illustration]

Without a glance at her face, he carried her at breakneck speed to the
boat--pushed off, and rowed like Hercules for the island.

[Illustration]

Exactly one hundred and thirty-six hours--which is five days sixteen
hours from the time he started--David brought the captive beauty and
laid her, senseless with fatigue, at the feet of Tom Tomb.

[Illustration]

"What have we here?" asked Tomb, pronouncing the H very clearly.

"A charwoman, sire," responded David; and, smiling, the lad fell
asleep.

[Illustration]

When he awoke the sun was shining and the day was warm.

One glance showed him that the cottage was a model of cleanliness.

(Pirates are sharp glancers.)

[Illustration]

A smell of breakfast smote his nostrils pleasantly.

It was the work of a moment to dash into the house, wash, shave,
and--there, upon a snowy bed, were laid the very clothes in which--long
years ago--he had been captured.

In another moment he was in them and dashing downstairs, doing up the
buttons as he went.

He flung himself, panting, into the breakfast-room.

[Illustration]

The glorious girl looked up from her bacon with a cry.

Tomb started to his feet.

The young man opened his mouth.

[Illustration]

"Ermyntrude!" he called.

"Wencheslaus!" she exclaimed.

For once Tomb's cool courage failed him.--He started back.

The sweethearts were in each other's arms.

[Illustration]

"Listen," said Tomb, when he regained his breath; and they, gazing into
each other's eyes, listened.

"Gaze elsewhere," said Tomb, "and I will unfold a tale."

In the heat of the moment he put his sleeve into the butter.

Ermyntrude sprang to his assistance. Tomb enfolded her in his embrace.

[Illustration]

"This lady is my daughter," he said, turning to Wencheslaus, who stood
amazed.

"I will not bother you with the story," said Tomb, "but five and forty
years ago I wooed and wed her lovely mother. Twenty-one years ago to-day
Ermyntrude was born, and her mother, after lingering two years, died.
Leaving the girl in the care of an honest fishwife (when I say honest, I
mean, as honest as her profession allowed), I roamed the seas as a
Pirate: sorrow made me merciless. Then, when I wished to return to my
daughter, I found that I had lost her address."

"Father!" said Ermyntrude.

"My daughter," he exclaimed, "I am a careless man!"

"And I?" said Wencheslaus--"what is the secret of my birth?"

Going up to him, Tomb, with one superb movement, bared the youth's arm.
Upon it was tattooed, in gold and purple, the crest of a noble family.

"As I thought!" exclaimed Tomb; then he removed his hat. "Lord
Wencheslaus of When-cheeselawn!"

"Then my father _was_ . . ." the youth began.

"The Duke of Thingamaroo," said Tomb, bowing low.

[Illustration]

A cry sounded from the cellars of the cottage.

Tomb again started.

"I had forgotten," said he. Then he put his hand into his pocket, and
drew forth this very book.

"Ten years ago," said he, consulting his notes, "I told you that I had
killed your family. It was not true."

"Not true?" said Lord Wencheslaus--for so we must now call him.

"Not strictly accurate," Tomb replied. "I immured them in these cellars,
with ten years' provisions."

With a noble gesture, he flung the key of the cellars upon the table.

"Release them, my Lord," he said.

[Illustration]

We draw a veil over the rapturous meeting.

[Illustration]

When the boat was loaded with the noble family, Lord Wencheslaus
(erstwhile Dingy David) and Ermyntrude Tomb stood hand in hand in front
of Captain Thomas Tomb.

A. L. DeMond, and the presentation of the well-earned diplomas.

It should have been mentioned that, on Tuesday evening, a reception was
given by the teachers to the members of the graduating class and
the alumni, furnishing a very pleasant social occasion.

[Illustration]

As they touched the mainland they started.

Boom! boom!! came the sound of guns across the water.

Tom Tomb was at his old game.

[Illustration]


PRINTED BY NEILL AND COMPANY, LIMITED, EDINBURGH.