"Is the spirit present?" he asked. Upon which two knocks were heard
in affirmation.

"Ah!" said the medium, "the name is--it is the name of a child. It is a
male child. It is Albert,--no, Alfred!"
"Great Heaven!" said the lady.

"My child!

my boy!"

On this the medium arose, and became strangely convulsed.

"I see," he said, "I see--a fair-haired boy.

I see blue eyes,--I see above you, beyond you--" at the same time
pointing fixedly over her head.

She turned with a wild start "Where,--whereabouts?"
"A blue-eyed boy," he continued, "over your head. He cries,--he says,
Mamma, mamma!"
The effect of this on the woman was unpleasant.

She stared about her for a moment, and, exclaiming, "I come,--I am coming,
Alfy!" fell in hysterics on the floor.

Two or three persons raised her, and aided her into an adjoining room;
but the rest remained at the table, as though well accustomed to like
scenes.

After this, several of the strangers were called upon to write the names
of the dead with whom they wished to communicate. The names were spelled
out by the agency of affirmative knocks when the correct letters were
touched by the applicant, who was furnished with an alphabet card upon
which he tapped the letters in turn, the medium, meanwhile, scanning
his face very keenly.

With some, the names were readily made out. With one, a stolid personage
of disbelieving type, every attempt failed, until at last the spirits
signified by knocks that he was a disturbing agency, and that while he
remained all our efforts would fail. Upon this some of the company proposed
that he should leave, of which invitation he took advantage with a sceptical
sneer at the whole performance.

As he left us, the sergeant leaned over and whispered to the medium, who
next addressed himself to me, "Sister Euphemia," he said, indicating the
lady with large eyes, "will act as your medium. I am unable to do more.
These things exhaust my nervous system."
"Sister Euphemia," said the doctor, "will aid us.

Think, if you please, sir, of a spirit, and she will endeavor to summon
it to our circle."
Upon this, a wild idea came into my head. I answered, "I am thinking
as you directed me to do."
The medium sat with her arms folded, looking steadily at the centre
of the table.

For a few moments there was silence. Then a series of irregular knocks
began. "Are you present?" said the medium.

The affirmative raps were twice given.

"I should think," said the doctor, "that there were two spirits present."

His words sent a thrill through my heart.

"Are there two?" he questioned.

A double rap.

"Yes, two," said the medium. "Will it please the spirits to make us
conscious of their names in this world?"
A single knock. "No."
"Will it please them to say how they are called in the world of spirits?"

Again came the irregular raps,--3, 4, 8, 6; then a pause, and 3,
4, 8, 7.

"I think," said the authoress, "they must be numbers. Will the spirits,"
she said, "be good enough to aid us? Shall we use the alphabet?"
"Yes," was rapped very quickly.

"Are these numbers?"
"Yes," again.

"I will write them," she added, and, doing so, took up the card and tapped
the letters. The spelling was pretty rapid, and ran thus as she tapped
in turn, first the letters, and last the numbers she had already set
down:--
"UNITED STATES ARMY MEDICAL MUSEUM, NOS. 3486, 3487."

The medium looked up with a puzzled expression.

"Good gracious!" said I, "they are _my legs! my legs!_"
What followed, I ask no one to believe except those who, like myself,
have communed with the beings of another sphere. Suddenly I felt a strange
return of my self-consciousness. I was re-individualized, so to speak. A
strange wonder filled me, and, to the amazement of every one, I arose,
and, staggering a little, walked across the room on limbs invisible
to them or me. It was no wonder I staggered, for, as I briefly
reflected, my legs had been nine months in the strongest alcohol.

At this instant all my new friends crowded around me in astonishment.

Presently, however, I felt myself sinking slowly. My legs were going,
and in a moment I was resting feebly on my two stumps upon the floor. It
was too much. All that was left of me fainted and rolled over senseless.

I have little to add. I am now at home in the West, surrounded by every
form of kindness, and every possible comfort; but, alas! I have so little
surety of being myself, that I doubt my own honesty in drawing my
pension, and feel absolved from gratitude to those who are kind to a being
who is uncertain of being enough himself to be conscientiously responsible.
It is needless to add, that I am not a happy fraction of a man; and
that I am eager for the day when I shall rejoin the lost members of my
corporeal family in another and a happier world.

ON TRANSLATING THE DIVINA COMMEDIA.

SECOND SONNET.

I enter, and see thee in the gloom Of the long aisles, O poet
saturnine!

     And strive to make my steps keep pace with thine.
     The air is filled with some unknown perfume; The congregation of the
     dead make room For thee to pass; the votive tapers shine; Like
     rooks that haunt Ravenna's groves of pine The hovering echoes fly
     from tomb to tomb.
     From the confessionals I hear arise Rehearsals of forgotten tragedies,
And lamentations from the crypts below; And then a voice celestial
that begins With the pathetic words, "Although your sins As scarlet
be," and ends with "as the snow."

THE GREAT DOCTOR.

A STORY IN TWO PARTS.

PART I.

"Hello! hello! which way now, Mrs. Walker? It'll rain afore you git
there, if you've got fur to go. Hadn't you better stop an' come in till
this thunder-shower passes over?"
"Well, no, I reckon not, Mr. Bowen. I'm in a good deal of a hurry. I've
been sent for over to John's." And rubbing one finger up and down the
horn of her saddle, for she was on horseback, Mrs. Walker added, "Johnny's
sick, Mr. Bowen, an' purty bad, I'm afeard." Then she tucked up her
skirts, and, gathering up the rein, that had dropped on the neck of
her horse, she inquired in a more cheerful tone, "How's all the
folks,--Miss Bowen, an' Jinney, an' all?"
By this time the thunder began to growl, and the wind to whirl clouds
of dust along the road.

"You'd better hitch your critter under the wood-shed, an' come in a
bit.
My woman'll be glad to see you, an' Jinney too,--there she is now, at the
winder. I'll warrant nobody goes along the big road without her seein'
'em." Mr. Bowen had left the broad kitchen-porch from which he had hallooed
to the old woman, and was now walking down the gravelled path, that,
between its borders of four-o'clocks and other common flowers, led from
the front door to the front gate. "We're all purty well, I'm obleeged to
you," he said, as, reaching the gate, he leaned over it, and turned
his cold gray eyes upon the neat legs of the horse, rather than the
anxious face of the rider.

"I'm glad to hear you're well," Mrs. Walker said; "it a'most seems to
me that, if I had Johnny the way he was last week, I wouldn't complain
about anything. We think too much of our little hardships, Mr. Bowen,--a
good deal too much!" And Mrs. Walker looked at the clouds, perhaps in the
hope that their blackness would frighten the tears away from her eyes.
John was her own boy,--forty years old, to be sure, but still a boy to
her,--and he was very sick.

"Well, I don't know," Mr. Bowen said, opening the mouth of the horse and
looking in it; "we all have our troubles, an' if it ain't one thing it's
another. Now if John wasn't sick, I s'pose you'd be frettin' about
somethin' else; you mustn't think you're particularly sot apart in your
afflictions, any how.

This rain that's getherin' is goin' to spile a couple of acres of grass
for me, don't you see?"
Mrs. Walker was hurt. Her neighbor had not given her the sympathy she
expected; he had not said anything about John one way nor another; had
not inquired whether there was anything he could do, nor what the doctor
said, nor asked any of those questions that express a kindly solicitude.

"I am sorry about your hay," she answered, "but I must be going."

"Don't want to hurry you; but if you will go, the sooner the better.
That thunder-cloud is certain to bust in a few minutes." And Mr. Bowen
turned toward the house.

"Wait a minute, Mrs. Walker," called a young voice, full of kindness; "here's
my umberell. It'll save your bonnet, any how; and it's a real purty
one.

But didn't I hear you say somebody was sick over to your son's house?"

"Yes, darlin'," answered the old woman as she took the umbrella; "it's
Johnny himself; he's right bad, they say. I just got word about an hour
ago, and left everything, and started off. They think he's got
the small-pox."
Jenny Bowen, the young girl who had brought the umbrella, looked terribly
frightened. "_They_ won't let me go over, you know," she said, nodding her
head toward the house, "not if it's really small-pox!" And then,
with the hope at which the young are so quick to catch, she added,
"May be it isn't small-pox. I haven't heard of a case anywhere
about. I don't believe it is." And then she told Mrs. Walker not to fret
about home. "I will go," she said, "and milk the cow, and look after
things.
Don't think one thought about it." And then she asked if the rest of them
at John Walker's were well.

"If it's Hobert you want to know about," the grandmother said,
smiling faintly, "he's well; but, darlin', you'd better not think about
him:
they'll be ag'in it, in there!" and she nodded toward the house as
Jenny had done before her.

The face of the young girl flushed,--not with confusion, but with
self-asserting and defiant brightness that seemed to say, "Let them do
their worst." The thunder rattled sharper and nearer, bursting right upon
the flash of the lightning, and then came the rain. But it proved not one
of those bright, brief dashes that leave the world sparkling, but settled
toward sunset into a slow, dull drizzle.

Jenny had her milking, and all the other evening chores, done betimes,
and with an alertness and cheerfulness in excess of her usual manner,
that might have indicated an unusual favor to be asked. She had
made her evening toilet; that is, she had combed her hair, tied
on a pair of calf-skin shoes, and a blue checked apron, newly washed
and ironed; when she said, looking toward a faint light in the west,
and as though the thought had just occurred to her, "It's going to
break away, I see.

Don't you think, mother, I had better just run over to Mrs. Walker's, and
milk her cow for her?"
"Go to Miss Walker's!" repeated the mother, as though she were as much
outraged as astonished. She was seated in the door, patching, by the
waning light, an old pair of mud-spattered trousers, her own dress
being very old-fashioned, coarse, and scanty,--so scant, in fact, as to
reveal the angles of her form with ungraceful definiteness,
especially the knees, that were almost suggestive of a skeleton,
and now, as she put herself in position, as it were, stood up with
inordinate prominence.

Her hands were big in the joints, ragged in the nails, and marred
all over with the cuts, burns, and scratches of indiscriminate and incessant
toil. But her face was, perhaps, the most sadly divested of all womanly
charm.

It had, in the first place, the deep yellow, lifeless appearance of an
old bruise, and was expressive of pain, irritation, and fanatical
anxiety.

"Go to Miss Walker's!" she said again, seeing that Jenny was taking down
from its peg in the kitchen-wall a woollen cloak that had been
hers since she was a little girl, and her mother's before her.

"Yes, mother. You know John Walker is very sick, and Mrs. Walker has
been sent for over there. She's very down-hearted about him.

He's dangerous, they think; and I thought may be I'd come round that
way as I come home, and ask how he was. Don't you think I'd better?"
"I think you had better stay at home and tend to your own business.
You'll spile your clothes, and do no good that I can see by traipsin'
out in such a storm."
"Why, you would think it was bad for one of our cows to go without milking,"
Jenny said, "and I suppose Mrs. Walker's cow is a good deal like
ours, and she is giving a pailful of milk now."
"How do you know so much about Miss Walker's cow? If you paid more
attention to things at home, and less to other folks, you'd be
more dutiful."

"That's true, mother, but would I be any better?"
"Not in your own eyes, child; but you're so much wiser than your
father and me, that words are throwed away on you."
"I promised Mrs. Walker that I would milk for her to-night," Jenny said,
hesitating, and dropping her eyes.

"O yes, you've always got some excuse! What did you make a promise for,
that you knowed your father wouldn't approve of? Take your things
right off now, and peel the potaters, and sift the meal for mush in
the morning; an' if Miss Walker's cow must be milked, what's to hender
that Hobe, the great lazy strapper, shouldn't go and milk her?"

"You forget how much he has to do at home now; and one pair of hands can't
do everything, even if they are Hobert Walker's!"
Jenny had spoken with much spirit and some bitterness; and the bright
defiant flush, before noticed, came into her face, as she untied the
cloak and proceeded to sift the meal and peel the potatoes for breakfast.
She did her work quietly, but with a determination in every movement
that indicated a will not easily overruled.

It was nearly dark, and the rain still persistently falling, when
she turned the potato-peelings into the pig-trough that stood only
a few yards from the door, and, returning, put the cloak about her
shoulders, tied it deliberately, turned the hood over her head,
and, without another word, walked straight out into the rain.

"Well, I must say! Well, I _must_ say!" cried the mother, in exasperated
astonishment. "What on airth is that girl a-comin' to?" And, resting her
elbows on her knees, she leaned her yellow face in her hands, and gathered
out of her hard, embittered heart such consolation as she could.

Jenny, meantime, tucked up her petticoats, and, having left a field
or two between her and the homestead, tripped lightly along, debating
with herself whether or not she should carry out her will to the full,
and return by the way of Mr. John Walker's,--a question she need hardly
have raised, if unexpected events had not interfered with her
predeterminations.

At Mrs. Walker's gate she stopped and pulled half a dozen roses from
the bush that was almost lying on the ground with its burden,--they seemed,
somehow, brighter than the roses at home,--and, with them swinging in
her hand, had wellnigh gained the door, before she perceived that it
was standing open. She hesitated an instant,--perhaps some crazy
wanderer or drunken person might have entered the house,--when brisk
steps, coming up the path that led from the milking-yard, arrested her
attention, and, looking that way, she recognized through the
darkness young Hobert Walker, with the full pail in his hand.

"O Jenny," he said, setting down the pail, "we are in such trouble at home!
The doctor says father is better, but I don't think so, and I ain't
satisfied with what is being done for him. Besides, I had such a
strange dream,--I thought I met you, Jenny, alone, in the night, and
you had six red roses in your hand,--let me see how many have you."
He had come close to her, and he now took the roses and counted
them. There were six, sure enough. "Humph!" he said, and went on. "Six
red roses, I thought; and while I looked at them they turned white as
snow; and then it seemed to me it was a shroud you had in your hand,
and not roses at all; and you, seeing how I was frightened, said to me,
'What if it should turn out to be my wedding-dress?' And while we
talked, your father came between us, and led you away by a great chain
that he put round your neck. But you think all this foolish, I see."
And, as if he feared the apprehension he had confessed involved
some surrender of manhood, he cast down his eyes, and awaited her reply
in confusion. She had too much tact to have noticed this at any time; but
in view of the serious circumstances in which he then stood, she
could not for the life of her have turned any feeling of his into a jest,
however unwarranted she might have felt it to be.

"My grandmother was a great believer in dreams," she said,
sympathetically; "but she always thought they went by contraries; and,
if she was right, why, yours bodes ever so much good. But come, Hobert,
let us go into the house: it's raining harder."

"How stupid of me, Jenny, not to remember that you were being drowned,
almost! You must try to excuse me: I am really hardly myself to-night."

"Excuse you, Hobert!

As if you could ever do anything I should not think was just right!" And
she laughed the little musical laugh that had been ringing in his
ears so long, and skipped before him into the house.

He followed her with better heart; and, as she strained and put
away the milk, and swept the hearth, and set the house in order,
he pleased himself with fancies of a home of which she would be
always the charming mistress.

And who, that saw the sweet domestic cheer she diffused through the house
with her harmless little gossip about this and that, and the artfully
artless kindnesses to him she mingled with all, could have blamed him? He
was given to melancholy and to musing; his cheek was sometimes pale,
and his step languid; and he saw, all too often, troublesome phantoms
coming to meet him. This disposition in another would have incited
the keenest ridicule in the mind of Jenny Bowen, but in Hobert it was
well enough; nay, more, it was actually fascinating, and she would not
have had him otherwise. These characteristics--for her sake we will not
say weaknesses--constantly suggested to her how much she could be to
him,--she who was so strong in all ways,--in health, in hope, and in
enthusiasm. And for him it was joy enough to look upon her full bright
cheek, to see her compact little figure before him; but to touch
her dimpled shoulder, to feel one tress of her hair against his
face, was ecstasy; and her voice,--the tenderest trill of the
wood-dove was not half so delicious! But who shall define the mystery
of love?
They were lovers; and when we have said that, is there anything
more to be said? Their love had not, however, up to the time of
which we write, found utterance in words. Hobert was the son of a
poor man, and Jenny was prospectively rich, and the faces of her
parents were set as flints against the poor young man. But Jenny
had said in her heart more than once that she would marry him; and
if the old folks had known this, they might as well have held their
peace. Hobert did not dream that she had talked thus to her heart,
and, with his constitutional timidity, he feared she would never
say anything of the kind. Then, too, his conscientiousness stood
in his way. Should he presume to take her to his poor house, even
if she would come? No, no, he must not think of it; he must work
and wait, and defer hope. This hour so opportune was also most
inopportune,--such sorrow at home! He would not speak to-night,--O
no, not to-night! And yet he could bear up against everything else,
if she only cared for him! Such were his resolves, as she passed
to and fro before him, trifling away the time with pretence of
adjusting this thing and that; but at last expedients failed, and
reaching for her cloak, which hung almost above him as he sat against
the wall, she said it was time to go. As frostwork disappears in
the sunshine, so his brave resolutions vanished when her arm reached
across his shoulder, and the ribbon that tied her beads fluttered
against his cheek. With a motion quite involuntary, he snatched her
hand. "No, Jenny, not yet,--not quite yet!" he said.
"And why not?" demanded Jenny; for could any woman, however innocent,
or rustic, be without her little coquetries? And she added, in a
tone that contradicted her words, "I am sure I should not have come
if I had known you were coming!"
"I dare say not," replied Hobert, in a voice so sad and so tender
withal, as to set the roses Jenny wore in her bosom trembling. "I
dare say not, indeed. I would not presume to hope you would go a
step out of your way to give me pleasure; only I was feeling so
lonesome to-night, I thought may be--no, I didn't think anything;
I certainly didn't hope anything. Well, no matter, I am ready to
go." And he let go the hand he had been holding, and stood up.
It was Jenny's privilege to pout a little now, and to walk sullenly
and silently home,--so torturing herself and her honest-hearted
lover; but she was much too generous, much too noble, to do this.
She would not for the world have grieved poor Hobert,--not then,--not
when his heart was so sick and so weighed down with shadows; and
she told him this with a simple earnestness that admitted of no
doubt, concluding with, "I only wish, Hobert, I could say or do
something to comfort you."
"Then you will stay? Just a moment, Jenny!" And the hand was in his
again.
"Dear Jenny,--dear, dear Jenny!" She was sitting on his knee now;
and the rain, with its pattering against the window, drowned their
heart-beats; and the summer darkness threw over them its sacred
veil.The Alexandrians were not a patient race and they were beginning to rebel
against the delay, making no small noise and disturbance, when Cynegius
rose and with his white handkerchief waved the signal for the races to
begin.  The number of spectators had gradually swelled from fifty to
sixty and to eighty thousand; and no less than thirty-six chariots were
waiting behind the carceres ready to start.

Four 'missus' or races were to be run.  In each of the three first twelve
chariots were to start, and in the fourth only the leaders in the three
former ones were to compete.  The winner of the olive-wreath and
palmbranch in this final heat would bear the honors of the day; his party
would be victorious and he would quit the Hippodrome in triumph.

Lots were now drawn in the oppidum to decide which shed each chariot was
to start from, and in which naissus each was to run.  It was Marcus' fate
to start among the first lot, and, to the horror of those who had backed
his chances, Hippias, the hero of the Hippodrome, was his rival, with the
four famous bays.

Heathen priests poured libations to Poseidon, and Phoebus Apollo, the
patron divinities of horses and of the Hippodrome--for sacrifices of
blood were prohibited; while Christian presbyters and exorcists blessed
the rival steeds in the name of the Bishop.  A few monks had crept in,
but they were turned out by the heathen with bitter jeers, as unbidden
intruders.

Cynegius repeated his signal.  The sound of the tuba rang through the
air, and the first twelve chariots were led into the starting-sheds.  A
few minutes later a machine was set in motion by which a bronze eagle was
made to rise with outspread wings high into the air, from an altar in
front of the carceres; this was the signal for the chariots to come forth
from their boxes.  They took up their positions close behind a broad
chalk line, traced on the ground with diagonal slope, so as to reduce the
disadvantage of standing outermost and having a larger curve to cover.

Until this moment only the privileged possessors of the seats over the
carceres had been able, by craning backwards, to see the horses and
drivers; now the competitors were visible to the multitude which, at
their first appearance, broke out into vociferous applause.  The
agitatores had to exert all their strength to hold in the startled and
eager teams, and make them stand even for a few short minutes; then
Cynegius signalled for the third time.  A golden dolphin, which had been
suspended from a beam, and on which the eye of every charioteer was
fixed, dropped to the ground, a blast on the 'salpinx', or war-trumpet,
was sounded, and forty-eight horses flew forth as though thrown forward
by one impulsion.

The strength of four fine horses whirled each light, two-wheeled chariot
over the hard causeway as though it were a toy.  The down-pour of the
previous night had laid the dust; the bright sunshine sparkled and danced
in rapidly-changing flashes, mirrored in the polished gilding of the
bronze or the silver fittings of the elegantly-decorated, semicircular
cars in which the drivers stood.

Five blue and seven red competitors had drawn the first lots.  The eye
rested with pleasure on the sinewy figures whose bare feet seemed rooted
to the boards they stood on, while their eyes were riveted on the goal
they were striving to reach, though--as the eye of the archer sees arrow,
bow and mark all at once--they never lost sight of the horses they were
guiding.  A close cap with floating ribbands confined their hair, and
they wore a short sleeveless tunic, swathed round the body with wide
bands, as if to brace their muscles and add to their strength.  The reins
were fastened around the hips so as to leave the hands free, not only to
hold them but also to ply the whip and use the goad.  Each charioteer had
a knife in his girdle, to enable him to release himself, in case of
accident, from a bond that might prove fatal.

Before long the bay team was leading alone.  Behind were two Christian
drivers, followed by three red chariots; Marcus was last of all, but it
was easy to see that it was by choice and not by necessity that he was
hanging back.  He was holding in his fiery team with all his strength and
weight--his body thrown back, his feet firmly set with his knees against
the silver bar of the chariot, and his hands gripping the reins.  In a
few minutes he came flying past Dada and his brother, but he did not see
them.  He had not even caught sight of his own mother, while the
professional charioteers had not failed to bow to Cynegius and nod to
their friends.  He could only keep his eyes and mind fixed on his horses
and on the goal.

The multitude clapped, roared, shouted encouragement to their party,
hissed and whistled when they were disappointed--venting their utmost
indignation on Marcus as he came past behind the others; but he either
heard them not or would not hear.  Dada's heart beat so wildly that she
thought it would burst.  She could not sit still; she started to her feet
and then flung herself back on her cushions, shouting some spurring words
to Marcus in the flash of time when he might perhaps hear them.  When he
had passed, her head fell and she said sadly enough: "Poor fellow!--We
have bought our wreaths for nothing after all, Demetrius!"

But Demetrius shook his head and smiled.

"Nay," he said, "the boy has iron sinews in that slight body.  Look how
he holds the horses in!  He is saving their strength till they need it.
Seven times, child, seven times he has to go round this great circus and
past the 'nyssa'.  You will see, he will catch up what he has lost, yet.
Hippias, you see, is holding in his horses, too; it is his way of giving
himself airs at starting.  Now he is close to the 'nyssa'--the 'kampter'
--the 'meta' they call it at Rome; the smaller the bend he can make round
it the better for him, but it is risky work.  There--you see!--They drive
round from right to left and that throws most of the work on the lefthand
beast; it has to turn almost in its own length.  Aura, our first horse,
is as supple as a panther and I trained her to do it, myself.--Now, look
out there! that bronze figure of a rearing horse--the 'Taraxippos' they
call it--is put there to frighten the horses, and Megaera, our third
horse, is like a mad thing sometimes, though she can go like a stag;
every time Marcus gets her quietly past the Taraxippos we are nearer to
success.--Look, look,=-the first chariot has got round the nyssa!  It is
Hippias!  Yes, by Zeus, he has done it!  He is a detestable braggart, but
he knows his business!"

This was one of the decisive moments of the race.  The crowd was silent;
expectation was at the utmost pitch of tension, and Dada's eyes were
fixed spell-bound on the obelisk and on the quadrigas that whirled round
the bourn.

Next to Hippias came a blue team, and close behind were three red ones.
The Christian who had succeeded in reaching the nyssa second, boldly took
his horses close round the obelisk, hoping to gain space and get past
Hippias; but the left wheel of his chariot grazed the granite plinth, the
light car was overset, and the horses of the red chariot, whose noses
were almost on his shoulder, could not be pulled up short in time.  They
fell over the Christian's team which rolled on the ground; the red
chariot, too, turned over, and eight snorting beasts lay struggling in
the sand.

The horses in the next chariot bolted as they were being driven past this
mass of plunging and neighing confusion; they defied their driver's
impotent efforts and galloped across the course back into the caiceres.

The rest had time and space enough to beware of the wreck and to give it
a wide berth, among them Marcus.  The melee at the Meta had excited his
steeds almost beyond control, and as they tore past the Taraxippos the
third  horse,  Megaera, shied  violently as Demetrius had predicted.  She
flung herself on one side, thrust her hind quarters under the pole, and
kicked desperately, lifting the chariot quite off the ground; the young
charioteer lost his footing and slipped.  Dada covered her face with her
hands, and his mother turned pale and knit her brows with apprehension.
The youth was still standing; his feet were on the sand of the arena; but
he had a firm grip on the right-hand spiral ornament that terminated the
bar round the chariot.  Many a heart stood still with anxiety, and shouts
of triumph and mockery broke from the red party; but in less than half a
minute, by an effort of strength and agility, he had his knees on the
foot-board, and then, in the winking of an eye, he was on his feet in the
chariot, had gathered up the reins and was rushing onward.

Meanwhile, however, Hippias had far outstripped all the rest, and as he
flew past the carceres he checked his pace, snatched a cup from a
lemonade-seller, tossed the contents down his throat with haughty
audacity amid the plaudits of the crowd, and then dashed on again.  A
wide gap, indeed, still lay between him and Marcus.

By the time the competitors again came round to the nyssa, the slaves in
attendance had cleared away the broken chariots and led off the horses.
A Christian still came next to Hippias followed by a red agitator; Marcus
had gained on the others and was now fourth.

In the third round the chariot of the red driver in front of Marcus made
too sharp a turn and ran up against the granite.  The broken car was
dragged on by the terrified beasts, and the charioter with it, till, by
the time they were stopped, he was a corpse.  In the fifth circuit the
Christian who till now had been second to Hippias shared the same fate,
though he escaped with his life; and then Marcus drove past the starting-
sheds next to Hippias.

Hippias had ceased to flout and dally.  In spite of the delay that Marcus
had experienced from the Taraxippos, the space that parted his bays from
the black Arabs had sensibly diminished, round after round; and the
interest of the race now centered entirely in him and the young
Christian.  Never before had so passionate and reckless a contest been
fought out on this venerable race-course, and the throng of spectators
were carried away by the almost frenzied rivalry of the two drivers.
Not a creature in the upper tiers had been able to keep his seat; men and
women alike had risen to their feet and were shouting and roaring to the
competitors.  The music in the towers might have ceased, so completely
was it drowned by the tumult in the amphitheatre.

Only the ladies, in the best places above the starting-sheds, preserved
their aristocratic calm; Still, when the seventh and decisive round was
begun, even the widow Mary leaned forward a little and clasped her hands
more tightly over the cross in her lap.  Each time that Marcus had driven
round the obelisk or past the Taraxippos, Dada had clutched her head with
her hands and set her teeth in her lip; each time, as he happily steered
clear of the fatal stone and whirled past the dreadful bronze statue, she
had relaxed her grip and leaned back in her seat with a sigh of relief.
Her sympathy made her one with Marcus; she felt as if his loss must be
her death and his victory her personal triumph.

During the sixth circuit Hippias was still a long way ahead of the young
Christian; the distance which lay between Marcus and the team of bays
seemed to have become a fixed quantity, for, do what he could, he could
not diminish it by a hand-breadth.  The two agitatores had now completely
altered their tactics; instead of holding their horses in they urged them
onward, leaning over the front of their chariots, speaking to the horses,
Shouting at them with hoarse, breathless cries, and flogging them
unsparingly.  Steamy sweat and lathering foam streaked the flanks of the
desperate, laboring brutes, while clouds of dust were flung up from the
dry, furrowed and trampled soil.  The other chariots were left further
and further behind those of Hippias and Marcus, and when, for the seventh
and last time, these two were nearing the nyssa, the crowd for a moment
held its breath, only to break out into louder and wilder cries, and then
again to be hushed.  It seemed as though their exhausted lungs found
renewed strength to shout with double energy when their excitement had
kept them silent for a while.

Dada spoke no more; pale and gasping, she sat with her eyes fixed on the
tall obelisk and on the cloud of dust which, as the chariots neared the
nyssa, seemed to grow denser.  At about a hundred paces from the nyssa
she saw, above the sandy curtain, the red cap of Hippias flash past, and
then--close behind it--the blue cap worn by Marcus.  Then a deafening,
thundering roar from thousands of throats went up to heaven, while, round
the obelisk--so close to it that not a horse, not a wheel could have
found room between the plinth and the driver-the blue cap came forward
out of the cloud, and, behind it now--no longer in front, though not more
than a length behind--came the red cap of Hippias.  When within a few
feet of the nyssa, Marcus had overtaken his antagonist, had passed the
point with a bold and perilously close turn, and had left the bays behind
him.

Demetrius saw it all, as though his eye had power to pierce the dust-
cloud, and now he, too, lost his phlegmatic calm.  He threw up his arms
as if in prayer and shouted, as though his brother could hear him:

"Well done, splendid boy!  Now for the kentron--the goad--drive it in,
send it home if they die for it!  Give it them well!"

Dada, who could only guess what was happening, looked round at him,
asking in tremulous tones: "Has he passed him?  Is he gaining on him?
Will he win?"  But Demetrius did not answer; he only pointed to the
foremost of the flying clouds on which the second was fast advancing, and
cried in a frenzy of excitement:

"Death and Hades!  The other is catching him up.  The dog, the sneak!  If
only the boy would use his goad.  Give it them, Marcus!  Give it them,
lad!  Never give in now!  Great Father Poseidon!--there--there!--no!  I
can hardly stand--Yes, he is still in front, and now--now--this must
settle it!  Thunder and lightning!  They are close together again--may
the dust choke him!  No--it is all right; my Arabs are in front!  All is
well, keep it up, lad, well done!  We have won!"

The horses were pulled up, the dust settled; Marcus, the Christian, had
won the first missus.  Cynegius held out the crown to the victor, who
bowed to receive it.  Then he waved his hand to his mother, who
graciously waved hers in return, and he drove into the oppidurn and was
lost to sight.

Hippias flung down his whip in a rage, but the triumphant shouts of the
Christians drowned the music, the trumpet-blasts and the angry murmurs of
the defeated heathen.  Threatening fists were shaken in the air, while
behind the carceres the drivers and owners of the red party scolded,
squabbled and stormed; and Hippias, who by his audacious swagger had
given away the race to their hated foe--to the Blues, the Christians--
narrowly escaped being torn in pieces.

The tumult and excitement were unparalleled; but Dada saw and heard
nothing.  She sat in a blissful dream, gazing into her lap, while tears
of joyful reaction rolled down her cheeks.  Demetrius saw her tears and
was glad; then, pointing out Mary to the girl, he in formed her that she
was the mother of Marcus.  And he registered a secret vow that, cost what
it might, he would bring his victorious brother and this sweet child
together.

The second and third missus, like the first, were marked by serious
accidents; both, however, were won for the Red party.  In the fourth, the
decisive race, there were but three competitors: Marcus and the two
heathen winners.  Demetrius watched it with less anxiety; he knew that
his Arabs were far superior to the Egyptian breed in staying power, and
they also had the advantage of having had a longer rest.  In fact, the
final victory was adjudged to the young Christian.

Long before it was decided Dada had been impatiently fingering her
wreaths, and could hardly wait any longer to fling them into Marcus'
chariot.  When it was all over she might perhaps have an opportunity of
speaking to him; and she thought how delightful his voice was and what
fine, kind eyes he had.  If only he were to bid her be his, she would
follow him whither and wherever he desired, whatever Karnis and Herse
might say to the contrary.  She thought no one could be so glad of his
success as she was; she felt as if she belonged to him, had always
belonged to him, and only some spiteful trick of Fate had come between
them.

There was a fresh blast of trumpets; the victor, in obedience to a time-
honored custom, was to drive round the arena at a foot-pace and show his
brave team to the multitude.  He came nearer and nearer, and Demetrius
proposed that they should cross the little watercourse that parted the
podium from the arena and follow the chariot, so as to give his brother
the wreaths instead of flinging them to him.  The girl colored and could
say neither yes or no; but she rose, hung one of the olive-crowns on her
arm with a happy, bashful smile, and handed the other to her new friend;
then she followed him across the little bridge on to the race-course
which, now that the games were over, was crowded with Christians.

The brothers exchanged pleased greetings from afar, but Marcus did not
see Dada till she was close to him and stood, with a shy but radiant
glance of intense delight, holding out the olive-wreath for his
acceptance.  He felt as though Heaven had wrought a miracle in his favor.
Never before had he thought her half so lovely.  She seemed to have grown
since he had seen her last, to have gained a deeper and nobler
expression; and he observed, too, the blue favors on her shoulder and
among the roses that crowned her fair curls.  Gladness and surprise
prevented his speaking; but he took the garland she offered him and,
seizing her hands, stammered out: "Thanks--thank you, Dada."

Their eyes met, and as he gazed into her face he forgot where he was, did
not even wonder why his brother had suddenly turned away and, beginning
some long-winded speech, had rushed after a man who hastily covered his
head and tried to escape; he did not notice that thousands of eyes were
fixed on him, and among them his mother's; he could merely repeat:
"thanks" and "Dada"--the only words he could find.  He would perhaps have
gone on repeating them, but that he was interrupted; the 'porta
libitinaria'--the gate through which the dead or injured were usually
carried out, was thrown open, and a rabble of infuriated heathen rushed
in, crying: "Serapis is fallen!  They have destroyed the image of
Serapis!  The Christians are ruining the sanctuaries of the gods!"

A sudden panic seized the assembled multitude; the Reds rushed down from
their places into the arena to hear the details and ask questions--ready
to fight for the god or to fly for safety.  In an instant the victor's
chariot was surrounded by an angry mob; Dada clutched it for protection,
and Marcus, without pausing to reflect--indeed hardly master of his own
actions--turned and lifted her into it by his side; then, urging his
horses forward, he forced a way through the crowd, past the caiceres.  He
glanced anxiously up at the seats but could nowhere see his mother, so he
guided the exhausted beasts, steaming with sweat and dappled with foam,
through the open gate and out of the circus.  His stable-slaves had run
after him; he released himself from the reins on his hips and flung them
to the grooms.  Then he helped Dada to leap from the car.

"Will you come with me?"  he asked her simply; and the girl's reply was:
"Wherever you bid me."

At the news that Serapis was overthrown Dame Mary had started from her
seat with eager haste that ill-became her dignity and, under the
protection of the body-guard in attendance on Cynegius, had found her way
to her litter.

In the Hippodrome the tumult rose to a riot; Reds and Blues rushed from
the upper tiers, down the ranks of the podium and into the dusty race-
course; falling on each other tooth and nail like wild beasts; and the
bloody fray--no uncommon termination to the day, even in more peaceful
times--lasted till the Imperial soldiery parted the unarmed combatants.

The Bishop was triumphant; his adherents had won the day at every point;
nor was he sorry to learn that Olympius, Helladius, Ainmonius and many
other spiritual leaders of the heathen world had succeeded in escaping.
They might come back; they might preach and harangue as much as they
chose: their power was broken.  The Church had nothing now to fear from
them, and their philosophy and learning would still and always be
valuable in the mental training of her priests.


CHAPTER XXVI.

The great Hippodrome of Alexandria was outside the Canopic gate, on the
northern side of the road leading to Eleusis which to-day was crowded
with passengers, all moving in the same direction.  The tumult roused by
the intelligence that Serapis was overthrown made all the more peaceful
and peace-loving of the spectators hurry homewards; and as these, for the
most part, were of the richer classes, who came and went in litters or
chariots, their conveyances left but scanty space on the wide causeway
for foot passengers, still, there they were, in considerable numbers,
all wending their way towards the city, and the heathen who came rushing
towards the Hippodrome behind the first heralds of the disaster, had
great difficulty in making their way against the stream.

Marcus and Dada allowed themselves to be carried onward by the throng
which was tending towards the city-walls and the Canopic gate.  Phabis,
Mary's old steward, whose duty it had been to help his young master to
dress after the races were over, had snatched the agitator's cap from the
youth's head and flung a cloak over his shoulders, hastily following him
as he went off with the young girl by his side.  The old man quite
understood what was in the wind for he it was who had conducted Dame
Herse to his mistress' presence.  He had thought her a shrewd and kind-
hearted woman, and it now struck him that she must certainly have been
in the right when she accused Marcus of designs on her pretty niece.
At the time he had refused to believe it, for he had never in his life
detected his young master in any underhand or forbidden courses; but,
after all, Marcus was his father's son, and, in his younger days, the old
man had often and often had to risk his skin in Apelles' love-intrigues.
And now it was the Son's turn--and if he were to take his fancy for that
pretty chit as seriously as he did most things, if he got the notion into
his head of marrying the little singer--what a storm there was brewing
between him and his mother!

The old man did his best to keep up with Marcus who did not see or heed
him, for his eyes and attention were centered on the fair companion who
was clinging to his arm, while he tried to force a passage through the
mob, towards the gate.  Miracle on miracle seemed to him to have been
wrought in his behalf; for Heaven had not only sent him Dada, but she was
wearing blue ribbands; and when he asked her why, she had replied "For
your sake, and because I like your Faith."

He was tired to death; but as soon as Dada had put her hand through his
arm he lead felt refreshed as if by magic.  His swollen and blistered
hands, to be sure, were painful and his shoulders ached and winced from
stiffness; but as she pressed his arm to her side and looked up gladly in
his face--telling him how happy she was while he responded: "And how I
love you!"--he felt himself in Heaven, and pain and discomfort were
forgotten.  The crush did not allow them to say more than a few words;
but the things their eyes and lips could smile were sweeter and dearer
than anything they had ever known before.

They had got through the gate and were in the Canopic way when Dada
suddenly perceived that his lips were white, and felt the arm tremble on
which her hand was lying.  She asked him what ailed him; he made no
reply, but put his hand to his head, so she led him aside into the public
garden that lay to their right between the little Stadium and the
Maeandrian circus.  In this pretty spot, fresh with verdure and spring
flowers, she soon found a bench shaded by a semicircular screen of dark-
tufted tamarisk, and there she made him lie down.  He yielded at once,
and his pale face and fixed gaze showed her that he was in a fainting
state.  Indeed, he must be quite worn out by the terrible struggle of the
race, and after it was over he had not given himself time to take a cup
of drink or a scrap of food for refreshment.  It was only too natural
that his strength should fail him, so, without feeling at all alarmed but
only very pitiful and anxious to help, she ran back to a fruit-stall
which they had passed at the entrance to the garden from the street.

How glad she was that she still had the four drachmae which she had
coaxed out of Karnis in the Xenodochium that evening; she could buy
whatever she liked for her lover.  When she went back-loaded with
oranges, apples, hard-boiled eggs, bread and salt, in the skirt of her
dress that she gathered up with one hand, and with a flask of wine and
water, and a gourdbowl in the other-she found him still lying
unconscious.  However, when she had moistened his forehead and lips he
opened his eyes, and then she peeled him an orange as daintily as she
could and begged him to try it, and as she was herself very hungry she
took a hearty share.  She was enchanted at making him her guest, and at
finding that he enjoyed the simple meal and soon was quite revived.  In
fact, in a few minutes he had altogether recovered his strength and
consciousness of satisfaction; and as he lay back with Dada's hand in
his, gazing happily and thankfully into her sweet eyes, a sense of peace,
rest and bliss came over him such as he had never before known.  He
thought he had never tasted such delicious food, or such exquisite wine
as the wretched Mareotic from the fruitstall.  He took the apple she had
begun eating out of her hand and bit it where her white teeth had been;
he made her drink first out of the gourd-cup, and, as one of the three
eggs she had brought with her was bad, they had quite a little battle for
the last, till he finally gave way and eat it.

When they had finished Dada's purchases to the last mouthful she asked
him, for the first time, where he meant to take her, and be said he
intended placing her in the house of his former tutor, Eusebius, the
deacon, where she would be a welcome guest and find her old companion
Agne.  Of this she was sincerely glad; and when, on hearing the title of
Deacon, she questioned Marcus further, and identified Eusebius as the
worthy old man whose discourse in the basilica had so deeply impressed
her, she told Marcus how she had gone into the church, and how, from that
hour, she had felt at peace.  A quite new feeling had sprung up in her
soul, and since then she had constantly longed to see him again and talk
it all over with him:--The little she had learnt of Christian doctrine
did her heart good and had given her comfort and courage.  The world was
so beautiful, and there were many more good men than bad.  It was a
pleasure to love one's neighbor, and as for forgiving a wrong--that she
had never found difficult.  It must be good to live on earth if everyone
loved his neighbor as she loved him and he loved her; and life could not
be a great hardship if in every trouble there was some one who was always
ready to hear our cry and help us, out of pure beneficence.

Her innocent talk was to Marcus the greatest marvel of this day of
miracles.  The soul which he had dreamed that he was called to save had,
of its own accord, turned to walk in the path of salvation; he went on to
tell her of the things which he felt to be most sublime and glorious in
his creed, and at length he confessed that, though he had always loved
his neighbor for Christ's sake, never till now had true and perfect love
been revealed to him.  No power on earth could now part him from her, and
when she should have been baptized there would be no further difficulty;
their love might last till, and beyond, death, through all the ages of
eternity.  And she listened to him, perfectly content; and said that she
was his, wholly his, now, and for ever and ever.

There were to-day but few people in the garden which was usually full in
the afternoon, of idlers, and of children with their nurses; but the
disturbance in the streets had kept these at home, and the idlers had
found more to attract them at the Hippodrome and in the crowded roads.
This favored the lovers, who could sit hand in hand, looking into each
other's eyes; and when old Phabis, who had lost sight of them long since,
at length discovered them in the park, he could see from his lurking-
place as he crept closer, that his young master, after glancing
cautiously round, pressed a kiss on the little singer's hair,
and then on her eyes and at last on her lips.

The hours flew fast between serious talk and delightful dalliance, and
when they tore themselves away from their quiet retreat it was already
dusk.  They soon found themselves in the Canopic way, in the thick of the
crowd which they were now occasionally obliged to meet, for those who
were making homewards had long since dispersed, and thousands were still
crowding to the Hippodrome where a brisk fight was still going on.  As
they passed his mother's house Marcus paused and, pointing it out to
Dada, told her that the day was not far distant when he should bring her
home hither.  But the girl's face fell.

"Oh no!"  she exclaimed, in a low voice.  "Not here-not to this great
palace in a street.  Let us live in a little house, quite quietly, by
ourselves.  A house with a garden, and a seat in the shade.  Your mother
lives here!"

And then she blushed scarlet and looked down.  He guessed, however, what
was passing in her mind, and bid her only to have patience, for as soon
as she was a baptized Christian Eusebius would intercede for her.  And he
spoke warmly of his mother's piety and virtues, and asked Dada if she had
seen her at the races.

"Yes," she replied timidly; and when he went on to ask her if she had not
thought Mary very handsome and dignified, she answered frankly: "Yes--
very; but then she is so tall and grand-looking-she must wish for a
daughter-in-law very different from a poor, forsaken orphan like me--a
mere singer, looked down upon by every one!  It is different with you;
you are satisfied with me as I am, and you know that I love you.  If I
never find my uncle again I have no one on earth to care for me but you;
but I want no other, for you are my one and only hope, and to live for
you and with you is enough.  Only you must never leave me or I shall die!
But you never can, for you told me that my soul was dearer to you than
your own life; and so long as I have you and your love I shall grow
better and better every day; but if you ever let me be parted from you
I shall be utterly lost.  Yes, understand that once for all--ruined and
lost, body and soul!--I do not know what it is that terrifies me, but do
let us go on, away from this house.  Suppose your mother were to see us!"

He did as she wished and tried to soothe her, praising his mother's
virtues with the affectionate blindness of a son; but she only half
listened to his eulogy, for, as they approached Rhacotis the throng grew
denser, they had no opportunities for conversation, they could think of
nothing but battling their way through the crowd; still, they were happy.

     [The quarter of the city inhabited by the Egyptians.  It was the old
     town close to which Alexander the Great built his splendid new
     city.]

They thus got to the street of the Sun--one of the main arteries of the
city cutting the Canopic way at right angles--and they went down it
towards the Gate of Helios in the south wall.  The Serapeum lay to their
right, several streets leading to it from the street of the Sun.  To
reach the house where Eusebius lived they ought to have turned down the
street of the Acropolis, but a compact mass of frenzied creatures came
storming down it from the Serapeum, and towards them.  The sun was now
fast setting over the City of the Dead on the western horizon.  Marcus
tried to get out of the middle of the road and place Dada in safety by
the house at the corner, but in vain; the rabble that came crowding out
of the side street was mad with excitement, and could think of nothing
but the trophies it had snatched from the temple.  Several dozen men,
black and white alike--and among them some monks and even women, had
harnessed themselves to an enormous truck, commonly used for the carriage
of beams, columns, and heavy blocks of stone, on which they had erected a
huge but shapeless mass of wood, the core, and all that remained, of the
image of Serapis; this they were dragging through the streets.

"To the Hippodrome!  Burn it!  Down with the idols!  Look at the divine
form of Serapis!  Behold the god!"

LOWIS doesn't know at first hand about Rangoon is not likely to be missed.
The tale itself is a good-humoured little comedy of European and
native intrigue, showing how one section of the populace strove as
usual to ease the white man's burden by flirtation and gossip, and
the other to get the best for themselves by unlimited roguery and
chicane.

The whole thing culminates in a trial scene which is at once a delightful
entertainment and (I should suppose) a shrewdly observed study of the
course of Anglo-Burmese justice. I think I would have chosen that Mr.
LOWIS should base his fun on something a little less grim than the murder
and mutilation of a European, or at least Eurasian, lady, even though
the very slight part in the action played by _Mrs. Rodrigues_, when
alive, could hardly be called sympathetic. Still we were all so
good-humoured over her taking-off that for a long time I cherished a
rather dream-like faith in her reappearance to prove that this attitude
had been justified. Not that Mr. LOWIS has not every right to retort that
he is writing comedy rather than farce; certainly he has made his four
blind mice to run in highly diverting fashion, very entertaining to
those of us who see how they run; and as they at least save their tails
triumphantly it would perhaps be ungenerous to complain about one that
doesn't.

* * * * *

[Illustration: _Damsel._ "OH, PROFESSOR, CAN YOU PROVIDE ME WITH A
LOVE-POTION? MY MOTHER SAYS IF I WED NOT SOON I MUST E'EN GO FORTH
TO EARN MY LIVING."
_Alchemist._ "THAT I CAN, MADAM, AND OF TWO KINDS. FIRST, THE SLOW-WORKING
PURPLE SORT IS VERILY CHEAP, BUT DIFFICULT OF ADMINISTRATION; FOR IN
WATER IT IS PLAINLY VISIBLE AND EASY OF DISCERNMENT IN TEA. WHEREAS MY
PATENT POTION, BRINGING LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT, CLOSELY RESEMBLETH THE
MUCH-DESIRED WHISKY.

THIS SORT IS ONE GUINEA PER TOT."]
* * * * *
_The Story of the Fourth Army in the Battles of the Hundred Days_ (HODDER
AND STOUGHTON) is printed on pages the size of a copy of _Punch_, and
with its accompanying case of maps it costs eighteen-pence to go
through the post.

It boasts a hundred full-page photographs, also sketches, charts, maps,
panoramas and diagrams _ad lib._, a foreword by General Lord RAWLINSON and
ten appendices; so really it seems that the much-abused word "sumptuous"
may for once be fairly applied. The author, Major-General Sir A.At
the spot where the side street intersected the street of the Sun, and
where Marcus and Dada had been forced to stop, unable either to proceed
or to return, a troop of armed heathen had given the Christian rabble a
check at the very moment when the carruca came up, and falling on the foe
who had mocked and insulted their most sacred treasure, began a furious
fray.  Quite close to the young lovers a heathen cut down a Christian who
was carrying the besmirched head of a Muse.  Dada clung in terror to
Marcus, who was beginning to be seriously alarmed for her when, looking
round for aid or refuge, he caught sight of his brother forcing his way
through the throng, and gesticulating vehemently.  The farmer was
telegraphing to the occupants of the carruca as well, and when he at last
reached Marcus he briefly explained to him that the first thing to be
done was to place Dada in safety.

Only too glad to be out of the crush and danger, the girl nimbly climbed
into the chariot, and, after hastily greeting the father and daughter,
signed to Marcus to follow her; but Demetrius held his brother back, and
it was hurriedly agreed that Dada should be sent for that evening to the
house of Porphyrius.  Demetrius whispered a few words of enthusiastic
praise of the little singer into Gorgo's ear; then the carriage moved on
again.  Many of the heathen who had collected round it recognized
Porphyrius, the noble friend of the great Olympius, and cleared a passage
for him, so that at last he got out of the gate uninjured, and turned
into the quieter street of Euergetes which led to the temple of Isis, the
ship-yard and the merchant's residence.

But few words were exchanged in the chariot, for it was only step by step
and with considerable difficulty that the horses could get along.  It was
now quite dark and the mob had spread even into this usually deserted
quarter.

A flaring glow that tinged the temple, the wharf and the deep sky itself
with a gorgeous crimson glare, showed very plainly what the populace were
employed in doing.  The monks had set fire to the temple of Isis and the
flames had been driven by the northwest wind down into the ship-yard,
where they had found ample food in the enormous timber stacks and the
skeletons of ships.  Tall jets of rushing and crackling sparks were
thrown skywards to mingle with the paler stars.  Porphyrius could see
what danger his house was in; but thanks to the old steward's foresight
and the indefatigable diligence of the slaves, it escaped the
conflagration.

The two brothers, meanwhile, had left the mob far behind them.  Demetrius
was not alone, and as soon as he had introduced Marcus to his companion,
an abbot of friendly mien, the monk warmly expressed his pleasure at
meeting another son of Apelles,  to whom he had once owed his life.
Demetrius then told his brother what his adventures had been during the
last few hours, and where he had met this worthy Father.

While taking Dada down into the arena to join Marcus, he had caught sight
of Anubis, the Egyptian slave who had been his father's companion in his
last memorable journey to Syria, and who, since the death of Apelles, had
totally disappeared, the countryman had instantly followed him, seized
him--not without a struggle and some little danger--and then had him led
off by the city-guard to the prison by the Prefect's house.  Once secured
he had been induced to speak, and his narrative proved beyond a doubt
that Apelles had perished in a skirmish with the Saracens; the Egyptian
slave had only taken advantage of his master's death to make off with the
money he had with him.  He had found his way to Crete, where he had
purchased a plot of ground with his plunder; but then, craving to see his
wife and children once more, he had come back to fetch them away to his
new home.  Finally, to confirm the truth of his story, which--clearing
him apparently of the murder of his master--did not invite implicit
belief, he told Demetrius that he had seen in Alexandria, only the day
before, a recluse who had been present when Apelles fell, and Demetrius
had at once set out to find this monk, enquiring among those who had
swarmed into the city.  He had very soon been successful; Kosnias, who
since then had been elected abbot of the monastery to which he belonged,
now again told Marcus the story of his father's heroic courage in the
struggle with the freebooters who had attacked his caravan.  Apelles, he
said, had saved his life and that of two other anchorites, one of whom
was in Alexandria at this very time.  They were travelling from Hebron to
Aila, a party of seven, and had placed themselves under the protection of
the Alexandrian merchant's escort; everything had gone well till the
infidel Saracens had fallen upon them in the high land south of Petra.
Four of the monks had been butchered out of hand; but Apelles, with a few
of the more resolute spirits in the company, had fought the heathen with
the valor of a lion.  He, Kosmas, and his two surviving comrades had
effected their escape, while Apelles engaged the foe; but from a rocky
height which they climbed in their flight they saw him fall, and from
that hour they had always mentioned him in their prayers.  It would be an
unspeakable satisfaction to him to do his utmost to procure for such a
man as Apelles the rank he deserved in the list of martyrs for the Faith.

Marcus, only too happy, wanted to hurry away at once to his mother and
tell her what he had heard, but Demetrius detained him.  The Bishop-he
told his brother--had desired his immediate presence, to be congratulated
on his victory; his first duty was to obey that mandate, and he should at
once avail himself of its favorable opportunity to obtain for his
deceased parent the honor he had earned.

It rather startled Marcus to find his brother taking its interest in a
matter which, so lately, he had vehemently opposed; however, he proceeded
at once to the episcopal palace, accompanied by the abbot, and half an
hour later Demetrius, who had awaited his return, met him coming out with
sparkling eyes.  The Prelate, he said, had received him very graciously,
had thanked him for his prowess and had bid him crave a reward.  He at
once had spoken of his father, and called the recluse to witness to the
facts.  The Bishop had listened his story, and had ended by declaring
himself quite willing to put the name of Apelles on the list of the
Syrian martyrs.  Theophilus had been most unwilling hitherto to reject
the petitions of so good and illustrious Christian as Mary; and now,
after such ample testimony as to the manner of her husband's death, it
was with sincere satisfaction that he bestowed this high mark of honor on
the Christian victor and his admirable mother.  "So now," added the young
man, "I shall fly home, and how happy my mother will be...."

But Demetrius would not allow him to finish his sentence.  He laid his
hand on the young man's shoulder saying: "Patience, my dear fellow,
patience!  You must stay with me for the present, and not go to your
mother till I have settled everything that is necessary.  Do not
contradict me I entreat you, unless you want to deprive me of the
happiness of remedying an injustice to your pretty Dada.  What you most
desire for yourself and her is your mother's blessing--and do you think
that will be easy to obtain?  Far from it, lad!  But I can manage it for
you; and I will, too, if only you will do as I bid you, and if the old
Heathen's niece can be induced to be baptized...."

"She is a Christian already!"  exclaimed Marcus eagerly.

"Well then, she can be yours to-morrow," Demetrius went on calmly, "if
you listen to the advice of your older and wiser brother.  It cannot be
very hard upon you, for you must own that if I had not fought it out with
Anubis--and the rascal bit all he could reach like a trapped fox--if I
had not got him locked up and almost run my legs off in hunting down the
worthy abbot, our father would never have enjoyed the promotion which he
is at last to obtain.  Who would ever have believed that I should get any
satisfaction out of this 'Crown of Martyrdom'?  By the gods!  It is by no
means impossible, and I hope the manes of the deceased will forgive me
for your sake.  But it is getting late, so only one thing more: for my
own share of the business all I claim is my right to tell your mother
myself of all that has occurred; you, on your part, must go at once to
Eusebius and beg him to receive Dada in his house.  If he consents--and
he certainly will--take him with you to our uncle Porphyrius and wait
there till I come; then, if all goes well, I will take you and Dada to
your mother--or, if not, we will go with Eusebius."

"Dada to my mother!"  cried Marcus.  "But what will she ......"

"She will receive her as a daughter," interrupted his brother, "if you
hold your tongue about the whole business till I give you leave to
speak.--There, the tall gate-keeper is closing the episcopal palace,
so nothing more can come out of there to-night.  You are a lucky fellow
--well good-bye till we meet again; I am in a hurry."

The farmer went off, leaving Marcus with a thousand questions still
unasked.  However, the young man did his bidding and went, hopeful though
not altogether free from doubts, to find his old tutor and friend.


CHAPTER XXVII.

While Marcus carried out his brother's instructions Dada was expecting
him and Eusebius with the greatest impatience.  Gorgo had charged her
waiting-woman to conduct the girl into the music-room and to tell her
that she would join her there if her father was in such a state as to
allow of it.  Some refreshments were brought in to her, all delicate and
tempting enough; but Dada would not touch them, for she fancied that the
merchant's daughter was avoiding her intentionally, and her heart ached
with a sense of bereavement and loneliness.  To distract her thoughts she
wandered round the room, looking at the works of art that stood against
the walls, feeling the stuffs with which the cushions were covered and
striking a lute which was leaning against the pedestal of a Muse.  She
only played a few chords, but they sufficed to call up a whole train of
memories; she sank on a divan in the darkest corner she could find in the
brilliantly-lighted room, and gave herself up to reviewing the many
events of the last few days.  It was all so bright, so delightful, that
it hardly seemed real, and her hopes were so radiantly happy that for a
moment she trembled to think of their fulfilment--but only for a moment;
her young soul was full of confidence and elation, and if a doubt weighed
it down for an instant it was soon cast off and her spirit rose with bold
expectancy.

Her heart overflowed with happiness and thankfulness as she thought of
Marcus and his love for her; her fancy painted the future always by his
side, and though her annoyance at Gorgo's continued absence, and her
dread of her lover's mother slightly clouded her gladness, the sense of
peace and rapture constantly came triumphantly to the front.  She forgot
time as it sped, till at length Gorgo made her appearance.

She had not deliberately kept out of the little singer's way; on the
contrary, she had been detained by her father, for not till now had she
dared to tell him that his mother, the beloved mistress of his house, was
no more.  In the Serapeum she had not mentioned it, by the physician's
orders; and now, in addition, through the indiscretion of a friend, he
had received some terrible tidings which had already been known for some
hours in the city and which dealt him a serious blow.  His two sons were
in Thessalonica, and a ship, just arrived from thence, brought the news-
only too well substantiated, that fifteen thousand of the inhabitants of
that town had been treacherously assassinated in the Circus there.

This hideous massacre had been carried out by the Imperial troops at
Caesar's command, the wretched citizens having been bidden to witness the
races and then ruthlessly butchered.  A general of the Imperial army--a
Goth named Botheric--had been killed by the mob, and the Emperor had thus
avenged his death.

Porphyrius knew only too well that his sons would never have been
absent from any races or games.  They certainly must have been among the
spectators and have fallen victims to the sword of the slaughterer.  His
mother and two noble sons were snatched from him in a day; and he would
again have had recourse to poison as a refuge from all, if a dim ray of
hope had not permitted him to believe in their escape.  But all the same
he was sunk in despair, and behaved as though he had nothing on earth
left to live for.  Gorgo tried to console him, encouraged his belief in
her brothers' possible safety, reminded him that it was the duty of a
philosopher to bear the strokes of Fate with fortitude; but he would not
listen to her, and only varied his lamentations with bursts of rage.

At last he said he wished to be alone and reminded Gorgo that she ought
to go to Dada.  His daughter obeyed, but against her will; in spite of
all that Demetrius had said in the young girl's favor she felt a little
shy of her, and in approaching her more closely she had something of the
feeling of a fine lady who condescends to enter the squalid hovel of
poverty.  But her father was right: Dada was her guest and she must treat
her with kindness.

Outside the door of the music-room she dried away her tears for her
brothers, for her emotion seemed to her too sacred to be confessed to a
creature who boldly defied the laws laid down by custom for the conduct
of women.  From Dada's appearance she felt sure that all those lofty
ideas, which she herself had been taught to call "moral dignity" and
"a yearning for the highest things," must be quite foreign to this girl
with whom her cousin had condescended to intrigue.  She felt herself
immeasurably her superior; but it would be ungenerous to allow her to see
this, and she spoke very kindly; but Dada answered timidly and formally.

"I am glad," Gorgo began, "that accident brought you in our way;" and
Dada replied hastily: "I owe it to your father's kindness, and not to
accident."

"Yes, he is very kind," said Gorgo, ignoring Dada's indignant tone.
"And the last few hours have brought him terrible sorrows.  You have
heard, no doubt, that he has lost his mother; you knew her--she had taken
quite a fancy to you, I suppose you know."

"Oh! forget it!"  cried Dada.

"She was hard to win," Gorgo went on, "but she liked you.  Do you not
believe me?  You should have seen how carefully she chose the dress you
have on at this minute, and matched the ornaments to wear with it."

"Pray, pray say no more about it," Dada begged.  "She is dead, and I have
forgiven her--but she thought badly, very badly of me."

"It is very bad of you to speak so," interrupted Gorgo, making no attempt
to conceal her annoyance at the girl's reply.  "She--who is dead--
deserves more gratitude for her liberality and kindness!"

Dada shook her head.

"No," she said firmly.  "I am grateful, even for the smallest kindness;
I have not often met with disinterested generosity.  But she had an end
in view--I must say it once for all.  She wanted to make use of me to
bring shame on Marcus and grief on his mother.  You surely must know it;
for why should you have thought me too vile to sing with you if you did
not believe that I was a good-for-nothing hussy, and quite ready to do
your dead grandmother's bidding?  Everybody, of course, looked down upon
us all and thought we must be wicked because we were singers; but you
knew better; you made a distinction; for you invited Agne to come to your
house and sing with you.--No, unless you wish to insult me, say no more
about my owing the dead lady a debt of gratitude!"

Gorgo's eyes fell; but presently she looked up again and said:

"You do not know what that poor soul had suffered.  Mary, her son's
widow, had been very cruel to her, had done her injuries she could never
forgive--so perhaps you are right in your notion; but all the same,
my grandmother had a great liking for you--and after all her wish is
fulfilled, for Marcus has found you and he loves you, too, if I am not
mistaken!"

"If you are not mistaken!"  retorted Dada.  "The gods forefend!--Yes, we
have found each other, we love each other.  Why should I conceal it?"

"And Mary, his mother--what has she to say to it?"  asked Gorgo.

"I do not know," replied Dada abashed.

"But she is his mother, you know!"  cried Gorgo severely.  "And he will
never--never--marry against her will.  He depends on her for all that he
has in the world."

"Then let her keep it!"  exclaimed Dada.  "The smaller and humbler the
home he gives me the better I shall like it.  I want his love and nothing
more.  All--all he desires of me is right and good; he is not like other
men; he does not care for nothing but my pretty face.  I will do whatever
he bids me in perfect confidence; and what he thinks about me you may
judge for yourself, for he is going to put me in the care of his tutor
Eusebius."

"Then you have accepted his creed?"  asked Gorgo.  "Certainly I have,"
said Dada.

"I am glad of that for his sake," said the merchant's daughter.  "And if
the Christians only did what their preachers enjoin on them one might be
glad to become one.  But they make a riot and destroy everything that
is fine and beautiful.  What have you to say to that--you, who were
brought up by Karnis, a true votary of the Muses?"

"I?"  said Dada.  "There are bad men everywhere, and when they rise to
destroy what is beautiful I am very sorry.  But we can love it and
cherish it all the same."

"You are happy indeed if you can shut your eyes at the dictates of your
heart!" retorted Gorgo, but she sighed.  "Happy are they and much to be
envied who can compel their judgment to silence when it is grief to hear
its voice.  I--I who have been taught to think, cannot abandon my
judgment; it builds up a barrier between me and the happiness that
beckons me.  And yet, so long as truth remains the highest aim of man,
I will bless the faculty of seeking it with all the powers of my mind.
My betrothed husband, like yours, is a Christian; and I would I could
accept his creed as unflinchingly as you; but it is not in my nature to
leap into a pool when I know that it is full of currents and whirlpools.
--However, the present question has to do with you and not with me.
Marcus, no doubt, will be happy to have won you; but if he does not
succeed in gaining his mother's consent he will not continue happy you
may rely upon it.  I know these Christians! they cannot conceive of any
possible joy in married life without their parents' blessing, and if
Marcus defies his mother he will torture his conscience and lead a death-
in-life, as though he were under some heavy load of guilt."

"For all that, and all that," Dada insisted, "he can no more be happy
without me than I can without him.  I have never in my life paid court to
any one, but I have always met with kindness.  Why then should I not be
able to win his mother's heart?  I will wager anything and everything
that she will take kindly to me, for, after all, she must be glad when
she sees her son happy.  Eusebius will speak for us and she will give its
her blessing!  But if it is not to be, if I may never be his wife
honestly and in the face of the world, still I will not give him up, nor
he me.  He may deal with me as he will--as if he were my god and I were
his slave!"

"But, my poor child, do you know nothing of womanly honor and womanly
dignity?" cried Gorgo clasping her hands.  "You complain of the lot of a
singing-girl, and the cruel prejudices of the world--and what are you
saying?  Let me have my way, you would say, or I scorn your morality?"

"Scorn!" exclaimed Dada firing up.  "Do you say I scorn morality?  No,
indeed no.  I am an insignificant little person; there is nothing proud
or great about me, and as I know it full well I am quite humble; in all
my life I never dared to think of scorn, even of a child.  But here, in
my heart, something was awoke to life--through Marcus, only through him
--something that makes me strong; and when I see custom and tradition in
league against me because I am a singer, when they combine to keep me out
of what I have a right to have--well, within these few hours I have found
the spirit to defend myself, to the death if need be!  What you call
womanly honor I have been taught to hold as sacred as you yourself, and
I have kept it as untainted as any girl living.  Not that I meant to do
anything grand, but you have no idea of what it is when every man thinks
he has a right to oppress and insult a girl and try to entrap her.  You,
and others like you, know nothing of small things, for you are sheltered
by walls and privileges.  We are every man's game, while they approach
you as humbly as if you were goddesses.--Besides!  It is not only what I
have heard from Karnis, who knows the world and fine folks like you; I
have seen it for myself at Rome, in the senators' houses, where there
were plenty of young lords and great men's daughters--for I have not gone
through life with my eyes shut; with you love is like lukewarm water in a
bath, but it catches us like fire.  Sappho of Lesbos flung herself from
the Leucadian rock because Phaon flouted her, and if I could save Marcus
from any calamity by doing the same, I would follow her example.--You
have a lover, too; but your feeling for him, with all the 'intellect'
and 'reflections,' and 'thought' of which you spoke, cannot be the right
one.  There is no but or if in my, love at any rate; and yet, for all
that, my heart aches so sorely and beats so wildly, I will wait patiently
with Eusebius and submit to whatever I am bidden.--And in spite of it
all you condemn me unheard, for you. . . .  But why do you stand and look
like that?  You look just like you did that time when I heard you sing.
By all the Muses! but you, too, like us, have some fire in your veins,
you are not one of the lukewarm sort; you are an artist, and a better one
than I; and if you ever should feel the right love, then--then take care
lest you break loose from propriety and custom--or whatever name you give
to the sacred powers that subdue passion--even more wildly than I--who am
an honest girl, and mean to remain so, for all the fire and flame in my
breast!"

Gorgo remembered the hour in which she had, in fact, proffered to the
man of her choice as a free gift, the love which, by every canon of
propriety, she ought only to have granted to his urgent wooing.  She
blushed and her eyes fell before the humble little singer; but while she
was considering what answer she could make men's steps were heard
approaching, and presently Eusebius and Marcus entered the room, followed
by Gorgo's lover.  Constantine was in deep dejection, for one of his
brothers had lost his life in the burning of his father's ship-yard, and
as compared with this grief, the destruction of the timber stores which
constituted the chief part of his wealth scarcely counted as a calamity.

Gorgo had met him with a doubtful and embarrassed air; but when she
learnt of the blow that had fallen on him and his parents, she clung to
him caressingly and tried to comfort him.  The others sympathized deeply
with his sorrow; but soon it was Dada's turn to weep, for Eusebius
brought the news of her foster-parent's death in the fight at the
Serapeum, and of Orpheus being severely wounded.

The cheerful music-room was a scene of woe till Demetrius came to conduct
his brother and Dada to the widow Mary who was expecting them.  He had
arrived in a chariot, for he declared his legs would no longer carry him.
"Men," said he, "are like horses.  A swift saddle-horse is soon tired
when it is driven in harness and a heavy cart-horse when it is made to
gallop.  His hoofs were spoilt for city pavements, and scheming,
struggling and running about the streets were too much for his country
brains and wore him out, as trotting under a saddle would weary a plough-
horse.  He thanked the gods that this day was over.  He would not be
rested enough till to-morrow to be really glad of all his success."--But
in spite of this assertion he was radiant with overflowing satisfaction,
and that in itself cheered the mourners whom he tried to encourage.  When
he said they must be going, Gorgo kissed the little singer; indeed, as
soon as she saw how deeply she was grieved, shedding bitter but silent
tears, she had hastened to take her in her arms and comfort her like a
sister.

Constantine, Gorgo and old Eusebius were left together, and the young
girl was longing to unburden her over-full heart.  She had agreed to her
lover's request that she would at once accompany him to see his sorrowing
parents; still, she could not appear before the old Christian couple and
crave their blessing in her present mood.  Recent events had embittered
her happy belief in the creed into which she had thrown herself, and much
as it pained her to add a drop to Constantine's cup of sorrow, duty and
honesty commanded that she should show him the secrets of her soul and
the doubts and questionings which had begun to trouble her.  The old
priest's presence was a comfort to her; for her earnest wish was to
become a Christian from conviction; as soon as they were alone she poured
out before them all the accusations she had to bring against the
adherents of their Faith: They had triumphed in ruining the creations of
Art; the Temple of Isis and the ship-yard lay in ashes, destroyed by
Christian incendiaries; their tears were not yet dry when they flowed
afresh for the sons of Porphyrius--Christians themselves--who, unless
some happy accident had saved them, must have perished with thousands of
innocent sufferers--believers and infidels together--by the orders of the
Emperor whom Constantine had always lauded as a wise sovereign and pious
Christian, as the Defender of the Faith, and as a faithful disciple of
the Redeemer.

When, at last, she came to an end of her indictment she appealed to
Constantine and Eusebius to defend the proceedings of their co-
religionists, and to give her good grounds for confessing a creed
which could sanction such ruthless deeds.

Neither the Deacon nor his pupil attempted to excuse these acts; nay,
Constantine thought they were in plain defiance of that high law of Love
which the Christian Faith imposes on all its followers.  The wicked
servant, he declared, had committed crimes in direct opposition to the
spirit and the letter of the Master.

But this admission by no means satisfied Gorgo; she represented to the
young Christian that a master must be judged by the deeds of his servant;
she herself had turned from the old gods only because she felt such
intense contempt for their worshippers; but now it had been her lot to
see--the Deacon must pardon her for saying so--that many a Christian far
outdid the infidels in coarse brutality and cruelty.  Such an experience
had filled her with distrust of the creed she was required to subscribe
to--she was shaken to the very foundations of her being.

Eusebius had, till now, listened in silence; but as she ended he went
towards her, and asked her gently whether she would think it right to
turn the fertilizing Nile from its bed and leave its shores dry, because,
from time to time, it destroyed fields and villages in the excess of its
overflow?  "This day and its deeds of shame," he went on sadly, "are a
blot on the pure and sublime book of the History of our Faith, and every
true Christian must bitterly bewail the excesses of a frenzied mob.  The
Church must no less condemn Caesar's sanguinary vengeance; it casts a
shade on his honor and his fair name, and his conscience no doubt will
punish him for such a crime.  Far be it from me to defend deeds which
nothing can justify. . ."

But Gorgo interrupted him.  "All this," she said, "does not alter the
fact that such crimes are just as possible and as frequent with you, as
with those whom I am expected to give up, and who. . ."

"But it is not merely on account of their ill deeds that you are giving
them up, Gorgo," Constantine broke in.  "Confess, dear girl, that your
wrath makes you unjust to yourself and your own heart.  It was not out of
aversion for the ruthless and base adherents of the old gods but--as I
hope and believe--out of love for me that you consented to adopt my
faith--our faith."

"True, true," she exclaimed, coloring as she remembered the doubts Dada
had cast on the truth of her love.

"True, out of love for you--love of Love and of peace, I consented to
become a Christian.  But with regard to the deeds committed by your
followers, tell me yourself--and I appeal to you reverend Father--what
inspired them: Love or Hate."

"Hate!" said Constantine gloomily; and Eusebius added sorrowfully

"In these dark days our Faith is seen under an aspect that by no means
fairly represents its true nature, noble lady; trust my words!  Have you
not yourself seen, even in your short life, that what is highest and
greatest can in its excess, be all that is most hideous?  A noble pride,
if not kept within bounds, becomes overweening ambition; the lovely grace
of humility degenerates into an indolent sacrifice of opinion and will;
high-hearted enterprise into a mad chase after fortune, in which we ride
down everything that comes in the way of success.  What is nobler than a
mother's love, but when she fights for her child she becomes a raving
Megaera.  In the same way the Faith--the consoler of hearts--turns to a
raging wild-beast when it stoops to become religious partisanship.  If
you would really understand Christianity you must look neither down to
the deluded masses, and those ambitious worldlings who only use it as a
means to an end by inflaming their baser passions, nor up to the throne,
where power translates the impulse of a disastrous moment into sinister
deeds.  If you want to know what true and pure Christianity is, look into
our homes, look at the family life of our fellow believers.  I know them
well, for my humble functions lead me into daily and hourly intercourse
with them.  Look to them if you purpose to give your hand to a Christian
and make your home with him.  There, my child, you will see all the
blessings of the Saviour's teaching, love and soberness, pitifulness to
the poor and a real heart-felt eagerness to forgive injuries.  I have
seen a Christian bestow his last crust on his hapless foe, on the enemy
of his house, on the Heathen or the Jew, because they, too, are men,
because our neighbor's woes should be as our own--I have seen them taken
in and cherished as though they were fellow-Christians.--There you will
find a striving after all that is good, a never-fading hope in better
days to come, even under the worst afflictions; and when death requires
the sacrifice of all that is dearest, or swoops down on life itself, a
firm assurance of the forgiveness of sins through Christ.  Believe me,
mistress, there is no home so happy as that of the Christian; for he who
really apprehends the Saviour and understands his teaching need not mar
his own joys in this life to the end that he may be a partaker of the
bliss of the next.  On the contrary: He who called the erring to himself,
who drew little children to his heart, who esteemed the poor above the
rich, who was a cheerful guest at wedding-feasts, who bid us gain
interest on the spiritual talents in our care, who commanded us to
remember Him at a social meal, who opened hearts to love--He longed to
release the life of the humblest creature from want and suffering.  I
complain, indeed, of no diseases, but of their treatment. But let me
not delay longer than is needful amid such distressful recollections.
Three hateful decoctions were known to me by the phonetics, Lixipro,
Lixaslutis, and Lixusmatic. I don't know what they were, and I don't want
to know. Devil's elixirs were they all. Rubbub and magnesia,--endless
imprecations rest upon that obnoxious red mixture!
And chiefest of them all--Arimanes of the whole bad crew, though
Agag is the only really suitable royal name I can think of--is that slow,
greasy horror, whose superhuman excess of unutterable abomination no words
can express, and even inarticulate ejaculations made on purpose cannot
at all show forth,--as urk! huk! agh!--chiefest among them all, castor
oil!

I hurry away from the awful scene. Let me be thankful that I swallowed
but little calomel.

Let me be thankful that, after a time, I could not swallow castor
oil.

Spasmodic regurgitations, as if one had attempted to load a gun
having a live coal at the far end, closed perforce that chapter of
torments. And soon thereafter arose the benign genius of homoeopathy,
with healing in its neat little white-paper wings.
Beautiful Homoeopathy, the real Angel in the House, if Mr. Coventry Patmore
had only known it! Hast thou not long ago appeared, veiled in an allegory,
before an unrecognizing world? Surely, what but homoeopathic medicine
was that wondrous talisman with which Adonbec El Hakim cured the Melech
Ric? To be taken in a tumbler about two thirds full of water, as now; but
in those early times, and for such a very large man, at one gulp,
instead of by hourly teaspoonfuls.

Or perhaps the manuscripts may have been corrupted in that passage by
unscrupulous mediæval physicians of the school of Salerno, or other
regular institutions.

I suppose I must have played a good deal; but there are reasons why this
may not have been the case. The chief of them is, that whereas I have
subsequently commonly attained a fair degree of excellence in what I have
learned, I did not in the staple games of my childhood do so. In marbles,
spinning top, and ball I was inferior,--indeed, scarcely at home in the
technics of some of them. The games of marbles which I see now-a-days
seem to centre upon the projection of the missile into a hole
in the ground. In my day we used to play upon the surface of the earth;
sometimes "in the big ring," where each combatant fired at the marbles
grouped in the centre, from any point upon the external orbit; sometimes
"in the little ring," where the shot was made from the place where the
projectile lodged last; sometimes "at chasings," where the players
fired alternately, each at the marble of his adversary.
Concerning this last game, I remember the following terms: "ebs," which,
seasonably vociferated, that is, when it is the speaker's turn to
play and before his adversary can say anything, serves as an incantation
authorizing the speaker to deliver his fire from any point other than that
where his marble lies, equally distant from the objective point; "clearings,"
in like manner, authorizing the preparation of a reasonably unobstructed
line of fire; and "fen ebs," "fen clearings," and "fen everythings," to
be pronounced before the other player speaks, and which, by virtue of
the prohibitory syllable "fen" (_défendre_, Fr.), prevent respectively
ebs, clearings, and everything,--that is to say, any elusion or
amelioration of the existing conditions of fire.

In games of ball, to confess the truth, I was but feeble. Scarce,
indeed, was I of average skill in any of them except the simplest
two,--"bung-ends," and "one old cat."

In the first of these, one boy throws the ball against the side of a
house, or other perpendicular unelastic plane, while the other smites
it with his club at the rebound.
In the second, played as a trio, boy A throws the ball at boy B, standing
opposite, whose duty is to smite, while boy C, behind B, catches B out
in case of a miss.

I was pretty good at "tag" and "catch," games of running and dodging.
In these, one boy is called "it," i. e. leader, or victim. He pursues the
rest; and the games are alike, except that in "catch" he who is to be
made "it" must be caught and held by him who is "it," whereas in "tag" a
touch is sufficient to transfer the responsibility, and inaugurate the
new choragus.

There.

Such quaint scraps are all that is left me of my existence as a
little child.

I know men who say, that, within their own consciousness and memories,
they have the witness and knowledge of a life even before that of this
humanity. But, for my own part, I should never know, by anything in
my own memory, that I had been a baby,--that I was or did anything
before that first school where the ferocious little girl was handcuffed
in unbleached-cotton bags, for scratching.

"The child is father of the man," saith the great poet of dry sentimentalizing.
Therefore the man's endeavor to remember about his childhood might
reasonably be expected to bring him into _limbo patrum_.

But it is a dim and narrow field to grope in.

It is not wandering in a darkened world,--it is feeling in a dark
closet.

It was an unconscious brief advance from nothing to very little.

Yes, but still there must have been some dim features of the dawning
character. No doubt.

The heedless, complying, unjudging benevolence, for instance, that gave
away _all_ my gingerbread to the young Anakim of Parade Street, was one.
It was liable afterwards to invert, by reacting from such over-operation
as that, into an equally unjudging disregard of the wants and needs of
others.

And now, What was it? This is no foolish nor unimportant inquiry. If I could
answer it sufficiently, I should at once supply the basis of whole systems
of mental and moral art and science. Such whole systems indeed--for
instance, the muddy distractions of the Scotch metaphysicians--have
already been based upon the phantasms of wiggy old doctors who dived
backward into themselves,--jumping down their own throats, as it were,
in their search after knowledge, as did the seventh Arabian Brother
in the Spectator (is it not?) "with seven candles in each hand,
lighted at both ends,"--and said, "When I began to think, I must
necessarily have thought thus and thus."

This was all very scientific. But for usefulness it would have been
better to inquire, not what they must have thought, but what they did
think.

Indeed, hitherto the history of mental philosophy is the history
of the ignorance of man about himself; and since science must be
built upon induction, and since phrenology has now established a
classification--approximately correct and sufficient for working
purposes--of the mental faculties, it is now quite in order to
review the old inductions from the history of the individual, and
to accumulate new ones.

Even the mere trifles of these recollections of mine, some of them
at least, must have an actual philosophical value, if only they are
true and well enough stated.

Thank goodness, that, at any rate, I was not a remarkable child!

It is the average record which has most value. The remarkable child is
not a magnified child, but a distorted one; not a young giant, but
a young monster.

No tract or little 24mo. would have been published about me by the
American Sunday-School Union, if I had died young. No brilliant repartees
by me are on record. No sweet remembrance is in blossom about me of a
grim, unchildish pleasure in preferring the convenience or enjoyment
of others to my own. In an instance where I remember to have
tried to do as the good boys do in the story-books, by giving away my one
cooky, the quick reaction into common sense sent me in grief to my mother,
making use of natural tears and a specious plea of what I had done to
get me another cooky, or perchance two.

It was a dead failure.
My mother knew too well the importance of the great moral lesson to
let me reap material advantage from my good deed. She relegated me to the
unfailing good dry bread, explaining how I could find abundant
satisfaction within my own breast for doing a kind action,--how
virtue was to be its own reward.

I looked for the said reward, but could not see it. It was not satisfaction
within my breast that I wanted, but within my stomach and on my
palate. Benevolence will not supplement alimentiveness in the small
boy. If I gathered any reward at all, it was in the hard wisdom of my
resolve not to be caught in any such nonsense again.

I had not, as had a little monster of misplaced piety whose case
is recorded in the good children's books, "at the early age of six made
up my mind on all the great questions of the day." Yet I think I can
remember yelling out "Hurra for Jackson!" because it was a good easy
shout, although my father was a strong, steady Whig.

There is practical democracy in that. First choice of shouts is much
toward winning the battle.

I was not remarkable for early piety, sweetness of disposition, wit, beauty
(I must certainly have been, as a child, skinny), or helpful kindness
(except that irrational benevolence of mine).

I have been told that I learned to read, nobody knew how, all by myself,
by the time I was four years old. How that may be I don't know; but
I do know that I did not know how to read when I was twenty years old.

I was a "natural speller." It is no joke, but one of the proverbial
fools' truths, which Dogberry enounces when he says that "reading and
writing come by nature." They do. And so does spelling. Abundance
of well-educated people never escape from occasional perturbations
in orthography, just as they never learn a desirable handwriting,
nor how to read silently fast and well, or well aloud.

It is because they cannot; because they have not what Nature gave Neighbor
Seacoal; because spelling and reading and writing are "gifts,"--they come
by nature.

What I learned at school in those first ten years I do not know. Almost
nothing. I have utterly forgotten what. I might have been much better
taught. I might have been instructed in thinking. I do not mean that a
child of eight or nine years old can or should be made to see, judge, and
conclude upon new matters with the discovering and advancing power of
a philosopher. But he may be made to perform his own proper little
mental operations, no matter how small they are, on the same
principle,--on the principle of actual understanding, instead of mere
sole memorizing.

All my instructors, whether they meant to do so or not, did in fact proceed
as if they believed children's minds to be, not live fountains, but empty
cisterns; not to be capable of thought; like an empty house, to be furnished
for a tenant; needing to be fitted up with a store of lifeless forms,
which the adult life, when it came, was to breathe vitality into and
turn to living uses. I learned rules.

"Here, little boy," they said, "swallow these oyster-shells. They will lie
naturally and easily in your stomach until you grow up, because
little boys' stomachs are adapted for the storage of oyster-shells;
and when you are a man, and want oysters, put some in there."

But does it stand to reason that children, who manipulate words and
figures, and produce results without understanding the rules they
apply,--just as a wizard's apprentice could evoke his master's demons
without knowing the meaning of the awful syllables he recited, so
that Southey's arcanum of Aballiboozobanganorribo might respectably serve
as one of them,--does it stand to reason that these unhappy young jugglers
will the better learn to do the same work intelligently afterwards?
No; for they have to dislodge the bad habit which has pre-empted, before
they can install the good one. As well undertake to train a new Mozart
by making the bright little music-loving boy grind ten years on a barrel-organ
with _La ci darem_ in its bowels.

I remember a fondness for long, large, grown-up words; doubtless,
in some measure, a result of my constant practice of reading grown-up
people's books.

It was a mere verbal memory, the driest of all the intellectual
faculties. Scarcely a faint perfume of meaning lingered about the rattling
piles of husks that I could say and spell.

What I learned at Sunday school and church was to be inexpressibly
weary of them. What I learned at home I can perhaps define but little
better.
I gained no important result from any direct instruction. I gained
something of good-boy behavior and decent manners, diligently trained
into me. But what was most valuable in my home education was unconscious
infiltration from a good home-atmosphere. This is an influence of
incalculable importance, a thousand times outweighing all the schools.

It is that for which God established the family; the one single
possible real and efficient means of well bringing up the young.

And whatever shades of repression, misunderstanding, ungeniality, restraint,
may have sometimes troubled me, still I constantly feel and fully know
that that pure, calm, quiet, bright, loving, intelligent, refined atmosphere
of my home silently and unconsciously penetrated and vivified all my
being. If now I should be told, "You are no very splendid exemplar of the
results of such influences," I should still say, "Most true, unfortunately
true; but what should I have been without them?"
I had brothers and sisters,--a few playmates; but neither they, nor
any other human beings, not even my parents, seem to have been
during those years, to any important extent, directly operative
within or upon the sphere and character of my own real conscious
existence.

That life figures itself in my memory much like a magic circle, within
which I was alone, and did my scanty little thinkings and imaginings
alone. The rest of the living were outside, unreal,--phantoms moving to
and fro, around and without, but never coming within that limit,--never
entering into living communion with me. This constitutional solitude of
mind has a useful office, perhaps not to be easily explained, but sometimes
not otherwise to be performed.

This isolation was, in part, unnecessary.

To a certain extent the necessity for it still remains. But in part it was
artificial,--my unconscious reaction against an ill-adapted influence,--the
resisting force of a trait which, like all those other early traits,
has become visible to me, like the blind paths over bogs, now that
I am a long way off.

This trait I have already spoken of. It was an insensibility to a certain
motive, rather prominent among those commonly proposed to me for my
own government of myself. This was variously framed thus:--It is not usual
to do this; it is usual to do that; if you proceed so and so, it will
seem singular; people will talk about it; you will offend people's usages
and habits; you will seem singular and odd. Against such cautions I
rebelled with a mute, indignant impulse, which I was not old enough to
enounce or to argue. It was, however, the result of two characteristics;--one,
the natural lack of instinctive desire for the good opinion of others; and
the other, a corresponding instinct for living out my own life fully
and freely, not so as to infringe upon the just rights of others,
but not stinting or distorting or amputating myself, even though
others set the example.

It was the old fable reversed,--the fox disinclined to cut off his tail,
even though all the other foxes had cut off theirs. And the fact that
people older than I, and several of them, and for year after year, urged
upon me the considerations I have spoken of, never availed. That key would
not move the mechanism of my mind. It did not fit.

My childhood seems to me far more memorable for what it had not, was
not, than for what it had and was. I do not believe this is because mine
was an especially unfortunate or unhappy childhood. As I have hinted before,
it was because childhood is empty,--an unconscious, imperfect life,--almost
animal,--germinal,--a life in the egg, in the jelly, in the sap. The
experiences of childhood are seed-leaves. They drop quickly away and
utterly disappear, and even the scars where they grew cease to show on the
stem.

Probably I seemed to myself to enjoy life when I was a child. Children
whom I see daily seem to do so. But thought is life.
Mere enjoyment is dreaming. It may seem to cover hours or days or years
of experience, but when we awake it has been only a point of time. But
this pleasure-dream is worse than a sleep-dream. Over its costly actuality
of time, cut out and dropped down out of life, the hither and thither
ends of the shortened thread of existence must be knotted together into
a cord of diminished length, strength, and value.

In sum: This child which I was was a semi-embryonic creature, mostly
unconscious, whose ten years' career, now chiefly faded into entire
blankness, showed not many mental traits. The chief were quick and
retentive verbal memory, quick, undiscriminating, impulsive, unreasonable
kind-heartedness, and an insensibility, even an instinctive opposition,
to the approvings or disapprovings of others. Or the child might be
stated thus: Nervous and sensitive organization, intellect predominant;
in the intellect the perceptive faculties most active, and of these
chiefly that which notices and compares exteriors; beside the
intellect, a kind-heartedness without balance, and therefore too
great; too little caution, and too little love of approbation.

Around these features others have grown up, of course; but these were, so
to speak, the primary strata of the formation, underlying the other
elements, determining their tendencies, and cropping out through them.

This child was all but empty, unsubstantial, imperfect; incapable, then,
of much life from within itself, little helped by thoughts or other aid
from without. The efforts made by others to operate on it were faithful,
kindly, well meant, but not adapted to its individuality.

The fact is, that, so far as they had any supposed basis on system, it
was on the Scotch empirical analysis of perception, conception, reason,
will; a Procrustean mental philosophy which absolutely ignores
individuality, and assumes that all human beings are alike. It is as
good as the little boys' conventional system of portraiture. A round O,
two dots, a perpendicular line between them, and a horizontal one
across below, displays every face.

Such was Christ and such was Judas; such was Messalina and such was
Florence Nightingale. But there is a better philosophy of the
mind.

FOOTNOTES:

With it died the splendor and the power of the second
city in the world; and of all the glories of the city of Serapis nothing
now remains but a mighty column--[Known as Pompey's Pillar.]--towering to
the skies, the last surviving fragment of the beautiful temple of the
sovereign-god whose fall marked so momentous an epoch in the life of the
human race.  But, like this pillar, outward Beauty--the sense of form
that characterized the heathen mind--has survived through the ages.  We
can gaze up at the one and the other, and wherever the living Truth--the
Spirit of Christianity--has informed and penetrated that form of Beauty,
the highest hopes of old Eusebius have been realized.  Their union is
solemnized in Christian Art.




ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS:

What have I to care for but my child's happiness?  
Faith is the true Herb of Grace.  The intellect is its foe