"Well, he did go so far as to say that the milk was different here, and
that he wanted a kind of cake we didn't get at dinner."

I attacked the young man on his weak point, and got some brief answers
in reply to my remarks on the attractiveness of locomotives and the
virtues of cars. But as any venture away from the important subject was
met with the silence of the clam, I had at last to give up with a wild
desire to shake the young man until some more satisfactory idea should
come uppermost.

As darkness came on, the apprehensions of danger which had made no
impression on me by daylight, began to settle strongly on my spirits.
The wind that dashed the rain-drops in gusts on the panes seemed to
whistle a warning, and the splash of the water outside was as the
muttering of a tale of melancholy in an unknown tongue.

I concealed my fears and depressions from the men, and with the
lighting of the lamps made my dispositions to meet any attack that
might come. I had satisfied myself that the rear bedroom, that faced
the south, could not be entered from the outside without the aid of
ladders. The parlor showed a sheer drop to the street on the west, and
I felt assured we were safe on that side. But the front windows of the
parlor, and the front bedroom which joined it, opened on the veranda
roof in common with a dozen other rooms. Inside, the hallway, perhaps
eight feet wide and twenty-five feet long, offered the only approach to
our rooms from the stairs. The situation was not good for defense, and
at the thought I had a mind even then to seek other quarters.

It was too late for such a move, however, and I decided to make the
best of the position. I placed the boy in the south bedroom, which
could be reached only through the parlor. With him I placed Wainwright
and Fitzhugh, the two strongest men of the party. The north bedroom,
opening on the hallway, the veranda roof and the parlor, looked to be
the weakest part of my position, but I thought it might be used to
advantage as a post of observation. The windows were guarded with
shutters of no great strength. We closed and secured those of the
parlor and the inner bedroom as well as possible. Those of the north
bedroom I left open. By leaving the room dark it would be easy for a
sentinel to get warning of an assault by way of the veranda roof. I
stationed Porter in the hall, and Abrams in the dark bedroom, while
Lockhart, Wilson, Brown and I held the parlor and made ourselves
comfortable until the time should come to relieve the men on guard.

One by one the lights that could be seen here and there through the
town disappeared, the sounds from the streets and the other parts of
the house came more infrequently and at last were smothered in silence,
and only darkness and the storm remained.

I thrust open the door to the bedroom to see that the boy and his
guards were safe, and this done I turned down the light, threw myself
on the floor before the door that protected my charge, and mused over
the strange events that had crowded so swiftly upon me.

Subtle warnings of danger floated over my senses between sleeping and
waking, and each time I dropped into a doze I awoke with a start, to
see only the dimly-lighted forms of my men before me, and to hear only
the sweep and whistle of the wind outside and the dash of water against
the shutters. Thrice I had been aroused thus, when, on the borderland
between dreams and waking, a voice reached my ear.

"S-s-t! What was that?"

I sprang up, wide-awake, revolver in hand. It was Lockhart who spoke.
We all strained our ears to listen. There was nothing to be heard but
the moan of the wind and the dash of water.

"What was it?" I whispered.

"I don't know."

"I heard nothing."

"It was a coo-hoo--like the call of an owl, but--"

"But you thought it was a man?" Lockhart nodded. Brown and Wilson had
not heard it.

"Was it inside or outside?"

"It was out here, I thought," said Lockhart doubtfully, pointing to the
street that ran by the side of the hotel.

I opened the door to the dark bedroom in which Abrams kept watch. It
swung noiselessly to my cautious touch. For a moment I could see
nothing of my henchman, but the window was open. Then, in the
obscurity, I thought I discovered his body lying half-way across the
window-sill. I waited for him to finish his observations on the
weather, but as he made no move I was struck with the fear that he had
met foul play and touched him lightly.

In a flash he had turned on me, and I felt the muzzle of a revolver
pressing against my side.

"If you wouldn't mind turning that gun the other way, it would suit me
just as well," I said.

"Oh, it's you, is it?" said Abrams with a gulp. "I thought Darby Meeker
and his gang was at my back, sure."

"Did you hear anything?" I asked.

"Yes; there was a call out here a bit ago. And there's half a dozen men
or more out there now--right at the corner."

"Are you sure?"

"Yes; I was a-listening to 'em when you give me such a start."

"What were they saying?"

"I couldn't hear a word."

"Give warning at the first move to get into the house. Blaze away with
your gun if anybody tries to climb on to the porch."

Porter had heard nothing, but was wide awake, watching by the light of
the lamp that hung at the head of the stairway. And after a caution to
vigilance I returned to my chair.

For half an hour I listened closely. The men were open-eyed but silent.
The storm kept up its mournful murmur, but no sound that I could
attribute to man came to my straining ears.

Suddenly there was a cry from the hall.

"Who's there?" It was Porter's voice.

An instant later there was a crash of glass, an explosion seemed to
shake the house, and there was a rush of many feet.

I leaped to the door and flung it open, Lockhart, Wilson and Brown
crowding close behind me. A body of men filled the hallway, and Porter
was struggling in the hands of three ruffians. His revolver, whose shot
we had heard, had been knocked from his hand and lay on the floor.

The sudden appearance of four more weapons in the open doorway startled
the enemy into pausing for a moment. I sprang forward and gave the
nearest of Porter's assailants a blow that sent him staggering into the
midst of his band, and with a wrench Porter tore himself loose from the
other two and was with us again.

"What does this mean?" I cried angrily to the invaders. "What are you
here for?"

There were perhaps a dozen of them altogether, and in the midst of the
band I saw the evil face and snake-eyes of Tom Terrill. At the sight of
his repulsive features I could scarce refrain from sending a bullet in
his direction.

Darby Meeker growled an answer.

"You know what we're here for."

"You have broken into a respectable house like a band of robbers," I
cried. "What do you want?"

"You know what we want, Mr. Wilton," was the surly answer. "Give us the
boy and we won't touch you."

"And if not?"

There was silence for a few moments.

"What are you waiting for?" growled a voice from beyond the turn of the
hall.

At the sound I thrilled to the inmost fiber. Was it not the growl of
the Wolf? Could I be mistaken in those tones? I listened eagerly for
another word that might put it beyond doubt.

"Well, are you going to give him up?" asked the hoarse voice of Meeker.

"There has got to be some better reason for it than your demand," I
suggested.

"Well, we've got reasons enough here. Stand ready, boys."

"Look out!" I said to my men, with a glance behind. As I turned I saw
without noting it that Wainwright and Fitzhugh had come out of the
boy's room to take a hand in the impending trouble. Lockhart and Wilson
slipped in front of me.

"Get back and look after the boy," whispered the former. "We can hold
'em here."

"Move ahead there!" shouted a fierce voice that again thrilled the ear
and heart with the growl of the Wolf. "What are you afraid of?"

"Stand fast, boys," I said to my men. "Wainwright, keep close to the
bedroom." Then I shouted defiance to the enemy. "The first man that
moves forward gets killed! There are eight revolvers here."

Then I saw that Wainwright had come forward, despite my bidding, eager
to take his share of the onslaught. And by some freak of the spirit of
the perverse the boy, who had shown himself so timid during the day,
had now slipped out of his room and climbed upon a chair to see what
the excitement was about, as though danger and death were the last
things in the world with which he had to reckon.

I caught a glimpse of his form out of the tail of my eye as he mounted
the chair in his night-dress. I turned with an exclamation to
Wainwright and was leaping to cover him from a possible bullet, when
there was a roar of rage and the voice of Terrill rang through the
hall:

"Tricked again!" he cried with a dreadful oath. "It's the wrong boy!"


CHAPTER XXIV

ON THE ROAD


The wrong boy!

For a moment I could not understand nor believe; and when the meaning
of the words came to me, I groped in mental darkness, unable to come in
touch with the significant facts by which I was surrounded. The solid
earth had fallen from under me, and I struggled vainly to get footing
in my new position.

But there was no time for speculation. Half in a daze I heard a roar of
curses, orders, a crash of glass as the lamp was extinguished, and over
all came the prolonged growl of a wolf-voice, hoarse and shaken with
anger. There was a vision of a wolf-head rising above the outline of
faces a few yards away, dark, distorted, fierce, with eyes that blazed
threats, and in an instant I found myself in the center of a
struggling, shouting, swearing mass of savage men, fighting with naught
but the instinct of blind rage. Shots were fired, but for the most part
it was a hand-to-hand struggle. The clearest picture that comes to me
out of the confused tangle is that of Wainwright handling his pistol
like a bowie knife, and trying to perform a surgical operation
extensive enough to let a joke into Darby Meeker's skull.

I doubt not that I was as crazy as the rest. The berserker rage was on
me, and I struck right and left. But in my madness there was one idea
strong in my mind. It was to reach the evil face and snake-eyes of Tom
Terrill, and stamp the life out of him. With desperate rage I
shouldered and fought till his white face with its venomous hatred was
next to mine, till the fingers of my left hand gripped his throat, and
my right hand tried to beat out his brains with a six-shooter.

"Damn you!" he gasped, striking fiercely at me. "I've been waiting for
you!"

I tightened my grip and spoke no word. He writhed and turned, striving
to free himself. I had knocked his revolver from his hand, and he tried
in vain to reach it. My grip was strong with the strength of madness,
and the white face before me grew whiter except where a smear of blood
closed the left eye and trickled down over the cheek beneath. A trace
of fear stole into the venomous anger of the one eye that was
unobscured, as he strove without success to guard himself from my
blows. But he gave a sudden thrust, and with a sinuous writhe he was
free, while I was carried back by the rush of men with the vague
impression that something was amiss with me. Then a great light flamed
up before me in which the struggling, shouting mob, the close hall and
room, and the universe itself melted away, and I was alone.

The next impression that came to me was that of a voice from an
immeasurable distance.

"He's coming to," it said; and then beside it I heard a strange wailing
cry.

"What is it?" I asked, trying to sit up. My voice seemed to come from
miles away, and to belong to some other man.

"That's it, you're all right," said the voice encouragingly, and about
the half of Niagara fell on my face.

I sat up and beheld the room whirling about, the walls, the furniture,
and the people dancing madly together to a strange wailing sound that
carried me back to the dens of Chinatown. Then the mists before my eyes
cleared away, and I found that I was on the floor of the inner bedroom
and Wainwright had emptied a water-jug over me. The light of a small
kerosene lamp gave a gloomy illumination to the place. Lockhart and
Fitzhugh leaned against the door, and Wilson bent with Wainwright over
me. The boy was sitting on the bed, crying shrilly over the melancholy
situation.

I tried to stagger to my feet.

"Wait a bit," said Wainwright. "You'll get your head in a minute."

I felt acutely conscious already that I had my head. It seemed a very
large head that had suffered from an internal explosion.

"What is it?" I asked, gathering my scattered wits. "What has
happened?"

"We've been licked," said Wainwright regretfully. "The rest of the boys
got took, but we got in here. Fitz and me seen the nasty knock you got,
and dragged you back, and when we got you here the parlor was full of
the hounds, and Porter and Abrams and Brown was missing. We found you
was cut, and we've tried to fix you up."

I looked at my bandaged arm, and put one more count in the indictment
against Terrill. He had tried to stab me over the heart at the time he
had wrenched free, but he had merely slashed my arm. It was not a
severe wound, but it gave me pain.

"Only a scratch," said Wainwright.

I envied the philosophic calm with which he regarded it.

"It'll heal," I returned shortly. "Where is the other gang? Are they
gone?"

"No; there's half a dozen of 'em out in the parlor, I reckon."

"You'd better tell him," said Fitzhugh, shifting an unpleasant task.

"Well," said Wainwright, "we heard orders given to shoot the first man
that comes out before morning, but before all to kill you if you sticks
your nose outside before sun-up."

The amiable intentions of the victors set me to thinking. If it was
important to keep me here till morning, it must be important to me to
get out. There was no duty to keep me here, for I need fear no attack
on the boy who was with us. I looked at my watch, and found it was near
one o'clock.

"Tie those blankets together," I ordered, as soon as I was able to get
my feet.

The men obeyed me in silence, while Wainwright vainly tried to quiet
the child. I was satisfied to have him cry, for the more noise he made
the less our movements would be heard. I had a plan that I thought
might be carried out.

While the others were at work, I cautiously raised the window and
peered through the shutters. The rain was falling briskly, and the wind
still blew a gale. King--"The Widow of the Wood"--Damasked Linen 10
MISCELLANEOUS:-- Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 13 Notices
to Correspondents 14 Books and Odd Volumes Wanted 14 Advertisements
15 
* * * * * 
OUR THIRD VOLUME.

The commencement of our Third Volume affords an opportunity, which
we gladly seize, of returning our best thanks to those kind friends
and correspondents to whom we are indebted for our continued success.

We thank them all heartily and sincerely; and we trust that the
volume, of which we now present them with the First Number, will
afford better proof of our gratitude than mere words.

Such improvements as have suggested themselves in the course of the
fourteen months during which NOTES AND QUERIES has been steadily
working up its way to its present high position shall be effected;
and nothing shall be wanting, on our part, which may conduce to
maintain or increase its usefulness.

And here we would announce a slight change in our mode of publication,
which we have acceded to at the suggestion of several parties, in
order to meet what may appear to many of our readers a trivial
matter, but which is found very inconvenient in a business point
of view--we allude to the diversity of price in our Monthly Parts.

To avoid this, and, as we have said, to meet the wishes of many of our
friends, we propose to publish a fifth or supplementary number in
every month in which there are only four Saturdays, so as to make
the Monthly Parts one shilling and threepence each in all cases,
with the exception of the months of January and July, which will
include the Index of the preceding Half-yearly Volume, at the price
of one shilling and ninepence each.

Thus the yearly subscription to NOTES AND QUERIES, either in unstamped
weekly Numbers or Monthly Parts, will be eighteen shillings.

Trusting that this, and all the other arrangements we are proposing
to ourselves, may meet with the approbation of our friends and
subscribers, we bid them Farewell!

and wish them,--what we trust they wish to NOTES AND QUERIES--a Happy
New Year, and many of them!

* * * * *

NOTES.

OLD BALLAD UPON THE "WINTER'S TALE."

Some of your correspondents may be able to give me information respecting
an old ballad that has very recently fallen in my way, on a story
similar to that of Shakspeare's _Winter's Tale_, and in some
particulars still more like Greene's novel of _Pandosto_, upon which
the _Winter's Tale_ was founded.

You are aware that the earliest known edition of Greene's novel is
dated 1588, although there is room to suspect that it had been
originally {2} printed before that year: the first we hear of the
_Winter's Tale_ is in 1611, when it was acted at court, and it was
not printed until it appeared in the folio of 1623.

The ballad to which I refer has for title _The Royal Courtly Garland,
or Joy after Sorrow_: it is in ordinary type, and was "Printed and
sold in Aldermary Churchyard, London."

It has no date, and in appearance does not look older than from
perhaps, 1690 to 1720; it may even be more recent, as at that period
it is not easy to form a correct opinion either from typography or
orthography: black-letter has a distinguishing character at various
periods, so as to enable a judgment to be formed within, perhaps,
ten years, as regards an undated production: but such is not the
case with Roman type, or white-letter.

What I suspect, however, is that this ballad is considerably older,
and that my copy is only a comparatively modern reprint with some
alterations; it requires no proof, at this time of day, to show
that it was the constant habit of our old publishers of ephemeral
literature to reprint ballads without the slightest notice that
they had ever appeared before.

This, in fact, is the point on which I want information, as to
_The Royal Courtly Garland, or Joy after Sorrow_.

Can any of your correspondents refer me to an older copy, or do
they know of the existence of one which belongs to a later period?

I cannot be ignorant of DR.

RIMBAULT'S learning on such matters, and I make my appeal especially
to him.

It is very possible that it may bear a different title in other
copies, and for the sake of identification I will furnish a few extracts
from the various "parts" (no fewer than six) into which the ballad
is divided; observing that they fill a closely printed broadside,
and that the production is entirely different from Jordan's
versification of the _Winter's Tale_, under the title of _The Jealous
Duke and the injured Duchess_, which came out in his _Royal Arbor
of Loyal Poesie_, 8vo. 1664.

It is singular that two ballads, hitherto wholly unknown, should
have been written upon the same incidents of the same drama, although
we are yet without evidence that Jordan's effusion was ever published
as a broadside.

"I must go," I said decidedly. "I can't wait here."

"I have it," said Thatcher. "By hard riding you can get to Niles in
time to catch the freight as it goes up from San Jose. It will get you
down in time for the first boat, if that's what you want."

"Good! How far is it?"

"We call it eighteen miles,--it's a little over that by the road.
There's only one nasty bit. That's in the canyon."

"I think we shall need the pleasure of your company," I said.

The stableman was moved by a conflict of feelings. He was much
indisposed to a twenty-mile ride in the storm and darkness; yet he was
plainly unwilling to trust his horses unless he went with them. I
offered him a liberal price for the service.

"It's a bad job, but if you must, you must," he groaned. And he soon
had three horses under the saddle.

I eyed the beasts with some disfavor. They were evidently half-mustang,
and I thought undersized for such a journey. But I was to learn before
the night was out the virtues of strength and endurance that lie in the
blood of the Indian horse.

"Hist! What's that?" said Fitzhugh, extinguishing the light.

The voices of the storm and the uneasy champing of the horses were the
only sounds that rewarded a minute's listening.

"We must chance it," said I, after looking cautiously into the
darkness, and finding no signs of a foe.

And in a moment more we were galloping down the street, the hoof-beats
scarcely sounding in the softened earth of the roadway. Not a word was
spoken after the start as we turned through the side streets to avoid
the approaches to the hotel. I looked and listened intently, expecting
each bunch of deeper darkness in the streets to start into life with
shouts of men and crack of revolvers in an effort to stay our flight.
Thatcher led the way, and Fitzhugh rode by my side.

"Look there!" cried Fitzhugh in my ear. "There's some one running to
the hotel!"

I looked, and thought I could see a form moving through the blackness.
The hotel could just be distinguished two blocks away. It might well be
a scout of the enemy hastening to give the alarm.

"Never mind," I said. "We've got the start."

Thatcher suddenly turned to the west, and in another minute we were on
the open highway, with the steady beat of the horses' hoofs splashing a
wild rhythm on the muddy road.

The wind, which had been behind us, now whipped the rain into our faces
from the left, half blinding us as the gusts sent the spray into our
eyes, then tugged fiercely at coats and hats as if nothing could be so
pleasing to the powers of the air as to send our raiment in a witch's
flight through the clouds.

With the town once behind us, I felt my spirits rise with every stroke
of the horse's hoofs beneath me. The rain and the wind were friends
rather than foes. Yet my arm pained me sharply, and I was forced to
carry the reins in the whip hand.

Here the road was broader, and we rode three abreast, silent, watchful,
each busy with his own thoughts, and all alert for the signs of chase
behind. Thrice my heart beat fast with the sound in my ears of
galloping pursuers. Thrice I laughed to think that the patter of
falling drops on the roadway should deceive my sense of sound. Here the
track narrowed, and Thatcher shot ahead, flinging mud and water from
his horse's heels fair upon us. There it broadened once more, and our
willing beasts pressed forward and galloped beside the stableman's till
the hoofs beat in unison.

"There!" said Thatcher, suddenly pulling his horse up to a walk. "We're
five miles out, and they've got a big piece to make up if they're on
our track. We'll breathe the horses a bit."

The beasts were panting a little, but chafed at the bits as we walked
them, and tossed their heads uneasily to the pelting of the storm.

"Hark!" I cried. "Did you hear that?" I was almost certain that the
sound of a faint halloo came from behind us. I was not alone in the
thought.

"The dern fools!" said Fitzhugh. "They want a long chase, I guess, to
go through the country yelling like a pack of wild Injuns."

"I reckon 'twas an owl," said Thatcher; "but we might as well be
moving. We needn't take no chances while we've got a good set of heels
under us. Get up, boys."

The willing brutes shot forward into the darkness at the word, and
tossed the rain-drops from their ears with many an angry nod.

Of the latter part of the journey I have but a confused remembrance. I
had counted myself a good rider in former days, but I had not mounted a
horse for years. I had slept but little in forty-eight hours, and,
worst of all, my arm pained me more and more. With the fatigue and the
jar of the steady gallop, it seemed to swell until it was the body and
I the poor appendage to it. My head ached from the blow it had got, and
in a stupor of dull pain I covered the weary miles. But for the
comfortable Mexican saddle I fear I should have sunk under the fatigue
and distress of the journey and left friends and enemies to find their
way out of the maze as best they might.

I have a dim recollection of splashing over miles of level road,
drenched with water and buffeted by gusts of wind that faced us more
and more, with the monotonous beat of hoofs ever in my ears, and the
monotonous stride of the horse beneath me ever racking my tired
muscles. Then we slackened pace in a road that wound in sharp descent
through a gap in the hills, with the rush and roar of a torrent beneath
and beside us, the wind sweeping with wild blasts through the trees
that lined the way and covered the hillside and seeming to change the
direction of its attack at every moment.

"We'll make it, I reckon," said Thatcher, at last. "It's only two miles
farther, and the train hasn't gone up yet."

The horses by this time were well-blown. The road was heavy, and we had
pressed them hard. Yet they struggled with spirit as they panted, and
answered to the whip when we called on them for the last stretch as we
once more found a level road.

There was no sign of life about the station as we drew our panting,
steaming horses to a halt before it, and no train was in sight. The
rain dripping heavily from the eaves was the only sound that came from
it, and a dull glow from an engine that lay alone on a siding was the
only light that was to be seen.

"What's the time?" asked Thatcher. "We must have made a quick trip."

"Twenty minutes past three," said I, striking a match under my coat to
see my watch-face.

"Immortal snakes!" cried Thatcher. "I'm an idiot. This is Sunday
night."

I failed to see the connection of these startling discoveries, but I
had spirit enough to argue the case. "It's Monday morning, now."

"Well, it's the same thing. The freight doesn't run to-night."

I awoke to some interest at this announcement.

"Why, it's got to run, or we must take to saddle again for the rest of
the way."

"These horses can't go five miles more at that gait, let alone twenty-
five," protested Thatcher.

"Well, then, we must get other horses here."

"Come," said Fitzhugh; "what's the use of that when there's an engine
on the siding doing nothing?"

"Just the idea. Find the man in charge."

But there did not appear to be any man in charge. The engineer and
fireman were gone, and the watchman had been driven to cover by the
foul weather.

We looked the iron horse over enviously.

"Why, this is the engine that came up with the special this noon," said
Fitzhugh. "I remember the number."

"Good! We are ahead of the enemy, then. They haven't had a chance to
get the wire, and we beat them on the road. We must find the engineer
and get it ourselves."

"I've got an idea," said Fitzhugh. "It's this: why not take the machine
without asking? I was a fireman once, and I can run it pretty well."

I thought a moment on the risk, but the need was greater.

"Just the thing. Take the money for the horses to your friend there.
I'll open the switch."

In a few minutes Fitzhugh was back.

"I told him," he chuckled. "He says it's a jail offense, but it's the
only thing we can do."

"It may be a case of life and death," I said. "Pull out."

"There's mighty little steam here--hardly enough to move her," said
Fitzhugh from the cab, stirring the fire.

But as he put his hand to the lever she did move easily on to the main
track, and rested while I reset the switch.

Then I climbed back into the cab, and sank down before the warm blaze
in a stupor of faintness as the engine glided smoothly and swiftly down
the track.


CHAPTER XXV

A FLUTTER IN THE MARKET


The gray pall of the storm hung over San Francisco. The dim light of
the morning scarcely penetrated into the hallways as we climbed the
stairs that led to our lodgings, leaving behind us the trail of
dripping garments. I heaved a sigh of relief as Trent opened the door,
and we once more faced the pleasing prospect of warmth, dry clothing
and friends.

We had made the run from Niles without incident, and had left the
engine on a siding at Brooklyn without being observed. If the railroad
company still has curiosity, after all these years, to know how that
engine got from Niles to Brooklyn, I trust that the words I have just
written may be taken as an explanation and apology.

"Where's Barkhouse?" I asked, becoming comfortable once more with dry
clothes, a warm room and a fresh bandage on my arm.

"He hasn't shown up, sir," said Trent. "Owens and Larson went out to
look for him toward evening yesterday, but there wasn't a sign of him."

"Try again to-day. You may pick up news at Borton's or some of the
water-front saloons."

"Oh, there was a letter for you," said Trent. "I near forgot."

I snatched the envelope, for the address was in the hand of the
Unknown. The sheet within bore the words:

"Where is the boy? Have you removed him? Send the key to Richmond. Let
me know when you return, for I must see you as soon as it is safe."

I read the note three or four times, and each time I was more
bewildered than before. I had left the boy in Livermore, but certainly
he was not the one she meant. He was the "wrong boy," and my employer
must be well aware that I had taken him at her orders. Or could that
expedition be a jest of the enemy to divert my attention? I dismissed
this theory as soon as it suggested itself.

But where was the "right boy"? I had for a moment a sinking feeling of
terror in the thought that the enemy had captured him. Mother Borton's
warning that they had found his place of hiding returned to confirm
this thought. But in an instant I remembered that the enemy had
followed me in force to Livermore in chase of the wrong boy, and had
attacked me in pure chagrin at the trick that had been played on them.
That showed me beyond question that they had not obtained possession of
the right boy. And the "key" that I was to send to Richmond, what was
that?

The closing portion of the note set my heart beating fast. At last I
was to have the opportunity to meet my mysterious employer face to
face. But what explanation was I to make? What reception would I meet
when she learned that Henry Wilton had given up his life in her
service, and that I, who had taken his place, could tell nothing of the
things she wished to know?

I wrote a brief note to Richmond stating that I had no key, inclosed
the Unknown's note, with the remark that I had returned, and gave it to
Owens to deliver. I was in some anxiety lest he might not know where
Richmond was to be found. But he took the note without question, and I
lay down with orders that I was to be called in time to reach the
opening session of the stock market, and in a moment was fast asleep.

The Stock Exchange was a boiling and bubbling mass of excited men as I
reached it. Pine Street, wet and sloppy, was lined with a mob of
umbrellas that sheltered anxious speculators of small degree, and the
great building was thronged with the larger dealers--with millionaires
and brokers, with men who were on their way to fortune, and those who
had been millionaires and now were desperately struggling against the
odds of fate as they saw their wealth swept away in the gamblers'
whirlpool.

I shouldered my way through the crowd into the buzzing Board-room as
the session opened. Excitement thrilled the air, but the opening was
listless. All knew that the struggle over Omega was to be settled that
day, and that Doddridge Knapp or George Decker was to find ruin at the
end of the call, and all were eager to hasten the decisive moment.

Wallbridge came panting before me, his round, bald head bobbing with
excitement.

"Ready for the fray, eh? Oh, it's worth money to see this. Talk of your
theaters now, eh? Got any orders?"

"Not yet," I returned, hardly sharing the little man's enjoyment of the
scene. The size of the stakes made me tremble.

I could see nothing of Doddridge Knapp, and the uneasy feeling that he
was at Livermore came over me. What was my duty in case he did not
appear? Had he left his fortune at the mercy of the market to follow
his lawless schemes? Had he been caught in his own trap, and was he now
to be ruined as the result of his own acts? For a moment I felt a
vengeful hope that he might have come to grief. But when I remembered
that it was Luella who must suffer with him, I determined to make an
effort to save the deal, even without authority, if the money or credit
for buying the remaining shares was to be had.

I might have spared my worry. The call had not proceeded far, when the
massive form of Doddridge Knapp appeared at the railing. The strong
wolf-marks of the face were stronger than ever as he watched the scene
on the floor. I looked in vain for a trace upon him of last night's
work. If he had been at Livermore, he showed no sign of the passions or
anxieties that had filled the dark hours.

He nodded carelessly for me to come to him as he caught my eye.

"You have the stock?"

"All safe."

"And the proxies?"

"Just as you ordered."

The King of the Street looked at me sharply.

"I told you to keep sober till this deal was over," he growled.

"You are obeyed," I said. "I have not touched a drop."

"Well, you look as though you had taken a romp with the devil," he
said.

"I have," I returned with a meaning look.

His eyes fell before my steady gaze, and he turned them on the noisy
throng before us.

"Any orders?" I asked at last.

"Be where I can call you the minute I want you," he replied.

"Now, my boy," he continued after a minute, "you are going to see what
hasn't been seen in the Boards for years, and I reckon you'll never see
it again."

"What is it?" I asked politely. I was prepared for almost
any kind of fire-works in that arena.

Doddridge Knapp made no reply, but raised his hand as if to command
silence, and a moment later the call of Omega was heard. And, for a
marvel, a strange stillness did fall on the throng.

At the word of call I saw Doddridge Knapp step down to the floor of the
pit, calm, self-possessed, his shoulders squared and his look as proud
and forceful as that of a monarch who ruled by the might of his sword,
while a grim smile played about his stern mouth.

The silence of the moment that followed was almost painful. In that
place it seemed the most unnatural of prodigies. Brokers, speculators
and spectators were as surprised as I, and a long-drawn "Ah-h!"
followed by a buzzing as of a great swarm of bees greeted his
appearance. The stillness and the buzzing seemed to take an hour, but
it could not have been as much as a minute when the voice of Doddridge
Knapp rang like a trumpet through the Boardroom.

"Five hundred for Omega!"

This was a wild jump from the three hundred and twenty-five that was
marked against the stock at the close on Saturday, but I supposed the
King of the Street knew what he was about.

At the bid of Doddridge Knapp a few cries rose here and there, and he
was at once the center of a group of gesticulating brokers. Then I saw
Decker, pale, eager, alert, standing by the rail across the room,
signaling orders to men who howled bids and plunged wildly into the
crowd that surrounded his rival.

The bids and offers came back and forth with shouts and barks, yet they
made but a murmur compared to the whirlwind of sound that had arisen
from the pit at the former struggles I had witnessed. Besides, its prior
publication in England is just as inexplicable upon the assumption
of his being the translator, as upon that of his being the
author.

Query, Is Vairasse's residence in England mentioned by any English
writer?"This is great," chuckled Wallbridge, taking post before me. "There
hasn't been anything like it since Decker captured Chollar in the
election of seventy-three. You don't remember that, I guess?"

"I wasn't in the market then," I admitted.

"Lord! Just to hear that!" cried the stout little man, mopping his
glistening head frantically and quivering with nervous excitement.
"Doddridge Knapp bids fifteen hundred for the stock and only gets five
shares. Oh, why ain't I a chance to get into this?"

I heard a confused roar, above which rose the fierce tones of Doddridge
Knapp.

"How many shares has he got to-day?" I asked.

"Not forty yet."

"And the others?"

"There's been about two thousand sold."

I gripped the rail in nervous tension. The battle seemed to be going
against the King of the Street.

"Oh!" gasped Wallbridge, trembling with excitement. "Did you hear that?
There! It's seventeen hundred--now it's seventeen-fifty! Whew!"

I echoed the exclamation.

"Oh, why haven't I got ten thousand shares?" he groaned.

"Who is getting them?"

"Knapp got the last lot. O-oh, look there! Did you ever see the like of
that?"

I looked. Decker, hatless, with hair disheveled, had leaped the rail
and was hurrying into the throng that surrounded Doddridge Knapp.

"There was never two of 'em on the floor before," cried Wallbridge.

At Decker's appearance the brokers opened a lane to him, the cries
fell, and there was an instant of silence, as the kings of the market
thus came face to face.

I shall never forget the sight. Doddridge Knapp, massive, calm,
forceful, surveyed his opponent with unruffled composure. He was
dressed in a light gray-brown suit that made him seem larger than ever.
Decker was nervous, disheveled, his dress of black setting off the
pallor of his face, till it seemed as white as his shirt bosom, as he
fronted the King of the Street.

The foes faced each other, watchful as two wrestlers looking to seize
an opening, and the Board-room held its breath. Their presence is
believed to be a sure omen of prosperity; while, on the other hand,
their sudden departure from a hearth which has long echoed with
their cry, betokens approaching misfortune, and is regarded as the
direst calamity that can happen to the family.

Two thousand, twenty-one hundred, twenty-one
fifty. Great snakes! See her jump!" he cried. "Decker's getting it."

