The first hour of our winter evenings at the Hive was, by common
consent, assigned to the younger generation, and story-telling was
regularly made its most attractive feature. Mr. Dana was one of our best
story tellers, and his narrations were instructive as well as
interesting. In an extended series he gave us accounts, partly
imaginary, of the beginnings of things, of the discovery and the first
use of iron, the evolutions of the boat, of primitive pottery, of glass,
etc.

I was never in Mr. Dana's classes, Greek and German being beyond my
reach, but I saw something of him in the tree-nursery and the orchard
where I worked under him, he being Chief of the Orchard Group. I cannot
do better in trying to give an idea of him at Brook Farm than to quote
from Mr. John Thomas Codman's Memoirs, as follows:

"Charles Anderson Dana, when, from Harvard College he presented himself
at the farm, was a young man of education, culture and marked ability.
He was strong of purpose and lithe of frame and it was not long before
Mr. Ripley found it out and gave him a place at the front. He was about
four and twenty years of age, and he took to books, language and
literature. Social, good-natured and animated, he readily pleased all
with whom he came in contact. He was above the medium height, his
complexion was light and his beard, which he wore full but well trimmed,
was vigorous and of auburn hue, and his thick head of hair was well cut
to moderate shortness. His features were quite regular, his forehead
high and full, and his head large. His face was pleasant and animated
and he had a genial smile and greeting for all. His voice was clear and
musical and his language remarkably correct. He loved to spend a portion
of his time in work on the farm and in the tree nursery, and you might
be sure of finding him there when not otherwise occupied. Enjoying fun
and social life, there was always a dignity remaining which gave him
influence and commanded respect."

Later in life, as all the world knows, Mr. Dana attained high rank among
the great editors of this country, and that at a period when personality
counted for much more in the conduct of a newspaper than it does to-day.
He served this nation during the Rebellion as Assistant Secretary of
War, and was one of the counselors implicitly trusted by President
Lincoln in that trying time.

Charles Hosmer was another first class raconteur, his musical delivery
in reciting apt bits of poetry and other quotations adding to the
pleasure of hearing his accounts rendered. He gave us modern versions of
the Greek myths and hero legends, of Cadmus and Thebes, of Jason and the
Golden Fleece, of the Trojan epic, of the Delphic Oracle, etc.

Several years after leaving Brook Farm I was presented with a copy of
Nathaniel Hawthorne's "Wonder Book," and was surprised and indignant to
find the author had actually taken our Brook Farm stories, told us by
Charles Hosmer and printed them, and that, too, without a word of
credit. Of course familiar renditions of the Greek legends have been
common property with English speaking people, for ages, but the ignorant
youngster who heard them at Brook Farm firmly believed the copyright
belonged to Charles Hosmer.

The young folk and children were not only told stories but were
encouraged to exercise their own talents in the same direction. Manuel
Portales gave an interesting account of native life in Luzon; and Angus
Cameron told us about the French habitants and their narrow little
strips of farms fronting on the Canadian streams, every farmer wanting a
littoral right, if only a few yards wide.

Our evening talks were often monologues, anyone with a word to say
having attentive hearers, if interesting, otherwise--not. A young lady,
distinguished as a public speaker, came to us with what was doubtless an
eloquent discourse on Woman's Rights, and was much put out, after
orating awhile, to note that her glowing periods were falling on dull
ears. Our women-folk had all the rights of our men-folk. They had an
equal voice in our public affairs, voted for our officers, filled
responsible positions, and stood on exactly the same footing as their
brethren. If women were not so well off in the outer-world, they had
only to join our community or to form others like ours.

A leading temperance advocate undertook to lecture us on the terrible
evils of rum drinking and the crying need of promoting the great cause
of total abstinence. We were all total abstainers. There was not a drop
of rum on the Farm. In the exhilarating life of our community there was
no call for stimulants. We had none and wanted none. Rum was a curse in
civilized society but that was because society was disorganized. Let
reformers come and help us reform society and this evil with many others
would be remedied. So it was that the popular lecturer after an hour's
earnest discourse came to the conclusion that these Brook Farmers were
very impolite indeed as they were all talking together about plans for
the new Phalanstery or some other equally important subject.

Lectures were not on the list of our favorite pastimes. This
indifference to the attractions of the Lyceum was all the more
noticeable as there were several lecturers of repute among our own
members. In the decade 1840-1850 a wave of interest in what was then
known as Social Reform swept over Europe and America, and in the public
discussions of the time the teachings of Brook Farm practical reformers
were in constant demand. Dr. Ripley, John Dwight, John Allen, Ephraim
Chapin, Charles A. Dana and others were called out on lecturing tours
extending all over the Northern states, and, as most of this service was
gratuitous, the cost to the community was a heavy tax on our limited
resources. The socialistic propaganda was an educational movement of
unquestionable value, and, while the immediate objects contemplated were
never realized and are now lost to sight, yet the agitation had a
permanent influence in awakening intelligence, giving an impetus to
thought and enlarging the liberality of the public mind.

Oftentimes the long dining room was promptly cleared after supper for
some minor entertainment, a dance, in which everyone took part, being
always in order when nothing else demanded more immediate attention.
Miss Russell was a most efficient teacher of dancing and we all took
lessons, from the gaunt and grizzled old General to the little ones just
able to learn their steps. It was a marked characteristic of the Farmers
that they all joined hands in whatever was going on. With unfailing
unanimity they all moved together, flocking like birds in whatever
direction happened to be taken at the moment, even those of the most
pronounced individuality preferring to go the way of the others rather
than go his own way alone. The lovers of solitude, self centered folk,
egoists and searchers into the mysteries of their own souls--Emerson,
Hawthorne, Hecker and Margaret Fuller were out of place in this united
association where each person wanted, first of all, to be in harmony
with the common mind.

The dance was so much a matter of course that no preparations were
needed save the putting away of the tables and benches. The music was
always ready, a dozen or more players of the violin and piano relieving
each other in rendering sets of cotillons, waltzes and polkas, the
latter dance being then just in fashion.

Next to the dance, some form of musical diversion was in favor. After
the reorganization Mr. Dwight was Chief of the Festal Series, and as he
and his fiancee, Mary Bullard, were, in a way, professionals there was
always a musical programe in reserve that could be brought forward at a
moment's notice. We often had musicians of distinction visiting the
place, and these gave us of their best, knowing their virtuosity would
be recognized and appreciated. Carlo Bassini, an eminent violinist,
played for us with great acceptance. His daughter, Frances Ostinelli,
who boarded at the Farm several weeks, sang most delightfully. She had a
glorious voice and, as Madame Biscacianti, subsequently attained fame as
a cantatrice.

The Hutchinson Family, once widely known at home and abroad, but now
pretty much forgotten, made a one-night-stand with us; and a company of
Swiss Bell Ringers also favored us in the same way.

The star artist who pleased us youngsters more than any other was
Christopher P. Cranch. He was not a professional, at that time, having
just completed his course of study for the ministry, but he was
certainly a most successful entertainer. There was nothing he could not
do. He was a painter of more than fair ability, a sweet singer, a poet,
a mighty good story-teller--and we knew a good story-teller when we
heard one--and he could play on any instrument from an organ to a
jewsharp. Whatever he undertook he did well, and his range of
accomplishment was amazing. As Miss Russell remarked his versatility
amounted to universatility. We liked and admired Mr, Cranch very much,
and with all his superficial levity he possessed sterling qualities that
commanded our respect. As an old school song says:

  "True winter joys are many
  With many a dear delight
  We frolic in the snowdrift,
  And then the Winter night."


The many winter joys were all that such joys could be, and young folk,
not afraid of the weather, made the most of them. The winter nights at
the Hive were fairly filled with dear delights, and the youngest of the
young folk had their due share of the evening pleasures until nine
o'clock when they went to bed, except on special occasions like the
giving of a play, or a concert with some celebrity from Boston as a star
attraction. The winter had its pleasures, but it was summer that was the
real joyous season. There was a dear delight then, in just living in the
open air, as most of us did the greater part of every day. Work in the
fields with interesting companions, was an exemplification of the
socialistic doctrine of attractive industry. Men and women, boys and
girls, drawn together in groups by special likings for the work to be
done, made labor not only light but really pleasant.

Our entertainments, too, were in these happy days almost exclusively
free from the limitations of four walls and a ceiling. Rambles in the
woods and fields, excursions to Chestnut Hill or Cow Island, rowing
parties on Charles River, ball-games, athletic contests, swimming
matches, everything the Greeks ever did and more than they ever thought
of. Even our meals conveniently simple as they were, frequently took the
form of impromptu picnics on the Knoll.

The center of summer festivities was a natural amphitheater in the
beautiful pine-woods. Here was a little hollow, clear of trees which
served admirably well as an auditorium, and a bank at one end, leveled
down with very little artifice, made a spacious stage, or, if required,
a suitable rostrum. Here we had plays worth seeing and concerts worth
hearing. Here, too, Sunday services were sometimes held, to the
scandalizing of our Puritan neighbors, though when Dr. Channing preached
a saintly sermon and Mr. Dwight's quartet rendered the Gregorian chants,
the service was an appropriate and impressive expression of sincere
religious sentiment.


Some of our Puritan neighbors called us heretics because we did not
believe in infant damnation or some equally profitable and comforting
doctrine of the orthodox faith, and, furthermore, we actually sang hymns
in Latin. All that was very bad to be sure, but then we kept the
commandments, eleven of them, ten in the old testament and one in the
new, and we dealt fairly with all men. We went to church too, either
having Sunday services at home or attending Theodore Parker's church in
Brookline. However, both Theodore Parker and Dr. Ripley were Unitarians,
so that did not help us very much in the opinion of our critics.

It may almost be said that Brook Farm was as much an outgrowth of
Unitarianism as of Transcendentalism. Nearly all the first members were
Unitarians and many of the later comers were of the same faith. The
congregation of the Unitarian church at Brookline usually contained a
considerable percentage of Brook Farmers, and at times a Unitarian
minister from the Farm officiated in that sacred edifice. Rev. Dr.
Ripley, Rev. John S. Dwight, Rev. George P. Bradford, Rev. Warren
Burton, Rev. John Allen and Rev. Ephraim Chapin were resident ministers,
and Rev. Ralph Waldo Emerson, Rev. William H. Channing and Rev. James
Freeman Clarke were warmly interested in the Association. Charles K.
Newcomb and Christopher P. Cranch also immediate friends, were educated
for the Unitarian ministry. Dr. Codman in his "Recollections" speaks of
seeing five Unitarian clergymen dancing in the pine-grove at once.

One of the features of our holiday doings was the procession which
spontaneously came into order, after dinner, when there was anything to
the fore in the pine-woods. Then a parade took place like unto the
wedding march of the villagers in an old fashioned opera. There was
always some display of decoration on such occasions, usually floral, the
girls, wearing garlands and wreaths or sprays of vine and chaplets of
leaves. Headed, perhaps by the boys with fife and drum, or by the
members of the cast if a play was to be given, the whole community,
young men and maidens, old men and children, went singing from one end
of the place to the other, that is from the Hive near the entrance to
the Amphitheater near the far side of the grove.

When a high festival was to be celebrated, the procession took on the
picturesque dignity of a pageant. A real pageant we dearly loved, but
the show was too expensive to be offered more than once or twice
annually. We had to hire musicians as our own were too busy to serve.
Then the costumes and banners and hangings took a good bit of money,
though artistic ingenuity helped out amazingly. Where all the
magnificence came from was a mystery, the splendors of purple and gold,
of rich draperies, fine furbelows, shining garments and glittering
adornments being really splendid. Bonico and I, as Heralds, for example,
once were superbly arrayed in white tabards emblazoned with red dragons
and gold embroidery, cut from paper and pasted on white muslin. There
was a deal of real, genuine, sumptuous finery brought out from family
wardrobes for the pageant, but the hint as to the Heralds indicated how
an effect could be produced at small cost.

[Illustration: THE PAGEANT.]

The finest pageant we ever had was arranged by the Festal Series, after
the reorganization. It was historic in design, illustrating the
Elizabethan period in England. Dr. Ripley personated Shakespeare; Miss
Ripley, Queen Elizabeth, in a tissue paper ruff, which I helped to make;
Mr. Dana, Sir Walter Raleigh; Mary Bullard, the most beautiful of our
young women, Mary Queen of Scots, and Charles Hosmer, Sir Philip Sidney.
The programme sent home to mother, at the time, gives a list of the
characters represented but it need not be further quoted here.

The parade was formed on the Knoll and the line of march was up the road
to Pilgrim Hall, over to the Cottage, around the Eyrie, and down the
woodland way to the theater. The whole course was lined with spectators,
coming from Boston and from all the neighboring towns. At the grove a
series of historic tableaux presented the principal personages in
significant pictures, and these were accompanied by Old English ballads
and Shakespearian songs. The finale was a stately minuet, beautifully
danced by four couples. They had been drilled for weeks by Miss Russell
and as she was more than satisfied with the performance, it was, no
doubt, nearly perfect. The audience seemed to be of that mind as they
refused to disperse until the minuet had been repeated.

The following season we had a smaller pageant, the costumed personages
being the characters in Shakespeare's comedy "A Midsummer Night's
Dream." This was the most important play ever given in the grove, and as
an out-door production, it antedated any similar performance in America.
I have seen "A Midsummer Night's Dream" given in the open several times
since, but the magic of the first impression has never again been felt.

With all our love of recreation, there were no sedentary games in our
repertoire. Cards were unknown. The General was said to like a quiet
game of whist in his own room, but if he had a pack of cards, it was
probably the only one on the Farm. There was no prejudice against cards
or chess or any other game so far as I know, but no one cared for any
form of amusement that separated two or four from all the others. I
imagine that even courting, the divine solitude of two, must have been
handicapped by this persistent penchant for all being together.

The spell that drew these sympathetic associates like a magnet was in
great part that charm of the general conversation, the memory of which
still lingers wherever traditions of Brook Farm are cherished. The never
failing succession of entertainments especially in summer were enjoyed
to the full by the happy Farmers, but it was conversation, the mutual
exchange of bright ideas that afforded their chiefest enjoyment. Not
literature, not the drama, not the dance, but the fascination of human
speech in its best employ attracted and held their enthralled attention.
It is impossible to report in writing even the heads of this discourse,
pervading as it did the atmosphere of Brook Farm as currents of
electricity pervade the air in breaths. In a college-student's ditty is
a strain conveying some hint of such parley:

  "We'll sing to-night with hearts as light
  And joys as gay and fleeting
  As the bubbles that swim on the beaker's brim
  And break on the lips at meeting."


The bubbles that break on the lips are past mending. The effervescence
and sparkle of wine can only be known as the glass is filled. The fine
art of conversation can be perfected only by choice spirits whose hearts
are light, whose sprightly wit, gay good humor and alert intelligence
make their utterances almost intoxicating.

Some attempts have been made to chronicle famous Brook Farm
conversations but the best record could hardly be more than a jest book.
The alert sallies and quick retorts, the pat allusions and apt
quotations, the exaggerations, the absurdities, the shrewd witticisms,
the searching satires, the puns and improvised nonsense verses might
possibly have been registered on paper, but the spirit of merriment, of
good fellowship and mutual understanding that made thoughts to live and
words to sing--the spirit of Brook Farm--no snap-shot camera could ever
have caught.

These talks were not all for fun, either. Happy and blithesome, the
Farmers were, at heart, earnestly devoted to purposes held sacred. They
were inspired by high ideals. Noble conceptions and beautiful beliefs
found expression in fitting phrase. Rippling mirth flowed in an
undercurrent of serious, sincere faith and hope and love.

One more matter may be referred to in connection with our recreations,
namely, there was no hunting over our acres. The woods became a refuge
for birds and small game. No gun was ever heard there, and the shyest
creatures learned they were safe, among friends who loved them. Rabbits
excepted. Under Mr. Hosmer's direction we boys trapped rabbits
industriously, not for sport but to prevent them overrunning the place.
From the traps they were transferred to the warren and thence either to
the kitchen or to market.

Gray squirrels troubled us some by raiding the cornfield next the woods
but their depredations were not very extensive. Ex-president Jefferson
had the same trouble at Monticello, the squirrels destroying the outside
rows of his cornfield. His feeble-minded brother conceived the brilliant
idea of checkmating the little robbers by not planting any outside rows.
The Farmers improved on this plan by planting an extra outside row for
the gray thieves to feed on.


CHAPTER VII

THE SCHOOL


Education at Brook Farm began in the kindergarten--only we did not know
it. The word was not in the dictionaries of that period, and Froebel was
yet to be heard of in Massachusetts; but the rudiments of the
kindergarten system were devised and put in practice by our folk in
response to a new demand. The little ones, too old for the nursery and
too young for the school, demanded some adequate provision for their
care while their mothers were at work. In the community the one person
best suited to fill any requirement was directed to the undertaking by
natural selection. This was one of the normal though scarcely recognized
results of the organization of industry Among the many workers there was
always one who could do whatever was to be done better than any of the
others, and to this one, young or old, man or woman, full charge of the
work was given.

[Illustration: A Pioneer Kindergarten]

The one person best qualified to take charge of these toddlers was a
charming young lady, Miss Abby Morton, whose sincere interest in
children invariably gained their young affections. Miss Morton gathered
her group of older babies on the grass or under the elms whenever
weather permitted and at other times in the parlor of Pilgrim Hall. Her
first object was to make them happy and contented, and to this end she
invented and, arranged games and songs and stories, contrived little
incidents and managed little surprises with never failing ingenuity.
Learning as well as teaching, she gradually gave a purposeful bent to
her song-and-dance diversions, making them effective lessons as well as
pleasant pastimes. Health and strength for the growing babies were
promoted by proper exercises, a good carriage and graceful movement of
little arms and legs being duly considered. Polite manners, and the
correct use of language were taught by precept and example. More than
all, the juvenile minds were, directly and indirectly, drilled to
acquire the habit of paying attention.

The power of paying attention, of concentrating the whole force of the
mind on one object, is a native gift. Those who are endowed with this
gift are the men and women destined for high careers. They command
confidence. They are leaders in great undertakings. Success attends
them, humanly speaking, with certainty. There is, also, the faculty of
taking notice, of becoming consciously aware of the impressions received
by the senses. This faculty man shares with the animals below him in the
scale of being, and, in both man and brute, it is susceptible to
cultivation. Training the faculty of observation develops the habit of
paying attention, and this habit, though less efficient than the inborn
gift, may be so confirmed as to become second nature.

Whatever the community accomplished or failed to accomplish, the Brook
Farm School rendered important service in educational progress by
demonstrating the practicability of cultivating the habit of attention.
The teachers in all classes and in all lessons throughout the school
made ceaseless efforts to win and hold attention. This was not
incidental or accidental, but was an integrate part of the educational
plan, intelligently designed and deliberately pursued, with intent to
train the pupils in the practice of concentrating their minds on the one
thing before them until it became a fixed habit.

Years after the Brook Farm School had closed its doors, I was called to
enter another school--the awful school of war. The first word I had to
learn in that school was the command, "Attention!"

Attention means life or death to the soldier; victory or defeat to the
army. In civil life it aids incalculably in promoting prosperity, the
ability to give instant attention to matters coming up for consideration
being one of the first qualifications of the successful business man.
And if he has not such ability originally it may be imparted to him as a
habit, by early training. Miss Morton did not begin too early; and the
teachers who followed her did not persist too earnestly in the endeavor
to impress this habit deeply on the minds of their pupils.

When my own children were beginning to be interested in juvenile
literature, they found great pleasure in reading again and again "The
William Henry Letters" and other stories by Mrs. Abby Morton Diaz. On
making inquiry I was much gratified to learn that Mrs. Diaz was our Abby
Morton of the Brook Farm Kindergarten. It was no wonder she could write
letters and stories appealing to children. Her understanding and her
sympathies brought her in close touch with them. She knew their minds
and their hearts, their likes and their dislikes and what she wrote of
them and for them they accepted, knowing that every word was true to
nature. It is observable too, that in her writings she still holds to
the purpose of illustrating to her young readers the necessity of early
acquiring the habit of paying attention.

Brook Farm was practically an industrial school, though not so named. It
was the first I ever heard of where instruction in the useful arts was
regularly given as a part of the educational course. The fine arts were
not very extensively taught at the time, and all we had was literature,
drawing, music, and dancing. These four studies were very well supplied
with good teachers, everything the school promised to do being well
done, but they were not given nearly so much time as the industrial
arts. Every pupil old enough to work was expected to give two hours
every Monday and Tuesday, and every Thursday and Friday to work under an
instructor in the shops on the farm, in the garden or the household. The
pupils could select their own work and could make a change of occupation
with consent of the instructor. No one was obliged to take the
Industrial course, but very few declined, even the aristocratic
Spaniards taking hold of work like good fellows as they were. Idling was
not in fashion.

I worked, for a while, four hours every day in the week. Cedar was found
competent to act as first assistant to the president--in the cow-stable.
Care of the cow being regarded as a disagreeable duty, Dr. Ripley took
it upon himself, just as Mrs. Ripley took the scrubbing of the kitchen
floor. Mrs. Ripley had other little matters to look after, general
oversight of the girls, teaching Greek, entertaining distinguished
guests, writing clever musical plays for the Festal Series, etc., but
she kept the floor clean all the same.

In my honorable office I succeeded Nathaniel Hawthorne. The president
and Cedar arose at 5 A. M., fed and milked 18 or 20 cows, and cleared up
the stable. We bathed, dressed and breakfasted at 8 A. M. At 9 A. M. Dr.
Ripley was in his office and I in the school room. In the evening two
hours more were given to the cows. I liked the work, liked the cows, and
especially liked to be with Dr. Ripley. His flattering report that Cedar
could milk like a streak secured for me the maximum wage, ten cents an
hour, so that, at twelve years of age or thereabouts I was earning
nearly enough to pay the cost of board and lodging.

The milkers were necessarily late at breakfast and supper and these
meals we took with the waiters, the pleasantest company in the dining
room. Dr. and Mrs. Ripley were charming table companions and the bright
girls were merry as happy children. Perhaps Cedar did not fill
Hawthorne's place quite so well at table as in the stable, but there
were no intimations given to that effect. Making the most of the present
moment was in order. Looking backward was not.

Nathaniel Hawthorne was one of the first members to join the community
and was one of the first to leave it. He thought he could do better than
to spend his time and energy in digging over a manure-pile with a dung
fork. Do better he certainly did, for himself and for the world.

I have been asked more than once if the illustrious, poetic and romantic
Hawthorne did actually feed the pigs at Brook Farm. My answer is that I
do not know as I was not there during his residency, but I think he did
not, my reason for thinking he did not being that there were no pigs to
feed. The suggestion may have arisen from a passage in his Notes when he
speaks of going out with Rev. John Allen to buy a litter of pigs. Minot
Pratt, our head farmer, had some sort of interest in a place across the
brook, and there may have been a pig-pen there, but if there was one on
our place it was unknown to sharp-eyed youngsters who knew every
rabbit-run in the woods, and every swallow's hole in the sand banks.
Many of the farmers were vegetarians and most of them had a Hebraic
aversion to pork. That viand was never seen on the table except with the
baked beans always served on Sunday; Mother Rykeman managing to keep on
hand a supply of middlings for the bean-pot.

Hawthorne cherished kindly memories of Brook Farm and these memories
embodied in the Blithedale Romance show his warm and appreciative
interest in the life of the community. I fail to find anything like the
portrait-painting which others have discovered in the delineations of
Blithedale characters. There are personal traits alluded to suggestive
of Dr. Ripley, of Georgiana Bruce, of Orestes Brownson and others, but
these hints are not definite enough to identify them with the personages
of the book. As to the assumption that Margaret Fuller served as a model
for Zenobia, that seems to me so far fetched as to be near absurdity.

Hawthorne visited Brook Farm occasionally, and I remember seeing him, a
large, handsome man, walking up and down the Knoll or seated under the
big elm, alone. He had not then attained fame and did not attract
attention as a celebrity.

My industrial education was not confined to the cow-stable. At different
times I worked in the green-house with John Codman, in the fields and
meadows with everybody, and in the orchard and tree-nursery with Mr.
Dana. On one occasion teacher and pupil were sitting on the ground,
budding peach-seedlings, when a stranger approached and demanded a
hearing. Gerrish had brought him out and had directed him to Vice
President Dana as the authority he should consult. "Free speech, here,"
said the vice-president, without looking up from his work.

Speaking freely, the visitor announced that his mission was to save
souls, and he had a message of warning to deliver to sinners in danger
of eternal punishment. What he wanted was to have the people called
together that he might exhort them as to the terror of the wrath to
come.

"Our people do not need to be called. They come together every evening
without calling."

"Can I have an opportunity to address them this evening?" asked the
missionary.

"You can," said Mr. Dana, still busy, "but they have a way of not
listening, sometimes. I'll tell you what, if you are able and willing to
preach a sound, old-fashioned, blue-blazes, and brimstone sermon, you
will get an audience. I would like to hear a real scorcher, once more."

