Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Starman's Quest


BOOKS BY ROBERT SILVERBERG

    _Starman's Quest_
    _Revolt on Alpha C_
    _The Thirteenth Immortal_
    _Master of Life and Death_
    _The Shrouded Planet_
      (with Randall Garrett)
    _Invaders from Earth_


                       Starman's
                           Quest

 _by_

 ROBERT
 SILVERBERG


 GNOME PRESS            [Device]

 HICKSVILLE, N. Y.


        Copyright 1958 by Robert Silverberg

        _First Edition. All Rights Reserved_

 _This book, or parts thereof, may not be reproduced
 in any form without permission, except for brief
 quotations in critical articles and reviews._

  Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 58-8767

             MANUFACTURED IN THE U.S.A.


Transcriber's Note:

    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note. Variant
    spellings have been retained.


_Author's Preface_


This was my second novel, which I wrote when I was 19, in my junior year
at Columbia. I've written better ones since. But readers interested in
the archaeology of a writing career will probably find much to explore
here.

                                                       Robert Silverberg
                                                             17 May 2008


 FOR BILL EDGERTON

     1933-1956


_Prologue_


The Lexman Spacedrive was only the second most important theoretical
accomplishment of the exciting years at the dawn of the Space Age, yet
it changed all human history and forever altered the pattern of
sociocultural development on Earth.

Yet it was only the _second_ most important discovery.

The Cavour Hyperdrive unquestionably would have held first rank in any
historical assessment, had the Cavour Hyperdrive ever reached practical
use. The Lexman Spacedrive allows mankind to reach Alpha Centauri, the
closest star with habitable planets, in approximately four and a half
years. The Cavour Hyperdrive--if it ever really existed--would have
brought Alpha C within virtual instantaneous access.

But James Hudson Cavour had been one of those tragic men whose
personalities negate the value of their work. A solitary, cantankerous,
opinionated individual--a crank, in short--he withdrew from humanity to
develop the hyperspace drive, announcing at periodic intervals that he
was approaching success.

A final enigmatic bulletin in the year 2570 indicated to some that
Cavour had achieved his goal or was on the verge of achieving it;
others, less sympathetic, interpreted his last message as a madman's
wild boast. It made little difference which interpretation was accepted.
James Hudson Cavour was never heard from again.

A hard core of passionate believers insisted that he _had_ developed a
faster-than-light drive, that he had succeeded in giving mankind an
instantaneous approach to the stars. But they, like Cavour himself, were
laughed down, and the stars remained distant.

Distant--but not unreachable. The Lexman Spacedrive saw to that.

Lexman and his associates had developed their ionic drive in 2337, after
decades of research. It permitted man to approach, but not to exceed,
the theoretical limiting velocity of the universe: the speed of light.

Ships powered by the Lexman Spacedrive could travel at speeds just
slightly less than the top velocity of 186,000 miles per second. For the
first time, the stars were within man's grasp.

The trip was slow. Even at such fantastic velocities as the Lexman
Spacedrive allowed, it took nine years for a ship to reach even the
nearest of stars, stop, and return; a distant star such as Bellatrix
required a journey lasting two hundred fifteen years each way. But even
this was an improvement over the relatively crude spacedrives then in
use, which made a journey from Earth to Pluto last for many months and
one to the stars almost unthinkable.

The Lexman Spacedrive worked many changes. It gave man the stars. It
brought strange creatures to Earth, strange products, strange languages.

But one necessary factor was involved in slower-than-light interstellar
travel, one which the Cavour drive would have averted: the Fitzgerald
Contraction. Time aboard the great starships that lanced through the
void was contracted; the nine-year trip to Alpha Centauri and back
seemed to last only six weeks to the men on the ship, thanks to the
strange mathematical effects of interstellar travel at high--but not
infinite--speeds.

The results were curious, and in some cases tragic. A crew that had aged
only six weeks would return to find that Earth had grown nine years
older. Customs had changed; new slang words made language
unintelligible.

The inevitable development was the rise of a guild of Spacers, men who
spent their lives flashing between the suns of the universe and who had
little or nothing to do with the planet-bound Earthers left behind.
Spacer and Earther, held apart forever by the inexorable mathematics of
the Fitzgerald Contraction, came to regard each other with a bitter sort
of distaste.

The centuries passed--and the changes worked by the coming of the Lexman
Spacedrive became more pronounced. Only a faster-than-light spacedrive
could break down the ever-widening gulf between Earther and Spacer--and
the faster-than-light drive remained as unattainable a dream as it had
been in the days of James Hudson Cavour.

                                              --_Sociocultural Dynamics_
                                                Leonid Hallman
                                                London, 3876


_Chapter One_


The sound of the morning alarm rang out, four loud hard clear
gong-clangs, and all over the great starship _Valhalla_ the men of the
Crew rolled out of their bunks to begin another day. The great ship had
travelled silently through the endless night of space while they slept,
bringing them closer and closer to the mother world, Earth. The
_Valhalla_ was on the return leg of a journey to Alpha Centauri.

But one man aboard the starship had not waited for the morning alarm.
For Alan Donnell the day had begun several hours before. Restless,
unable to sleep, he had quietly slipped from his cabin in the fore
section, where the unmarried Crewmen lived, and had headed forward to
the main viewscreen, in order to stare at the green planet growing
steadily larger just ahead.

He stood with his arms folded, a tall red-headed figure, long-legged, a
little on the thin side. Today was his seventeenth birthday.

Alan adjusted the fine controls on the viewscreen and brought Earth
into sharper focus. He tried to pick out the continents on the planet
below, struggling to remember his old history lessons. Tutor Henrich
would not be proud of him, he thought.

_That's South America down there_, he decided, after rejecting the
notion that it might be Africa. They had pretty much the same shape, and
it was so hard to remember what Earth's continents looked like when
there were so many other worlds. _But that's South America. And so
that's North America just above it. The place where I was born._

Then the 0800 alarm went off, the four commanding gongs that Alan always
heard as _It's! Time! Wake! Up!_ The starship began to stir into life.
As Alan drew out his Tally and prepared to click off the start of a new
day, he felt a strong hand firmly grasp his shoulder.

"Morning, son."

Alan turned from the viewscreen. He saw the tall, gaunt figure of his
father standing behind him. His father--and the _Valhalla's_ captain.

"Good rising, Captain."

Captain Donnell eyed him curiously. "You've been up a while, Alan. I can
tell. Is there something wrong?"

"Just not sleepy, that's all," Alan said.

"You look troubled about something."

"No, Dad--I'm not," he lied. To cover his confusion he turned his
attention to the little plastic gadget he held in his hand--the Tally.
He punched the stud; the register whirred and came to life.

They are on a region which is frequently very favourably situated
for observation, and could not possibly have been overlooked, for
they are now the most conspicuous objects on that part of the planet.

It is beyond question that they are not only new to us but new to Mars!

The two main canals run in a south-easterly direction from Syrtis
Major, and with them are associated two smaller ones and at least
two new oases; while, from their inter-connection, they are all
clearly parts of one and the same addition to the general canal
system; for they now fit in with the system as though they had
always formed part of it.

These new canals were not only seen and drawn, but several photographs
were taken at different times.

Consider what this great discovery really means! In a region which has
never been anything but a desert during the whole period over which
our observational knowledge of Mars has extended, there are now
strips of land many hundreds of miles in length and miles wide that
have become fertile almost under our very eyes; and this result has
been brought about by the passage through them of water which has
artificially been carried there for the purpose of irrigation!

We know this is so, for what we see is the growth of vegetation; and the
systematic way in which the new canals have been fitted into the existing
canal scheme proves the artificiality of the whole system.

Some sensational statements in the Press have fostered in many minds
the idea that all these hundreds of miles of new canals were
constructed within the very short period of six weeks!

This is altogether wrong. It is the _vegetation_ that has _grown_
in six weeks, in consequence of the turning on of the water to the
irrigation works. We have good scientific reasons for believing
that irrigation works on Mars could be accomplished much quicker
than on the earth; but, as the telescope does not enable us to see
the works, we do not know how long they may have taken to construct.

It may have been months, or years.

We only see the _results_ of the works when actually in operation.

When we consider these works and their results, surely it becomes
impossible to resist the evidence of intelligent design which they
furnish; while if we also remember the very recent development of
these canals, the existence of life upon Mars at the present time
seems to be demonstrated beyond the possibility of reasonable doubt!

In what physical form that life is enshrined even our science must fail
to reveal. Professor Lowell, however, pointed out that the inhabitants
of Mars are not necessarily human beings, but their work clearly
proves that they are beings endowed with a very high degree of
intelligence.

A study of the canal system reveals a marvellous conception marvellously
carried into effect.

Observers at Flagstaff have, therefore, practically seen the
completion of a work which is the creation of intelligent beings
on Mars; and in the remarkable photographs shown we were, so to
speak, able to look upon the results of that work--fertility in a
region which had previously been an arid desert.

The water, as the lecturer remarked, was probably not in all cases conveyed
by means of canals dug out of the soil, but we know that in some way--whether
by canals, or by trunk lines of pipes and smaller subsidiary pipes, or
otherwise--the land has been artificially irrigated and
fertilised by water, which could not possibly have taken the course
it has without being intelligently directed.

Tunnelling would be easy on Mars.

Professor Lowell spoke of these matters in well-weighed and well-chosen
phrases, which carried conviction of his earnestness and sincerity
to the minds of his hearers; and we observed that the audience was
evidently profoundly impressed by the importance of his statements.

This fact seemed to us very significant, as he was addressing one of
the most brilliant assemblies--representing many branches of science--ever
gathered within the walls of the Royal Institution. The numerous photographs
showing the Martian canal lines were projected on to the screen
by a lantern, and thus their convincing evidence was clearly brought
before the whole of that vast audience.

Another very interesting series of photographs showed the coming and going
of the first frost of the season in the antarctic regions of Mars.
This frost was first observed and photographed at Flagstaff on the 16th
November, 1909, and other photographs were taken on the 22nd
of that month.

In connection with these, Professor Lowell quaintly remarked that, "To
chronicle thus the very weather on our neighbour will convince any
one that interplanetary communication has already commenced; and
that, too, after the usual conventional manner by mundane greetings."

Referring to the photographs, it was pointed out that the human eye can
see at least ten times as much as a photograph can show as regards
planetary detail. This, though not generally known, is perfectly true,
and it may be explained thus: We know that in terrestrial photography
the camera will reveal many details which the eye is apt to overlook;
and, by very long exposures, even celestial photography will give
a similar result.

In _planetary_ photography, however, exposures must be very short,
and the picture obtained is so very tiny that it cannot show all that
the eye could see. Under good conditions, therefore, the eye at
the telescope will always see immensely more of the finer details
on a planet than any camera could show.

The great value of the photographs of Mars lies in the fact that they
demonstrate beyond the possibility of doubt the existence of certain
fine markings which many observers have seen and drawn, but as to the
reality of which others, less skilled or less favourably situated,
have been extremely sceptical.

If the fine lines had no existence on the planet they could not be
photographed.

In drawing attention to the details on these photographs Professor
Lowell emphatically declared that, "The lines you see are
'_certainties_,' not matters admitting of the slightest question,
for all their strange regularity.

Not only I, but all my assistants, have seen them thousands
of times the same, and sometimes with all the clearness and sharpness
of etchings or steel engravings.

"An optical mistake," he then remarked, "which has latterly been
hailed as showing that the lines were not lines but a series of dots,
was made the other day in France. The observer saw perfectly
correctly, but one with knowledge of the optics of a telescope
should have known that the effect observed was the inevitable result
of using an aperture which the seeing did not warrant; as he could
easily have assured himself by looking at the shattered rings round
the synchronous image of a star."

It may here be pointed out that these weighty and well-considered
declarations--which are a complete answer to M.

Antoniadi's bold claim--were made by the most experienced observer of Mars,
who, as even his opponents admit, possesses the finest site in the
world for his astronomical work, and is equipped with a very perfect
instrument.

Besides the splendid photographs of Mars, many views of Jupiter and
Saturn were shown, exhibiting clearly numerous fine details, markings,
and wisps as to which much doubt had been expressed when some
observers had shown them on their drawings.

These beautiful and convincing results of the clever and original
methods of planetary photography adopted at Flagstaff appeared to
come as a complete revelation to the majority of those present,
notwithstanding their scientific experience.

       Probably never before had anything so wonderful as these results
of skill, patience, and prolonged research been exhibited, even in
that great and historic home of science.

As Professor Lowell remarked in a fine peroration: "They exhibited
something of the advance recently achieved in our knowledge of solar
science; on the other hand, they constituted in themselves the
beginning of a set of records in which the future of the planet
might be confronted with its achieved past, and which should endure
after those who first conceived such registry had long passed
away....

They were histories of the planets written by themselves--their
autobiographies penned by light; and in their grand historical
portrait-gallery astronomers yet to come might see the earlier stages of
the great cosmic drama which was slowly but surely working itself
out!"
At the conclusion of this most interesting lecture M'Allister turned
to me and said, "How I wish our old friend the Professor could have
been here to-night; he would have keenly appreciated what we have
heard."

"Yes, he would indeed," I answered; "but remember, he knows more
now than any one we see here could tell him about Martian matters!"

Before concluding, it may be of interest to state that Professor Lowell
still maintains the accuracy of the discovery made at Flagstaff
that the existence of water vapour on Mars is demonstrated by the
photographic spectrum of the Martian atmosphere; and he asserts
that the attempt to disprove it has failed.

A further discovery has since been made at the same observatory,
viz. that oxygen also is present in the atmosphere of Mars!

During the observations in 1909 several observers noted that, at times,
very large areas on the surface of Mars had been so obscured by a yellowish
veiling that all details were entirely blotted out. The announcement
of this fact gave rise to sensational statements that a terrible catastrophe
had occurred on the planet.

The explanation is, however, very simple--seasonal mists arising
from the canals, with the addition of clouds of sand particles in
the upper air, as the result of desert sandstorms, caused a temporary
obscuration of certain parts of the planet as viewed from the earth.

Only this, and nothing more!

We have been interested to note that an English observer, the Rev.
Theodore E.R. Phillips, has observed some new details on Mars in the
region where the new canals were discovered.

Mr. Phillips has in past years given considerable attention
to this region, and observed several changes in the Lacus Moeris,
to the east of Syrtis Major.

The lake disappeared altogether for some considerable time, then
reappeared. Last September he saw it again, and it was evident
some further changes had occurred; and he also saw some dusky
shadings on the adjacent desert of Lybia.

There seems little doubt but that he actually saw, though imperfectly,
the new canals which Professor Lowell's much clearer atmosphere and
larger instrument enabled him to see clearly.

From what has been related in the last few pages it will be seen that
many of the forecasts, as set forth in this book by our old friend the
Professor, and his statements as to the Martians being actively
engaged in altering, extending, and developing their canal system,
have been amply verified by the observations of our astronomers;
and I am confident that his other prognostications will also be
fulfilled in course of time.

Turning now from scientific matters to others affecting ourselves
personally, I may say that I have heard nothing more of my cousins
the Snayleyes; and, after the failure of their mean attempt upon
my liberty and fortune, it is not likely that I shall again be
troubled by them, for they will naturally take good care to keep
out of my way.

As the days and weeks pass by I often think of those we left behind upon
that far distant world: wondering how they are faring, and whether
they have attempted to transmit any influences or communications
to us, for up to the present we have not been conscious of any such
influences.

Kenneth M'Allister is a thoroughly happy man, as he is working for his
own benefit, congenially and fully occupied with matters connected
with his beloved machinery.

He is on the high road to making a very large fortune; indeed, we are both
doing remarkably well, and are, therefore, able to give financial
aid to many projects in which we are interested, having for their
objects the uplifting of the people, and the improvement of social
conditions generally.

It was only yesterday that M'Allister remarked to me, "Heh, mon, if we
continue to go ahead at the same rate as we are going now, we shall
both be millionaires before very long!"

Yes, we are doing well--there is no doubt about that; but, notwithstanding
my present very satisfactory circumstances and the certainty of a
brilliant future if I stay here, ideas have long and persistently been
running in my mind that it would be far better for me to go back
to Mars, and--by Jove!

strange indeed that I never thought of it before!--perhaps those very
persistent ideas are actually the outcome of Martian influences!!

The wonderful music I heard upon Mars still rings in my ears; and,
at times, so thrilling and peculiar is its effect upon me, that I
feel as though I were being almost irresistibly impelled to return
to that planet.

Well, I should very much like to see the dear old Professor and Merna
again, and also my many Martian friends. Then there's Siloni, whom I
can never forget, for mentally her image is ever before me. What a nice
girl she was!

If I were to return to Mars, I wonder whether----?

Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO Edinburgh & London 

FOOTNOTES:
[1] The exact diameters of the planets are difficult to measure
owing to irradiation, and estimates of various authorities differ,
especially with regard to the more distant planets

.

[2] Most probably the larger planets possess satellites which have yet
to be discovered.

[3] It is not yet ascertained with certainty whether Mercury and
Venus rotate in about twenty-four hours, or whether the period is
the same as that of their revolution round the sun.

The evidence seems to point to the latter period.

[4] The "terminator" is the boundary between the lighted and the
dark portion of the disc

.

[5] Those who have seen the undercliff in the Isle of Wight will be
able to form some idea of the terraces of the lunar ring-mountains, as
they are very similar formations.

[6] This is the case as regards separate satellites; but it may be
pointed out that a similar thing must occur in regard to the rings
of Saturn.

The rings are composed of swarms of satellites so small that they
can only be termed particles, and these particles at the inner edge
of the "crape ring" revolve round Saturn in 5 hours and 33 minutes,
the inner edge of the ring being only about 47,000 miles from the
centre of the planet.

The planet itself revolves on its axis in 10-1/4 hours.
Thus, an immense number of these minute satellites must revolve round
the planet in less time than it takes the planet to make one rotation.
It is calculated that the particles in the outer edge of the next
ring complete one revolution round the planet in 14 hours and 28
seconds.

THE SCIENCE OF TO-DAY SERIES
_With many Illustrations. Extra Crown 8vo. 5s. net._

AERIAL NAVIGATION OF TO-DAY. A Popular Account of the Evolution of
Aeronautics. By CHARLES C. TURNER.

"If ever the publication of a book was well timed, surely it is the case
with this book on aviation.... Of the technical chapters we need only
say that they are so simply written as to present no grave
difficulties to the beginner who is equipped with an average
education."

--_Globe._

BOTANY OF TO-DAY.

A Popular Account of the Evolution of Modern Botany.

By Prof. G.F. SCOTT-ELLIOT, M.A., B.Sc., Author of "The Romance of Plant
Life," _&c. &c._
"This most entertaining and instructive book.

It is the fruit of wide reading and much patient
industry."

--_Globe._

SCIENTIFIC IDEAS OF TO-DAY. A Popular Account, in Non-technical Language,
of the Nature of Matter, Electricity, Light, Heat, Electrons, _&c.
&c._ By CHARLES R. GIBSON, A.I.E.E., Author of "Electricity of To-Day,"
_&c._
"As a knowledgeable writer, gifted with the power of imparting what
he knows in a manner intelligible to all, Mr.

C.R. Gibson has established a well-deserved reputation."--_Field._

ASTRONOMY OF TO-DAY. A Popular Introduction in Non-technical Language.
By CECIL G. DOLMAGE, LL.D., F.R.A.S. "With frontispiece in colours, &
45 other illustrations.

"A lucid exposition much helped by abundant illustrations."--_The
Times._
"From cover to cover the book is readable, and every word is intelligible
to the layman. Dr. Dolmage displays literary powers of a very high
order.

Those who read it without any previous knowledge of astronomy will
find that a new interest has been added to their lives, and that
in a matter of 350 pages they have gained a true conception of the
meaning of astronomy."

--_The Standard._

ELECTRICITY OF TO-DAY. Its Work and Mysteries Explained. By CHARLES R.
GIBSON, A.I.E.E.

"Mr. Gibson has given us one of the best examples of popular scientific
exposition that we remember seeing.

His aim has been to produce an account of the chief modern applications
of electricity without using technical language or making any
statements which are beyond the comprehension of any reader of
ordinary intelligence.

In this he has succeeded to admiration, and his book may be strongly
commended to all who wish to realise what electricity means and does
in our daily life."--_The Tribune._
SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

POPULAR SCIENCE

THE GREAT WORLD'S FARM. Some Account of Nature's Crops and How they
are Grown.

By SELINA GAYE. With a Preface by Professor BOULGER.
With Sixteen Illustrations. Second Edition, 5s.

"A fascinating volume of popular science."--_Times._

SUN, MOON, AND STARS. A Book on Astronomy for Beginners.

By AGNES GIBERNE. With Coloured Illustrations. Twenty-eighth
Thousand.
Revised. 5s.

THE WORLD'S FOUNDATIONS. Geology for Beginners. By AGNES GIBERNE.
With Illustrations. Seventh Thousand. 5s.

"The exposition is clear; the style simple and attractive."

--_Spectator._

THE OCEAN OF AIR. Meteorology for Beginners. By AGNES GIBERNE.

With Illustrations. Fifth Thousand. 5s.

"Miss Giberne can be accurate without being formidable, and unites
a keen sense of the difficulties of beginners to a full comprehension
of the matter in hand."

--_Saturday Review._

AMONG THE STARS; or, Wonderful Things in the Sky. By AGNES GIBERNE.

With Coloured Illustrations.

Tenth Thousand. Revised. 5s.

"An attempt to teach astronomy to small children ... it is very well
done."--_Saturday Review._

THE STORY OF THE HILLS: A Popular Account of Mountains and How they were
Made. By the Rev. H.N.

HUTCHINSON, F.G.S. With many Illustrations. 5s.

"A charmingly written and beautifully illustrated account of the
making of the mountains."

--_Yorkshire Post._

THE ROMANCE OF THE MIGHTY DEEP. By AGNES GIBERNE. Second Edition.
With Illustrations. 5s.

"Agnes Giberne is always picturesque and interesting whether she writes
of the stars or of the depths of the ocean."--_Illustrated London
News._
SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

THE ROMANCE OF MODERN PHOTOGRAPHY
ITS DISCOVERY & ITS ACHIEVEMENTS

BY C.R. GIBSON
AUTHOR OF "ELECTRICITY OF TO-DAY," ETC.

"Mr. Gibson tells the romantic story of the discovery of this wonderful
art, and the steps by which its range has been extended, until it
can achieve results which only a few years ago would have been
thought impossible."

--_Newcastle Chronicle._
"The explanation of the complicated system of photographing in colours
is particularly lucid, and, indeed, the narrative is everywhere
remarkable for its fluency and clear style."--_Bystander._
"Should prove one of the most popular and fascinating of this writer's
books, and will interest all who are connected with photography."--_The
Photographic Monthly._
"A fascinating story of triumphs of thought and patience, and
illustrated with remarkable photographs."

--_Church Times._
"The author has made his book remarkably comprehensive, while there
is not a dry or uninteresting page throughout."

--_Country Life._

THE ROMANCE OF MODERN GEOLOGY
BY E.S. GREW, M.A.

_With Twenty-five Illustrations. Extra Crown 8vo. 5s._

"Mr.

Grew possesses the golden gift of a graceful style as well as a complete
mastery of his subject, and he has written a popular introduction to
modern geology which any one can read with pleasure and understand
from beginning to end."

--_Daily Graphic._
"A fascinating outline filled in with many valuable facts and much
well-founded knowledge of the history and animal life of the
earth."--_Sheffield Daily Telegraph._ 
"Mr.

       Grew has done extremely good work in this volume of Messrs.

Seeley's excellent 'Library of Romance.' He is one of the few men who
can make special knowledge interesting to the general reader.... The
illustrations are singularly felicitous."

--_Daily Telegraph._
SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

THE ROMANCE OF THE ANIMAL WORLD
DESCRIBING THE CURIOUS AND INTERESTING IN NATURAL HISTORY
BY EDMUND SELOUS
_With Sixteen full-page Illustrations_

"Mr. Selous takes a wide range in Nature, he has seen many wonders which
he relates.

Open the book where we will we find something astonishing."--_Spectator._

"It is in truth a most fascinating book, as full of incidents and
as various in interest as any other work of imagination, and, beyond
the pleasure in the reading there is the satisfaction of knowing
that one is in the hands of a genuine authority on some of the most
picturesque subjects that natural history affords.

Mr. Selous' method is strong, safe, and sound. The volume has numerous
illustrations of a high order of workmanship and a handsome binding
of striking design."
Alan wondered if the _Valhalla_ would run into any inspection problems.
The schedule called for departure for Procyon in six days, and the ship
would as usual be carrying a party of colonists.

The schedule was pretty much of a sacred thing. But Alan had not
forgotten his brother Steve. If he only had a few days to get out there
and maybe find him----

Well, I'll see, he thought. He relaxed.

But relaxation was brief. A familiar high-pitched voice cut suddenly
into his consciousness. _Oh, oh_, he thought. _Here comes trouble._

"How come you've cut jets, spaceman?"

Alan opened one eye and stared balefully at the skinny figure of Judy
Collier. "I've finished my job, that's how come. And I've been trying to
get a little rest. Any objections?"

She held up her hands and looked around the big recreation room
nervously. "Okay, don't shoot. Where's that animal of yours?"

"Rat? Don't worry about him. He's in my cabin, chewing his
nibbling-stick. I can assure you it tastes a lot better to him than your
bony ankles." Alan yawned deliberately. "Now how about letting me rest?"

She looked wounded. "If you _want_ it that way. I just thought I'd tell
you about the doings in the Enclave when we land. There's been a change
in the regulations since the last time we were here. But you wouldn't be
interested, of course." She started to mince away.

"Hey, wait a minute!" Judy's father was the _Valhalla's_ Chief Signal
Officer, and she generally had news from a planet they were landing on
a lot quicker than anyone else. "What's this all about?"

"A new quarantine regulation. They passed it two years ago when a ship
back from Altair landed and the crew turned out to be loaded with some
sort of weird disease. We have to stay isolated even from the other
starmen in the Enclave until we've all had medical checkups."

"Do they require every ship landing to go through this?"

"Yep. Nuisance, isn't it? So the word has come from your father that
since we can't go round visiting until we've been checked, the Crew's
going to have a dance tonight when we touch down."

"A dance?"

"You heard me. He thought it might be a nice idea--just to keep our
spirits up until the quarantine's lifted. That nasty Roger Bond has
invited me," she added, with a raised eyebrow that was supposed to be
sophisticated-looking.

"What's wrong with Roger? I just spent a whole afternoon crating
dinosaur meat with him."

"Oh, he's--well--he just doesn't _do_ anything to me."

I'd like to do something to you, Alan thought. Something lingering, with
boiling oil in it.

"Did you accept?" he asked, just to be polite.

"Of course not! Not _yet_, that is. I just thought I might get some more
interesting offers, that's all," she said archly.

_Oh, I see the game_, Alan thought. _She's looking for an invitation._
He stretched way back and slowly let his eyes droop closed. "I wish you
luck," he said.

She gaped at him. "Oh--you're _horrible_!"

"I know," he admitted coolly. "I'm actually a Neptunian mudworm,
completely devoid of emotions. I'm here in disguise to destroy the
Earth, and if you reveal my secret I'll eat you alive."

She ignored his sally and shook her head. "But why do I always have to
go to dances with Roger Bond?" she asked plaintively. "Oh, well. Never
mind," she said, and turned away.

He watched her as she crossed the recreation room floor and stepped
through the exit sphincter. She was just a silly girl, of course, but
she had pointed up a very real problem of starship life when she asked,
"_Why do I always have to go to dances with Roger Bond?_"

The _Valhalla_ was practically a self-contained universe. The Crew was
permanent; no one ever left, unless it was to jump ship the way Steve
had--and Steve was the only Crewman in the _Valhalla's_ history to do
that. And no one new ever came aboard, except in the case of the
infrequent changes of personnel. Judy Collier herself was one of the
newest members of the Crew, and her family had come aboard five ship
years ago, because a replacement signal officer had been needed.

Otherwise, things remained the same. Two or three dozen families, a few
hundred people, living together year in and year out. No wonder Judy
Collier always had to go to dances with Roger Bond. The actual range of
eligibles was terribly limited.

That was why Steve had gone over the hill. What was it he had said? _I
feel the walls of the ship holding me in like the bars of a cell._ Out
there was Earth, population approximately eight billion or so. And up
here is the _Valhalla_, current population precisely 176.

He knew all 176 of them like members of his own family--which they
were, in a sense. There was nothing mysterious about anyone, nothing
new.

And that was what Steve had wanted: something new. So he had jumped
ship. Well, Alan thought, development of a hyperdrive would change the
whole setup, if--if----

He hardly found the quarantine to his liking either. The starmen had
only a brief stay on Earth, with just the shortest opportunity to go
down to the Enclave, mingle with starmen from other ships, see a new
face, trade news of the starways. It was almost criminal to deprive them
of even a few hours of it.

Well, a dance was the second best thing. But it was a pretty distant
second, he thought, as he pushed himself up out of the pneumochair.

He looked across the recreation room. _Speak of the devil_, he thought.
There was Roger Bond now, stretched out and resting too under a
radiotherm lamp. Alan walked over to him.

"Heard the sad news, Rog?"

"About the quarantine? Yeah." Roger glanced at his wristchron. "Guess
I'd better start getting spruced up for the dance," he said, getting to
his feet. He was a short, good-looking, dark-haired boy a year younger
than Alan.

"Going with anyone special?"

Roger shook his head. "Who, special? Who, I ask you? I'm going to take
skinny Judy Collier, I guess. There's not much choice, is there?"

"No," Alan agreed sadly, "Not much choice at all."

Together they left the recreation room. Alan felt a strange sort of
hopeless boredom spreading over him, as if he had entered a gray fog. It
worried him.

"See you tonight," Roger said.

"I suppose so," Alan returned dully. He was frowning.


_Chapter Three_


The _Valhalla_ touched down on Earth at 1753 on the nose, to nobody's
very great surprise. Captain Mark Donnell had not missed schedule once
in his forty ship years in space, which covered a span of over a
thousand years of Earth's history.

Landing procedure was rigidly set. The Crew debarked by family, in order
of signing-on; the only exception to the order was Alan. As a member of
the Captain's family--the only other member, now--he had to wait till
the rest of the ship was cleared. But his turn came eventually.

"Solid ground again, Rat!" They stood on the jet-fused dirt field where
the _Valhalla_ had landed. The great golden-hulled starship was reared
up on its tail, with its huge landing buttresses flaring out at each
side to keep it propped up.

"Solid for _you_, maybe," Rat said. "But the trip's just as wobbly as
ever for me, riding up here on your shoulder."

Captain Donnell's shrill whistle sounded, and he cupped his hands to
call out, "The copters are here!"

Alan watched the little squadron of gray jetcopters settle to the
ground, rotors slowing, and headed forward along with the rest of the
Crew. The copters would take them from the bare landing field of the
spaceport to the Enclave, where they would spend the next six days.

The Captain was supervising the loading of the copters. Alan sauntered
over to him.

"Where to, son?"

"I'm scheduled to go over in Copter One."

"Uh-uh. I've changed the schedule." Captain Donnell turned away and
signalled to the waiting crew members. "Okay, go ahead and fill up
Copter One!"

They filed aboard. "Everyone get back," the Captain yelled. A tentative
_chugg-chuff_ came from the copter; its rotors went round and it lifted,
stood poised for a moment on its jetwash, and shot off northward toward
the Starmen's Enclave.

"What's this about a change in schedule, Dad?"

"I want you to ride over with me in the two-man copter. Kandin took your
place aboard Copter One. Let's go now," he shouted to the next group.
"Start loading up Number Two."

The Crewmen began taking their places aboard the second copter, and soon
its pilot signalled through the fore window that he was loaded up. The
copter departed. Seeing that he would be leaving the field last, Alan
made himself useful by keeping the younger Crew children from wandering.

At last the field was cleared. Only Alan and his father remained, with
the little two-man copter and the tall gleaming _Valhalla_ behind them.

"Let's go," the Captain said. They climbed in, Alan strapping himself
down in the co-pilot's chair and his father back of the controls.

"I never see much of you these days," the Captain said after they were
aloft. "Running the _Valhalla_ seems to take twenty-four hours a day."

"I know how it is," Alan said.

After a while Captain Donnell said, "I see you're still reading that
Cavour book." He chuckled. "Still haven't given up the idea of finding
the hyperdrive, have you?"

"You know I haven't, Dad. I'm sure Cavour really did work it out, before
he disappeared. If we could only discover his notebook, or even a letter
or something that could get us back on the trail----"

"It's been thirteen hundred years since Cavour disappeared, Alan. If
nothing of his has turned up in all that time, it's not likely ever to
show. But I hope you keep at it, anyway." He banked the copter and cut
the jets; the rotors took over and gently lowered the craft to the
distant landing field.

Alan looked down and out at the heap of buildings becoming visible
below. The crazy quilt of outdated, clumsy old buildings that was the
local Starmen's Enclave.

He felt a twinge of surprise at his father's words. The Captain had
never shown any serious interest in the possibility of faster-than-light
travel before. He had always regarded the whole idea as sheer fantasy.

"I don't get it, Dad. Why do you hope I keep at it? If I ever find what
I'm looking for, it's going to mean the end of Starman life as you know
it. Travel between planets will be instantaneous. There--there won't be
this business of making jumps and getting separated from everyone you
used to know."

"You're right. I've just begun thinking seriously about this business
of hyperdrive. There wouldn't be any Contraction effect. Think of the
changes it would mean in Starman society! No more--no more permanent
separations if someone decides to leave his ship for a while."

Alan understood what his father meant. Suddenly he saw the reason for
Captain Donnell's abrupt growth of interest in the development of a
hyperdrive.

_It's Steve that's on his mind_, Alan thought. _If we had had a
hyperspace drive and Steve had done what he did, it wouldn't have
mattered. He'd still be my age._

Now the _Valhalla_ was about to journey to Procyon. Another twenty years
would pass before it got back, and Steve would be almost fifty by then.

That's what's on his mind, Alan thought. He lost Steve forever--but he
doesn't want any more Steves to happen. The Contraction took one of his
sons away. And now he wants the hyperdrive as much as I do.

Alan glanced at the stiff, erect figure of his father as they clambered
out of the copter and headed at a fast clip toward the Administration
Building of the Enclave. He wondered just how much pain and anguish his
father was keeping hidden back of that brisk, efficient exterior.

_I'll get the Cavour drive someday_, Alan thought suddenly. _And I'll be
getting it for him as well as me._

The bizarre buildings of the Enclave loomed up before him. Behind them,
just visible in the purplish twilight haze, were the tips of the shining
towers of the Earther city outside. Somewhere out there, probably, was
Steve.

_I'll find him too_, Alan thought firmly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Most of the _Valhalla's_ people had already been assigned rooms in the
quarantine section of one of the Enclave buildings when Alan and his
father arrived.

The bored-looking desk clerk--a withered-looking oldster who was
probably a retired Starman--gave Alan his room number. It turned out to
be a small, squarish room furnished with an immense old pneumochair long
since deflated, a cot, and a washstand. The wall was a dull green, with
gaping cracks in the faded paint, and cut heavily with a penknife into
one wall was the inscription, BILL DANSERT SLEPT HERE, _June 28 2683_ in
sturdy block letters.

Alan wondered how many other starmen had occupied the room before and
after Bill Dansert. He wondered whether perhaps Bill Dansert himself
were still alive somewhere between the stars, twelve centuries after he
had left his name in the wall.

He dropped himself into the pneumochair, feeling the soggy squish of the
deflated cushion, and loosened the jacket of his uniform.

"It's not luxurious," he told Rat. "But at least it's a room. It's a
place to stay."

The medics started coming around that evening, checking to see that none
of the newly-arrived starmen had happened to bring back any strange
disease that might cause trouble. It was slow work--and the _Valhalla_
people were told that it would take at least until the following morning
before the quarantine could be lifted.

"Just a precautionary measure," said the medic apologetically as he
entered Alan's room clad in a space helmet. "We really learned our
lesson when that shipload from Altair came in bearing a plague."

The medic produced a small camera and focused it on Alan. He pressed a
button; a droning sort of hum came from the machine. Alan felt a curious
glow of warmth.

"Just a routine check," the medic apologized again. He flipped a lever
in the back of the camera. Abruptly the droning stopped and a tape
unravelled out of the side of the machine. The medic studied it.

"Any trouble?" Alan asked anxiously.

"Looks okay to me. But you might get that cavity in your upper right
wisdom tooth taken care of. Otherwise you seem in good shape."

He rolled up the tape. "Don't you starmen ever get time for a fluorine
treatment? Some of you have the worst teeth I've ever seen."

"We haven't had a chance for fluorination yet. Our ship was built before
they started fluorinating the water supplies, and somehow we never find
time to take the treatment while we're on Earth. But is that all that's
wrong with me?"

"All that I can spot just by examining the diagnostic tape. We'll have
to wait for the full lab report to come through before I can pass you
out of quarantine, of course." Then he noticed Rat perched in the
corner. "How about that? I'll have to examine it, too."

"I'm not an _it_," Rat remarked with icy dignity. "I'm an intelligent
extra-terrestrial entity, native of Bellatrix VII. And I'm not carrying
any particular diseases that would interest you."

"A talking rat!" The medic was amazed. "Next thing we'll have sentient
amebas!" He aimed the camera at Rat. "I suppose I'll have to record you
as a member of the crew," he said, as the camera began to hum.

After the medic had gone, Alan tried to freshen up at the washstand,
having suddenly recalled that a dance was on tap for this evening.

As he wearily went through the motions of scrubbing his face clean, it
occurred to him that he had not even bothered to speak to one of the
seven or eight Crew girls he had considered inviting.

He sensed a curious disturbed feeling growing inside him. He felt
depressed. Was this, he wondered, what Steve had gone through? The wish
to get out of this tin can of a ship and really see the universe?

"Tell me, Rat. If you were me----"

"If I were you I'd get dressed for that dance," Rat said sharply. "If
you've got a date, that is."

"That's just the point. I _don't_ have a date. I mean, I didn't bother
to make one. I know all those girls so well. Why bother?"

"So you're not going to the dance?"

"Nope."

Rat clambered up the arm of the pneumochair and swivelled his head
upward till his glittering little eyes met Alan's. "You're not planning
to go over the hill the way Steve did, are you? I can spot the symptoms.
You look restless and fidgety the way your brother did."

After a moment of silence Alan shook his head. "No. I couldn't do that,
Rat. Steve was the wild kind. I'd never be able just to get up and go,
the way he did. But I've got to do _something_. I know what he meant. He
said the walls of the ship were pressing in on him. Holding him back."

With a sudden impatient motion he ripped open the magnesnaps of his
regulation shirt and took it off. He felt himself changing, inside.
Something was happening to him. Maybe, he thought, he was catching
whatever it was Steve had been inflamed by. Maybe he had been lying to
himself all along, about being different in makeup from Steve.

"Go tell the Captain I'm not going to the dance," he ordered Rat.
"Otherwise he'll wonder where I am. Tell him--tell him I'm too tired, or
something. Tell him anything. But don't let him find out how I feel."


_Chapter Four_


The next morning, Roger Bond told him all about the dance.

"It was the dullest thing you could imagine. Same old people, same dusty
old dances. Couple of people asked me where you were, but I didn't tell
them anything."

"Good."

They wandered on through the heap of old, ugly buildings that composed
the Starmen's Enclave. "It's just as well they think I was sick," Alan
said. "I was, anyway. Sick from boredom."

He and Roger sat down carefully on the edge of a crumbling stone bench.
They said nothing, just looking around. After a long while Alan broke
the uncomfortable silence.

"You know what this place is? It's a ghetto. A self-imposed ghetto.
Starmen are scared silly of going out into the Earther cities, so they
keep themselves penned up in this filthy place instead."

"This place is really old. I wonder how far back those run-down
buildings date."

"Thousand years, maybe more. No one ever bothers to build new ones. What
for? The starmen don't mind living in the old ones."

"I almost wish the medical clearance hadn't come through after all,"
said Roger moodily.

"How so?"

"Then we'd be still quarantined up there. We wouldn't be able to come
down and get another look at the kind of place this really is."

"I don't know which is worse--to be cooped up in quarantine or to go
wandering around a dismal hole like the Enclave." Alan stood up,
stretched, and took a deep breath. "Phew! Get a lungful of that sweet,
fresh, allegedly pure Terran air! I'll take ship atmosphere, stale as it
is, any time over this smoggy soup."

"I'll go along with that. Say, look--a strange face!"

Alan turned and saw a young starman of about his own age coming toward
them. He wore a red uniform with gray trim instead of the
orange-and-blue of the _Valhalla_.

"Welcome, newcomers. I suppose you're from that ship that just put down?
The _Valhalla_?"

"Right. Name's Alan Donnell, and this is Roger Bond. Yours?"

"I'm Kevin Quantrell." He was short and stocky, heavily tanned, with a
square jaw and a confident look about him. "I'm out of the starship
_Encounter_, just back from the Aldebaran system. Been in the Enclave
two weeks now--with a lot more ahead of me."

Alan whistled. "Aldebaran! That's--let's see, 109 years round trip. You
must be a real old-timer, Quantrell!"

"I was born in 3403. Makes me 473 years old, Earthtime. But I'm
actually only seventeen and a half. Right before Aldebaran we made a hop
to Capella, and that used up 85 years more in a hurry."

"You've got me by 170 years," Alan said. "But I'm only seventeen
myself."

Quantrell grinned cockily. "It's a good thing some guy thought up this
Tally system of chalking up every real day you live through. Otherwise
we'd be up to here in confusion all the time."

He leaned boredly against the wall of a rickety building which once had
proudly borne the chrome-steel casing characteristic of early 27th
Century architecture, but whose outer surface was now brown and scaly
from rust. "What do you think of our little paradise?" Quantrell asked
sarcastically. "Certainly puts the Earther cities to shame."

He pointed out across the river, where the tall, glistening buildings of
the adjoining Earther city shone in the morning sunlight.

"Have you ever been out there?" Alan asked.

"No," Quantrell said in a tight voice. "But if this keeps up much
longer----" He clenched and unclenched his fists impatiently.

"What's the trouble?"

"It's my ship--the _Encounter_. We were outspace over a century, you
know, and when we got back the inspection teams found so many things
wrong with the ship that she needs just about a complete overhauling.
They've been working her over for the last two weeks, and the way it
looks it'll be another couple of weeks before she's ready to go. And I
don't know how much longer I can stand being penned up in this
Enclave."

"That's exactly how your brother----" Roger started to say, and stopped.
"Sorry."

"That's okay," Alan said.

Quantrell cocked an eye. "What's that?"

"My brother. I had a twin, but he got restless and jumped ship last time
we were down. He got left behind at blastoff time."

Quantrell nodded understandingly. "Too bad. But I know what he was up
against--and I envy the lucky so-and-so. I wish _I_ had the guts to just
walk out like that. Every day that goes by in this place, I say I'm
going over the hill next day. But I never do, somehow. I just sit here
and wait."

Alan glanced down the quiet sun-warmed street. Here and there a couple
of venerable-looking starmen were sitting, swapping stories of their
youth--a youth that had been a thousand years before. The Enclave, Alan
thought, is a place for old men.

They walked on for a while until the buzzing neon signs of a feelie
theater were visible. "I'm going in," Roger said. "This place is
starting to depress me. You?"

Alan shot a glance at Quantrell, who made a face and shook his head. "I
guess I'll skip it," Alan said. "Not just now."

"Count me out too," Quantrell said.

Roger looked sourly from one to the other, and shrugged. "I think I'll
go all the same. I'm in the mood for a good show. See you around, Alan."

After Roger left them, Alan and Quantrell walked on through the Enclave
together. Alan wondered whether it wasn't a good idea to have gone to
the feelie with Roger after all; the Enclave was starting to depress
him, too, and those three-dimensional shows had a way of taking your
mind off things.

But he was curious about Quantrell. It wasn't often he had a chance to
talk with someone his own age from another ship. "You know," he said,
"we starmen lead an empty life. You don't get to realize it until you
come to the Enclave."

"I decided that a long time ago," Quantrell said.

Alan spread his hands. "What do we do? We dash back and forth through
space, and we huddle here in the Enclave. And we don't like either one
or the other, but we fool ourselves into liking them. When we're in
space we can't wait to get to the Enclave, and once we're down here we
can't wait to get back. Some life."

"Got any suggestions? Some way of fixing things up for us without
queering interstellar commerce?"

"Yes," Alan snapped. "I do have a suggestion. Hyperspace drive!"

Quantrell laughed harshly. "Of all the cockeyed----"

"There you are," Alan said angrily. "First thing you do is laugh. A
spacewarp drive is just some hairbrained scheme to you. But haven't you
ever considered that Earth's scientists won't bother developing such a
drive for us if we don't care ourselves? They're just as happy the way
things are. _They_ don't have to worry about the Fitzgerald
Contraction."

"But there's been steady research on a hyperdrive, hasn't there? Ever
since Cavour, I thought."

"On and off. But they don't take it very seriously and they don't get
anywhere with it. If they'd really put some men to work they'd find
it--and then there wouldn't be any more Enclaves or any Fitzgerald
Contraction, and we starmen could live normal lives."

"And your brother--he wouldn't be cut off from his people the way he
is----"

"Sure. But you laughed instead of thinking."

Quantrell looked contrite. "Sorry. Guess I didn't put much jet behind my
think-machine that time. But a hyperdrive would wipe out the Enclave
system, wouldn't it?"

"Of course! We'd be able to come home from space and take a normal part
in Earth's life, instead of pulling away and segregating ourselves
here."

Alan looked up at the seemingly unreachable towers of the Earther city
just across the river from the Enclave. Somewhere out there was Steve.
And perhaps somewhere out there was someone he could talk to about the
hyperdrive, someone influential who might spur the needed research.

The Earther city seemed to be calling to him. It was a voice that was
hard to resist. He savagely jammed down deep inside him the tiny inner
voice that was trying to object. He turned, looking backward at the
dingy dreary buildings of the Enclave.

He looked then at Quantrell. "You said you've been wanting to break
loose. You want to get out of the Enclave, eh, Kevin?"

"Yes," Quantrell said slowly.

Alan felt excitement beginning to pound hard in the pit of his stomach.
"How'd you like to go outside there with me? See the Earther city?"

"You mean _jump ship_?"

The naked words, put just that bluntly, stung. "No," Alan said, thinking
of how his father's face had gone stony the time Alan had told him Steve
wasn't coming back. "I mean just going out for a day or so--a sort of
change of air. It's five days till the _Valhalla's_ due to blast off,
and you say the _Encounter_ is stuck here indefinitely. We could just go
for a day or so--just to see what it's like out there."

Quantrell was silent a long time.

"Just for a day or so?" he asked, at last. "We'll just go out, and have
a look around, just to see what it's like out there." He fell silent
again. Alan saw a little trickle of sweat burst out on Quantrell's
cheek. He felt strangely calm himself, a little to his own surprise.

Then Quantrell smiled and the confidence returned to his tanned face.
"I'm game. Let's go!"

But Rat was quizzical about the whole enterprise when Alan returned to
his room to get him.

"You aren't serious, Alan. You really are going over to the Earther
city?"

Alan nodded and gestured for the little extra-terrestrial to take his
usual perch. "Are you daring to take my word in vain, Rat?" he asked in
mock histrionics. "When I say I'm going to do something, I do it." He
snapped closed his jacket and flipped the switch controlling the archaic
fluorescent panels. "Besides, you can always stay here if you want to,
you know."

"Never mind," Rat said. "I'm coming." He leaped up and anchored himself
securely on Alan's shoulder.

Kevin Quantrell was waiting for them in front of the building. As Alan
emerged Rat said, "One question, Alan."

"Shoot."

"Level, now: are you coming back--or are you going over the way Steve
did?"

"You ought to know me better than that. I've got reasons for going out,
but they're not Steve's reasons."

"I hope so."

Quantrell came up to them, and it seemed to Alan that there was
something unconvincing about his broad grin. He looked nervous. Alan
wondered whether he looked the same way.

"All set?" Quantrell asked.

"Set as I'll ever be. Let's go."

Alan looked around to see if anybody he knew might be watching. There
was no one around. Quantrell started walking, and Alan fell in behind
him.

"I hope you know where you're going," Alan said. "Because I don't."

Kevin pointed down the long winding street. "We go down to the foot of
this street, turn right into Carhill Boulevard, head down the main drive
toward the bridge. The Earther city is on the other side of the river."

"You better be right."

They made it at a fairly good clip through the sleepy Enclave, passing
rapidly through the old, dry, dusty streets. Finally they came to the
end of the street and rounded the corner onto Carhill Boulevard.

The first thing Alan saw was the majestic floating curve of the bridge.
Then he saw the Earther city, a towering pile of metal and masonry that
seemed to be leaping up into the sky ahead of them, completely filling
the view.

Alan pointed to the bridge-mouth. "That's where we go across, isn't it?"

But Quantrell hung back. He stopped in his tracks, staring dangle-jawed
at the immense city facing them.

"There it is," he said quietly.

"Sure. Let's go, eh?" Alan felt a sudden burst of impatience and started
heading toward the approach to the bridge.

But after three or four paces he realized Quantrell was not with him. He
turned and saw the other spaceman still rooted to the ground, gazing up
at the vast Earther city as if in narcoshock.

"It's big," Quantrell murmured. "_Too_ big."

"_Kevin!_ What's wrong?"

"Leave him alone," Rat whispered. "I have a hunch he won't be going with
you."

Alan watched in astonishment as Quantrell took two steps hesitantly
backward away from the bridge, then a third. There was a strange, almost
thunderstruck expression on Kevin's face.

Then he broke out of it. He shook his head.

"We aren't really going across--huh, Donnell?" He gave a brittle little
laugh.

"Of course we are!" Alan looked around nervously, hoping no one from the
_Valhalla_ had spotted him in all this time. Puzzled at Quantrell's
sudden hesitation after his earlier cockiness, Alan took a couple of
shuffling steps toward the bridge, slowly, keeping his eyes on the other
starman.

"I can't go with you," Kevin finally managed to say. His face was
flushed and strained-looking. He was staring upward at the seemingly
topless towers of the city. "It's too big for me." He choked back a
half-whimper. "The trouble with me is--the--trouble--with--me--is----"
Quantrell lowered his head and met Alan's stare. "I'm afraid, Donnell.
Stinking sweaty afraid. The city's too big."

Red-faced, he turned and walked away, back up the street.

Alan silently watched him go.

"Imagine that. Afraid!"

"It's a big place," Rat warned. "Don't you feel the same way? Just a
little?"

"I feel perfectly calm," Alan said in utter sincerity. "I know why I'm
going over there, and I'm anxious to get moving. I'm not running away,
the way Steve was. I'm going to the Earther city to find my brother and
to find Cavour's drive, and to bring them both back here!"

"That's a tall order, Alan."

"I'll do it."

Alan reached the approach to the bridge in a few more brisk steps and
paused there. The noonday sun turned the long arch of the bridge into a
golden ribbon in the sky. A glowing sign indicated the pedestrian
walkway. Above that, shining teardrop autos whirred by, leaving faint
trails of exhaust. Alan followed the arrows and soon found himself on
the bridge, heading for the city.

He glanced back a last time. There was no sign of Kevin. The Starmen's
Enclave seemed utterly quiet, almost dead.

Then he turned and kept his gaze forward. The Earther city was waiting
for him.


_Chapter Five_


He reached the end of the walkway and paused, a little stunned, staring
at the incredible immensity of the city spread out before him.

"It's a big place," he said. "I've never been in a city this big."

"You were born here," Rat reminded him.

Alan laughed. "But I only stayed here a week or two at most. And that
was three hundred years ago. The city's probably twice as big now as it
was then. It----"

"Hey, you! Move on!" a harsh voice from behind snapped suddenly.

"What's that?"

Alan whirled and saw a tall, bored-looking man in a silver-gray uniform
with gleaming luminescent bands across the sleeves, standing on a raised
platform above the road.

"You can't just stand here and block the walkway," the tall man said.
His words were heavily accented, thickly guttural; Alan had a little
trouble understanding them. The ship's language never changed; that of
Earth kept constantly evolving. "Get back in the Enclave where you
belong, or get moving, but don't stand here or I'll punch your ticket
for you."

Alan took a couple of steps forward. "Just hold on a minute. Who----"

"He's a policeman, Alan," Rat said softly. "Don't make trouble. Do as he
says."

Throttling his sudden anger, Alan nodded curtly at the officer and
stepped off the walkway. He was an outsider here, and knew he couldn't
expect the sort of warm fellowship that existed aboard the ship.

This was a city. A crowded, uncomfortable Earther city. These were the
people who were left behind, who never saw the stars in naked glory.
They weren't going to be particularly polite.

Alan found himself at an intersection, and wondered where he was to
begin. He had some vague idea of finding Steve in this city as easily as
he might aboard ship--just check the A Deck roster, then the B Deck, and
so on until he found him. But cities weren't quite that neatly
organized, Alan realized.

A long broad street ran parallel to the river. It didn't seem very
promising: lined with office buildings and warehouses. At right angles
to it, though, stretching out in front of him, was a colorful, crowded
avenue that appeared to be a major artery of the city. He glanced
tentatively in both directions, waited till a lull came in the steady
procession of tiny bullet-shaped automobiles flashing by, and hastily
jogged across the waterfront street and started down the avenue.

Maybe there was some kind of register of population at the City Hall.
If Steve still lived in this city, he could look him up that way. If
not----

Facing him were two rows of immense buildings, one on each side of the
street. Above every three blocks there was a lacy aerial passageway
connecting a building on one side of the street with one on the other,
high above the ground. Alan looked up and saw black dots--they looked
like ants, but they were people--making their way across the
flexi-bridges at dizzying altitudes.

The streets were crowded. Busy stern-faced people raced madly from one
place to the next; Alan was accustomed to the more orderly and peaceful
life of a starship, and found himself getting jostled by passersby from
both directions.

He was surprised to find the streets full of peddlers, weary-looking
little men trundling along behind small slow-moving self-powered
monocars full of vegetables and other produce. Every few moments one
would stop and hawk his wares. As Alan started hesitantly up the
endless-seeming street, one of the venders stopped virtually in front of
him and looked at him imploringly. He was a small untidy-looking man
with a dirty face and a red scar streaking his left cheek.

"Hey, boy." He spoke in a soft slurred voice. "Hey, boy. Got something
nice for you here."

Alan looked at him, puzzled. The vender reached into his cart and pulled
out a long yellow fruit with a small, thick green stem at one end. "Go
on, boy. Treat yourself to some of these. Guild-grown, fresh-ripened,
best there are. Half a credit for this one." He held it almost under
Alan's nose. "Go on," he said insistently.

Alan fished in his pocket and produced one of the half-credit pieces he
had been given in the Enclave commissary. For all he knew it was the
custom of this city for a new arrival to buy the first thing offered to
him by a vender; in any event, he was hungry, and it seemed that this
was the easiest way to get rid of the little man. He held out the coin.

"Here. I'll take it."

The vender handed the piece of fruit over and Alan accepted it. He
studied it, wondering what he was supposed to do now. It had a thick,
tough rind that didn't seem at all appetizing.

The vender chuckled. "What's the matter, boy? Never seen a banana
before? Or ain't you hungry?" The little man's derisive face was thrust
up almost against Alan's chin.

He backed away a step or two. "Banana? Oh, sure."

He put the end of the banana in his mouth and was just about to take a
bite when a savage burst of laughter cut him off.

"Looka him!" the vender cried. "Stupid spacer don't even know how to eat
a banana! Looka! Looka!"

Alan took the fruit out of his mouth unbitten and stared
uncomprehendingly at it. He felt uneasy; nothing in his past experience
had prepared him for deliberate hostility on the part of other people.
Aboard ship, you did your job and went your way; you didn't force your
presence on other people or poke fun at them maliciously. It was the
only way to live when you had to spend your whole lifetime with the same
shipload of men and women.

But the little vender wasn't going away. He seemed very amused by
everything. "You--you a spacer, no?" he demanded. By now a small crowd
had paused and was watching the scene.

Alan nodded.

"Lemme show you how, spacer," the vender said, mockery topmost in his
tone. He snatched the banana back from Alan and ripped back the rind
with three rough snaps of his wrist. "Go on. Eat it this way. She tastes
better without the peel." He laughed raucously. "Looka the spacer!"

Someone else in the crowd said, "What's he doing in the city anyway? He
jump ship?"

"Yeah? Why ain't he in the Enclave like all the rest of them?"

Alan looked from one to the other with a troubled expression on his
face. He didn't want to touch off any serious incident, but he was
determined not to let these Earthers push him around, either. He ignored
the ring of hostile faces about him and calmly bit into the banana. The
unfamiliar taste pleased him. Despite hoots and catcalls from the crowd
he finished it.

"Now the spacer knows how to eat a banana," the vender commented acidly.
"Here, spacer. Have another."

"I don't want another."

"Huh? No good? Earth fruits are _too_ good for you, starman. You better
learn that fast."

"Let's get out of here," Rat said quietly.

It was sensible advice. These people were just baiting him like a bunch
of hounds ringing a hare. He flexed his shoulder in a signal that meant
he agreed with Rat's suggestion.

"Have another banana," the vender repeated obstinately.

Alan looked around at the crowd. "I said I didn't want another banana,
and I _don't_ want one. Now get out of my way!"

No one moved. The vender and his monocar blocked the path.

"Get out of my way, I said." Alan balled the slimy banana peel up in his
hand and rammed it suddenly into the vender's face. "There. Chew on that
a while."

He shouldered his way past the spluttering fruit vender, and before
anyone in the crowd could say or do anything he was halfway down the
street, walking briskly. He lost himself in the passing stream of
pedestrians. It was easy to do, despite the conspicuous orange-and-blue
of his _Valhalla_ uniform. There were so many people.

He went on for two unmolested blocks, walking quickly without looking
back. Finally he decided he was safe. He glanced up at Rat. The little
extra-terrestrial was sitting patiently astride his shoulder, deep, as
usual, in some mysterious thoughts of his own.

"Rat?"

"What, Alan?"

"Why'd they do that? Why did those people act that way? I was a perfect
stranger. They had no business making trouble for me."

"That's precisely it--you _were_ a complete stranger. They don't love
you for it. You're 300 years old and still 17 at the same time. They
can't understand that. These people don't like starmen very much. The
people in this city aren't ever going to see the stars, Alan. Stars are
just faint specks of light that peek through the city haze at night.
They're terribly, terribly jealous of you--and this is the way they show
it."

"Jealous? But why? If they only knew what a starman's life is like, with
the Contraction and all! If they could only see what it is to leave your
home and never be able to go back----"

"They can't see it, Alan. All they can see is that you have the stars
and they don't. They resent it."

Alan shrugged. "Let them go to space, then, if they don't like it here.
No one's stopping them."

They walked on silently for a while. Alan continued to revolve the
incident in his mind. He realized he had a lot to learn about people,
particularly Earther people. He could handle himself pretty well aboard
ship, but down on Earth he was a rank greenhorn and he'd have to step
carefully.

He looked gloomily at the maze of streets before him and half-wished he
had stayed in the Enclave, where starmen belonged. But somewhere out
ahead of him was Steve. And somewhere, too, he might find the answer to
the big problem, that of finding the hyperspace drive.

But it was a tall order. And he had no idea where to begin. First thing
to do, he thought, is find someone halfway friendly-looking and ask if
there's a central directory of citizens. Track down Steve, if possible.
Time's running out. The _Valhalla_ pulls out in a couple of days.

The illustrations are striking, and cover a wide field of interest, and
the style is lively."--_Athenæum._

"In twenty-nine fascinating, wall-printed, and well-illustrated chapters,
Prof. Scott Elliot describes a few of the wonders of plant life. A very
charming and interesting volume,"--_Daily Telegraph._

"Mr. Scott Elliot is of course a well-known authority on all that concerns
plants, and the number of facts he has brought together will not only
surprise but fascinate all his readers."

--_Westminster Gazette._
SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

THE ROMANCE OF INSECT LIFE

DESCRIBING THE CURIOUS & INTERESTING IN THE INSECT WORLD
BY EDMUND SELOUS

AUTHOR OF "THE ROMANCE OF THE ANIMAL WORLD," ETC.

_With Sixteen Illustrations. Extra Crown 8vo. 5s._

"An entertaining volume, one more of a series which seeks with much
success to describe the wonders of nature and science in simple,
attractive form."

--_Graphic._
"Offers most interesting descriptions of the strange and curious inhabitants
of the insect world, sure to excite inquiry and to foster observation.

There are ants white and yellow, locusts and cicadas, bees and
butterflies, spiders and beetles, scorpions and cockroaches--and
especially ants--with a really scientific investigation of their
wonderful habits not in dry detail, but in free and charming
exposition and narrative.

An admirable book to put in the hands of a boy or girl with a turn
for natural science--and whether or not."

--_Educational Times._ 
"Both interesting and instructive.

Such a work as this is genuinely educative. There are numerous
illustrations."--_Liverpool Courier._
"With beautiful original drawings by Carton Moore Park and Lancelot
Speed, and effectively bound in dark blue cloth, blazoned with
scarlet and gold."

--_Lady._
"Admirably written and handsomely produced.

Mr. Selous's volume shows careful research, and the illustrations
of insects and the results of their powers are well done."

--_World._

THE ROMANCE OF MODERN MECHANISM
INTERESTING DESCRIPTIONS IN NON-TECHNICAL LANGUAGE OF WONDERFUL
MACHINERY, MECHANICAL DEVICES, & MARVELLOUSLY DELICATE SCIENTIFIC
INSTRUMENTS 
BY ARCHIBALD WILLIAMS, B.A., F.R.G.S.

AUTHOR OF "THE ROMANCE OF MODERN EXPLORATION," ETC.

_With Twenty-six Illustrations, Extra Crown 8vo. 5s._

"No boy will be able to resist the delights of this book, full to
the brim of instructive and wonderful matter."

--_British Weekly._
"This book has kept your reviewer awake when he reasonably expected
to be otherwise engaged.

We do not remember coming across a more fascinating volume, even to a
somewhat blasé reader whose business it is to read all that comes in his
way.

The marvels, miracles they should be called, of the modern workshop
are here exploited by Mr.

Williams for the benefit of readers who have not the opportunity
of seeing these wonders or the necessary mathematical knowledge to
understand a scientific treatise on their working.

Only the simplest language is used and every effort is made, by
illustration or by analogy, to make sufficiently clear to the
non-scientific reader how the particular bit of machinery works and
what its work really is.

Delicate instruments, calculating machines, workshop machinery, portable
tools, the pedrail, motors ashore and afloat, fire engines, automatic
machines, sculpturing machines--these are a few of the chapters
which crowd this splendid volume."

--_Educational News._
"It is difficult to make descriptions of machinery and mechanism
interesting, but Mr.

Williams has the enviable knack of doing so, and it is hardly possible
to open this book at any page without turning up something which you feel
you must read; and then you cannot stop till you come to the end
of the chapter."

--_Electricity._
"This book is full of interest and instruction, and is a welcome
addition to Messrs.

Seeley and Company's Romance Series."--_Leeds Mercury._
"A book of absorbing interest for the boy with a mechanical turn,
and indeed for the general reader."

--_Educational Times._
"An instructive and well-written volume."--_Hobbies._
SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET.

WORKS BY C.J. CORNISH

THE NATURALIST ON THE THAMES.

With Thirty-eight Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 7s. 6d.

"Will give great delight to any lover of natural history....

It is a most fascinating volume, and is illustrated in a manner
worthy of the text."--_Scotsman._

"From the first page to the last there is not a single page which the
reader would not wrong himself by skipping."--_Standard._

ANIMALS OF TO-DAY: Their Life and Conversation. With Illustrations from
Photographs by C. REID, of Wishaw. Crown 8vo. 6s.

"Quite one of the brightest books of popular natural history which
have appeared in recent years is Mr.

Cornish's fascinating studies of 'Animals of To-Day.'"--_Leeds
Mercury._

NIGHTS WITH AN OLD GUNNER, and other Studies of Wild Life. With Sixteen
Illustrations. 6s.

"Cannot fail to be interesting to any lover of wild nature.
Suddenly, he realized he was very tired.

He had been walking over an hour, and he was not used to it. The
_Valhalla_ was a big ship, but you could go from end to end in less than
an hour, and very rarely did you stay on your feet under full grav for
long as an hour. Working grav was .93 Earth-normal, and that odd .07%
made quite a difference. Alan glanced down at his boots, mentally
picturing his sagging arches.

He had to find someone who could give him a clue toward Steve. For all
he knew, one of the men he had brushed against that day was Steve--a
Steve grown older and unrecognizable in what had been, to Alan, a few
short weeks.

Around the corner he saw a park--just a tiny patch of greenery, two or
three stunted trees and a bench, but it was a genuine park. It looked
almost forlorn surrounded by the giant skyscrapers.

There was a man on the bench--the first relaxed-looking man Alan had
seen in the city so far. He was about thirty or thirty-five, dressed in
a baggy green business suit with tarnished brass studs. His face was
pleasantly ugly--nose a little too long, cheeks hollow, chin a bit too
apparent. And he was smiling. He looked friendly.

"Excuse me, sir," Alan said, sitting down next to him. "I'm a stranger
here. I wonder if you----"

Suddenly a familiar voice shouted, "There he is!"

Alan turned and saw the little fruit vender pointing accusingly at him.
Behind him were three men in the silver-gray police uniforms. "That's
the man who wouldn't buy from me. He's an unrotationist! Damn Spacer!"

One of the policemen stepped forward--a broad man with a wide slab of a
face, red, like raw meat. "This man has placed some serious charges
against you. Let's see your work card."

"I'm a starman. I don't have a work card."

"Even worse. We'd better take you down for questioning. You starmen come
in here and try to----"

"Just a minute, officer." The warm mellow voice belonged to the smiling
man on the bench. "This boy doesn't mean any trouble. I can vouch for
him myself."

"And who are you? Let's see _your_ card!"

Still smiling, the man reached into a pocket and drew forth his wallet.
He handed a card over to the policeman--and Alan noticed that a blue
five-credit note went along with the card.

The policeman made a great show of studying the card and succeeded in
pocketing the bill with the same effortless sleight-of-hand that the
other had used in handing it over.

"Max Hawkes, eh? That you? Free status?"

The man named Hawkes nodded.

"And this Spacer's a pal of yours?"

"We're very good friends."

"Umm. Okay. I'll leave him in your custody. But see to it that he
doesn't get into any more jams."

The policeman turned away, signalling to his companions. The
fruit vender stared vindictively at Alan for a moment, but saw he would
have no revenge. He, too, left.

Alan was alone with his unknown benefactor.


_Chapter Six_


"I guess I owe you thanks," Alan said. "If they had hauled me off I'd be
in real trouble."

Hawkes nodded. "They're very quick to lock people up when they don't
have work cards. But police salaries are notoriously low. A five-credit
bill slipped to the right man at the right time can work wonders."

"Five credits, was it? Here----"

Alan started to fumble in his pocket, but Hawkes checked him with a wave
of his hand. "Never mind. I'll write it off to profit and loss. What's
your name, spacer, and what brings you to York City?"

"I'm Alan Donnell, of the starship _Valhalla_. I'm an Unspecialized
Crewman. I came over from the Enclave to look for my brother."

Hawkes' lean face assumed an expression of deep interest. "He's a
starman too?"

"He--was."

"Was?"

"He jumped ship last time we were here. That was nine years ago
Earthtime. I'd like to find him, though. Even though he's so much older
now."

"How old is he now?"

"Twenty-six. I'm seventeen. We used to be twins, you see. But the
Contraction--you understand about the Contraction, don't you?"

Hawkes nodded thoughtfully, eyes half-closed. "Mmm--yes, I follow you.
While you made your last space jump he grew old on Earth. And you want
to find him and put him back on your ship, is that it?"

"That's right. He took the whole institution under his guardianship,
and had a watchful eye for everybody and everything belonging to it.

He soon learned the family history of every child in the school,
and those family histories, I assure you, were of an exciting
nature; but so great were Patsy's prudence and his idea of the
proprieties that he never divulged his knowledge till we were alone.

Then his tongue would be loosed, and he would break into his
half-childlike, half-ancient and reflective conversation.

He had a stormy temper, which, however, he was fast learning to
control, and he was not always kind and gentle with his little
playfellows; for he had been raised in a hard school, and the giving
and taking of blows was a natural matter, to him the only feasible
manner of settling a misunderstanding.

His conduct to me, however, was touching in its devotion and perfect
obedience; and from the first hour he was my poor little knight
_sans peur et sans reproche_.

Meanwhile, though not perfect, he was greatly changed for the better. We
had given him a neat little coat and trousers, his hair was short and
smooth, and his great dark eyes shone with unutterable content. He was
never joyous; born under a cloud, he had lived in its shadow, and sorrow
too early borne had left its indelible impress, to be removed only by
that "undisturbed vision of the Father's face, which is joy
unutterable;" but for the first time in his life he was at peace.

The Duchess of Anna Street had moved into a house a trifle better
suited to her exalted station in life; one where the view was
better, and the society worthy of a fish-peddler's family.

Accordingly we transferred the Kennetts into Number 32, an honor which
they took calmly at first, on account of the odor of fish that
pervaded the apartments. The three and four year old Kennetts were now
members of our flock, the dull baby was cared for daily by the Infant
Shelter, and Mrs. Kennett went out washing; while her spouse upheld
the cause of labor by attending sand-lot meetings in the afternoon and
marching in the evening.

So, in the rainy winter afternoons, when the other children had
gone, Patsy and I stayed together and arranged the next day's
occupations.

Slang was being gradually eliminated from his conversation; but it is no
small task to correct nine years of bad grammar, and I never succeeded
in doing it. Alas! the time was all too short.

It was Patsy who sorted the wools and threaded the needles, and set
right the sewing-cards of the babies; and only the initiated can
comprehend the labyrinthine maze into which an energetic three-year-old
can transform a bit of sewing.

It was he who fished the needles from the cracks in the floor,
rubbed the blackboards, and scrubbed the slates, talking busily the
while.

"Jiminy! (I take that back.) Miss Kate, we can't let Jimmy Buck
have no more needles; he sows 'em thick as seed round his chair. Now,
now jis' look yere! Ef that Battles chap hain't scratched the hull top
of this table with a buzzer!

I'd lam him good ef I was you, I would."
"Do you think our Kindergarten would be the pleasant place it is if I
whipped little boys every day?"

"No-o-o! But there is times"--

"Yes, I know, Patsy, but I have never found them."
"Jim's stayin' out nights, this week," said he one day, "'nd I hez to
stay along o' Mis' Kennett till nine o'clock."
"Why, I thought Jim always stayed at home in the evening."
"Yes, he allers used ter; but he's busy now lookin' up a girl, don't
yer know."

"Looking up a girl! What do you mean, Patsy?"
Patsy scratched his head with the "ten-toothed comb of Nature,"--a
habit which prevailed with terrible and suggestive frequency when
I first came "into my kingdom,"--and answered:-- 
"Lookin' up a girl!

Why, I s'posed yer knew that.

I dunno 'zackly. Jim says all the fellers does. He says he hates to git
the feed an' wash the dishes orfly, 'nd girls likes ter do it best
of anything."

"Oh!"

cried I, light bursting in upon my darkened intellect when dish-washing
was mentioned; "he wants to get married!"
"Well, he has ter look up a girl first, don't yer s'pose?"

"Yes, of course; but I don't see how Jim can get money enough to take care
of a wife. He only has thirty dollars a month."
"Well, he's goin' ter get a girl what'll 'go halveys,' don't yer
know, and pay for her keep.

He'd ruther have a 'millingnary' girl--they're the nicest; but if
he can't, he's goin' to try for one out of the box factory."

"Oh, Patsy!

I wish"--
"Why, didn't I ought ter say that?"
"I wish you had a mother, dear."
"If I had, I'd know more 'n I do now," and a great sigh heaved
itself upward from beneath the blue jacket.

"No, you wouldn't know so much, Patsy, or at least you would get the
right end first.

Never mind, dear boy, you can't understand."
"Jim says Mis' Kennett 'nd I needn't set such store by you, 'cause
the fust chance you gits you'll git married."

(I always did have an elective antipathy for Jim.) "Shall yer, Miss Kate?"

"Why, dear, I think we are very happy as we are, don't you?"
"Yes, ef I could only stay f'rever, 'nd not go ter the reel school.

Jim says I ought ter be gittin' book learnin' pretty soon."
"Did you tell him that Miss Helen was teaching you to read and write
a little while every afternoon?"

"Yes, I told him. He liked it fust rate. Mis' Kennett said she'd let her
childern stay f'rever with yer, ef they never larned a thing, 'nd so would
I, dear, dear Miss Kate! Oh, I bet God would like to see you in that
pretty blue dress!"

and he hung over me with a speechless caress; his first, and last
indeed, for he was shy and reticent in emotion, and never once
showed his affection in the presence of the other children.

[Illustration: PAULINA'S "GOOD-MORNINGS TO JOHNNY CASS."]

CHAPTER VII.

PATSY FINDS HIS THREE LOST YEARS.

"Now God be thanked for years enwrought With love which softens yet.
Now God he thanked for every thought Which is so tender it has
caught Earth's guerdon of regret."

Well, Jim did not succeed in finding his girl, although he "looked"
industriously. Either the "millingnaries" did not smile upon him and
his slender bank account, or they were not willing to wash the dishes
and halve the financial responsibilities besides; but as the winter days
slipped by, we could not help seeing that Patsy's pale face grew
paler and his soft dark eyes larger and more pathetic.

In spite of better care than he had ever had before, he was often kept
at home by suffering all too intense for a child to bear. It was
almost as if a sixth sense came to him in those days, so full was
he of strange thoughts and intuitions.

His eyes followed me wistfully as I passed from one child to another,
and when my glance fell upon him, his loving gaze seemed always waiting
for mine.

When we were alone, as he pored over picture-books, or sat silently
by the window, watching the drops chase each other down the pane, his
talk was often of heaven and the angels.

[Illustration: "HE SAT SILENTLY BY THE WINDOW."]
Daga Ohlsen had left us.

Her baby eyes had opened under Norway skies, but her tongue had learned
the trick of our language when her father and mother could not
speak nor understand a word, and so she became a childish interpreter
of manners and customs in general.

But we knew that mothers' hearts are the same the world over, and, lacking
the power to put our sympathy in words, we sent Daga's last bit
of sewing to her mother.

Sure enough, no word was needed; the message explained itself; and when
we went to take a last look at the dear child, the scrap of cardboard lay
in the still hand, the needle threaded with yellow wool, the childish
knot, soiled and cumbersome, hanging below the pattern just as she had
left it.

It was her only funeral offering, her only funeral service, and was
it not something of a sermon?

It told the history of her industry, her sudden call from earthly
things, and her mother's tender thought. It chanced to be a symbol, too,
as things do chance sometimes, for it was a butterfly dropping its
cocoon behind it, and spreading its wings for flight.

Patsy had been our messenger during Daga's illness, and his mind was
evidently on that mystery which has puzzled souls since the beginning
of time; for no anxious, weary, waiting heart has ever ceased to
beat without its passionate desire to look into the beyond.

"Nixy Jones's mother died yesterday, Miss Kate. They had an orful nice
funeral."
"Yes, I'm sorry for the poor little children; they will miss their
mamma."

"Not 'nuff to hurt 'em! Them Joneses never cared nuthin' for nobody;
they was playing on tin oyster cans the hull blessed ev'nin', till
Jim went 'nd stop't 'em, 'nd told 'em it warn't perlite.

Say how dretful it must be to go down into the cold, dark ground, and
be shut up in a tight box, 'nd want to git out--git out--'nd keep
hollerin' 'nd a-hollerin', and nobody come to fetch yer, cause yer's
dead!"

"Oh, Patsy, child, stop such fearful thoughts! I hope people are glad and
willing to stay when they are dead.

The part of them that wonders and thinks and feels and loves and
is happy or sad--you know what I mean, don't you?"

"Yes," he said slowly, leaning his head on his hand.

"God takes care of that part; it is His own, and He makes it all
right.

And as for our bodies, Patsy, you don't care about keeping your
poor little aching back, do you?

You talk about the cold, dark earth. Why, I think of it as the tender,
warm earth, that holds the little brown acorn until it begins to grow
into a spreading oak-tree, and nurses the little seeds till they
grow into lovely blossoming flowers.

Now we must trot home, Patsy. Wrap this shawl over your shoulders, and
come under my umbrella."

"Oh, I don't need any shawl, please.

I'm so orful hot!"

"That's just the reason," I replied, as I looked with anxious eyes at
his flushed cheeks.

I left him at the little door on Anna Street, and persuaded Mrs.

Kennett to give him some hot soup at dinner-time.

The next morning I was startled from a profound sleep by a tremendous
peal of the door-bell.

Though only half awakened, my forebodings seemed realized; and the
bell rang "Patsy" in my ears.

I hastily slipped on my dress, and, going to the door, saw just
whom I expected,--Jim.

"What's the matter with Patsy?"
"He's turrible bad, miss; he got took with one o' them fits the worst kind
in the night, and liked ter died. Yer could a heerd him screech a block
off."
"Oh, my poor boy! Have you had a doctor? What did he say?"
"Well, he said he guessed it was the last one, miss, 'nd I'm afraid
it is, sure."

"Who is with him now?

Are you going right back?"

"Yes, miss, soon as I go 'nd git leave from the boss.

Mis' Kennett's went to her washin'. She couldn't 'ford ter lose a
job. I found Mr.
Kennett, 'nd he's mindin' Patsy.

He cries for you; he says he don't want nothin' but jest Miss Kate,
and he's that crazy he wants to git up 'nd come to the Kindergarten."

"Dear little lad!" I said, trying to keep back the tears. "Here, Jim,
take the school keys to Miss Helen, and ask her to take my place
to-day.

I'll start in ten minutes for Patsy."
"Thank yer, miss.

I tell yer, he's a crooked little chap, but he's as smart as they make
'em; 'nd annyhow, he's all the folks I've got in the world, 'nd I
hope we kin pull him through

."

* * * * *

"Pull him through!" Had years passed over Patsy's head since I saw him
last? He seemed to have grown old with the night's pain, but the eyes
shone out with new lustre and brilliancy, making ready, I thought,
to receive the heavenly visions.

We were alone. I could not bear Mr. Kennett's presence, and had dispatched
him for the doctor.

I knelt by the bedside, and took his cold hand in mine. I could not pray
God to spare him, it was so clear that He had better take him to
Himself.

"I knowed you'd come, Miss Kate," he said faintly; "I knowed you'd
hurry up; you's allers hurryin' up for us boys."

Oh, how beautiful, how awesome, it is to be the messenger of peace
to an unhappy soul!

So great a joy is it to bear that it is not given to many twice in a
lifetime.

The rain beat upon the frail roof, the wind blew about the little
house, and a darkness of fast-gathering black clouds fell into the
room in place of the morning sunbeams.

It was a gloomy day for a journey, but if one were traveling from shadow
into sunshine, I thought, it would not matter much.

"Mis' Kennett says I must hev a priest, but I don't want no priest but
you," whispered the faint voice as I bent over the pillows. "What
does priests do when folks is sick, Miss Kate?"

"They pray, Patsy."
"What fur?"

I paused, for in my grief I could think of no simple way of telling
that ignorant little child what they did pray for.

"They will pray for you, dear," I said at length, "because they will want
to talk to God about the little boy who is coming to Him; to tell Him
how glad they are that he is to be happy at last, but that they
shall miss him very, very much."

"The priest lives clear out Market Street, 'nd he wouldn't git 'ere
'fore God knew the hull thing 'thout his tellin' of it.

You pray, Miss Kate."
_"O thou dear, loving Father in Heaven, Patsy's Father and mine, who
givest all the little children into their mothers' arms, if one
of them is lost and wandering about the world forlorn and alone,
surely Thou wilt take him to a better home!

We send little Patsy to Thee, and pray that his heart may be
fitted with joy and thankfulness when he comes to live in Thy house

."_

"Tell 'im 'bout them three years what I lost, so 't He'll make 'lowance,
jest as you did."
_"O God, who saw fit to lay a heavy burden on Patsy's little shoulders
and take away his three years, make them up to him in his heavenly
life

."_

"Yer never said Amen!

'T ain't no good 'thout yer say Amen!"
_"Amen!"_
Silence for many minutes.

The brain was alive with thoughts, but the poor tired body was weakened
already with the labor of telling them.
When he spoke again, it was more slowly and with greater difficulty.

"I guess--Heaven--is kind o' like--our Kindergartent--don't you?

'nd so--I ain't goin' to feel--strange! There'll be beautiful places,
with flowers bloomin' in 'em, 'nd birds 'nd brooks mebbe, like
those in the stories you tell us, and lots of singin' like we have;
and the peoples are good to each other, like our children, 'ceptin'
Jimmy Battles,--'nd they'll do each other's work, 'nd wait on the
angels, 'nd run errants for God, I s'pose--and everybody'll wear
clean--white--aprons--like in the picture-books; but I sha'n't like
it much 'thout you git there pretty quick, Miss Kate;--but I ain't
goin' to cry!"

"Oh, Patsy, my boy, it is for those who are left behind to cry.
It must be better to go."
"Well, I'm willin'.

I've got enough o' this, I tell yer, with backaches, 'nd fits, 'nd
boys callin' sassy names--'nd no gravy ever on my pertater;--but I
hate to go 'way from the Kindergartent--only p'raps Heaven is just
like, only bigger, 'nd more children--'nd no Jimmy Battleses!

Sing about the pleasant mornin' light, will yer, please--Miss Kate?"

And in a voice choked with tears, as Jim came in and lifted Patsy
in his arms, I sang the hymn that he had sung, with folded hands
and reverent mien, every morning of his life in the Kindergarten:--

"Father, we thank Thee for the night, And for the pleasant morning
light; For rest and gladness, love and care, And all that makes the
day so fair!

Help us to do the things we should:
To be to others kind and good; In all we do, in work or play, To
grow more loving every day!"

"Sorry, but I don't
drink. Crewmen aren't allowed to have liquor aboard starships.
Regulation."

"Oh, but you're off-duty now!"

Alan shook his head a second time; shrugging, MacIntosh took the drink
himself and put the unused third glass back in the drawer.

"Here's to Steve Donnell!" he said, lifting his glass high. "May he have
had the good sense to register his name up here!"

They drank. Alan watched. Suddenly, the bell clanged and a tube rolled
out of the computer shoot.

Alan waited tensely while MacIntosh crossed the room again, drew out the
contents of the tube, and scanned them. The fat man's face was broken by
a smile.

"You're in luck, starman. Your brother did register with us. Here's the
'stat of his papers."

Alan looked at them. The photostat was titled, APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION
TO FREE-STATUS LABOR FORCE, and the form had been filled out in a
handwriting Alan recognized immediately as Steve's: bold, untidy, the
letters slanting slightly backward.

He had given his name as Steve Donnell, his date of birth as 3576, his
chronological age as seventeen. He had listed his former occupation as
_Starman_. The application was dated 4 June 3867, and a stamped
notation on the margin declared that Free Status had been granted on 11
June 3867.

"So he did register," Alan said. "But now what? How do we find him?"

Hawkes reached for the photostat. "Here. Let me look at that." He
squinted to make out the small print, then nodded and wrote down
something. "His televector number's a local one. So far, so good." He
turned the form over and glanced at the reproduced photo of Steve on the
back. He looked up, comparing it with Alan.

"Dead ringers, these two. But I'll bet this one doesn't look much like
this any more--not after nine years of Free Status!"

"It only pays off for the lucky few, eh, Max?" MacIntosh asked slyly.

Hawkes grinned. "Some of us make out all right. You have to have the
knack, though. You can get awful hungry otherwise. Come on, kid--let's
go up a little higher, now. Up to the televector files. Thanks for the
help, Hinesy. You're a pal."

"Just doin' my job," MacIntosh said. "See you tonight as usual?"

"I doubt it," Hawkes replied. "I'm going to take the night off. I have
it coming to me."

"That leaves the coast clear for us amateurs, doesn't it? Maybe I'll
come out ahead tonight."

Hawkes smiled coldly. "Maybe you will. Let's go, kid."

They took the lift tube outside and rode it as high as it went. It
opened out into the biggest room Alan had ever seen, bigger even than
the main registry downstairs--a vast affair perhaps a hundred feet high
and four hundred feet on the side.

And every inch of those feet was lined with computer elements.

"This is the nerve-center of the world," Hawkes said as they went in.
"By asking the right questions you can find out where anybody in the
world happens to be at this very moment."

"How can they do that?"

Hawkes nudged a tiny sliver of metal embedded in a ring on his finger.
"Here's my televector transmitter. Everyone who has a work card or Free
Status carries one, either on a ring or in a locket round his neck or
somewhere else. Some people have them surgically embedded in their
bodies. They give off resonance waves, each one absolutely unique;
there's about one chance in a quadrillion of a duplicate pattern. The
instruments here can pick up a given pattern and tell you exactly where
the person you're looking for is."

"So we can find Steve without much trouble!"

"Probably." Hawkes' face darkened. "I've known it to happen that the
televector pattern picks up a man who's been at the bottom of the sea
for five years. But don't let me scare you; Steve's probably in good
shape."

He took out the slip of paper on which he had jotted down Steve's
televector code number and transferred the information to an application
blank.

"This system," Alan said. "It means no one can possibly hide anywhere on
Earth unless he removes his televector transmitter."

"You can't do that, though. Strictly illegal. An alarm goes out whenever
someone gets more than six inches from his transmitter, and he's picked
up on suspicion. It's an automatic cancellation of your work card if
you try to fool with your transmitter--or if you're Free Status a fine
of ten thousand credits."

"And if you can't pay the fine?"

"Then you work it off in Government indenture, at a thousand credits a
year--chopping up rocks in the Antarctica Penitentiary. The system's
flawless. It _has_ to be. With Earth as overpopulated as it is, you need
some system of tracking down people--otherwise crime would be ten times
as prevalent as it is now."

"There still is crime?"

"Oh, sure. There's always somebody who needs food bad enough to rob for
it, even though it means a sure arrest. Murder's a little less common."
Hawkes fed the requisition slip into the slot. "You'd be surprised what
a deterrent the televector registry system is. It's not so easy to run
off to South America and hide when anybody at all can come in here and
find out exactly where you are."

A moment went by. Then the slot clicked and a glossy pink slip came
rolling out.

Alan looked at it. It said:

                 TELEVECTOR REGISTRY
                     21 May 3876
    Location of Donnell Steve, YC83-10j6490k37618
                    Time: 1643:21

There followed a street map covering some fifteen square blocks, and a
bright red dot was imprinted in the center of the map.

Hawkes glanced at the map and smiled. "I thought that was where he would
be!"

"Where's that?"

"68th Avenue and 423rd Street."

"Is that where he lives?" Alan asked.

"Oh, no. The televector tells you where he is right now. I'd venture to
say that was his--ah--place of business."

Alan frowned. "What are you talking about?"

"That happens to be the address of the Atlas Games Parlor. Your brother
Steve probably spends most of his working day there, when he has enough
cash to get in. I know the place. It's a cheap joint where the payoffs
are low but easy. It's the kind of place a low-budget man would
frequent."

"You mean Steve's a gambler?"

Hawkes smiled. "Most Free Status men are. It's one of the few ways we
can earn a living without getting a work card. There isn't any gamblers'
guild. There are a few other ways, too, but they're a lot less savory,
and the televector surveillance makes it hard for a man to stay in
business for long."

Alan moistened his lips. "What do _you_ do?"

"Gamble. I'm in the upper brackets, though. As I say: some of us have
the knack. I doubt if your brother does, though. After nine years he
wouldn't still be working the Atlas if he had any dough."

Alan shrugged that off. "How do we get there? I'd like to go right away.
I----"

"Patience, lad," Hawkes murmured. "There's plenty of time for that. When
does your ship leave?"

"Couple of days."

"Then we don't need to rush right over to the Atlas now. Let's get some
food in ourselves first. Then a good night's rest. We can go over there
tomorrow."

"But my brother----"

"Your brother," Hawkes said, "has been in York City for nine years, and
I'll bet he's spent every night for the last eight of them sitting in
the Atlas. He'll keep till tomorrow. Let's get something to eat."


_Chapter Eight_


They ate in a dark and unappealing restaurant three blocks from the
Central Directory Matrix Building. The place was crowded, as all Earth
places seemed to be. They stood on line for nearly half an hour before
being shown to a grease-stained table in the back.

The wall clock said 1732.

A robowaiter approached them, holding a menu board in its metal hands.
Hawkes leaned forward and punched out his order; Alan took slightly
longer about it, finally selecting protein steak, synthocoffee, and
mixed vegetables. The robot clicked its acknowledgement and moved on to
the next table.

"So my brother's a gambler," Alan began.

Hawkes nodded. "You say it as if you were saying, _so my brother's a
pickpocket_, or _so my brother's a cutpurse_. It's a perfectly
legitimate way of making a living." Hawkes' eyes hardened suddenly, and
in a flat quiet voice added, "The way to stay out of trouble on Earth is
to avoid being preachy, son. This isn't a pretty world. There are too
many people on it, and not many can afford the passage out to Gamma
Leonis IV or Algol VII or some of the nice uncluttered colony-worlds. So
while you're in York City keep your eyes wide and your mouth zippered,
and don't turn your nose up at the sordid ways people make their
livings."

Alan felt his face go red, and he was happy to have the trays of food
arrive at that moment, causing some sort of distraction. "Sorry, Max. I
didn't mean to sound preachy."

"I know, kid. You lead a pretty sheltered life on those starships. And
nobody can adjust to Earthside life in a day. How about a drink?"

Alan started to say that he didn't drink, but kept the words back. He
was on Earth, now, not aboard the _Valhalla_; he wasn't required to keep
ship's regs. And he didn't want to be trying to look superior. "Okay.
How about Scotch--is that the stuff MacIntosh was drinking?"

"Fair enough," Hawkes said.

He signalled for a robot waiter, and after a moment the robot slithered
up to them. Hawkes punched a lever on the robot's stomach and the metal
creature began to click and glow. An instant later a panel in its
stomach slid open and two glasses appeared within. The robot's wiry
tentacles reached in, took out the drinks, and set them on the table.
Hawkes dropped a coin in a slot in the robot's side, and the machine
bustled away, its service completed.

"There you are," Hawkes said, pointing to the glass of amber-colored
liquid. "Drink up." As if to set an example he lifted his own drink and
tossed it down in one gulp, with obvious pleasure.

Alan picked up the little glass and held it before his eyes, staring at
the man opposite him through its translucent depths. Hawkes appeared
oddly distorted when viewed through the glass.

He grinned. He tried to propose a toast, but couldn't think of any
appropriate words, so he simply upended the glass and drained its
contents. The stuff seemed to burn its way down his throat and explode
in his stomach; the explosion rose through his gullet and into his
brain. For a moment he felt as if the top of his head had been blown
off. His eyes watered.

"Pretty potent stuff!"

"It's the best there is," Hawkes said. "Those boys really know the
formulas."

Alan felt a wave of dizziness, but it passed quickly; all that was left
was a pleasant inner warmth, now. He pulled his tray toward him and
attacked the synthetic meat and vegetables.

He ate quietly, making no attempt at conversation. Soft music bubbled up
around them. He thought about his brother. So Steve was a gambler! And
doing poorly at it, Hawkes said. He wondered if Steve would want to go
back on the ship. He wondered also how it would be if Steve did agree to
go back.

The old comradeship would be gone, he realized sadly. They had shared
everything for seventeen years, grown up together, played together,
worked together. Up till six weeks ago they had been so close that Alan
could almost read Steve's mind, and Steve Alan's. They made a good team.

But that was finished, now. Steve would be a stranger to him aboard the
_Valhalla_--an older, perhaps wiser man, with nine solid years of tough
Earther life behind him. He would not be able to help but regard Alan as
a kid, a greenhorn; it was natural. They would never be comfortable in
each other's presence, with the old easy familiarity that was so close
to telepathy. That nine-year gulf would see to that.

"Thinking about your brother, aren't you?"

Alan blinked. "How did you know?"

Grinning, Hawkes said, "A gambler has to know how to figure things. And
it's written in permoscript all over your forehead anyway. You're
wondering what the first face-to-face meeting's going to be like. I'll
bet on it."

"I won't cover the bet. You'd win."

"You want to know how it'll be? I can tell you, Alan: you'll feel sick.
Sick and bewildered and ashamed of the guy who used to be your brother.
But that'll pass. You'll look behind the things the nine years did to
him, and you'll see your brother back there. He'll see you, too. It
won't be as bad as you're expecting."

Somehow Alan felt relieved. "You're sure of that?"

Hawkes nodded. "You know, I'm taking such a personal interest in this
business because I've got a brother too. _Had_ a brother."

"Had?"

"Kid about your age. Same problem I had, too: no guild. We were born
into the street sweepers' guild, but neither of us could go for that, so
we checked out and took Free Status. I went into gambling. He hung
around the Enclave. He always wanted to be a spacer."

"What happened to him?"

"He pulled a fast one. Starship was in town and looking for a new
galley-boy. Dave did some glib talking and got aboard. It was a fluke
thing, but he made it."

"Which ship?" Alan asked.

"_Startreader_. Bound out on a hop to Beta Crucis XVIII. 465
light-years." Hawkes smiled faintly. "He left a year, year and a half
ago. The ship won't be back on Earth again for nine hundred thirty years
or so. I don't figure to be around that long." He shook his head. "Let's
get out of here. People waiting for tables."

Out in the street again, Alan noticed that the sun was low in the sky;
it was past 1800, and getting along toward evening. But the streets were
not getting dark. From everywhere a soft glow was beginning to
radiate--from the pavement, the buildings, everywhere. It was a gentle
gleaming brightness that fell from the air; there was no perceptible
change from day-illumination to night-illumination.

But it was getting late. And they would miss him back at the
Enclave--unless Captain Donnell had discovered that Alan had gone into
the Earther city, in which case he wouldn't be missed at all. Alan
remembered sharply the way the Captain had calmly blotted the name of
his son Steve from the _Valhalla's_ roster as if Steve had never
existed.

"Are we going to go over to the Atlas now?"

Hawkes shook his head. "Not unless you want to go in there alone?"

"Huh?"

"I can't go in there with you. I've got an A card, and that's a Class C
joint."

"You mean even gambling places are classified and regulated and
everything?"

Hawkes nodded. "It has to be that way. This is a very complicated
society you've stumbled into, Alan. Look: I'm a first-rate gamesman.
That's not boasting; it's empirical truth proven over and over again
during the course of a fifteen-year career. I could make a fortune
competing against beginners and dubs and has-beens, so they legislate
against me. You make a certain annual income from gambling and you go
into Class A, and then you can't enter any of the lower-class joints
like the Atlas. You slip under the Class A minimum three years in a row
and you lose your card. I stay over the minimum."

"So I'll have to go after Steve myself. Well, in that case, thanks for
all the help, and if you'll show me which Shoot I take to get to the
Atlas----"

"Not so fast, son." Hawkes grasped Alan's wrist. "Even in a Class C dump
you can lose plenty. And you can't just stand around hunting for your
brother. Unless you're there as a learner you'll have to play."

"So what am I supposed to do?"

"I'll take you to a Class A place tonight. You can come in as a learner;
they all know me. I'll try to show you enough about the game so you
don't get rooked. Then you can stay over at my place and tomorrow we'll
go up to the Atlas and look around for your brother. I'll have to wait
outside, of course."

Alan shrugged. He was beginning to realize he was a little nervous about
the coming meeting with Steve--and perhaps, he thought, a little extra
delay would be useful. And he still had plenty of time to get back to
the _Valhalla_ after he saw Steve, even if he stayed in the city
overnight.

"Well?" Hawkes said.

"Okay. I'll go with you."

This time they took the Undertube, which they reached by following a
glowing sign and then an underground passageway. Alan rode down behind
Hawkes on the moving ramp and found himself in a warm, brightly-lit
underground world with stores, restaurants, newsboys hawking telefax
sheets, milling swarms of homebound commuters.

They reached the entrance to a tube and Hawkes handed him a small oval
object with figures engraved on it. "That's your tube-token. It goes in
the slot."

They passed through the turnstile and followed signs indicating the West
Side Tube. The tube was a long sleek affair, windowless, shaped like a
bullet. The tube was already packed with commuters when they got aboard;
there were no empty seats, of course, and everyone seemed to be jostling
everyone else for the right to stand upright. The sign at the end of the
tube said, _Tube X#3174-WS_.

The trip took only a few minutes of seemingly effortless gliding, and
then they emerged far on the other side of the giant city. The
neighborhood they were in was considerably less crowded; it had little
of the mad hubbub of the downtown district.

A neon sign struck his eyes at once: SUPERIOR GAMES PARLOR. Under that
in smaller letters was: CLASS A ESTABLISHMENT. A robot stood outside, a
gleaming replica of the one he had tussled with earlier in the day.

"Class A only," the robot said as they came near. "This Games Parlor is
for Class A only."

Hawkes stepped around him and broke the photo-contact on the door. Alan
followed him in.

The place was dimly lit, as all Earther pleasure-places seemed to be.
Alan saw a double row of tables spreading to the back of the parlor. At
each table was an earnest-looking citizen hunched over a board, watching
the pattern of lights in front of him come and go, change and shift.

Another robot glided up to them. "May I see your card, please?" It
purred.

Hawkes passed his card before the robot's photonic scanners and the
robot clicked acknowledgement, stepping to one side and letting Hawkes
pass. It turned to Alan and said, "May I see your card, please?"

"I don't----"

"He's with me," Hawkes said. "A learner."

A man in a dirty gray smock came up to them. "Evening, Max. Hinesy was
here already and told me you weren't coming in tonight."

"I wasn't, but I changed my mind. I brought a learner along with
me--friend of mine name of Alan Donnell. This is Joe Luckman, Alan. He
runs this place."

Luckman nodded absently to Alan, who mumbled a greeting in return.

"Guess you want your usual table?" Luckman asked.

"If it's open," Hawkes said.

"Been open all evening."

Luckman led them down the long aisle to the back of the big hall, where
there was a vacant table with one seat before it. Hawkes slid smoothly
into the seat and told Alan to stand behind him and watch carefully.

"We'll start at the beginning of the next round," he said.

Alan looked around. Everywhere men were bent over the patterns of lights
on the boards before them, with expressions of fierce concentration on
their faces. Far in the corner Alan saw the pudgy figure of MacIntosh,
the Keeper of the Records; MacIntosh was bathed in his own sweat, and
sat rigid as if hypnotized.

Hawkes nudged him. "Keep your eyes on me. The others don't matter. I'm
ready to get started."


_Chapter Nine_


Hawkes took a coin from his pocket and dropped it in a slot at the side
of the board. It lit up. A crazy, shifting pattern of colored lights
passed over it, restless, never pausing.

"What happens now?"

"You set up a mathematical pattern with these keys," Hawkes said,
pointing to a row of enamelled studs along the side of the machine.
"Then the lights start flashing, and as soon as they flash--at random,
of course--into the pattern you've previously set up, you're the winner.
The skill of the game comes in predicting the kind of pattern that will
be the winning one. You've got to keep listening to the numbers that the
croupier calls off, and fit them into your sequence."

Suddenly a bell rang loudly, and the board went dead. Alan looked around
and saw that all the other boards in the hall were dark as well.

The man on the rostrum in the center of the hall cleared his throat and
sang out, "Table 403 hits us for a hundred! 403! One hundred!"

A pasty-faced bald man at a table near theirs rose with a broad grin on
his face and went forward to collect. Hawkes rapped sharply on the side
of the table to get Alan's attention.

"Look here, now. You have to get a head start. As soon as the boards
light up again, I have to begin setting up my pattern. I'm competing
against everyone else here, you see. And the quickest man wins, usually.
Of course, blind luck sometimes brings you a winner--but not very
often."

Alan nodded and watched carefully as Hawkes' fingers flew nimbly over
the controlling studs the instant the tables lit for the next round. The
others nearby were busy doing the same thing, but few of them set about
it with the air of cocky jauntiness that Hawkes wore.

Finally he stared at the board in satisfaction and sat back. The
croupier pounded three times with a little gavel and said, "103
sub-prime 5."

Hastily Hawkes made a correction in his equation. The lights on the
board flickered and faded, moving faster than Alan could see.

"377 third-quadrant 7."

Again a correction. Hawkes sat transfixed, staring intently at the
board. The other players were similarly entranced, Alan saw. He realized
it was possible for someone to become virtually hypnotized by the game,
to spend days on end sitting before the board.

He forced himself to follow Hawkes' computations as number after number
was called off. He began to see the logical pattern of the game.

It was a little like astrogation, in which he had had the required
preliminary instruction. When you worked out a ship's course, you had to
keep altering it to allow for course deflection, effects of planetary
magnetic fields, meteor swarms, and such obstacles--and you had to be
one jump ahead of the obstacles all the time.

It was the same here. The pilot board at the croupier's rostrum had a
prearranged mathematical pattern on it. The idea of the game was to set
up your own board in the identical pattern. As each succeeding
coordinate on the graph was called out, you recomputed in terms of the
new probabilities, rubbing out old equations and substituting new ones.

There was always the mathematical chance that a pattern set up at random
would be identical to the master control pattern--but that was a pretty
slim chance. It took brains to win at this game. The man whose board was
first to match the pilot pattern won.

Hawkes worked quietly, efficiently, and lost the first four rounds. Alan
commiserated. But the gambler snapped, "Don't waste your pity. I'm still
experimenting. As soon as I've figured out the way the numbers are
running tonight, I'll start raking it in."

It sounded boastful to the starman, but Hawkes won on the fifth round,
matching the hidden pattern in only six minutes. The previous four
rounds had taken from nine to twelve minutes before a winner appeared.
The croupier, a small, sallow-faced chap, shoved a stack of coins and a
few bills at Hawkes when he went to the rostrum to claim his winnings. A
low murmur rippled through the hall; Hawkes had evidently been
recognized.

His take was a hundred credits. In less than an hour, he was already
seventy-five credits to the good. Hawkes' sharp eyes glinted brightly;
he was in his element now, and enjoying it.

The sixth round went to a bespectacled round-faced man three tables to
the left, but Hawkes won a hundred credits each on the seventh and
eighth rounds, then lost three in a row, then plunged for a heavy stake
in his ninth round and came out ahead by five hundred credits.

So Hawkes had won four times in nine rounds, Alan thought. And there
were at least a hundred people in the hall. Even assuming the gambler
did not always have the sort of luck he was having now, that meant most
people did not win very often, and some did not win at all.

As the evening went along, Hawkes made it look simple. At one point he
won four rounds in a row; then he dropped off for a while, but came back
for another big pot half an hour later. Alan estimated Hawkes' night's
work had been worth more than a thousand credits so far.

The gambler pushed his winnings to fourteen hundred credits, while Alan
watched; the fine points of the game became more comprehensible to him
with each passing moment, and he longed to sit down at the table
himself. That was impossible, he knew; this was a Class A parlor, and a
rank beginner such as himself could not play.

But then Hawkes began to lose. Three, four, five rounds in a row slipped
by without a win. At one point Hawkes committed an elementary mistake in
arithmetic that made Alan cry out; Hawkes turned and silenced him with a
fierce bleak scowl, and Alan went red.

Six rounds. Seven. Eight. Hawkes had lost nearly a hundred of his
fourteen hundred credits. Luck and skill seemed to have deserted him
simultaneously. After the eleventh consecutive losing round, Hawkes rose
from the table, shaking his head bitterly.

"I've had enough. Let's get out of here."

He pocketed his winnings--still a healthy twelve hundred credits,
despite his late-evening slump--and Alan followed him out of the parlor
into the night. It was late now, past midnight. The streets, fresh and
clean, were damp. It had rained while they were in the parlor, and Alan
realized wryly he had been so absorbed by the game that he had not even
noticed.

Crowds of home-going Yorkers moved rapidly through the streets. As they
made their way to the nearest Undertube terminal, Alan broke the
silence. "You did all right tonight, didn't you?"

"Can't complain."

"It's too bad you had that slump right at the end. If you'd quit half an
hour earlier you'd be two hundred credits richer."

Hawkes smiled. "If you'd been born a couple of hundred years later,
you'd be a lot smarter."

"What is that supposed to mean?" Alan felt annoyed by Hawkes' remark.

"Simply that I lost deliberately toward the end." They turned into the
Undertube station and headed for the ticket windows. "It's part of a
smart gambler's knowhow to drop a few credits deliberately now and
then."

"Why?"

"So the jerks who provide my living keep on coming back," Hawkes said
bluntly. "I'm good at that game. Maybe I'm the best there is. I can feel
the numbers with my hands. If I wanted to, I could win four out of five
times, even at a Class A place."

Alan frowned. "Then why don't you? You could get rich!"

"I _am_ rich," Hawkes said in a tone that made Alan feel tremendously
foolish. "If I got much richer too fast I'd wind up with a soft burn in
the belly from a disgruntled customer. Look here, boy: how long would
_you_ go back to that casino if one player took 80% of the pots, and a
hundred people competed with you for the 20% he left over? You'd win
maybe once a month, if you played full time every day. In a short time
you'd be broke, unless you quit playing first. So I ease up. I let the
others win about half the time. I don't want _all_ the money the mint
turns out--just some of it. It's part of the economics of the game to
let the other guys take a few pots."

Alan nodded. He understood. "And you don't want to make them too jealous
of you. So you made sure you lost consistently for the final half hour
or so, and that took the edge off your earlier winning in their minds."

"That's the ticket!"

The Undertube pulled out of the station and shot bullet-like through its
dark tunnel. Silently, Alan thought about his night's experience. He saw
he still had much, very much to learn about life on Earth.

Hawkes had a gift--the gift of winning. But he didn't abuse that gift.
He concealed it a little, so the people who lacked his talent did not
get too jealous of him. Jealousy ran high on Earth; people here led
short ugly lives, and there was none of the serenity and friendliness of
life aboard a starship.

He felt very tired, but it was just physical fatigue; he felt wide awake
mentally. Earth life, for all its squalor and brutality, was
tremendously exciting compared with shipboard existence. It was with a
momentary pang of something close to disappointment that he remembered
he would have to report back to the _Valhalla_ in several days; there
were so many fascinating aspects of Earth life he still wanted to
explore.

The Undertube stopped at a station labelled _Hasbrouck_. "This is where
we get off," Hawkes told him.

They took a slidewalk to street level. The street was like a canyon,
with towering walls looming up all around. And some of the gigantic
buildings seemed quite shabby-looking by the street-light. Obviously
they were in a less respectable part of the city.

"This is Hasbrouck," Hawkes said. "It's a residential section. And
there's where I live."

He pointed to the tarnished chrome entrance of one of the biggest and
shabbiest of the buildings on the street. "Be it ever so humble, there's
no place like North Hasbrouck Arms. It's the sleaziest, cheapest, most
run-down tenement in one hemisphere, but I love it. It's a real palace."

Alan followed him through a gate that had once been imposing; now it
swung open rather rustily as they broke the photobeam in front of it.
The lobby was dark and dimly lit, and smelled faintly musty.

Alan was unprepared for the shabbiness of the house where the gambler
lived. A moment after he spoke, he realized the question was highly
impertinent, but by then it was too late: "I don't understand, Max. If
you make so much money gambling, why do you live in a place like this?
Aren't there any better--I mean----"

An unreadable expression flitted briefly across the gambler's lean face.
"I know what you mean. Let's just say that the laws of this planet
discriminate slightly against Free Status people like yours truly. They
require us to live in approved residences."

"But this is practically a slum."

"Forget the _practically_. This is the raw end of town, and no denying
it. But I have to live here." They entered a creaky old elevator
decorated with too much chrome, most of it chipped, and Hawkes pressed
_106_. "When I first moved in here, I made up my mind I'd bribe my way
into a fancier neighborhood as soon as I had the cash. But by the time I
had enough to spare I didn't feel like moving, you see. I'm sort of
lazy."

The elevator stopped with a jarring jolt at the hundred-sixth floor.
They passed down a narrow, poorly-lit corridor. Hawkes paused suddenly
in front of a door, pressed his thumb against the doorplate, and waited
as it swung open in response to the imprint of his fingerprints against
the sensitive electronic grid.

"Here we are," he said.

It was a three-room apartment that looked almost as old and as
disreputable as the rooms in the Enclave. But the furniture was new and
attractive; these were not the rooms of a poor man. An elaborate audio
system took up one entire wall; elsewhere, Alan saw books of all kinds,
tapes, a tiny mounted globe of light-sculpture within whose crystal
interior abstract colors flowed kaleidoscopically, a handsome robot bar.

Hawkes gestured Alan to a seat; Alan chose a green lounge-chair with
quivering springs and stretched out. He did not want to go to sleep; he
wanted to stay up half the night and talk.

The gambler busied himself at the bar a moment and returned with two
drinks. Alan looked at the glass a moment: the drink was bright yellow
in color, sparkling. He sipped it. The flavor was gentle but striking, a
mixture of two or three tastes and textures that chased each other round
Alan's tongue.

"I like it. What is it?"

"Wine from Antares XIII. I bought it for a hundred credits a bottle
last year. Still have three bottles left, too. I go easy on it; the next
ship from Antares XIII won't be in for fourteen more years."

The drink made Alan mellow and relaxed. They talked a while, and he
hardly noticed the fact that the time was getting along toward 0300 now,
long past his shiptime bunk-hour. He didn't care. He listened to every
word Hawkes had to say, drinking it in with the same delight he felt
when drinking the Antarean wine. Hawkes was a complex, many-faceted
character; he seemed to have been everywhere on Earth, done everything
the planet had to offer. And yet there was no boastfulness in his tone
as he spoke of his exploits; he was simply stating facts.

Apparently his income from gambling was staggering; he averaged nearly a
thousand credits a night, night in and night out. But a note of
plaintiveness crept into his voice: success was boring him, he had no
further goals to shoot for. He stood at the top of his profession, and
there were no new worlds for him to conquer. He had seen and done
everything, and lamented it.

"I'd like to go to space someday," he remarked. "But of course that's
out. I wouldn't want to rip myself away from the year 3876 forever. You
don't know what I'd give to see the suns come up over Albireo V, or to
watch the thousand moons of Capella XVI. But I can't do it." He shook
his head gravely. "Well, I better not dream. I like Earth and I like the
sort of life I lead. And I'm glad I ran into you, too--we'll make a good
team, you and me, Donnell."

Alan had been lulled by the sound of Hawkes' voice--but he snapped to
attention now, surprised. "Team? What are you talking about?"

"I'll take you on as my protege. Make a decent gambler out of you. Set
you up. We can go travelling together, see the world again. You've been
to space; you can tell me what it's like out there. And----"

"Hold on," Alan said sharply. "You've got things mixed up a little bit.
I'm going to Procyon on the _Valhalla_ at the end of this week. I
appreciate everything you've done for me, but if you think I'm going to
jump ship permanently and spend the rest of my life----"

"You'll stay on Earth, all right," Hawkes said confidently. "You're in
love with the place. You know yourself you don't want to spend the next
seven decades of your life shuttling around in your old man's starship.
You'll check out and stay here. I know you will."

"I'll bet you I don't!"

"That bet is herewith covered," Hawkes drawled. "I never pass up a sure
thing. Is ten to one okay--your hundred against my thousand that you'll
stay?"

Alan scowled angrily. "I don't want to bet with you, Max. I'm going back
on the _Valhalla_. I----"

"Go ahead. Take my money, if you're so sure."

"All right, I will! A thousand credits won't hurt me!" Suddenly he had
no further desire to listen to Hawkes talk; he rose abruptly and gulped
down the remainder of his drink.

"I'm tired. Let's get some sleep."

"Fair enough," Hawkes said. He got up, touched a button in the wall, and
a panel slid back, exposing a bed. "You sack out here. I'll wake you in
the morning and we'll go looking for your brother Steve."


_Chapter Ten_


Alan woke early the next morning, but it was Rat, not Hawkes, who pulled
him out of sleep. The little extra-terrestrial was nibbling on his ear.

Bleary-eyed, Alan sat up and blinked. "Oh--it's you. I thought you were
on a silence strike."

"There wasn't anything I wanted to say, so I kept quiet. But I want to
say some things now, before your new friend wakes up."

The Bellatrician had been silent all the past evening, tagging along
behind Alan and Hawkes like a faithful pet, but keeping his mouth
closed. "Go ahead and say them, then," Alan told him.

"I don't like this fellow Hawkes. I think you're in for trouble if you
stick with him."

"He's going to take me to the Atlas to get Steve."

"You can get to the Atlas yourself. He's given you all the help you'll
need."

Alan shook his head. "I'm no baby. I can take care of myself, without
_your_ help."

The little alien creature shrugged. "Suit yourself. But I'll tell you
one thing, Alan: I'm going back to the _Valhalla_, whether you are or
not. I don't like Earth, or Hawkes either. Remember that."

"Who said I was staying here? Didn't you hear me bet Max that I'd go
back?"

"I heard you. I say you're going to lose that bet. I say this Hawkes is
going to fast-talk you into staying here--and if I had any need for
money I'd put down a side-bet on Hawkes' side."

Alan laughed. "You think you know me better than I know myself. I never
for a minute thought of jumping ship."

"Has my advice ever steered you wrong? I'm older than you are, Alan, and
ten or twenty times smarter. I can see where you're heading. And----"

Alan grew suddenly angry. "Nag, nag, nag! You're worse than an old
woman! Why don't you keep quiet the way you did last night, and leave me
alone? I know what I'm doing, and when I want your advice I'll ask for
it."

"Have it your own way," Rat said. His tone was mildly reproachful. Alan
felt abashed at having scolded the little alien that way, but he did not
know how to make proper amends; besides, he _was_ annoyed at Rat's
preachiness. He and Rat had been together too long. The Bellatrician
probably thought he was still only ten years old and in need of constant
advice.

He rolled over and went back to sleep. About an hour later, he was
awakened again, this time by Hawkes. He dressed and they ate--good real
food, no synthetics, served by Hawkes' autochef--and then set out for
the Atlas Games Parlor, 68th Avenue and 423rd Street, in Upper York
City. The time was 1327 when they emerged on the street. Hawkes assured
him that Steve would already be at "work"; most unsuccessful gamblers
started making the rounds of the parlors in early afternoon.

They took the Undertube back to the heart of the city and kept going,
into the suburb of Upper York. Getting out at the 423rd Street terminal,
they walked briskly through the narrow crowded streets toward 68th
Avenue.

When they were a block away Alan spotted the sign, blinking on and off
in watery red letters: ATLAS GAMES PARLOR. A smaller sign proclaimed the
parlor's Class C status, which allowed any mediocre player to make use
of its facilities.

As they drew near Alan felt a tingle of excitement. This was what he had
come to the Earther city for in the first place--to find Steve. For
weeks he had been picturing the circumstances of this meeting; now it
was about to take place.

The Atlas was similar to the other games parlor where Alan had had the
set-to with the robohuckster; it was dark-windowed and a shining blue
robot stood outside, urging passersby to step inside and try their luck.
Alan moistened his dry lips; he felt cold and numb inside. He won't be
there, he thought; he won't be there.

Hawkes took a wad of bills from his wallet. "Here's two hundred credits
for you to use at the tables while you're looking around. I'll have to
wait outside. There'd be a royal uproar if a Class A man ever set foot
inside a place like the Atlas."

Alan smiled nervously. He was pleased that Hawkes was unable to come
with him; he wanted to handle the problem by himself, for a change. And
he was not anxious for the gambler to witness the scene between him and
Steve.

_If_ Steve were inside, that is.

He nodded tightly and walked toward the door. The robohuckster outside
chattered at him, "Come right on, sir, step inside. Five credits can get
you a hundred here. Right this way."

"I'm going," Alan said. He passed through the photobeam and into the
games parlor. Another robot came sliding up to him and scanned his
features.

"This is a Class C establishment, sir. If your card is any higher than
Class C you cannot compete here. Would you mind showing me your card,
sir?"

"I don't have any. I'm an unrated beginner." That was what Hawkes had
told him to say. "I'd like a single table, please."

He was shown to a table to the left of the croupier's booth. The Atlas
was a good bit dingier than the Class A parlor he had been in the night
before; its electroluminescent light-panels fizzed and sputtered,
casting uncertain shadows here and there. A round was in progress;
figures were bent busily over their boards, altering their computations
and changing their light-patterns.

Alan slid a five-credit piece into the slot and, while waiting for the
round to finish and the next to begin, looked around at his fellow
patrons. In the semi-dark that prevailed it was difficult to make out
faces. He would have trouble recognizing Steve.

A musky odor hung low over the hall, sweet, pungent, yet somehow
unpleasant. He realized he had experienced that odor before, and tried
to remember--yes. Last night in the other games parlor he had smelled a
wisp of the fragrance, and Hawkes had told him it was a narcotic
cigarette. It lay heavy in the stale air of the Class C parlor.

Patrons stared with fanatic intensity at the racing pattern of lights
before them. Alan glanced from one to the next. A baldhead whose dome
glinted bright gold in the dusk knotted his hands together in an anguish
of indecision. A slim, dreamy-eyed young man gripped the sides of the
table frenziedly as the numbers spiralled upward. A fat woman in her
late forties, hopelessly dazed by the intricate game, slumped wearily in
her seat.

Beyond that he could not see. There were other patrons on the far side
of the rostrum; perhaps Steve was over there. But it was forbidden for
anyone to wander through the rows of tables searching for a particular
player.

The gong rang, ending the round. "Number 322 wins a hundred credits,"
barked the croupier.

The man at Table 322 shambled forward for his money. He walked with a
twisted shuffle; his body shook palsiedly. Hawkes had warned him of
these, too--the dreamdust addicts, who in the late stages of their
addiction became hollow shells of men, barely able to walk. He took his
hundred credits and returned to his table without smiling. Alan
shuddered and looked away. Earth was not a pretty world. Life was good
if you had the stream running with you, as Hawkes did--but for each
successful one like Hawkes, how many fought unsuccessfully against the
current and were swept away into dreamdust or worse?

Steve. He looked down the row for Steve.

And then the board lit up again, and for the first time he was playing.

He set up a tentative pattern; golden streaks flitted across the board,
mingling with red and blue blinkers. Then the first number came. Alan
integrated it hastily and realized he had constructed a totally
worthless pattern; he wiped his board clean and set up new figures,
based on the one number he had. As she spoke she intercepted a flashing
glance from Edmonson to Bulchester.

But she did not overhear the conversation between the two that took place
later.

"Bulchester," Edmonson hissed out when they were alone, "what's the
reason you always retail my opinions?"

Bulchester opened his mild eyes.

"Did I say any harm?" he asked. "I am sure I didn't mean it; what
objection can you have to my giving your opinion on that matter, and I
did not even say it was yours."
"Because--I do object," returned the other moodily. Then he said nothing
more, rather to conceal the strength of his objections, than because
his anger was over.

This happened a few hours later.

At the same time Lady Dacre was speaking to her husband about Elizabeth.
"I think that Archdale must feel the situation most on account of the
young betrothed," Sir Temple said.

"That is all you know of a woman," she retorted indignantly. "Suppose
I were tied to you and knew you did not care for me, I need not have
come three thousand miles to find water enough."

"To drink?"
"No, you wretch; to drown myself in."
"You take too much for granted, dont you?" drawled Sir Temple with
an amused look.

"And I am afraid you are aping Ophelia. Now, you are not in her line at
all; for one thing, you are too handsome."

Lady Dacre looked at him keenly, smiled with a moisture in her eyes, and
came up to him.

"How much too much do I take for granted?"

she asked softly. Sir Temple burst into a laugh, and kissed her.

"We will borrow poor Archdale's scales, and weigh it, and find
out," he answered.

There was over a week of the beautiful weather that midsummer brings, and
the days passed full of gayety.

Both Archdale and his mother did everything for the enjoyment of their
guests. They showed them the most beautiful views on shore, and by sailing
took them to places of interest not to be reached by land, while
dinner-parties and garden-parties made them acquainted with the best
society of the city. From morning until night the house was full of
talk, and jest, and laughter. Among the guests one day had been Mr. Royal
and Mrs. Eveleigh.

They had come with Colonel and Madam Pepperell, at whose house they
were then visiting, in accordance with a promise made the autumn before
when the Colonel and his wife had been guests of Mr.

Royal. More than once, Elizabeth had met the party from Seascape, but she
could not come here, she was not sure enough in her heart of not being
Stephen Archdale's wife.

She compromised with her father by promising to go to Colonel
Archdale's, for that gentleman had told them that they were to be
asked there.

"Elizabeth was right not to come," Madam Pepperell had said to her
guest on the way to Seascape. "There are people small enough to have said
that she was making an inventory."
"Not any of the Archdale family?" inquired Mr. Royal.

"Not mother or son, certainly.

As to the Colonel, it is easy to see that he admires Elizabeth."

"Um!" commented Elizabeth's father.

Colonel Archdale at this time was away a good deal upon business.

When he was at home he usually rode over to his son's house to dine.
But he resolved to give a dinner party himself, and it was to this that
Elizabeth Royal had promised to come.

Madam Archdale being thus obliged to preside over two houses at once was
full of secret uneasiness as to how matters would turn out, and for
three mornings before the event excused herself to her guests from
breakfast until dinner, and drove home to superintend arrangements.

Dinner parties were frequent at that house, and there was not much
danger that anything would go wrong.

Still, the Colonel was unusually critical, and his wife had her anxieties.
On the whole, Sir Temple Dacre enjoyed himself most of anyone at that
time, he gave himself up to observation and a proper amount of
attention to his dinners, which he remarked to his wife were for
provincial affairs uncommonly good.

Lord Bulchester, trying to follow Edmonson's meanings, had a feeling of
uncertainty which, as it did not rest upon a foundation of faith,
such as used to underlie all his considerations of his friend's
actions, ended by making him somewhat uncomfortable.

Edmonson kept to himself whatever clue he had gained, or whatever
ground for suspicion he had that one object of his visit to the
Colonies was nearing its accomplishment.

He kept to himself also as much as possible the fact that his eyes were
constantly following Elizabeth whenever they had opportunity, for the
new position in which she was placed had called forth unexpected
resources in her which made her well-poised in bearing and manner.
"She is great in reserve forces," he said to himself, swearing under
his breath that she was growing more fascinating every time that
he saw her, and for this he made opportunities as well as found them.

Stephen Archdale with his alternations of gloom and gayety and the
ubiquitousness necessary to a host, had begun to find this direction
of Edmonson's eyes a matter that roused some slight speculation.

His glances followed the arrowy glances of his guest to see what
marks they made.

But he saw nothing, except that Miss Royal avoided Edmonson as much as
she could in courtesy, and that she seldom met his eyes fully. From these
things both young men drew their conclusions, which were somewhat
alike, and should both have been subject to correction.

More than once they measured one another covertly, and from the
heart of him who feared that he had lost her there stretched out
toward the other a terrible shadow which in the wavering of his
changing thoughts grew, and lessened, and grew again, and sometimes
reached forward and clutched with its hideous hands, and then drew
back, and crouched, and waited.

It was a perfect summer night when Elizabeth leaned out of her
window into the stillness.

The roar of the surf was as distinct as if it came from the pebbled beach
below; yet, modulated by distance, it formed the base, sustained
and rythmic, into which there fell harmoniously that legato treble
of murmur which makes us seem to hear the stillness, and that
staccato note of some accidental sound softened to accord with the
mood of the night.

She needed the peace that she felt in the air, for her cheeks were wet
with passionate tears and her lips still trembled.

She could give utterance to her trouble now, she was free for hours
from every ear, from every eye, hidden away from all but the sight
and hearing of the God she sought in the dark and the silence.

Brought up in the creed of the Puritans, believing it entirely, as
she supposed, there was yet in her heart when she sent it Heavenward
a joy which sprang from a more loving faith.

Perhaps it was because of her own beautiful human associations with the
name that at the words "Our Father," her heart swelled with
confidence that God listened to her voice, and that his loving
kindness wrapped her about.

If her prayers were not always granted as she wished, she perceived that
the hands she stretched out in pleading were never drawn back empty, for
when they did not hold her requests, they were filled with what was to
be given her tonight,--courage to meet the trials that she dreaded. The
next day's trial was to be the worst of all, for it was then that they
were to dine at the Colonel's, and Katie was to be there,--Katie,
whom she loved dearly, whom she had robbed so unintentionally, and
who would not forgive her.

It would be hard for Archdale; but Elizabeth dismissed him from her thoughts,
for her heart was-full to overflowing of her own grief, and of Katie.
Kneeling there, sobs shook her with an abandonment to her sorrow that
was in itself a relief after her restraint. But at last the calmness and
the strength of a life greater than its trials fell upon her.

And when in the hush of these she went to her bed and fell asleep, it was
a face like a child's that the stars shining in at her window
looked down upon, a face fallen into lines of peace while the tears
were yet undried upon the pale cheeks.

But only in its simplicity was it a child's heart that met the next
day's sunshine, for the courage of a strong woman looked from
Elizabeth Royal's eyes.

CHAPTER XVI
THE DINNER PARTY.

Colonel Archdale with his hands behind him walked up and down his drawing-room
in pleasant anticipation, with, it may be, a touch of the feeling which
once animated an Eastern monarch over the great city that he had
builded for the honor of his name.

The Colonel had been like the monarch in one thing, that he had
been born in wealth, not obliged to start at the very beginning of the
race; he was like him in this also that he had made the very best
of material opportunities; he had builded about himself, if not a
great city, at least a great and profitable business, so that he
had a reasonable expectation of leaving his son and his two surviving
daughters--the latter still children--wealthier than his father had
left him.

The only drawback, and he had not yet found it a serious one, was that it
was difficult to take as much money out of his profits as he would
have liked to live upon, for his increasing business demanded always
increasing capital.

Also, he had done a great deal for Stephen, so that it required all
his efforts to maintain the splendor in which he lived, outdoing
his associates.

All things considered, therefore, it was not so very strange that
he should have resembled Nebuchadnezzar in the other respect of
satisfaction in his own achievements.

That day the cream of the society of Portsmouth and its neighborhood
were to be at his house; most of them, without doubt, pleased to be
invited. Peace and plenty were here. The war three thousand miles away,
in which the brave young queen Maria Theresa was struggling for her
inheritance, had just rolled a tidal wave across the Atlantic, and the
news of the garrison taken from the English fort of Canso and carried
prisoners to Louisburg had just reached Boston.

This capture had been made before the Colonies had learned that
war had been declared by France against Great Britain.

Already there were signs of hostility among the Indians, and a
movement of whole tribes toward Canada to join the French, whose
old allies they were.

Still, so far, no heavy blow had been dealt, and this part of the coast
had not even felt the shock of the wave. On the banks of the Piscataqua
mirth and feasting might go on, at least for a time.

The Colonel looked about him again at the fine pictures on the
walls, at the rich furniture fantastically carved, at his pretty
youngest daughter, a girl of twelve, as she sat at the spinnet going
over some music that somebody might ask her to play; perhaps it
would be Lady Dacre herself whom she had seen once and greatly
admired.

When a moment later Madam Archdale came into the room he looked at
her face and figure, still handsome and graceful.

Her flowing brocade was of a becoming color, and nothing richer,
that he knew of, had been worn in the Colonies.

He felt a faint anxiety, which Sir Temple would have set down as
provincial, to see the attitude of the English guests, for he flattered
himself that he could do the honors of a mansion better than Stephen
whose perfect simplicity annoyed his father when it let slip
opportunities to make a fine impression.

With Stephen and Madam Archdale, who certainly did very well, the
Colonel had no doubt that Sir Temple and Lady Dacre had taken
everything they found as a matter of course, and had not looked for
quite the sort of thing that they were accustomed to at home.

But here he thought that they would be a little surprised, that it
would be to them England over again, and for a few hours they would
fancy themselves in some old mansion there.

He felt that to hear them say this would make his cup of satisfaction
brim over, and this in some unintentional way he expected to draw
from them.

"It's very warm," said his wife panting a little, "and, after all, I
need not have hurried; nobody has come yet, or will come this
half-hour, I dare say."

"Stephen is always prompt," suggested the Colonel, pausing in his measured
walk to glance down the road.

"Yes, but then there are the English people. To be sure, they fall
into our ways as if they had been born here, and Lady Dacre is as easy
as an old shoe."
"My dear," said her husband, "I hope that is not the phraseology
you are going to indulge in before our guests."

Madam Archdale laughed.

"It would not shock them half as much as it does you," she answered.
"I heard Sir Temple say the very thing the other day, and you would
think of it yourself if you had on a pair of new slippers, as I have."
The Colonel waived discussion, and took up another part of her
answer.

"You say they fall into our ways as if they had been born here," he
began. "Doesn't it occur to you that they may find them perfectly
natural?"
"No, it does not at all. Think of it. Struggling against the savageness
of man and nature must have roughened our manners a little, just as
working on the ground roughens one's hands. It is healthy exercise; but,
then, it tells, and we must expect that."

She looked at her husband with such serenity as she spoke that he had
no difficulty in remembering that she was the granddaughter of a
Scottish earl and that he had been proud to give his children a lady for
their mother. It seemed odd to him that both she and Stephen should have
such an air of high birth, and yet be so indifferent to its
prerogatives, so unambitious.

"It is their good breeding;" she went on, "if you put them out into
the wigwams they would make the Indians feel that eating with one's
fingers was quite a thing to be enjoyed."

It was cruel; perhaps the speaker did not realize how cruel. But,
then, she knew that the Colonel was thoroughly padded with vanity
and that it must be a very skilful thrust, and a very vigorous one, that
could wound him fatally.

"Faith," he began after a pause, "you have never been abroad, you have
not observed as I have done, you--." He was gaining importance and
impressiveness of tone as he went on; it was a pity that the sound of
wheels and of horses' hoofs in the avenue interrupted what would
have been one of his best presentations of the subject and have put
him into an impregnable position.

As it was, he had but to imagine himself there and forget his
wife's opinion, which he did not find any difficulty in doing. The wheels
were those of Colonel Pepperell's carriage; put together with English
thoroughness, it had all the weight and unwieldiness of vehicles
of that time.

Lady Dacre, Elizabeth, and Mrs.

Eveleigh descended from it; they had been spending the morning together.

Sir Temple, Edmonson, Bulchester, and their host, on horseback, came
galloping up as the carriage stopped.

They had taken a longer and pleasanter road and had arrived on the
moment.

Sir Temple alighted with his face beaming with pleasure, for he had enjoyed
the exercise. Lady Dacre had never looked better, and she had seen
something more of provincial life and ways. He meant to travel over
the world sometime; he liked to see new things. After dinner, when
the guests were in the garden, he joined his wife for a moment, and
told her what had amused him by the way.

"We went by one of those little houses so numerous about here," he
said, "and an old man was mending his fence. It needed it badly
enough.

Archdale, as he went by, nodded to him pleasantly and called out
an encouragement of his improvements.

The old man looked up hammer in hand, and I expected to see something
like what I should have had, you know, from the tenants at Alderly.
But, Flo, he was so occupied, staring at Edmonson, whom he looked at
first, that I had no chance at all with him, and poor Archdale didn't
get even a nod.

He just dropped his hammer and stood there agape. I think Archdale
was annoyed at the exhibition of ill manners, for he talked very
little the rest of the way here.

Edmonson was so amused he could scarcely help chuckling over it. He asked
our host if the old man was one of his tenants, and if he had been
long on the place, and Archdale said 'yes.' Then Edmonson chuckled all
the more."

As Sir Temple said, Stephen Archdale had been moody during the remainder
of the ride. The old butler's behavior, so at variance with his
usual deference, disturbed him.

It was evident that Edmonson had come upon the man like an apparition.
But why? Stephen intuitively connected this in some way with the conversation
between the father and the son which he had overheard that winter's day
in the woods.

Glancing at his companion, he saw that Edmonson was aware of the startling
effect he had produced, and that the answer was in his face, which was
jubilant. Indeed, he could hardly restrain himself. Wheeling about in
his saddle as they rode, he broke out into a few notes of some
rollicking song, asking Sir Temple if he remembered it.

To him this effect that he had produced meant that the first stroke of the
hour, his hour, had sounded; to Archdale it meant that some mystery
was here, some catastrophe impending. He could readily connect calamity
with Edmonson.

At the door he dismounted like one lost in thought, and with
difficulty threw off his moodiness; while Edmonson sprang to the
ground and ran lightly up the steps into the house, his eyes sparkling
and his face aglow with a beauty that Elizabeth was beginning to
analyze.

Before half an hour his wit was being quoted over the room. Other arrivals
followed this first.

There was reason enough why Elizabeth should have dreaded this dinner,
for the guests in the drawing-room now had nearly all of them been
present at that wedding scene seven months before.

She knew when Katie Archdale came in. It was almost at the last. She
was leaning on her father's arm, her mother on his other.

Both friends felt that every eye in the room would watch their
meeting.

There was an involuntary pause in the conversation; then it was taken up
again here and there, languidly, to cover the attention that must not be
marked.
Katie had been into company very little since her attempted wedding;
her presence was almost a new sensation.

As usual, she behaved admirably.
After greeting her aunt she slipped away from her father, and walked slowly
forward, on the way speaking to those she passed. Her tones were
mellowed a little by her suffering, but sweet and clear as ever,
At last she came to Elizabeth.

They had not been face to face since that December day in Mr. Archdale's
library when Katie had turned away her head from Elizabeth's pleading.
She did nothing of the kind now, she came forward with a chastened
tenderness and said, "Elizabeth," and kissed her. It was Elizabeth,
who the night before had been sobbing over Katie's hard lot and
praying that happiness might come to her, and who was looking at
her now with a heart full of contrition and admiration, who seemed
to those watching to greet the girl coldly, to be indifferent to
her beauty and her disappointment.

Strangely enough, however, Stephen did not think so; he remembered
the scene in the library, and it was possible that in the few times
that he had met Elizabeth he had learned to understand her a little.

He was quick of apprehension where his prejudices were not concerned,
and he certainly had had no opportunity to be prejudiced against Elizabeth
as one wanting to lay claim to him.
And he knew better than any one else did how she hated the very
thought of the yoke that might be laid upon her.

His thoughts did not dwell upon her, however, for he saw that Katie
was like her old affectionate self, that her unjust resentment had
been only momentary; it would have been unnatural not to have felt
so on that day, he reasoned.

Now she was lovelier than ever, softened; by her suffering, the suffering
he was sharing. He sighed, turned away, looking out of the window
doggedly, turned back, and walked quickly up to her.

"How do you do?" he said, holding out his hand.

"How do you do, Stephen," she answered him, and laying her hand in
his, looked into his face a moment, dropped her eyes and stood
before him gravely, her color rising a little.

A few trivial questions, a few remarks, a few answers simply given, and
he bowed and moved away as her mother brought Edmonson up to her. He did
not see her often now-a-days; there was suffering to them both in
meeting, and although he was still her lover in name as well as
in heart, it was always with a dread lest the wall should be built
up between them, and love be stifled in duty.

He was ashamed of himself for his jealous fears when he saw other men
paying her attentions; he never used to have these, but then he was
strong to woo her; he could defy his rivals in fair field, and, as it had
proved, could win the day. But now he was maimed in purpose, perhaps
his hope was lost, his conscience was not clear in the matter as before,
and he felt that in some way he had lost influence.

The strong will that had won Katie was not at present matched by the srong
hand that had made her admiring. The sense of being obliged to wait
upon other's movements galled him; he was impatient, restless,
a man who could not find in himself the comfort he sought, but who watched
for news from a source that he felt was as ready to bring him death
as life.

Elizabeth heard his greeting of Katie, though she was speaking to some
one else when he came forward. She could not tell how it was that in
some way she felt through it to its meaning.

"Sir Temple," she said a moment afterward, "allow me to introduce
Major Vaughan; he has been a friend of Colonel Pepperell's a long time,
and though I cannot claim such an acquaintance, I do claim a share
in the regard in which all his friends hold him."
"And he holds it one of the white days of his life on which he first
met this fair lady," gallantly responded Vaughan sweeping around the
bow which acknowledged the introduction so that it included the
presenter.

Elizabeth smiled her thanks. She knew that the speech was not meant in
sarcasm, although that any one should call it a white day on which
he first met her seemed so; it had been a very black day to Stephen
Archdale, she remembered.

"Major Vaughan can tell you more about the political state of the country,
and its prospects, than any one else," she went on, "except, perhaps,
Colonel Pepperell. How is it, Major, does he keep peace with you?"
"No, Mistress Royal, he distances me as far as a race-horse does an old
cob. The cob has its uses, though," he added with a feint of resignation
to circumstances that he waited to hear denied. A flash of amusement shot
over Elizabeth's face.

"When danger is scented from afar, when battles are to be fought, or
hot work to be done, when spirit and daring are needed," she answered,
"this 'old cob' that has been spoken of so disrespectfully will turn out
a war-horse clothed with thunder, and swallowing the ground with
fierceness and rage, if everybody else is not equally brave."

"You have hit the nail on the head," said Colonel Pepperell's voice behind
her; "a good telling hit, too; that is Vaughan to the life.

When this war that has just begun here grows hot we we shall hear
from him."

"And from you, too," volunteered Sir Temple, who a few minutes before
had been talking with the speaker.

"I hope I shall not be backward in the service of my king and my country,"
said Pepperell.

"And all these men that are thinking merely of pleasure to-day I have
no doubt will soon be deep in deadly work; for the war is coming upon
us, we shall have to meet it."
As Elizabeth listened, she looked from one to another of the men about
her, and her eyes fell at last upon Archdale. War was coming, and he would
be sure to go to meet it; perhaps this would solve his difficulties
for him and take him from the burden he hated, since perhaps it
could, not be taken from him.

Yet, it would be a hard way for a man so young,--with so much of
life in him.

The feeling that some one was watching her made her turn her eyes suddenly
to the left whence the disturbing force had come. They met those of
Edmonson, brighter than ever, and fixed upon her, as if he were reading
her thoughts.

Perhaps he had been, for he stood quite near and Colonel Pepperell's
words had been loud enough to be heard by several. She moved her
head, resenting the surveillance.

What right had he to say to her in any manner, "I know what your
trouble is." His further thought she did not arrive at.
Stephen crossed the room and came up to the speaker.
"Agreed, I can't deny. But
why, Alan?"

"I think I can do more good Earthside. I want to look for Cavour's old
notebooks; I think he developed the hyperdrive, and if I stay behind on
Earth maybe I can find it. Or else I can build my own. So long, Dad. And
tell Steve that I wish him luck--and that he'd better do the same for
me." He glanced at Rat. "Rat, I'm deeding you to Steve. Maybe if he had
had you instead of me, he never would have jumped ship in the first
place."

He looked around, at his father, at Steve, at Rat. There was not much
else he could say. And he knew that if he prolonged the farewell scene
too long, he'd only be burdening his father and himself with the weight
of sentimental memory.

"We won't be back from Procyon for almost twenty years, Alan. You'll be
thirty-seven before we return to Earth again."

Alan grinned. "I have a hunch I'll be seeing you all before then, Dad. I
hope. Give everyone my best. So long, Dad."

"So long, Alan."

He turned away and rapidly descended the ramp. Avoiding Kelleher and the
cargo crew, for goodbyes would take too long, he trotted smoothly over
the spacefield, feeling curiously lighthearted now. Part of the quest
was over; Steve was back on board the _Valhalla_. But Alan knew the real
work was just beginning. He would search for the hyperdrive; perhaps
Hawkes would help him. Maybe he would succeed in his quest this time,
too. He had some further plans, in that event, but it was not time to
think of them now.

Hawkes was still standing at the edge of the field, and there was a
thoughtful smile on his face as Alan came running up to him.

"I guess you won your bet," Alan said, when he had his breath back.

"I almost always do. You owe me a hundred credits--but I'll defer
collection."

They made the trip back to York City in virtual silence. Either Hawkes
was being too tactful to ask the reasons for Alan's decision or
else--this seemed more likely, Alan decided--the gambler had already
made some shrewd surmises, and was waiting for time to bear him out.
Hawkes had known long before Alan himself realized it that he would not
leave with the _Valhalla_.

The Cavour Hyperdrive, that was the rainbow's end Alan would chase now.
He would accept Hawkes' offer, become the gambler's protege, learn a few
thing about life. The experience would not hurt him. And always in the
front of his mind he would keep the ultimate goal, of finding a
spacedrive that would propel a ship faster than the speed of light.

At the apartment in Hasbrouck, Hawkes offered him a drink. "To celebrate
our partnership," he explained.

Alan accepted the drink and tossed it down. It stung, momentarily; he
saw sadly he was never going to make much of a drinking man. He drew
something from his pocket, and Hawkes frowned.

"What's that?"

"My Tally. Every spaceman has one. It's the only way we can keep track
of our chronological ages when we're on board ship." He showed it to
Hawkes; it read _Year 17 Day 3_. "Every twenty-four hours of subjective
time that goes by, we click off another day. Every three hundred
sixty-five days another year is ticked off. But I guess I won't be
needing this any more."

He tossed it in the disposal unit. "I'm an Earther now. Every day that
goes by is just one day; objective time and subjective time are equal."

Hawkes grinned cheerfully. "A little plastic doodad to tell you how old
you are, eh? Well, that's all behind you now." He pointed to a button in
the wall. "There's the operating control for your bed; I'll sleep in
back, where I did last night. First thing tomorrow we'll get you a
decent set of clothes, so you can walk down the street without having
people yell '_Spacer!_' at you. Then I want you to meet a few
people--friends of mine. And then we start breaking you in at the Class
C tables."

       *       *       *       *       *

The first few days of life with Hawkes were exciting ones. The gambler
bought Alan new clothing, modern stuff with self-sealing zippers and
pressure buttons, made of filmy clinging materials that were incredibly
more comfortable than the rough cloth of his _Valhalla_ uniform. York
City seemed less strange to him with each passing hour; he studied
Undertube routes and Overshoot maps until he knew his way around the
city fairly well.

Each night about 1800 they would eat, and then it was time to go to
work. Hawkes' routine brought him to three different Class A gambling
parlors, twice each week; on the seventh day he always rested. For the
first week Alan followed Hawkes around, standing behind him and
observing his technique. When the second week began, Alan was on his
own, and he began to frequent Class C places near the A parlors Hawkes
used.

But when he asked Hawkes whether he should take out a Free Status
registration, the gambler replied with a quick, snappish, "Not yet."

"But why? I'm a professional gambler, since last week. Why shouldn't I
register?"

"Because you don't need to. It's not required."

"But I want to. Gosh, Max, I--well, I sort of want to put my name down
on something. Just to show I belong here on Earth. I want to register."

Hawkes looked at him strangely, and it seemed to Alan there was menace
in the calm blue eyes. In suddenly ominous tones he said, "I don't want
you signing your name to anything, Alan. Or registering for Free Status.
Got that?"

"Yes, but----"

"No buts! Got it?"

Repressing his anger, Alan nodded. He was used to taking orders from his
shipboard superiors and obeying them. Hawkes probably knew best. In any
case, he was dependent on the older man right now, and did not want to
anger him unnecessarily. Hawkes was wealthy; it might take money to
build a hyperdrive ship, when the time came. Alan was flatly
cold-blooded about it, and the concept surprised and amused him when he
realized just how single-minded he had become since resigning from the
_Valhalla_.

He turned the single-mindedness to good use at the gaming tables first.
During his initial ten days as a professional, he succeeded in losing
seven hundred credits of Hawkes' money, even though he did manage to win
a three-hundred-credit stake one evening.

But Hawkes was not worried. "You'll make the grade, Alan. A few more
weeks, days maybe, while you learn the combinations, limber up your
fingers, pick up the knack of thinking fast--you'll get there."

"I'm glad _you're_ so optimistic." Alan felt downcast. He had dropped
three hundred credits that evening, and it seemed to him that his
fumbling fingers would never learn to set up the combinations fast
enough. He was just like Steve, a born loser, without the knack the game
required. "Oh, well, it's your money."

"And I expect you to double it for me some day. I've got a five-to-one
bet out now that you'll make Class B before fall."

Alan snorted doubtfully. In order to make Class B, he would have to make
average winnings of two hundred credits a night for ten days running, or
else win three thousand credits within a month. It seemed a hopeless
task.

But, as usual, Hawkes won the bet. Alan's luck improved as May passed
and June dwindled; at the beginning of July he hit a hot streak when he
seemed to be marching up to the winner's rostrum every other round, and
the other Class C patrons began to grumble. The night he came home with
six hundred newly-won credits, Hawkes opened a drawer and took out a
slim, sleek neutrino gun.

"You'd better carry this with you from now on," the gambler said.

"What for?"

"They're starting to notice you now. I hear people talking. They know
you're carrying cash out of the game parlors every night."

Alan held the cool gray weapon, whose muzzle could spit a deadly stream
of energized neutrinos, undetectable, massless, and fatal. "If I'm held
up I'm supposed to use this?"

"Just the first time," Hawkes said. "If you do the job right, you won't
need to use it any more. There won't be any second time."

As it turned out, Alan had no need for the gun, but he carried it within
easy reach whenever he left the apartment. His skill at the game
continued to increase; it was, he saw, just like astrogation, and with
growing confidence he learned to project his moves three and sometimes
four numbers ahead.

On a warm night in mid-July the proprietor of the games hall Alan
frequented most regularly stopped him as he entered.

"You're Donnell, aren't you?"

"That's right. Anything wrong?"

"Nothing much, except that I've been tallying up your take the past two
weeks. Comes to close to three thousand credits, altogether. Which means
you're not welcome around this parlor any more. Nothing personal, son.
You'd better carry this with you next time out."

Alan took the little card the proprietor offered him. It was made of
gray plastic, and imprinted on it in yellow were the letters, CLASS B.
He had been promoted.


_Chapter Thirteen_


Things were not quite so easy in the Class B games parlors. Competition
was rough. Some of the players were, like Alan, sharp newcomers just up
from the bottom of the heap; others were former Class A men who were
sliding down again, but still did well enough to hang on in Class B.
Every day, some of the familiar faces were gone, as one man after
another failed to meet the continuing qualifications for the
intermediary class.

Alan won fairly steadily--and Hawkes, of course, was a consistent winner
on the Class A level. Alan turned his winnings over to the older man,
who then allowed him to draw any cash he might need without question.

The summer rolled on through August--hot and sticky, despite the best
efforts of the local weather-adjustment bureau. The cloud-seeders
provided a cooling rain-shower at about 0100 every night to wash away
the day's grime. Alan was usually coming home at that time, and he would
stand in the empty streets letting the rain pelt down on him, and
enjoying it. Rain was a novelty for him; he had spent so much of his
life aboard the starship that he had had little experience with it. He
was looking forward to the coming of winter, and with it snow.

He hardly ever thought of the _Valhalla_. He disciplined himself to keep
thoughts of the starship out of his mind, for he knew that once he began
regretting his decision there would be no stopping. Life on Earth was
endlessly fascinating; and he was confident that someday soon he would
get a chance to begin tracking down the Cavour hyperdrive.

Hawkes taught him many things--how to wrestle, how to cheat at cards,
how to throw knives. None of the things Alan learned from Hawkes were
proper parts of the education of a virtuous young man--but on Earth,
virtue was a negative accomplishment. You were either quick or dead. And
until he had an opportunity to start work on the hyperdrive, Alan knew
he had better learn how to survive on Earth. Hawkes was a master of
survival techniques; Alan was a good student.

He had his first test on a muggy night early in September. He had spent
his evening at the Lido, a flossy games parlor in the suburb of
Ridgewood, and had come away with better than seven hundred credits--the
second best single night he had ever had. He felt good about things.
Hawkes was working at a parlor far across the city, and so they did not
arrange to meet when the evening was over; instead, they planned to come
home separately. Usually they talked for an hour or two each night
before turning in, Alan reviewing his evening's work and having Hawkes
pick out the weak points in his technique and show him the mistakes he
had made.

Alan reached Hasbrouck about 0030 that evening. There was no moon; and
in Hasbrouck the street-lighting was not as efficient as it was in more
respectable areas of York City. The streets were dark. Alan was
perspiring heavily from the humidity. But the faint hum of the
cloud-seeders' helicopters could be heard; the evening rain was on the
way. He decided to wait outside a while.

The first drops splashed down at 0045. Alan grinned gleefully as the
cool rain washed away the sweat that clung to him; while pedestrians
scurried for cover, he gloried in the downpour.

Darkness lay all around. Alan heard sudden footsteps; a moment later he
felt sharp pressure in the small of his back and a hand gripping his
shoulder.

A quiet voice said, "Hand over your cash and you won't get hurt."

Alan froze just an instant. Then the months of Hawkes' training came
into play. He wiggled his back tentatively to see whether the knife was
penetrating his clothing. Good; it wasn't.

In one quick motion he whirled and spun away, dancing off to the left
and clubbing down sharply on his opponent's knife-hand. A grunted
exclamation of pain rewarded him. He stepped back two steps; as his
attacker advanced, Alan drove a fist into his stomach and leaped lithely
away again. This time his hand emerged holding the neutrino gun.

"Stand where you are or I'll burn you," he said quietly. The
shadow-shrouded attacker made no move. Cautiously Alan kicked the fallen
knife out of his reach without lowering his gun.

"Okay," Alan said. "Come on over here in the light where I can see who
you are. I want to remember you."

But to his astonishment he felt strong arms slipping around his and
pinioning him; a quick twist and his neutrino gun dropped from his
numbed hands. The arms locked behind his back in an unbreakable full
nelson.

Alan writhed, but it was no use. The hidden accomplice held him tightly.
And now the other man came forward and efficiently went through his
pockets. Alan felt more angry than afraid, but he wished Hawkes or
someone else would come along before this thing went too far.

Suddenly Alan felt the pressure behind his neck easing up. His captor
was releasing him. He poised, debating whether or not to whirl and
attack, when a familiar voice said, "Rule Number One: never leave your
back unguarded for more than half a second when you're being held up.
You see what happens."

Alan was too stunned to reply for several moments. In a whisper he said
finally, "Max?"

"Of course. And lucky for you I'm who I am, too. John, step out here in
the light where he can see you. Alan, meet John Byng. Free Status, Class
B."

The man who had originally attacked him came forward now, into the light
of the street-glow. He was shorter than Alan, with a lean, almost
fleshless face and a scraggly reddish-brown beard. He looked cadaverous.
His eyeballs were stained a peculiar yellowish tinge.

Alan recognized him--a Class B man he had seen several times at various
parlors. It was not a face one forgot easily.

Byng handed over the thick stack of bills he had taken from Alan. As he
pocketed them, Alan said in some annoyance, "A very funny prank, Max.
But suppose I had burned your friend's belly, or he had stabbed me?"

Hawkes chuckled. "One of the risks of the game, I guess. But I know you
too well to think that you'd burn down an unarmed man, and John didn't
intend to stab you. Besides, I was right here."

"And what was the point of this little demonstration?"

"Part of your education, m'boy. I was hoping you'd be held up by one of
the local gangs, but they didn't oblige, so I had to do it myself. With
John's help, of course. Next time remember that there may be an
accomplice hiding in the shadows, and that you're not safe just because
you've caught one man."

Alan grinned. "Good point. And I guess this is the best way to learn
it."

The three of them went upstairs. Byng excused himself and vanished into
the extra room almost immediately; Hawkes whispered to Alan, "Johnny's a
dreamduster--a narcosephrine addict. In the early stages; you can spot
it by the yellowing of the eyeballs. Later on it'll cripple him, but he
doesn't worry about later on."

Alan studied the small, lean man when he returned. Byng was smiling--a
strange unworldly smile. He held a small plastic capsule in his right
hand.

"Here's another facet of your education," he said. He looked at Hawkes.
"Is it okay?"

Hawkes nodded.

Byng said, "Take a squint at this capsule, boy. It's
dreamdust--narcosephrine. That's my kick."

He tossed the capsule nonchalantly to Alan, who caught it and held it at
arm's distance as if it were a live viper. It contained a yellow powder.

"You twist the cap and sniff a little," Hawkes said. "But don't try it
unless you hate yourself real bad. Johnny can testify to that."

Alan frowned. "What does the stuff do?"

"It's a stimulant--a nerve-stimulant. Enhances perception. It's made
from a weed that grows only in dry, arid places--comes from Epsilon
Eridani IV originally, but the galaxy's biggest plantation is in the
Sahara. It's habit-forming--and expensive."

"How much of it do you have to take to--to get the habit?"

Byng's thin lips curled in a cynical scowl. "One sniff. And the drug
takes all your worries away. You're nine feet tall and the world's your
plaything, when you're up on dream dust. Everything you look at has six
different colors." Bitterly Byng said, "Just one catch--after about a
year you stop feeling the effect. But not the craving. That stays with
you forever. Every night, one good sniff--at a hundred credits a sniff.
And there's no cure."

Alan shuddered. He had seen dreamdust addicts in the advanced
state--withered palsied old men of forty, unable to eat, crippled,
drying up and nearing death. All that for a year's pleasure!

"Johnny used to be a starman," Hawkes said suddenly. "That's why I
picked him for our little stunt tonight. I thought it was about time I
introduced you two."

Alan's eyes widened. "What ship?"

"_Galactic Queen._ A dreamdust peddler came wandering through the
Enclave one night and let me have a free sniff. Generous of him."

"And you--became an addict?"

"Five minutes later. So my ship left without me. That was eleven years
ago, Earthtime. Figure it out--a hundred credits a night for eleven
years."

Alan felt cold inside. It could have happened to him, he thought--that
free sniff. Byng's thin shoulders were quivering. The advanced stage of
addiction was starting to set in.

Byng was only the first of Hawkes' many friends that Alan met in the
next two weeks. Hawkes was the center of a large group of men in Free
Status, not all of whom knew each other but who all knew Hawkes. Alan
felt a sort of pride in being the protege of such an important and
widely-known man as Max Hawkes, until he started discovering what sort
of people Hawkes' friends were.

There was Lorne Hollis, the loansman--one of the men Steve had borrowed
from. Hollis was a chubby, almost greasy individual with flat milky gray
eyes and a cold, chilling smile. Alan shook hands with him, and then
felt like wiping off his hand. Hollis came to see them often.

Another frequent visitor was Mike Kovak of the Bryson Syndicate--a
sharp-looking businessman type in ultra-modern suits, who spoke clearly
and well and whose specialty was forgery. There was Al Webber, an
amiable, soft-spoken little man who owned a fleet of small ion-drive
cargo ships that plied the spacelines between Earth and Mars, and who
also exported dreamdust to the colony on Pluto, where the weed could not
be grown.

Seven or eight others showed up occasionally at Hawkes' apartment. Alan
was introduced to them all, and then generally dropped out of the
conversation, which usually consisted of reminiscences and gossip about
people he did not know.

But as the days passed, one thing became evident: Hawkes might not be a
criminal himself, but certainly most of his friends operated on the far
side of the law. Hawkes had seen to it that they stayed away from the
apartment during the first few months of Alan's Earther education; but
now that the ex-starman was an accomplished gambler and fairly well
skilled in self-defense, all of Hawkes' old friends were returning once
again.

Day by day Alan increasingly realized how innocent and childlike a
starman's life was. The _Valhalla_ was a placid little world of 176
people, bound together by so many ties that there was rarely any
conflict. Here on Earth, though, life was tough and hard.

He was lucky. He had stumbled into Hawkes early in his wanderings. With
a little less luck he might have had the same sort of life Steve had
had ... or John Byng. It was not fun to think about that.

Usually when Hawkes had friends visiting him late at night, Alan would
sit up for a while listening, and then excuse himself and get some
sleep. As he lay in bed he could hear low whispering, and once he woke
toward morning and heard the conversation still going on. He strained
his ears, but did not pick up anything.

One night early in October he had come home from the games parlor and,
finding nobody home, had gone immediately to sleep. Some time later he
heard Hawkes and his friends come in, but he was too tired to get out of
bed and greet them. He rolled over and went back to sleep.

But later that night he felt hands touching him, and he opened an eye to
see Hawkes bending over him.

"It's me--Max. Are you awake?"

"No," Alan muttered indistinctly.

Hawkes shook him several times. "Come on--get up and put some clothes
on. Some people here who want to talk to you."

Only half comprehending, Alan clambered unwillingly from bed, dressed,
and splashed cold water in his face. He followed Hawkes back inside.

The living room was crowded. Seven or eight men were there--the ones
Alan thought of as the inner circle of Hawkes' cronies. Johnny Byng,
Mike Kovak, Al Webber, Lorne Hollis, and some others. Sleepily Alan
nodded at them and took a seat, wondering why Hawkes had dragged him out
of bed for this.

Hawkes looked at him sharply. "Alan, you know all these people, don't
you?"

Alan nodded. He was still irritated at Hawkes; he had been sound asleep.

"You're now facing ninety per cent of what we've come to call the Hawkes
Syndicate," Hawkes went on. "These eight gentlemen and myself have
formed the organization recently for a certain specific purpose. More of
that in a few minutes. What I got you out here to tell you was that
there's room in our organization for one more man, and that you fit the
necessary qualifications."

"Me?"

Hawkes smiled. "You. We've all been watching you since you came to live
with me, testing you, studying you. You're adaptable, strong,
intelligent. You learn fast. We had a little vote tonight, and decided
to invite you in."

Alan wondered if he were still asleep or not. What was all this talk of
syndicates? He looked round the circle, and realized that this bunch
could be up to no good.

Hawkes said, "Tell him about it, Johnny."

Byng leaned forward and blinked his drug-stained eyes. In a quiet voice,
almost a purr, he said, "It's really very simple. We're going to stage a
good old-fashioned hold-up. It's a proposition that'll net us each about
a million credits, even with the ten-way split. It ought to go off
pretty easy but we need you in on it. As a matter of fact, I'd say you
were indispensable to the project, Alan."


_Chapter Fourteen_


Hawkes took over, explaining the proposition to a now very much awake
Alan.

"There's going to be a currency transfer at the World Reserve Bank
downtown next Friday. At least ten million credits are going to be
picked up by an armored truck and taken to branch banks for
distribution.

"Hollis, here, happens to have found out the wave-patterns of the
roboguards who'll be protecting the currency shipment. And Al Webber has
some equipment that can paralyze roboguards if we know their operational
wavelength. So it's a simple matter to leave the car unprotected; we
wait till it's loaded, then blank out the robots, seize the human
guards, and drive away with the truck."

Alan frowned thoughtfully. "Why am _I_ so indispensable to this
business?" He had no desire to rob banks or anything else.

"Because you're the only one of us who isn't registered on the central
directory. You don't have any televector number. You can't be traced."

Suddenly Alan understood. "So _that's_ why you didn't let me register!
You've been grooming me for this all along!"

Hawkes nodded. "As far as Earth is concerned, you don't exist. If any of
us drove off with that truck, all they need to do is plot the truck's
coordinates and follow the televector patterns of the man who's driving
it. Capture is inevitable that way. But if _you're_ aboard the truck,
there's no possible way of tracing your route. Get it?"

"I get it," Alan said slowly. _But I don't like it_, he added silently.
"I want to think about the deal a little longer, though. Let me sleep on
it. I'll tell you tomorrow whether I'll go through with it."

Puzzled expressions appeared on the faces of Hawkes' eight guests, and
Webber started to say something, but Hawkes hastily cut him off. "The
boy's a little sleepy, that's all. He needs time to get used to the idea
of being a millionaire. I'll call each of you in the morning, okay?"

The eight were shepherded out of the apartment rapidly, and when they
were gone Hawkes turned to face Alan. Gone now was the bland
friendliness, gone the warm-hearted brotherliness of the older man. His
lean face was cold and businesslike now, and his voice was harsh as he
said, "What's this talk of thinking it over? Who said you had any choice
about this thing?"

"Don't I have any say in my own life?" Alan asked hotly. "Suppose I
don't want to be a bank robber? You didn't tell me----"

"I didn't need to. Listen, boy--I didn't bring you in here for my
health. I brought you in because I saw you had the potential for this
job. I've coddled you along for more than three months, now. Given you a
valuable education in how to get along on this planet. Now I'm asking
you to pay me back, a little. Byng told the truth: you're indispensable
to this project. Your personal feelings are irrelevant just now."

"Who says?"

"I do."

Alan stared coldly at Hawkes' transformed face. "Max, I didn't bargain
for a share in your bank-robbing syndicate. I don't want any part of it.
Let's call it quits right now. I've turned over quite a few thousand
credits of my winnings to you. Give me five hundred and keep the rest.
It's your pay for my room and board and instruction the last three
months. You go your way, I'll go mine."

Hawkes laughed sharply. "Just as simple as that? I pocket your winnings
and you walk out of here? How dumb do you think I am? You know the names
of the syndicate, you know the plans, you know everything. A lot of
people would pay big money for an advance tip on this bit." He shook his
head. "I'll go my way and you'll go it too, Alan. Or else. You know what
that _or else_ means."

Angrily Alan said, "You'd kill me, too, if I backed down now. Friendship
doesn't mean a thing to you. 'Help us rob this bank, or else.'"

Hawkes' expression changed again; he smiled warmly, and when he spoke
his voice was almost wheedling. "Listen, Alan, we've been planning this
thing for months. I put down seven thousand to clear your brother, just
so I'd be sure of getting your cooperation. I tell you there's no
danger. I didn't mean to threaten you--but try to see my side of it. You
_have_ to help out!"

Alan looked at him curiously. "How come you're so hot to rob the bank,
Max? You earn a fortune every night. You don't need a million more
credits."

"No. I don't. But some of them do. Johnny Byng does; and Kovak, too--he
owes Bryson thirty thousand. But I organized the scheme." Hawkes was
pleading now. "Alan, I'm bored. Deadly bored. Gambling isn't gambling
for me; I'm too good. I never lose except when I want to. So I need to
get my kicks someplace else. This is it. But it won't come off without
you."

They were silent for a moment. Alan realized that Hawkes and his group
were desperate men; they would never let him live if he refused to
cooperate. He had no choice at all. It was disillusioning to discover
that Hawkes had taken him in mostly because he would be useful in a
robbery.

He tried to tell himself that this was a jungle world where morality
didn't matter, and that the million credits he'd gain would help finance
hyperdrive research. But those were thin arguments that held no
conviction. There was no justification for what he was going to do. None
whatsoever.

But Hawkes held him in a cleft stick. There was no way out. He had
fallen among thieves--and, willy-nilly, he would be forced to become one
himself.

"All right," he said bitterly. "I'll drive the getaway truck for you.
But after it's over, I'll take my share and get out. I won't want to see
you again."

Hawkes seemed to look hurt, but he masked the emotion quickly enough.
"That's up to you, Alan. But I'm glad you gave in. It would have been
rough on both of us otherwise. Suppose we get some sleep."

Alan slept poorly during what was left of the night. He kept mulling the
same thoughts round and round endlessly in his head, until he wished he
could unhinge the front of his skull and let the thoughts somehow
escape.

It irritated him to know that Hawkes had taken him in primarily because
he fit the qualifications for a plan concocted long before, and not for
his own sake. All the intensive training the gambler had given him had
been directed not merely toward toughening Alan but toward preparing him
for the role he would play in the projected robbery.

He felt unhappy about the robbery too. The fact that he was being
coerced into taking part made him no less a criminal, and that went
against all his long-ingrained codes of ethics. He would be just as
guilty as Hawkes or Webber, and there was no way out.

There was no sense brooding over it, he decided finally. When it was all
over he would have enough money to begin aiming for his real goal,
development of a workable hyperspace drive. He would break completely
with Hawkes, move to some other city perhaps. If his quest were
successful, it would in some measure be an atonement for the crime he
was going to commit. Only in some measure, though.

The week passed slowly, and Alan did poorly at his nightly work. His
mind was anywhere but on the flashing games board, and the permutations
and combinations eluded him. He lost, though not heavily.

Each night the ten members of the Syndicate met at Hawkes' apartment and
planned each step of the crime in great detail, drilling and re-drilling
until it was second nature for each man to recite his particular part in
the robbery. Moreover, a discreet silence is observed with regard to
the progress of vegetation on Mars being from the poles towards the
equator, instead of from the equator towards the poles, as is the case
on our earth.

This mode of progression can only be accounted for by the flow of
water from the poles, and such flow extending beyond the equator
involves the artificial propulsion of the water, as the flow is
contrary to gravitation.

Professor Lowell's statements as to this peculiar growth of the vegetation
do not depend upon the results of a few casual observations, for he has
given the matter most systematic and prolonged attention, and noted upon
hundreds of charts the dates when the vegetation has first appeared in
various places and latitudes after the passage of the water down the
canals.

This is such a hard nut for the opponents of the canal theory to crack,
that I am quite prepared to learn that all these careful observations
are merely illusions.

Professor Hale, of Mount Wilson Observatory, in California, has taken
some photographs of Mars which do not show any canal lines; and these
have been eagerly seized upon as another proof that the canals have
no existence.

Unfortunately, these photographs do not show many well authenticated
details which are seen with comparative ease, nor the new details
seen by M. Antoniadi. It is, therefore, no matter of wonder that
they do not show the much fainter canal lines.There were three human policemen too, but they were
strictly for effect; in case of any trouble, the roboguards were
expected to handle the rough work.

The bank was a mighty edifice indeed--over a hundred stories high,
rising in sweeping setbacks to a point where its tapering top was lost
in the shimmering noonday sky. It was, Alan knew, the center of global
commerce.

Armed guards were bringing packages of currency from within the bank and
were placing them on the truck. Alan's heart raced. The streets were
crowded with office workers out for lunch; could he get away with it?

It was all precisely synchronized. As Hawkes and Alan strolled toward
the bank, Alan caught sight of Kovak lounging across the street, reading
a telefax sheet. None of the others were visible.

Webber, Alan knew, was at this moment sitting in an office overlooking
the bank entrance, staring out the window at the scene below. At
precisely 1240, Webber was to throw the switch on the wave-damper that
would paralyze the four roboguards.

The instant the roboguards froze, the other conspirators would go into
action. Jensen, McGuire, Freeman, and Smith, donning masks, would leap
for the three human guards of the truck and pin them to the ground. Byng
and Hawkes, who would enter the bank a moment before, would stage an
impromptu fist-fight with each other just inside the main entrance,
thereby creating confusion and making it difficult for reinforcement
guards to get past them and into the street.

Just outside the door, Hollis and Kovak would lurk. As the quartet
pounced on the truck's guards, they would sprint across and yank the
driver out of the cab. Then Alan would enter quickly from the other side
and drive off, while the remaining nine would vanish into the crowd in
as many different directions as possible. Byng and Hollis, if they got
away, would head for the rendezvous to meet Alan and take the cash from
him.

If it went off properly the whole thing should take less than fifteen
seconds, from the time Webber threw the switch to the time Alan drove
away with the truck. If it went off properly.

The seconds crawled by. The time was 1235, now. At 1237 Hawkes and Byng
sauntered into the bank from opposite directions. Three minutes to go.
Alan's false calm deserted him; he pictured all sorts of possible
calamities.

1238. Everyone's watch was synchronized to the second.

1239. 1239:30.

Thirty seconds to go. Alan took his position in a crowd of bystanders,
as prearranged. Fifteen seconds to go. Ten. Five.

1240. The roboguards were in the act of directing the locking of the
truck; the loading had been carried out precisely on schedule. The truck
was shut and sealed.

The roboguards froze.

Webber had been right on time. Alan tensed, caught up in the excitement
of the moment and thinking now only of the part he was to play.

The three policemen glanced at each other in some confusion. Jensen and
McGuire came leaping out at them----

And the roboguards returned to life.

The sound of blaster shots was heard within the bank; Alan whirled,
startled. Four guards came racing out of the building, blasters drawn.
What had happened to Hawkes and Byng--why weren't they obstructing the
entrance, as it had been arranged?

The street was a scene of wild confusion now; people milled everywhere.
Alan saw Jensen writhing in the steel grip of a roboguard. Had Webber's
device failed? Evidently so.

Alan was unable to move. He saw Freeman and McGuire streaking wildly
down the street with police in keen pursuit. Hollis stood staring dumbly
inside the bank door. Alan saw Kovak come running toward him.

"Everything's gone wrong!" Kovak whispered harshly. "The cops were
waiting for us! Byng and Hawkes are dead. Come on--run, if you want to
save yourself!"


_Chapter Fifteen_


Alan sat very quietly in the empty apartment that had once belonged to
Max Hawkes, and stared at nothing in particular. It was five hours since
the abortive robbery. He was alone.

The news had been blared out over every form of communication there was;
he knew the story by heart. A daring robbery had been attempted, but
police detection methods had yielded advance warning, and the robbers
had been frustrated. The roboguards had been specially equipped ones
which could shift to an alternate wavelength in case of emergency; they
had blanked out only momentarily. And special guards had been posted
within the bank, ready to charge out. Byng and Hawkes had tried to block
the doorway and they had been shot down. Hawkes was killed instantly;
Byng died an hour later in the hospital.

At least two other members of the gang had been apprehended--Jensen and
Smith, both trapped by the roboguards. It was known that at least two
other men and possibly more had participated in the attempt, and these
were being traced now.

Alan was not worried. He had not been within a hundred feet of the
crime, and it had been easy for him to slip away unnoticed. The others
had had little difficulty either--Webber, Hollis, Kovak, McGuire, and
Freeman. There was a chance that Hollis or Kovak had been recognized; in
that case, they could be tracked down by televector. But Alan was not
registered on the televector screens--and there was no other way of
linking him with the crime.

He glanced around the apartment at Hawkes' bar and his audio system and
all the dead man's other things. Yesterday, Alan thought, Hawkes had
been here, alive, eyes sparkling as he outlined the plans for the
robbery a final time. Now he was dead. It was hard to believe that such
a many-sided person could have been snuffed out so soon, so quickly.

A thought occurred. The police would be investigating the disposition of
Hawkes' property; they would want to know the relationship between
Hawkes and Alan, and perhaps there would be questions asked about the
robbery. Alan decided to forestall that.

He reached for the phone. He would call Security, tell them he had been
living with Hawkes and had heard of the gambler's sudden violent death,
and in all innocence ask for details. He would----

The door-announcer chimed.

Alan whirled and put down the receiver. Reaching out, he flicked on the
doorscreen and was shown a view of a distinguished-looking middle-aged
man in the silver-gray uniform of the police. _So soon?_ Alan thought.
_I didn't even get a chance to call----_

"Who is it?" he asked, in a surprisingly even voice.

"Inspector Gainer of Global Security."

Alan opened the door. Inspector Gainer smiled warmly, walked in, took
the seat Alan offered him. Alan felt tense and jumpy, and hoped not too
much of it showed.

The Security man said, "Your name is Alan Donnell, isn't it? And you're
a Free Status man, unregistered, employed as a professional gamesman
Class B?"

Alan nodded. "That's right, sir."

Gainer checked a notation on a pad he carried. "I suppose you've heard
that the man who lived here--Max Hawkes--was killed in an attempted
robbery this morning."

"Y-yes, sir. I heard it a little while ago, on the newscasts. I'm still
a little shaken up. W-would you care for a drink, Inspector?"

"Not on duty, thanks," Gainer said cheerfully. "Tell me, Alan--how long
did you know Max Hawkes?"

"Since last May. I'm an ex-starman. I--jumped ship. Max found me
wandering around the city and took me in. But I never knew anything
about any robberies, Inspector. Max kept his mouth pretty well sealed
most of the time. When he left here this morning, he said he was going
to the bank to make a deposit. I never thought----"

He stopped, wondering whether he sounded convincing. At that moment a
long jail sentence or worse seemed inevitable. And the worst part of it
was that he had not wanted to take part in the robbery, indeed _had_ not
taken part--but in the eyes of the law he was undoubtedly as guilty as
any of the others.

Gainer raised one hand. "Don't misunderstand, son. I'm not here as a
criminal investigator. We don't suspect you had any part in the
attempt."

"Then why----"

He drew an envelope from his breast pocket and unfolded the papers it
contained. "I knew Max pretty well," he said. "About a week ago he came
to see me and gave me a sealed envelope which was to be opened only in
the event of his death on this particular day, and to be destroyed
unopened otherwise. I opened it a few hours ago. I think you ought to
read it."

With trembling fingers Alan took the sheaf of papers and scanned them.
They were neatly typed; Alan recognized the blocky purple characters of
the voicewrite Hawkes kept in his room.

He started to read.

The document explained that Hawkes was planning a bank robbery to take
place on Friday, October 3, 3876. He named none of his accomplices. He
went on to state that one Alan Donnell, an unregistered ex-starman, was
living with him, and that this Alan Donnell had no knowledge whatsoever
of the intended bank robbery.

_Furthermore_, Hawkes added, _in the event of my death in the intended
robbery, Alan Donnell is to be sole heir and assign of my worldly goods.
This supersedes and replaces any and all wills and testaments I may have
made at any past time._

Appended was a schedule of the properties Hawkes was leaving behind.
Accounts in various savings banks totalled some three quarters of a
million credits; besides that, there were scattered investments, real
estate holdings, bonds. The total estate, Hawkes estimated, was worth
slightly over one million credits.

When Alan finished, he looked up startled and white-faced at the older
man. "All of this is mine?"

"You're a pretty rich young man," Gainer agreed. "Of course, there are
formalities--the will has to be probated and contested, and you can
expect it to be contested by somebody. If you still have the full estate
when the courts get through with you, you'll be all right."

Alan shook his head uncomprehendingly. "The way he wrote this--it's as
if he _knew_."

"Max Hawkes always knew," Gainer said gently. "He was the best hunch-man
I've ever seen. It was almost as if he could look a couple of days into
the future all the time. Sure, he knew. And he also knew it was safe to
leave this document with me--that he could trust me not to open it.
Imagine, announcing a week ahead of time that you're going to rob a bank
and then turning the announcement over sealed to a police officer!"

Alan started. The police had known about the robbery in advance--that
was how Max and the dreamduster Byng had been killed. Had Gainer been
the one who had betrayed them? Had he opened the sealed envelope ahead
of time, and sent Max to his death?

No. It was inconceivable that this soft-spoken man would have done such
a thing. Alan banished the thought.

"Max knew he was going to be killed," he said. "And yet he went ahead
with it. Why?"

"Maybe he wanted to die," Gainer suggested. "Maybe he was bored with
life, bored with always winning, bored with things as they were. The man
was never born who could figure out Max Hawkes, anyway. You must have
found that out yourself."

Gainer rose. "I'll have to be moving along, now. But let me give you
some suggestions, first."

"Sir?"

"Go downtown and get yourself registered in Free Status. Have them give
you a televector number. You're going to be an important person when you
get all that money. And be very careful about who your friends are. Max
could take care of himself; you may not be so lucky, son."

"Is there going to be an investigation of the robbery?" Alan asked.

"It's under way already. You may be called down for questioning, but
don't let it worry you. I turned a copy of Max's will over to them
today, and that exonerates you completely."

It was strangely empty in the apartment that night; Alan wished Gainer
had stayed longer. He walked through the dark rooms, half expecting Max
to come home. But Max wasn't coming home.

Alan realized he had been tremendously fond of Hawkes. He had never
really shown it; he had never demonstrated much warmth toward the
gambler, especially in the final days when they both lived under the
pressure of the planned robbery. But Alan knew he owed much to Hawkes,
rogue and rascal though he was. Hawkes had been basically a good man,
gifted--_too_ gifted, perhaps--whose drives and passions led him beyond
the bounds of society. And at thirty-five he was dead, having known in
advance that his last day was at hand.

The next few days were busy ones. Alan was called to Security
headquarters for questioning, but he insisted he knew nothing about the
robbery or Hawkes' friends, and the document Hawkes had left seemed to
bear him out. He was cleared of all complicity in the robbery.

He next went to the Central Directory Matrix and registered in Free
Status. He was given a televector transmitter--it was surgically
embedded in the fleshy part of his thigh--and he accepted a drink from
fat old Hines MacIntosh in remembrance of Hawkes.

He spoke briefly with MacIntosh about the process of collecting on
Hawkes' estate, and learned it was a complex process, but nothing to be
frightened of. The will was being sent through channels now.

He met Hollis in the street several days later. The bloated loansman
looked pale and harried; he had lost weight, and his skin hung flabbily
over his bones now. Little as Alan liked the loansman, he insisted on
taking him to a local restaurant for lunch.

"How come you're still hanging around York City?" Alan asked. "I thought
the heat was on for any of Max's old buddies."

"It is," Hollis said, wiping sweat from his white shiny forehead. "But
so far I'm in the clear. There won't be much of an investigation; they
killed two and caught two, and that'll keep them happy. After all, the
robbery was a failure."

"Any notion why it failed?"

Hollis nodded. "Sure I have a notion! It was Kovak who tipped them off."

"Mike?--but he looked okay to me."

"And to everybody. But he owed Bryson a lot, and Bryson was anxious to
dispose of Max. So Kovak turned the plans of the robbery over to
Bryson's boys in exchange for a quitclaim on the money he owed, and
Bryson just forwarded it all on to the police. They were waiting for us
when we showed up."

That cleared Gainer, Alan thought in some relief. "How did you find all
this out?"

"Bryson himself told me."

"What!"

"I guess he didn't know exactly who besides Max was in on the deal.
Anyway, he certainly didn't know I was part of the group," Hollis said.
"Old man Bryson was laying off some bets with me and he let something
slip about how he tipped the police to Max. Then he told me the whole
thing."

"And Kovak?"

"Dead," Hollis said bluntly. "Bryson must have figured that if he'd sell
Max out he'd sell anybody out, so Kovak got taken care of. He was found
yesterday. Heart failure, the report said. Bryson has some good drugs.
Say, kid--any word yet on what's going to happen to all Max's dough?"

Alan thought a moment before replying. "I haven't heard a thing. I guess
the government inherits it."

"That would be too bad," Hollis said speculatively. "Max was well
loaded. I'd like to get my hands into some of that dough myself. So
would Bryson and his bunch, I'll bet."

Alan said nothing. When he was through eating, he paid the check and
they left, Hollis heading north, Alan south. In three days, Hawkes' will
would go through the courts. Alan wondered if Bryson, who seemed to be
York City's major criminal syndic man, would try to angle some share of
Max's money.

A Bryson man did show up at the hearing--a slick-looking operator named
Berwin. His claim was that Hawkes had been affiliated with Bryson a
number of years ago, and that Hawkes' money should revert to Bryson by
virtue of an obscure law of the last century involving the estates of
professional gamblers killed in criminal actions.

The robocomputer who was in charge of the hearing pondered the request a
few moments; then relays clicked and the left-hand panel on the computer
face lit up with a bright red APPLICATION DENIED signal.

Berwin spoke for three minutes, ending up with a request that the
robocomputer disqualify itself from the hearing and allow itself to be
replaced by a human judge.

The computer's decision was even quicker this time. APPLICATION DENIED.

Berwin tossed Alan's side of the courtroom a black look and yielded
ground. Alan had engaged a lawyer recommended once by Hawkes, a man
named Jesperson. Briefly and concisely Jesperson cited Alan's claim to
the money, read the terms of the will, and stepped back.

The computer considered Jesperson's plea a few moments, reviewing the
brief which the lawyer had taped and fed to the computer earlier. Time
passed. Then the green panel lit, and the words, APPLICATION GRANTED.

Alan smiled. Bryson had been defeated; Max's money was his. Money that
could be turned toward intensified research on the hyperdrive.

"Well, son?" Jesperson asked. "How does it feel to be a millionaire?"


_Chapter Sixteen_


At the time, he had been much too excited and flustered to answer
anything. But, as the next twelve months went by, he learned that being
a millionaire was quite pleasant indeed.

There were headaches, of course. There was the initial headache of
signing his name several hundred times in the course of the transfer of
Hawkes' wealth to him. There were also the frequent visits from the
tax-collectors, and the payment to them of a sum that staggered Alan to
think about, in the name of Rotation Tax.

But even after taxes, legal fees, and other expenses, Alan found he
owned better than nine hundred thousand credits, and the estate grew by
investment every day. The court appointed a legal guardian for him, the
lawyer Jesperson, who was to administer Alan's money until Alan reached
the biological age of twenty-one. The decision was an involved one,
since Alan had undeniably been born three hundred years earlier, in
3576--but the robojudge that presided over that particular hearing
cited a precedent seven hundred years old which stated that for legal
purposes a starman's biological and not his chronological age was to be
accepted.

The guardianship posed no problems for Alan, though. When he met with
Jesperson to discuss future plans, the lawyer told him, "You can handle
yourself, Alan. I'll give you free rein with the estate--with the
proviso that I have veto power over any of your expenditures until your
twenty-first birthday."

That sounded fair enough. Alan had reason to trust the lawyer; hadn't
Hawkes recommended him? "I'll agree to that," Alan said. "Suppose we
start right now. I'd like to take a year and travel around the world. As
my legal guardian you'll be stuck with the job of managing my estate and
handling investments for me."

Jesperson chuckled. "You'll be twice as wealthy when you get back!
Nothing makes money so fast as money."

Alan left the first week in December, having spent three weeks doing
virtually nothing but sketching out his itinerary. There were plenty of
places he intended to visit.

There was London, where James Hudson Cavour had lived and where his
hyperdrive research had been carried out. There was the Lexman Institute
of Space Travel in Zurich, where an extensive library of space
literature had been accumulated; it was possible that hidden away in
their files was some stray notebook of Cavour's, some clue that would
give Alan a lead. He wanted to visit the area in Siberia that Cavour had
used as his testing-ground, and from which the last bulletin had come
from the scientist before his unexplained disappearance.

But it was not only a business trip. Alan had lived nearly half a year
in the squalor of Hasbrouck--and because of his Free Status he would
never be able to move into a better district, despite his wealth. But he
wanted to see the rest of Earth. He wanted to travel just for the sake
of travel.

Before he left, he visited a rare book dealer in York City, and for an
exorbitant fifty credits purchased a fifth-edition copy of _An
Investigation into the Possibility of Faster-than-Light Space Travel_,
by James H. Cavour. He had left his copy of the work aboard the
_Valhalla_, along with the few personal possessions he had managed to
accumulate during his life as a starman.

The book dealer had frowned when Alan asked for the volume under the
title he knew. "_The Cavour Theory_? I don't think--ah, wait." He
vanished for perhaps five minutes and returned with an old, fragile,
almost impossibly delicate-looking book. Alan took it and scanned the
opening page. There were the words he had read so many times: "The
present system of interstellar travel is so grossly inefficient as to be
virtually inoperable on an absolute level."

"Yes, that's the book. I'll take it."

His first stop on his round-the-globe jaunt was London, where Cavour had
been born and educated more than thirteen centuries before. The
stratoliner made the trip across the Atlantic in a little less than
three hours; it took half an hour more by Overshoot from the airport to
the heart of London.

Somehow, from Cavour's few autobiographical notes, Alan had pictured
London as a musty old town, picturesque, reeking of medieval history. He
couldn't have been more wrong. Sleek towers of plastic and concrete
greeted him. Overshoots roared by the tops of the buildings. A busy
network of bridges connected them.

He went in search of Cavour's old home in Bayswater, with the nebulous
idea of finding some important document wedged in the woodwork. But a
local security officer shook his head as Alan asked for directions.

"Sorry, lad. I've never heard of that street. Why don't you try the
information robot up there?"

The information robot was a blocky green-skinned synthetic planted in a
kiosk in the middle of a broad well-paved street. Alan approached and
gave the robot Cavour's thirteen-century-old address.

"There is no record of any such address in the current files," the
steely voice informed him.

"No. It's an old address. It dates back to at least 2570. A man named
Cavour lived there."

The robot digested the new data; relays hummed softly within it as it
scanned its memory banks. Finally it grunted, "Data on the address you
seek has been reached."

"Fine! Where's the house?"

"The entire district was demolished during the general rebuilding of
London in 2982-2997. Nothing remains."

"Oh," Alan said.

The London trail trickled out right then and there. He pursued it a
little further, managed to find Cavour's name inscribed on the honor
role of the impressive London Technological Institute for the year 2529,
and discovered a copy of Cavour's book in the Institute Library. There
was nothing else to be found. After a month in London, Alan moved on
eastward across Europe.

Most of it was little like the descriptions he had read in the
_Valhalla's_ library. The trouble was that the starship's visits to
Earth were always at least a decade behind, usually more. Most of the
library books had come aboard when the ship had first been commissioned,
far back in the year 2731. The face of Europe had almost totally
altered since then.

Now, shiny new buildings replaced the ancient houses which had endured
for as much as a thousand years. A gleaming bridge linked Dover and
Calais; elsewhere, the rivers of Europe were bridged frequently,
providing easy access between the many states of the Federation of
Europe. Here, there, monuments of the past remained--the Eiffel Tower,
absurdly dwarfed by the vast buildings around it, still reared its
spidery self in Paris, and Notre Dame still remained as well. But the
rest of Paris, the ancient city Alan had read so much of--that had long
since been swept under by the advancing centuries. Buildings did not
endure forever.

In Zurich he visited the Lexman Institute for Space Travel, a
magnificent group of buildings erected on the royalties from the Lexman
Spacedrive. A radiant statue sixty feet high was the monument to
Alexander Lexman, who in 2337 had first put the stars within the reach
of man.

Alan succeeded in getting an interview with the current head of the
Institute, but it was anything but a satisfactory meeting. It was held
in an office ringed with mementoes of the epoch-making test flight of
2338.

"I'm interested in the work of James H. Cavour," Alan said almost
immediately--and from the bleak expression that appeared on the
scientist's face, he knew he had made a grave mistake.

"Cavour is as far from Lexman as possible, my friend. Cavour was a
dreamer; Lexman, a doer."

"Lexman succeeded--but how do you know Cavour didn't succeed as well?"

"Because, my young friend, faster-than-light travel is flatly
impossible. A dream. A delusion."

"You mean that there's no faster-than-light research being carried on
here?"

"The terms of our charter, set down by Alexander Lexman himself, specify
that we are to work toward improvements in the technique of space travel.
It said nothing about fantasies and daydreams. No--ah--hyperdrive
research is taking place at this institute, and none will take place so
long as we remain true to the spirit of Alexander Lexman."

Alan felt like crying out that Lexman was a bold and daring pioneer,
never afraid to take a chance, never worried about expense or public
reaction. It was obvious, though, that the people of the Institute had
long since fossilized in their patterns. It was a waste of breath to
argue with them.

Discouraged, he moved on, pausing in Vienna to hear the opera--Max had
always intended to spend a vacation with him in Vienna, listening to
Mozart, and Alan felt he owed it to Hawkes to pay his respects. The
operas he saw were ancient, medieval in fact, better than two thousand
years old; he enjoyed the tinkly melodies but found some of the plots
hard to understand.

He saw a circus in Ankara, a football game in Budapest, a nullgrav
wrestling match in Moscow. He journeyed to the far reaches of Siberia,
where Cavour had spent his final years, and found that what had been a
bleak wasteland suitable for spaceship experiments in 2570 was now a
thriving modern city of five million people. The site of Cavour's camp
had long since been swallowed up.

Alan's faith in the enduring nature of human endeavor was restored
somewhat by his visit to Egypt--for there he saw the pyramids, nearly
seven thousand years old; they looked as permanent as the stars.

The first anniversary of his leaving the _Valhalla_ found him in South
Africa; from there he travelled eastward through China and Japan, across
the highly industrialized islands of the Far Pacific, and from the
Philippines he returned to the American mainland by jet express.

He spent the next four months travelling widely through the United
States, gaping at the Grand Canyon and the other scenic preserves of the
west. East of the Mississippi, life was different; there was barely a
stretch of open territory between York City and Chicago.

It was late in November when he returned to York City. Jesperson greeted
him at the airfield, and they rode home together. Alan had been gone a
year; he was past eighteen, now, a little heavier, a little stronger.
Very little of the wide-eyed boy who had stepped off the _Valhalla_ the
year before remained intact. He had changed inwardly.

But one part of him had not changed, except in the direction of greater
determination. That was the part that hoped to unlock the secret of
faster-than-light travel.

He was discouraged. His journey had revealed the harsh fact that nowhere
on Earth was research into hyperdrive travel being carried on; either
they had tried and abandoned it as hopeless, or, like the Zurich people,
they had condemned the concept from the start.

"Did you find what you were looking for?" Jesperson asked.

Alan slowly shook his head. "Not a hint. And I really covered ground."
He stared at the lawyer a moment. "How much am I worth, now?"

"Well, offhand--" Jesperson thought for a moment. "Say, a million three
hundred. I've made some good investments this past year."

Alan nodded. "Good. Keep the money piling up. I may decide to open a
research lab of my own, and we'll need every credit we've got."

But the next day an item arrived in the morning mail which very much
altered the character of Alan's plans for the future. It was a small but
thick package, neatly wrapped, which bore as return address the name
_Dwight Bentley_, with a London number.

Alan frowned for a moment, trying to place the name. Then it came back
to him--Bentley was the vice-provost of the London Institute of
Technology, Cavour's old school. Alan had had a long talk with Bentley
one afternoon in January, about Cavour, about space travel, and about
Alan's hopes for developing a hyperspace drive.

The parcel was the right size and thickness to contain a book. Alan slit
the fastenings, and folded back the outer wrapper. A note from Bentley
lay on top.

                                                      _London
                                                      3rd November 3877_

    _My dear Mr. Donnell:_

    _Perhaps you may remember the very enjoyable chat you and I had one
    day at this Institute last winter, on the occasion of your visit to
    London. You were, I recall, deeply interested in the life and work
    of James H. Cavour, and anxious to carry on the developments he had
    achieved in the field of space travel._

    _Several days ago, in the course of an extensive resurveying of the
    Institute's archives, the enclosed volume was discovered very
    thoroughly hidden in the dusty recesses of our library. Evidently
    Mr. Cavour had forwarded the book to us from his laboratory in
    Asia, and it had somehow become misfiled._

    _I am taking the liberty of forwarding the book on to you, in the
    hopes that it will aid you in your work and perhaps ultimately bring
    you success. Would you be kind enough to return the book to me c/o
    this Institute when you are finished with it?_

                                                  _Cordially,
                                                  Dwight Bentley_

Alan let the note slip to the floor as he reached for the enclosed book.
It was leather-bound and even more fragile than the copy of _The Cavour
Theory_ he had purchased; it looked ready to crumble at a hostile
breath.

With mounting excitement he lifted the ancient cover and turned it over.
The first page of the book was blank; so were the second and third. On
the fourth page, Alan saw a few lines of writing, in an austere, rigid
hand. He peered close, and with awe and astonishment read the words
written there:

    _The Journal of James Hudson Cavour. Volume 16--Jan. 8 to October
    11, 2570._


_Chapter Seventeen_


The old man's diary was a curious and fascinating document. Alan never
tired of poring over it, trying to conjure up a mental image of the
queer, plucky fanatic who had labored so desperately to bring the stars
close to Earth.

Like many embittered recluses, Cavour had been an enthusiastic diarist.
Everything that took place in his daily life was carefully noted
down--his digestion, the weather, any stray thoughts that came to him,
tart observations on humanity in general. But Alan was chiefly
interested in the notations that dealt with his researches on the
problem of a faster-than-the-speed-of-light spacedrive.

Cavour had worked for years in London, harried by reporters and mocked
by scientists. But late in 2569 he had sensed he was on the threshold of
success. In his diary for January 8, 2570, he wrote:

"The Siberian site is almost perfect. It has cost me nearly what remains
of my savings to build it, but out here I will have the solitude I need
so much. I estimate six months more will see completion of my pilot
model. It is a source of deep bitterness in me that I am forced to work
on my ship like a common laborer, when my part should have ceased three
years ago with the development of my theory and the designing of my
ship. But this is the way the world wants it, and so shall it be."

On May 8 of that year:

"Today there was a visitor--a journalist, no doubt. I drove him away
before he could disturb me, but I fear he and others will be back. Even
in the bleak Siberian steppes I shall have no privacy. Work is moving
along smoothly, though somewhat behind schedule; I shall be lucky to
complete my ship before the end of the year."

On August 17:

"Planes continue to circle my laboratory here. I suspect I am being
spied on. The ship is nearing completion. It will be ready for standard
Lexman-drive flights any day now, but installation of my spacewarp
generator will take several more months."

On September 20:

"Interference has become intolerable. For the fifth day an American
journalist has attempted to interview me. My 'secret' Siberian
laboratory has apparently become a world tourist attraction. The final
circuitry on the spacewarp generator is giving me extreme difficulties;
there are so many things to perfect. I cannot work under these
circumstances. I have virtually ceased all machine-work this week."

And on October 11, 2570:

"There is only one recourse for me. I will have to leave Earth to
complete the installation of my generator. The prying fools and mockers
will not leave me alone, and nowhere on Earth can I have the needed
solitude. I shall go to Venus--uninhabited, uninhabitable. Perhaps they
will leave me alone for the month or two more I need to make my vessel
suitable for interstellar drive. Then I can return to Earth, show them
what I have done, offer to make a demonstration flight--to Rigel and
back in days, perhaps----

"Why is it that Earth so tortures its few of original mind? Why has my
life been one unending persecution, ever since I declared there was a
way to shortcut through space? There are no answers. The answers lie
deep within the dark recesses of the human collective soul, and no man
may understand what takes place there. I am content to know that I shall
have succeeded despite it all. Some day a future age may remember me,
like Copernicus, like Galileo, as one who fought upstream successfully."

The diary ended there. But in the final few pages were computations--a
trial orbit to Venus, several columns of blastoff figures, statistics on
geographical distribution of the Venusian landmasses.

Cavour had certainly been a peculiar bird, Alan thought. Probably half
the "persecutions" he complained of had existed solely inside his own
fevered brain. But that hardly mattered. He had gone to Venus; the diary
that had found its way back to the London Institute of Technology
testified to that. And there was only one logical next step for Alan.

Go to Venus. Follow the orbit Cavour had scribbled at the back of his
diary.

Perhaps he might find the Cavour ship itself; perhaps, the site of his
laboratory, some notes, anything at all. He could not allow the trail to
trickle out here.

He told Jesperson, "I want to buy a small spaceship. I'm going to
Venus."

He looked at the lawyer expectantly and got ready to put up a stiff
argument when Jesperson started to raise objections. But the big man
only smiled.

"Okay," he said. "When are you leaving?"

"You aren't going to complain? The kind of ship I have in mind costs at
least two hundred thousand credits."

"I know that. But I've had a look at Cavour's diary, too. It was only a
matter of time before you decided to follow the old duck to Venus, and
I'm too smart to think that there's any point in putting up a battle.
Let me know when you've got your ship picked out and I'll sit down and
write the check."

But it was not as simple as all that. Alan shopped for a ship--he wanted
a new one, as long as he could afford it--and after several months of
comparative shopping and getting advice from spaceport men, he picked
the one he wanted. It was a sleek glossy eighty-foot job, a Spacemaster
3878 model, equipped with Lexman converters and conventional ion-jets
for atmosphere flying. Smooth, streamlined, it was a lovely sight as it
stood at the spacefield in the shadow of the great starships.

Alan looked at it with pride--a slender dark-green needle yearning to
pierce the void. Don't be angry with me.

He. Angry! You know I trust you absolutely. Good-night and God bless
you!

(Three seconds later. Alone.) Hmm! I'd give something to discover
whether there's another man at the back of all this.

A SECOND-RATE WOMAN

Est fuga, volvitur rota, On we drift: where looms the dim port?
One Two Three Four Five contribute their quota:
Something is gained if one caught but the import, Show it us, Hugues
of Saxe-Gotha.

--Master Hugues of Saxe-Gotha.

'Dressed! Don't tell me that woman ever dressed in her life. She stood in
the middle of the room while her ayah no, her husband it must have been
a man threw her clothes at her. She then did her hair with her fingers,
and rubbed her bonnet in the flue under the bed. I know she did, as
well as if I had assisted at the orgy. Who is she?'

said Mrs.
Hauksbee.

'Don't!' said Mrs. Mallowe feebly. 'You make my head ache. I am miserable
to-day. Stay me with fondants, comfort me with chocolates, for I am.
Did you bring anything from Peliti's?'
'Questions to begin with. You shall have the sweets when you have answered
them. Who and what is the creature? There were at least half-a-dozen men
round her, and she appeared to be going to sleep in their midst.'

'Delville,' said Mrs. Mallowe, "'Shady" Delville, to distinguish her from
Mrs. Jim of that ilk. She dances as untidily as she dresses, I believe,
and her husband is somewhere in Madras. Go and call, if you are
so interested.'

'What have I to do with Shigramitish women? She merely caught my
attention for a minute, and I wondered at the attraction that a dowd
has for a certain type of man. I expected to see her walk out of
her clothes until I looked at her eyes.'

'Hooks and eyes, surely,' drawled Mrs. Mallowe.

'Don't be clever, Polly. You make my head ache.

And round this hayrick stood a crowd of men a positive crowd!'
'Perhaps they also expected.'
'Polly, don't be Rabelaisian!'

Mrs. Mallowe curled herself up comfortably on the sofa, and turned her
attention to the sweets. She and Mrs. Hauksbee shared the same house
at Simla; and these things befell two seasons after the matter of Otis
Yeere, which has been already recorded.

Mrs.

Hauksbee stepped into the verandah and looked down upon the Mall, her
forehead puckered with thought.

'Hah!' said Mrs. Hauksbee shortly. 'Indeed!'
'What is it?' said Mrs. Mallowe sleepily.

'That dowd and The Dancing Master to whom I object.'

'Why to The Dancing Master?

He is a middle-aged gentleman, of reprobate and romantic tendencies, and
tries to be a friend of mine.'
'Then make up your mind to lose him.

Dowds cling by nature, and I should imagine that this animal how
terrible her bonnet looks from above!

is specially clingsome.'
'She is welcome to The Dancing Master so far as I am concerned.
I never could take an interest in a monotonous liar. The frustrated
aim of his life is to persuade people that he is a bachelor.'
'O-oh! I think I've met that sort of man before. And isn't he?'
'No. He confided that to me a few days ago. Ugh!

Some men ought to be killed.'
'What happened then?'

'He posed as the horror of horrors a misunderstood man. Heaven knows the
femme incomprise is sad enough and bad enough but the other thing!'
'And so fat too! I should have laughed in his face. Men seldom confide
in me. How is it they come to you?'
'For the sake of impressing me with their careers in the past.

Protect me from men with confidences!'
'And yet you encourage them?'
'What can I do? They talk, I listen, and they vow that I am sympathetic.

I know I always profess astonishment even when the plot is of the
most old possible.'

'Yes. Men are so unblushingly explicit if they are once allowed to talk,
whereas women's confidences are full of reservations and fibs,
except--'
'When they go mad and babble of the Unutter-abilities after a week's
acquaintance. Really, if you come to consider, we know a great deal
more of men than of our own sex.'

'And the extraordinary thing is that men will never believe it. They
say we are trying to hide something.'

'They are generally doing that on their own account. Alas! These
chocolates pall upon me, and I haven't eaten more than a
dozen. I think I shall go to sleep.'
'Then you'll get fat, dear.

If you took more exercise and a more intelligent interest in your
neighbours you would--'
'Be as much loved as Mrs. Hauksbee. You're a darling in many ways,
and I like you you are not a woman's woman but why do you trouble yourself
about mere human beings?'
'Because in the absence of angels, who I am sure would be horribly
dull, men and women are the most fascinating things in the whole
wide world, lazy one.

I am interested in The Dowd I am interested in The Dancing Master I am
interested in the Hawley Boy and I am interested in you.'
'Why couple me with the Hawley Boy? He is your property.'
'Yes, and in his own guileless speech, I'm making a good thing out
of him.

When he is slightly more reformed, and has passed his Higher
Standard, or whatever the authorities think fit to exact from him,
I shall select a pretty little girl, the Holt girl, I think, and' here
she waved her hands airily "'whom Mrs.

Hauksbee hath joined together let no man put asunder." That's all.'

'And when you have yoked May Holt with the most notorious detrimental
in Simla, and earned the undying hatred of Mamma Holt, what will
you do with me, Dispenser of the Destinies of the Universe?'

Mrs. Hauksbee dropped into a low chair in front of the fire, and,
chin in hand, gazed long and steadfastly at Mrs.

Mallowe.

'I do not know,' she said, shaking her head, 'what I shall do with
you, dear.

It's obviously impossible to marry you to some one else your husband would
object and the experiment might not be successful after all.

I think I shall begin by preventing you from what is it? "sleeping on
ale-house benches and snoring in the sun."'

'Don't!

I don't like your quotations. They are so rude. Go to the Library and
bring me new books.'
'While you sleep? No!

If you don't come with me I shall spread your newest frock on my
'rickshaw-bow, and when any one asks me what I am doing, I shall
say that I am going to Phelps's to get it let out.

I shall take care that Mrs. MacNamara sees me. Put your things
on, there's a good girl.'
Mrs. Mallowe groaned and obeyed, and the two went off to the Library,
where they found Mrs.

Delville and the man who went by the nick-name of The Dancing Master.

By that time Mrs. Mallowe was awake and eloquent.

'That is the Creature!' said Mrs. Hauksbee, with the air of one pointing
out a slug in the road.

'No,' said Mrs. Mallowe. 'The man is the Creature. Ugh! Good-evening, Mr.
Bent. I thought you were coming to tea this evening.'
'Surely it was for to-morrow, was it not?'

answered The Dancing Master.
'I understood I fancied I'm so sorry How very unfortunate!'
But Mrs. Mallowe had passed on.

'For the practised equivocator you said he was,' murmured Mrs. Hauksbee,
'he strikes me as a failure. Now wherefore should he have preferred a
walk with The Dowd to tea with us? Elective affinities, I suppose both
grubby.

Polly, I'd never forgive that woman as long as the world rolls.'
'I forgive every woman everything,' said Mrs. Mallowe. 'He will be
a sufficient punishment for her. What a common voice she has!'

Mrs. Delville's voice was not pretty, her carriage was even less lovely,
and her raiment was strikingly neglected. All these things Mrs. Mallowe
noticed over the top of a magazine.

'Now what is there in her?'

said Mrs. Hauksbee. 'Do you see what I meant about the clothes falling
off? If I were a man I would perish sooner than be seen with that rag-bag.
And yet, she has good eyes, but Oh!'

'What is it?'
'She doesn't know how to use them! On my honour, she does not. Look! Oh
look! Untidiness I can endure, but ignorance never! The woman's a fool.'

'Hsh! She'll hear you.'
'All the women in Simla are fools. She'll think I mean some one else.

Now she's going out. What a thoroughly objectionable couple she and
The Dancing Master make! Which reminds me.

Do you suppose they'll ever dance together?'

'Wait and see. I don't envy her the conversation of The Dancing Master
loathly man! His wife ought to be up here before long?'
'Do you know anything about him?'

'Only what he told me. It may be all a fiction. He married a girl bred
in the country, I think, and, being an honourable, chivalrous soul,
told me that he repented his bargain and sent her to her as often as
possible a person who has lived in the Doon since the memory of
man and goes to Mussoorie when other people go Home.

       The wife is with her at present.

So he says.'
'Babies?'
'One only, but he talks of his wife in a revolting way.

I hated him for it. He thought he was being epigrammatic and brilliant.'

'That is a vice peculiar to men. I dislike him because he is generally in
the wake of some girl, disappointing the Eligibles.

He will persecute May Holt no more, unless I am much mistaken.'
'No. I think Mrs. Delville may occupy his attention for a while.'

'Do you suppose she knows that he is the head of a family?'
'Not from his lips. He swore me to eternal secrecy.

Wherefore I tell you. Don't you know that type of man?'
'Not intimately, thank goodness! As a general rule, when a man begins
to abuse his wife to me, I find that the Lord gives me wherewith to
answer him according to his folly; and we part with a coolness
between us.

I laugh.'
'I'm different. I've no sense of humour.'

'Cultivate it, then. It has been my mainstay for more years than I
care to think about. A well-educated sense of humour will save a woman
when Religion, Training, and Home influences fail; and we may all need
salvation sometimes.'
'Do you suppose that the Delville woman has humour?'
'Her dress betrays her.

How can a Thing who wears her supplement under her left arm
have any notion of the fitness of things much less their folly? If she
discards The Dancing Master after having once seen him dance, I
may respect her.

Otherwise--'
'But are we not both assuming a great deal too much, dear? You saw the
woman at Peliti's half an hour later you saw her walking with The
Dancing Master an hour later you met her here at the Library.'
'Still with The Dancing Master, remember.'
'Still with The Dancing Master, I admit, but why on the strength
of that should you imagine--' 
'I imagine nothing.

I have no imagination. I am only convinced that The Dancing
Master is attracted to The Dowd because he is objectionable in every
way and she in every other. If I know the man as you have described
him, he holds his wife in slavery at present.'
'She is twenty years younger than he.'

'Poor wretch! And, in the end, after he has posed and swaggered
and lied he has a mouth under that ragged moustache simply made for lies
he will be rewarded according to his merits.'

'I wonder what those really are,' said Mrs. Mallowe.

But Mrs.

Hauksbee, her face close to the shelf of the new books, was humming
softly: 'What shall he have who killed the Deer?'

She was a lady of unfettered speech.

One month later she announced her intention of calling upon Mrs.

       Delville. Both Mrs. Hauksbee and Mrs.

Mallowe were in morning wrappers, and there was a great peace
in the land.

'I should go as I was,' said Mrs. Mallowe. 'It would be a delicate
compliment to her style.'
Mrs. Hauksbee studied herself in the glass.

'Assuming for a moment that she ever darkened these doors, I should put
on this robe, after all the others, to show her what a morning-wrapper
ought to be. It might enliven her.

As it is, I shall go in the dove-coloured sweet emblem of youth and
innocence and shall put on my new gloves.'
'If you really are going, dirty tan would be too good; and you know that
dove-colour spots with the rain.'

'I care not. I may make her envious. At least I shall try, though one
cannot expect very much from a woman who puts a lace tucker into her
habit.'

'Just Heavens! When did she do that?'
'Yesterday riding with The Dancing Master. I met them at the back of
Jakko, and the rain had made the lace lie down. To complete the effect,
she was wearing an unclean terai with the elastic under her chin. I
felt almost too well content to take the trouble to despise her.'

'The Hawley Boy was riding with you. What did he think?'
'Does a boy ever notice these things?

Should I like him if he did?
He stared in the rudest way, and just when I thought he had seen
the elastic, he said, "There's something very taking about that
face."

I rebuked him on the spot. I don't approve of boys being taken by faces.'

'Other than your own. I shouldn't be in the least surprised if the Hawley
Boy immediately went to call.'

'I forbade him. Let her be satisfied with The Dancing Master, and his
wife when she comes up. I'm rather curious to see Mrs. Bent and the
Delville woman together.'
Mrs. Hauksbee departed and, at the end of an hour, returned slightly
flushed.

'There is no limit to the treachery of youth! I ordered the Hawley Boy,
as he valued my patronage, not to call. The first person I stumble
over literally stumble over in her poky, dark little drawing-room is,
of course, the Hawley Boy. She kept us waiting ten minutes, and then
emerged as though she had been tipped out of the dirtyclothes-basket.
You know my way, dear, when I am at all put out.

I was Superior, crrrrushingly Superior! 'Lifted my eyes to Heaven, and
had heard of nothing 'dropped my eyes on the carpet and "really
didn't know" 'played with my cardcase and "supposed so."

The Hawley Boy giggled like a girl, and I had to freeze him with
scowls between the sentences.'
'And she?'

'She sat in a heap on the edge of a couch, and managed to convey the
impression that she was suffering from stomach-ache, at the very
least.

It was all I could do not to ask after her symptoms. When I rose, she
grunted just like a buffalo in the water too lazy to move.'
'Are you certain?'

'Am I blind, Polly? Laziness, sheer laziness, nothing else or her
garments were only constructed for sitting down in. I stayed for a
quarter of an hour trying to penetrate the gloom, to guess what
her surroundings were like, while she stuck out her tongue.'

'Lu cy!'
'Well I'll withdraw the tongue, though I'm sure if she didn't do it
when I was in the room, she did the minute I was outside. At
any rate, she lay in a lump and grunted. Ask the Hawley Boy, dear. I
believe the grunts were meant for sentences, but she spoke so
indistinctly that I can't swear to it.'

'You are incorrigible, simply.'

'I am not! Treat me civilly, give me peace with honour, don't put the
only available seat facing the window, and a child may eat jam in
my lap before Church.

But I resent being grunted at. Wouldn't you?

Do you suppose that she communicates her views on life and love to
The Dancing Master in a set of modulated "Grmphs"?'

'You attach too much importance to The Dancing Master.'
'He came as we went, and The Dowd grew almost cordial at the sight of
him. He smiled greasily, and moved about that darkened dog-kennel in a
suspiciously familiar way.'
'Don't be uncharitable. Any sin but that I'll forgive.'
'Listen to the voice of History. I am only describing what I saw. He
entered, the heap on the sofa revived slightly, and the Hawley Boy and
I came away together.

He is disillusioned, but I felt it my duty to lecture him severely
for going there. And that's all.'
'Now for Pity's sake leave the wretched creature and The Dancing
Master alone. They never did you any harm.'

'No harm? To dress as an example and a stumbling-block for half Simla,
and then to find this Person who is dressed by the hand of God not that
I wish to disparage Him for a moment, but you know the tikka dhurzie
way He attires those lilies of the field this Person draws the
eyes of men and some of them nice men?

It's almost enough to make one discard clothing. I told the Hawley Boy
so.'
'And what did that sweet youth do?'
'Turned shell-pink and looked across the far blue hills like a
distressed cherub. Am I talking wildly, Polly?

Let me say my say, and I shall be calm. Otherwise I may go abroad and
disturb Simla with a few original reflections. Excepting always your
own sweet self, there isn't a single woman in the land who understands
me when I am what's the word?'
'Tete-fele suggested Mrs. Mallowe.

'Exactly! And now let us have tiffin. The demands of Society are exhausting,
and as Mrs.

Delville says,--' Here Mrs. Hauksbee, to the horror of the khitmatgars,
lapsed into a series of grunts, while Mrs.
Mallowe stared in lazy surprise.

'"God gie us a guid conceit of oorselves,"' said Mrs. Hauksbee piously,
returning to her natural speech. 'Now, in any other woman that would
have been vulgar. I am consumed with curiosity to see Mrs. Bent. I
expect complications.'
'Woman of one idea,' said Mrs.

Mallowe shortly; 'all complications are as old as the hills! I have
lived through or near all all All!'
'And yet do not understand that men and women never behave twice alike.

I am old who was young if ever I put my head in your lap, you dear, big
sceptic, you will learn that my parting is gauze but never, no
never, have I lost my interest in men and women. Polly, I shall see
this business out to the bitter end.'
'I am going to sleep,' said Mrs. Mallowe calmly. 'I never interfere
with men or women unless I am compelled,' and she retired with
dignity to her own room.
Mrs. Hauksbee's curiosity was not long left ungratified, for Mrs.
Bent came up to Simla a few days after the conversation faithfully
reported above, and pervaded the Mall by her husband's side.
'Behold!' said Mrs. Hauksbee, thoughtfully rubbing her nose. 'That
is the last link of the chain, if we omit the husband of the Delville,
whoever he may be. Let me consider. The Bents and the Delvilles
inhabit the same hotel; and the Delville is detested by the Waddy
do you know the Waddy? who is almost as big a dowd. The Waddy also
abominates the male Bent, for which, if her other sins do not weigh
too heavily, she will eventually go to Heaven.'
'Don't be irreverent,' said Mrs. Mallowe, 'I like Mrs. Bent's face.'

'I am discussing the Waddy,' returned Mrs. Hauksbee loftily. 'The
Waddy will take the female Bent apart, after having borrowed yes!
everything that she can, from hairpins to babies' bottles. Such,
my dear, is life in a hotel. The Waddy will tell the female Bent
facts and fictions about The Dancing Master and The Dowd.'
'Lucy, I should like you better if you were not always looking into
people's back-bedrooms.'
'Anybody can look into their front drawingrooms; and remember
whatever I do, and whatever I look, I never talk as the Waddy will.
Let us hope that The Dancing Master's greasy smile and manner of
the pedagogue will soften the heart of that cow, his wife. If mouths
speak truth, I should think that little Mrs. Bent could get very
angry on occasion.'
'But what reason has she for being angry?'
'What reason! The Dancing Master in himself is a reason. How does
it go?
"If in his life some trivial errors fall, Look in his face and
you'll believe them all." I am prepared to credit any evil of The
Dancing Master, because I hate him so. And The Dowd is so disgustingly
badly dressed.'
'That she, too, is capable of every iniquity? I always prefer to
believe the best of everybody. It saves so much trouble.'
'Very good. I prefer to believe the worst. It saves useless expenditure
of sympathy. And you may be quite certain that the Waddy believes
with me.' 
Mrs. Mallowe sighed and made no answer.
The conversation was holden after dinner while Mrs. Hauksbee was
dressing for a dance.
'I am too tired to go,' pleaded Mrs. Mallowe, and Mrs.That was practically a snail's pace, compared with hyperdrive.

The time for the test had come. He spoke briefly with his friends and
assistants in the control tower; then he checked his figures through one
last time and requested blastoff clearance.

A moment later the count-down began, and he began setting up for
departure.

A tremor of anticipation shot through him as he prepared to blast off on
the first hyperdrive voyage ever made. He was stepping out into the
unknown, making the first use ever of a strange, perhaps dangerous means
of travel. The drive would loop him out of the space-time continuum,
into--_where?_--and back again.

He hoped.

He punched down the keys, and sat back to wait for the automatic pilot
to carry him out from Earth.

Somewhere past the orbit of the moon, a gong told him that the Cavour
drive was about to come into play. He held his breath. He felt a
twisting sensation. He stared at the viewscreen.

The stars had vanished. Earth, with all its memories of the last nine
years, was gone, taking with it Hawkes, Jesperson, York City, the
Enclaves--everything.

He floated in a featureless dull gray void, without stars, without
worlds. _So this is hyperspace_, he thought. He felt tired, and he felt
tense. He had reached hyperspace; that was half the struggle. It
remained to see whether he would come out where he expected to come out,
or whether he would come out at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Four days of boredom. Four days of wishing that the time would come to
leave hyperspace. And then the automatic pilot came to life; the Cavour
generator thrummed and signalled that it had done its work and was
shutting down. Alan held his breath.

He felt the twisting sensation. The _Cavour_ was leaving hyperdrive.

Stars burst suddenly against the blackness of space; the viewscreen
brightened. Alan shut his eyes a moment as he readjusted from the sight
of the gray void to that of the starry reaches of normal space. He had
returned.

And, below him, making its leisurely journey to Procyon, was the great
golden-hulled bulk of the _Valhalla_, gleaming faintly in the black
night of space.

He reached for the controls of his ship radio. Minutes later, he heard a
familiar voice--that of Chip Collier, the _Valhalla's_ Chief Signal
Officer.

"Starship _Valhalla_ picking up. We read you. Who is calling, please?"

Alan smiled. "This is Alan Donnell, Chip. How goes everything?"

For a moment nothing came through the phones but astonished sputtering.
Finally Collier said thickly, "_Alan?_ What sort of gag is this? Where
are you?"

"Believe it or not, I'm hovering right above you in a small ship.
Suppose you get my father on the wire, and we can discuss how I'll go
about boarding you."

Fifteen minutes later the _Cavour_ was grappled securely to the skin of
the _Valhalla_ like a flea riding an elephant, and Alan was climbing in
through the main airlock. Antoniadi is mistaken. It has also been pointed
out that, if we could secure perfect seeing, the lines might really
appear as separate markings, and that apparent breaks and irregularities
are exactly what we might expect to find in connection with canals.

"Alan--how did you--I
mean--and you're so much older, too! I----"

"The Cavour Drive, Dad. I've had plenty of time to develop it. Nine good
long years, back on Earth. And for you it's only a couple of months
since you blasted off!"

Another figure appeared in the corridor. Steve. He looked good; the last
few months aboard the _Valhalla_ had done their work. The unhealthy fat
he had been carrying was gone; his eyes were bright and clear, his
shoulders square. It was like looking into a mirror to see him, Alan
thought. It hadn't been this way for a long time.

"Alan? How did you----"

Quickly Alan explained. "So I couldn't reverse time," he finished. "I
couldn't make you as young as I was--so I took the opposite tack and
made myself as old as you were." He looked at his father. "The universe
is going to change, now. Earth won't be so overcrowded. And it means the
end of the Enclave system, and the Fitzgerald Contraction."

"We'll have to convert the _Valhalla_ to the new drive," Captain Donnell
said. He looked still stunned by Alan's sudden appearance. "Otherwise
we'll never be able to meet the competition of the new ships. There will
be new ships, won't there?"

"As soon as I return to Earth and tell them I've been successful. My men
are ready to go into immediate production of hyperspace vessels. The
universe is going to be full of them even before your ship reaches
Procyon!" He sensed now the full importance of what he had done. "Now
that there's practical transportation between stars, the Galaxy will
grow close together--as close as the Solar System is now!"

Captain Donnell nodded. "And what are you planning to do, now that
you've dug up the Cavour drive?"

"Me?" Alan took a deep breath. "I've got my own ship, Dad. And out there
are Rigel and Deneb and Fomalhaut and a lot of other places I want to
see." He was speaking quietly, calmly, but with an undercurrent of inner
excitement. A LITTLE "HOODLUM'S" VIRTUE KINDLES AT THE TOUCH OF JOY.

"If you make children happy now, you will make them happy twenty years
hence by the memory of it."

The next morning when I reached the little tin shop on the corner,--a
blessed trysting-place, forever sacred, where the children waited
for me in sunshine, rain, wind, and storm, unless forbidden,--there
on the step sat faithful Patsy, with a clean and shining morning
face, all glowing with anticipation.

How well I remember my poor lad's first day!

Where should I seat him? There was an empty space beside little Mike
Higgins, but Mike's character, obtained from a fond and candid
parent, had been to the effect "that he was in heaven any time if
he could jest lay a boy out flat"!

And there was a place by Moses, but he was very much of a fop just
then, owing to a new "second-hand" coat, and might make scathing
allusions to Patsy's abbreviated swallow-tail.

But a pull at my skirt and a whisper from the boy decided me.

"Please can't I set aside o' you, Miss Kate?"
"But, Patsy, the fun of it is I never do sit."
"Why, I thought teachers never done nothin' but set!"

"You don't know much about little boys and girls, that's sure!

Well, suppose you put your chair in front and close to me.

Here is Maggie Bruce on one side. She is a real little Kindergarten
mother, and will show you just how to do everything. Won't you, Maggie?"

We had our morning hymn and our familiar talk, in which we always
"outlined the policy" of the new day; for the children were apt to
be angelic and receptive at nine o'clock in the morning, the
unwillingness of the spirit and weakness of the flesh seldom
overtaking them till an hour or so later.

It chanced to be a beautiful day, for Helen and I were both happy and
well, our volunteer helpers were daily growing more zealous and efficient,
and there was no tragedy in the immediate foreground.

In one of the morning songs, when Paulina went into the circle and threw
good-morning kisses to the rest, she wafted a dozen of them to the
ceiling, a proceeding I could not understand.

"Why did you throw so many of your kisses up in the air, dear?" I asked,
as she ran back to my side.

This had been Max Hawkes' ambition, to see the stars. But Max had
never had the chance.

_We'll do it for you, Max. Steve and I._

He looked at Steve. He and his brother had so much to talk about. They
would have to get to know each other all over again, after the years
that had gone by.

"You know," Steve said, "When I woke up aboard the _Valhalla_ and found
out you'd shanghaied me, I was madder than a hornet. I wanted to break
you apart. But you were too far away."

"You've got your chance now," Alan said.

"Yeah. But now I don't want to," Steve laughed.

Alan punched him goodnaturedly. He felt good about life. He had found
Steve again, and he had given the universe the faster-than-light drive.
It didn't take much more than that to make a man happy.

And now a new and longer quest was beginning for Alan and his brother. A
quest that could have no end, a quest that would send them searching
from world to world, out among the bright infinity of suns that lay
waiting for them.


STARMAN'S QUEST

By Robert Silverberg


The Lexman Spacedrive gave man the stars--but at a fantastic price.

Interstellar exploration, colonization, and trade became things of
reality. The benefits to Earth were enormous. But because of the
Fitzgerald Contraction, a man who shipped out to space could never live
a normal life on Earth again.

Travelling at speeds close to that of light, spacemen lived at an
accelerated pace. A nine-year trip to Alpha Centauri and back seemed to
take only six weeks to men on a spaceship. When they returned, their
friends and relatives had aged enormously in comparison, old customs had
changed, even the language was different.

So they did the only thing they could do. They formed a guild of
Spacers, and lived their entire lives on the starships, raised their
families there, and never set foot outside their own Enclave during
their landings on Earth. They grew to despise Earthers, and the Earthers
grew to despise them in turn. There was no logical reason for it, except
that they were--different. That was enough.

But not all Starmen liked being different. Alan Donnell loved space, and
the ship, and life aboard it. His father, Captain of the VALHALLA, lived
for nothing but the traditions of the Spacers. But his twin brother,
Steve, couldn't stand it, and so he jumped ship.

It had happened only a few weeks before, as Alan experienced it. For
Steve, though, he knew it would have been nine years in the past. Now,
while Alan was still only 17 years old, Steve would be 26!

Thinking about it got under Alan's skin, finally. The bond between twins
is a strong one, and Alan couldn't stand to see it broken so abruptly
and permanently. There were other things, too. If Alan remained on the
VALHALLA, he'd have to marry one of the girls of the ship, and the
choice of those his own age was pitifully small. And above all else, he
was convinced that the secret of the Cavour Hyperdrive was hidden
somewhere on Earth--the Cavour Hyperdrive, that would enable man to leap
interstellar distances almost instantaneously, and bring an end to the
sharp differences between Earthers and Spacers.

These forces worked quietly within him--and suddenly, without really
meaning to, Alan in turn jumped ship and remained on Earth!

There were many times when he regretted it. He found Earth a bewildering
and utterly hostile place. To stay alive, he had to play a ruthless
game--and he couldn't even find anyone to tell him the rules. He got up
slowly, rubbed his tattered sleeve across his wet cheek, and looked at
me searchingly to see if I might be trusted; then he limped to the sink,
treated his face and hands to a hasty but energetic scrub, seized his
fragment of a hat, gave his brief trousers a hitch which had the
air of being the last exquisite touch to a faultless toilet, and
sat down on the landing to mend his twine shoe-lace.

"Who is your neighbor in Number 32, Mrs. Kennett?" I asked as I
rose to go. "I went there to find you."
"Did you indeed, 'm? Well, I hope she treated you civil, 'm, though
it don't be much in her line. She's a Mis' Mooney, 'm. I know _her_,
but she don't know _me_ anny more sence she's riz in the wurrld.

But he never completely lost hope.

STARMAN'S QUEST is Alan Donnell's story--a story that will keep you on
the edge of your chair until the very last page. It's the most exciting
book yet from one of the most exciting new writers ever to hit the
science-fiction field.

        GNOME PRESS, INC.
 P.O. Box 161, Hicksville, N. Y.

       Cover by Stan Mack




GNOME PRESS

_OUTSTANDING SCIENCE FICTION BOOKS_


 Anderson, P. & Dickson, G.         _Earthman's Burden_            $3.00
 Asimov, Isaac                      _Foundation_                   $2.75
 Asimov, Isaac                      _Foundation & Empire_          $2.75
 Asimov, Isaac                      _Second Foundation_            $2.75
 Barnes, Arthur K.                  I may remind my readers that the
 Professor suggested that many more dark rounded spots would, under
 favourable conditions, be discovered on the dark areas of the planet,
 and he has stated what they are.
 As a result of his recent observations, M.Chandler               _Reprieve from Paradise_       $3.00
 Greenberg, Martin, Editor          _Men Against the Stars_        $2.95
 Greenberg, Martin, Editor          _Journey to Infinity_          $3.50
 Greenberg, Martin, Editor          _Travelers of Space_           $3.95
 Greenberg, Martin, Editor          _The Robot & The Man_          $2.95
 Greenberg, Martin, Editor          _All About the Future_         $3.50
 Greenberg, Martin, Editor          _Coming Attractions_           $3.50
 Gunn, James E.                     _This Fortress World_          $3.00
 Gunn, J. & Williamson, J.          Sir Lockesley, of course, could not
 help this, and I saw that he was much annoyed at my reception.
 
 The meeting then split up into groups, lingering here and there to discuss
 my statements as they moved toward the door; and M'Allister told me that,
 as he stood near a group, he heard one man exclaim, "It's all arrant
 nonsense! five minutes with my 12-1/16-inch reflector would convince any
 sane man that there are no fine lines to be seen on Mars, because
none exist!"_The Return of Conan_          $3.00
 Leiber, Fritz                      _Two Sought Adventure_         $3.00
 Leinster, Murray                   _The Forgotten Planet_         $2.50
 Leinster, Murray                   _Colonial Survey_              $3.00
 Merril, Judith, Editor             _SF: The Years Greatest_       $3.95
 Merril, Judith, Editor             _SF: '57 The Years Greatest_   $3.95
 North, Andrew                      _Sargasso of Space_            $2.50
 North, Andrew                      _Plague Ship_                  $2.75
 Pohl, F. & Williamson, J.          She lifts up her voice occasionally
 as she marches slowly along, singing, in a clear accent: 'Flowers--ornamental
 papers for the stove--flowers! paper-flowers!' She is the accredited
 herald of summer--a phenomenon, this year, of very late appearance._Address: Centauri_            $3.00

                     _AT YOUR FAVORITE BOOK STORE_

                  Free Illustrated Catalog on Request

                         The Gnome Press Inc.,
                    P. O. Box 161, Hicksville, N. Y.