Transcribed from the 1894 Roxburghe Press edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org


The Law
and
Lawyers of Pickwick.


_A LECTURE_.

With an Original Drawing of "Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz."

BY
FRANK LOCKWOOD,
Q.C. M.P.

LONDON:
_THE ROXBURGHE PRESS_,
_3_, _Victoria Street_, _Westminster_,
AND
32, CHARING CROSS, S.W.

Uniform with this Edition.

CHARLES DICKENS' HEROINES AND WOMEN-FOLK:

Some Thoughts Concerning Them.

BY
CHARLES F. RIDEAL.

_With an original Drawing of Edith Dombey_.

{Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz: p0.jpg}


PREFATORY.


At the request of my friend Lord Russell of Killowen, then
Attorney-General, I delivered this lecture at the Morley Hall, Hackney,
on December 13th, 1893.  I had previously delivered it in the city of
York at the request of some of my constituents.  I feel that some apology
is required for its reproduction in a more permanent form, which apology
I most respectfully tender to all who may read this little book.

F. L.


THE LAW AND LAWYERS OF "PICKWICK."


Sir CHARLES RUSSELL: I stand but for a single instant between you and our
friend, Mr. Lockwood.  He needs no introduction here; but I am sure I may
in your name bid him a hearty welcome.

Mr. FRANK LOCKWOOD: Mr. Attorney-General, Ladies and Gentlemen--It is
some little time ago that I was first asked whether I was prepared to
deliver a lecture.  Now I am bound at the outset to confess to you that
lecturing has been and is very little in my way.  I spent some three
years of my life at the University in avoiding lectures.  But it came
about that in the constituency which I have the honour to represent, it
was suggested to me that it was necessary for me to give a lecture, and
it was further explained to me that it did not really very much matter as
to what I lectured about.  I am bound to say there was a very great charm
to me in the idea of lecturing my constituents.  I know it does sometimes
occur that constituents lecture their representatives, especially in
Scotland, and I was anxious, if I might, to have an opportunity of
lecturing those who had so many opportunities of reading, no doubt very
useful lectures to me.  But the difficulty was to find a subject.  My own
profession suggested itself to me as a fit topic for a lecture, but
unfortunately my profession is not a popular one.  I do not know how it
is, but you never find a lawyer introduced either into a play or into a
three-volume novel except for the purpose of exposing him as a scoundrel
in the one, and having him kicked in the third act in the other.  I do
not know how it is, but so it is.  All the heroes of fiction either in
the drama or in the novel are found in the ranks--no, not in the ranks of
the army, but in the officers of the army, or in the clergy.  It is so in
novels, it is so in dramas; Mr. Attorney-General, I believe it is so in
real life.

And so, looking about for a subject, being reminded, as I was, that the
subject of the law was unpopular, I turned--as I have often done in the
hour of trouble--I turned to my Dickens, and there I found that at any
rate in Dickens we have a great literary man who has been impartial in
his treatment of lawyers.  He has seen both the good and the bad in them,
and it occurred to me that my lecture might take the form of dealing with
the lawyers of Dickens.  I soon found that was too great a subject to be
dealt with within the short space which could be accorded to any
reasonable lecturer by any reasonable audience.  I found that the novels
of Dickens abounded with lawyers, to use a perhaps apt expression.  Having
regard to my profession, they fairly bristled with them, and so I
determined to take the lawyers of one of his books; and I chose as that
book "Pickwick"; and I chose as my title "The Law and the Lawyers of
'Pickwick.'"

Antonio. Little, I am ready and prepared. Give me your hand, Bassanio,
lives well, it does not offend you that this is for you take me,
because this shows the good fortune to his loving As Weis is, always
makes it otherwise loin their wealth to survive, With hollow eyes and
forehead faltger an age of poverty anzusehn; of such ignominy Langwier'ger
penance, it takes me out. I am recommending your noble woman, tells her
the history of the end of Antonios says, How I loved you; prides
me in death, And if your's auserzählt means they decide whether or
not Bassanio was once loved. repents not that you lose a friend And
he repents not that he pays for you: Because of the Jew only cuts
deeply enough, So I paid equal to the debt with all my heart. Bassanio.
Antonio, I have a woman for marriage, the love is so me than my
life itself, But life itself, my wife and all the world Is more
than your life is not for me.

   I would be all out yes sacrifices everything to the devil as to get
   only befrein. Porzia. Because Eur woman certainly knew little thank
   you, heat them and hears offer of Eur. Graziano. I've got a woman
   that I love to honor, but I wish they are in heaven, where they
could be a power erflehn, the Jews hündschen mood to change.

Nerissa. Well, that's your doing behind their backs, otherwise disturbed
probably the desire of the House of Peace. Shylock (aside). Thus the
Christian men I've 'ne daughter Wär someone from the root of Barrabas
Her husband has become, rather than a Christian! - The time is out, I ask
you, comes to the acquittal. Porzia. One pound of this meat is your
salesman. The Court recognizes, and the right is granted. Shylock. O
most fair judge! - Porzia. You have him cut the meat from the breast:
The law authorizes it, and the Court will recognize it.

   Shylock. O most learned judge! - Na, an acquittal ! Come, get ready.
   Porzia. Wait a bit: One thing is still to remember! The ticket gives
   you here is not a drop of blood: The words are explicit: a pound of
   meat! Take for the certificate, and take thou thy pound of flesh
   ; Solo shed du by du's cut, only one drop of Christian blood, as far
   as your goods and chattels under the law to the state of Venice Venice
   home. Graziano. Righteous judges! - strange, Jud! - o wise judges!
   Shylock. If the Act? Porzia. Thou shalt the Act sehn. Indeed, because
   you insist on right, so be sure: you will be right more than you
   begehrst. Graziano. O wise judge! - strange, Jud! a wise judge!
   Shylock. I take Erbieten because I triple my pay slip and let the
   Christians go. Bassanio.

   Here is the money. Porzia. Halt! The Jews everything right -
   still! no Eil! He should have to repent, no more. Graziano. Jud O! a
   wise, fair judge! Porzia. So get ready, the meat cutting. shedding no
   blood, no more cutting or lesser degree as a pound, it's more or less
   as an accurate pounds,'s was only so much, It is easier or harder in
   weight to make a poor Zwanzigstteil from a scruple, even if the balance
   is only the width of a hair tends to die So you and your good
   forfeited to the State. Graziano. A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
   infidel, ich hab dich in the hip. Porzia. What holds for the Jews? Take
   your penance. Shylock. Give me my principal and let me go. Bassanio.
   I've already prepared for you: it's here. Porzia. He's an open
   court refused before: His only right he should have and the slip.
   Graziano. I say, a Daniel, a second Daniel! Thanks, Jew, that
   you taught me the word. Shylock.

Should I just do not have my capital? Porzia. Thou shalt not have as penance,
Jew, Die at your own risk you might take. Shylock. So let him
get well, the devil, I do not want to talk longer stand. Porzia. Wart,
Jew! The law has yet another benefit to you.
Eighteen months' experience of this sort enabled him in the pages of
Pickwick thus to describe lawyers' clerks:--

   There are several grades of lawyers' clerks.  There is the articled
   clerk, who has paid a premium, and is an attorney in perspective, who
   runs a tailor's bill, receives invitations to parties, knows a family
   in Gower Street, and another in Tavistock Square; who goes out of town
   every Long Vacation to see his father, who keeps live horses
   innumerable; and who is, in short, the very aristocrat of clerks.
   There is the salaried clerk--out of door, or in door, as the case may
   be--who devotes the major part of his thirty shillings a week to his
   personal pleasure and adornment, repairs half-price to the Adelphi
   Theatre at least three times a week, dissipates majestically at the
   cider cellars afterwards, and is a dirty caricature of the fashion
   which expired six months ago.  There is the middle-aged copying clerk,
   with a large family, who is always shabby, and often drunk.  And there
   are the office lads in their first surtouts, who feel a befitting
   contempt for boys at day-schools; club as they go home at night for
   saveloys and porter: and think there's nothing like "life."

I fancy Dickens never rose above the status of office boy, and probably
as such wore his first surtout.  We hear of him reporting later in the
Lord Chancellor's Court, probably for some daily paper; but beyond the
exception which I shall mention presently, we have no record of his
taking an active and direct part in any of those mysterious rites that go
to make up our legal procedure.

Upon this question of the opportunities he had for knowing in what way a
lawyer is trained, I must here acknowledge the debt of gratitude that I
am under to my very good friend Mr. Henry Fielding Dickens, one of her
Majesty's Counsel; and how rejoiced, Mr. Attorney-General, would that
father have been had he been able to see the position which his son has
won for himself.  He wrote to me a long and kind letter, in which he gave
me further information as to his father's opportunity for observing
lawyers and their mode of living, and he told me that which I did not
know before, and which I think but few people knew before, namely, that
his father had kept a term or two at one of the Inns of Court.  He had
eaten the five or six dinners which is part of the necessary legal
education for a barrister; and he had suffered in consequence the usual
pangs of indigestion.  But it is not to that that I wish to allude to-
night.  Dickens did that which I venture to think but few have done; for,
giving up all idea of pursuing a legal education, and finding that the
dinners did not agree with him, he got back from the Inns of Court some
of the money which he had deposited at that Inn.  You are all familiar
with the process which is known as getting butter out of a dog's mouth; I
venture to think that that is an easy thing compared with getting money
back from an Inn of Court.

But that is not all that Mr. Dickens told me.  He wrote down for me an
experience his father once had with the family solicitor, which, I think,
is worth your hearing.  "My father's solicitor, Mr. Ouvry," he says, "was
a very well-known man, a thorough man of the world, and one in whose
breast reposed many of the secrets of the principal families of England.
On one occasion my father was in treaty for a piece of land at the back
of Gad's Hill, and it was proposed that there should be an interview with
the owner, a farmer, a very acute man of business, and a very hard nut to
crack.  It was arranged that the interview with him should be at Gad's
Hill, and the solicitor came down for the purpose.  My father and Ouvry
were sitting over their wine when the old man was announced.  'We had
better go in to him,' said my father.  'No, no,' said the astute lawyer.
'John,' said he, turning to the butler, 'show him into the study, and
take him a bottle of the old port.'  Then turning to my father, 'A glass
of port will do him good; it will soften him.'  After waiting about
twenty minutes they went into the study; the farmer was sitting bolt
upright in an arm-chair, stern and uncompromising; the bottle of port had
not been touched.  Negotiations then proceeded very much in favour of the
farmer, and a bargain was struck.  The old man then proceeded to turn his
attention to the port, and in a very few minutes he had finished the
bottle."

Mr. Dickens also told me of his father's knowledge of the legal
profession, and of the distinguished members of it.  Though not himself,
he writes, of the legal profession, my father was very fond of lawyers.
He numbered among his intimate friends Lord Denman, Lord Campbell, Mr.
Justice Talfourd, Chief Justice Crockford; in fact, it is difficult to
name any eminent lawyer who could not claim acquaintance, at any rate,
with our great author.  And he tells me, too, an anecdote relating to a
distinguished lawyer of the present day--Sir Henry Hawkins.  We nearly
lost that great man, I think about the year 1851, on the occasion of some
theatricals at Knebworth.  The play was _Every Man in his Humour_, and
Frank Stone, the artist, father of Mr. Marcus Stone, R.A., was allowed to
play a part with a sword.  (Those of you who have had any experience of
theatrical matters know how dangerous it is to trust a sword to an
amateur.)  He came up flourishing the sword, and if Mr. Hawkins had not
ducked we should have lost that eminent man; but he did it just in time.

Before I introduce you to the types of the judge, the counsel, the
solicitors, let me say something to you of the district in which lawyers
live, or rather in Dickens's time lived, and still do congregate.  From
Gray's Inn in the north to the Temple in the south, from New Inn and
Clement's Inn in the west to Barnard's Inn in the east.  I once lived
myself in Clement's Inn, and heard the chimes go, too; and I remember one
day I sat in my little room very near the sky (I do not know why it is
that poverty always gets as near the sky as possible; but I should think
it is because the general idea is that there is more sympathy in heaven
than elsewhere), and as I sat there a knock came at the door, and the
head of the porter of Clement's Inn presented itself to me.  It was the
first of January, and he gravely gave me an orange and a lemon.  He had a
basketful on his arm.  I asked for some explanation.  The only
information forthcoming was that from time immemorial every tenant on New
Year's Day was presented with an orange and a lemon, and that I was
expected, and that every tenant was expected, to give half-a-crown to the
porter.  Further inquiries from the steward gave me this explanation,
that in old days when the river was not used merely as a sewer, the fruit
was brought up in barges and boats to the steps from below the bridge and
carried by porters through the Inn to Clare Market.  Toll was at first
charged, and this toll was divided among the tenants whose convenience
was interfered with; hence the old lines beginning "Oranges and lemons
said the bells of St. Clement's."  I have often wondered whether the rest
of the old catch had reason as well as rhyme.

Dickens loved the old Inns and squares.  Traddles lived in Gray's Inn:
Traddles who was in love with "the dearest girl in the world"; Tom Pinch
and his sister used to meet near the fountain in the Middle Temple; Sir
John Chester had rooms in Paper Buildings; Pip lived in Garden Court at
the time of the collapse of Great Expectations; Mortimer Lightwood and
Eugene Wrayburn had their queer domestic partnership in the Temple.  The
scene of the murderous plot in "Hunted Down" is also laid in the Temple,
"at the top of a lonely corner house overlooking the river," probably the
end house of King's Bench Walk.  Mr. Grewgious, Herbert Pocket, and Joe
Gargery are associated with Staple Inn and Barnard's Inn.

Lincoln's Inn has not been forgotten; for though Mr. Tulkinghorn lived in
the Fields, yet Serjeant Snubbin was to be found in Lincoln's Inn Old
Square.

I never could understand why Dickens located the Serjeant in the realms
of Equity; but what should interest us more to-night is the fact that the
greater part of "Pickwick" was written in Furnival's Inn, which, as
Dickens describes it, was "a shady, quiet place echoing to the footsteps
of the stragglers there, and rather monotonous and gloomy on summer
evenings."

Hastings. Geduldig, noble lord, as you probably should, but I hope that
once abzustatten thanks, The fault was at the arrests. Gloster.

   Certainly, certainly!

   Clarence and will also: your enemies are the same and have managed
   to resist him. Hastings.

   Yes, unfortunately, the Eagles locked up, And Gei'r hawk and steal
   freely, however. Gloster. What's new there? Hastings . So nothing bad
   out there, than here at home.

The prince is sickly, weak and melancholy, And his physicians fear immensely.
Gloster. Now, in St. Paul! the news is bad.

   Oh, he has long kept bad diet, and consumed his royal person. It is
   a heartbreak, when one's mind. Sagt, he keeps the bed? Hastings. He's
   doing. Gloster. Is not progress, I follow you soon after. (from
   Hastings).

   He can not live, I hope, can not die, Eh 'George with extra post goes
   to heaven. I want them, and rush him to Clarence With lies wohlgestählten,
   trift'gen reasons; And if my deep plan I do not succeed, Clarence Did
   not a day more to live. Then God take King Edward Grace And let me
   make the world live there. After marriage then I Warwicks youngest
   daughter.

   Ermordet 'I said to her husband and father, The fastest way to
   g'nugzutun prostitute, is that I myself werd her husband and father. I
   will because, out of love not only as a deeply hidden purposes else
   half, the marriage they must reach me. But I do have the bill without
   a host, yet breathes Clarence, Eduard enthroned and reigns: When
they were out, then the Müh 'rewarded.

   (Ab) SECOND SCENE London. A andre street. (King Henry the Sixth
   corpse in a coffin open hereingetragen, Tressel, Berkeley, and nobles
   with halberds accompany them, this Princess Anne as a bearer of
suffering.)

   Anna. Set down your honorable load - Wofern Honor lowers itself into a
   coffin - However, I complain to the funeral ceremony the case of
the early pious Lancaster.

   You eiskalt portrait of a Holy King! Des Lancaster House erblichne ash!
   Loser rest of the blood royal blood! enjoy it's up your mind that he
   is the poor hear Anna Jammer The woman was Eduards thy son, strangles
   from the hand that these wounds suggested. In this window, which is
   opened, your life to dismiss träufl 'I see! helpless balm of my
   poor eyes. Cursed the hand that these cracks made! Cursed the heart,
   the heart had 'to do it! Cursed the blood that the blood sacked!
   healing Loser fate meet the poor, the wretched us by thy death, as I
   may wish vipers, spiders, toads, and all toxic Gewürm, which lives
   on. Did he ever a child, so it's mißgeboren, neglected and soon brought
   to light, Des Greulich unnatural shape the view of the hopeful mother
   schreck; And that legacy is his misfortune! Did he ever a woman, now,
   let them His death to make much more miserable, as my young Ehgemahl
   and you! - Come now Holy Chertsey with the load, from St. Paul to
   the funeral we got, And always, if you're tired, rest from, Meanwhile,
   I lament on King Henry corpse. (The makers take the corpse and go
   further.) (Gloster occurs.) Gloster. Stop! their institution of the
   cadaver, sets them down! Anna. Zaubrer Welch black captures
   these evil disruption to services pious love her? Gloster.
   scoundrels, the corpse down!

   In St. Paul, to make my body, which does not obey! ErsterEdelmann.
   Mylord differs from and let the coffin pass. Gloster. Shameless dog!
   stand by you, if I order; Senk the Hellbarde not me in front of the
   chest, otherwise, in St. Paul, I stretch to the ground And
   you do, beggars, you for your pertness.

   (The carrier put the coffin down.) Anna. How now ? their jitters,
   you are all scared? But oh! I blame 'you do not: ye are indeed mortal,
   and it bears no mortal eyes the devil .-- Heb thee out, thou
   Höllenbote horror! You had power only over his body, the soul' you
   do not obtain: you continue drum mach . Gloster. Be a Christian,
   Holy sweet! do not swear -! Anna. For God's sake, despicable devil
   continued, Disruption And we also do not! You made your hell yes to
   the happy earth, Complies with yelling curse and deep pain. Grimm'gen
   If your deeds amuse yourself, See this sample of your Metzgerei'n
   .--. My Lord, look, look!

   Heinrichs wounds of the dead Open the rigid mouth and bleed fresh .--
   blushing, Klump Mißgestalt contemptible, because your presence
breathes this blood from veins, cold and empty, where no blood
resides; Yes your deed, inhuman, unnatural, Turns out this flood
so unnatural .-- You created this blood, God, Avenge their death!

   You drink it, Earth: Avenge his death! Laß, sky, your Lightning beat
   the murderer! Yawn, earth, far, and sling him alive, as jetzo this good
   king's blood, to be the Höll 'ergebner arm choked!

   Gloster. Lady, you know the rule is not in love, evil with good,
   curse with a blessing rewarded. Anna.

   Bube, thou knowest not divine, human rights, the wild animal knows but
   emotion of compassion. Gloster. I know of none, and therefore am
   not an animal . Anna. O wonder if a devil speaks truth! Gloster.
   more wonder if an angel is angry! - condescend, divine archetype of a
   woman, from the supposed guilt me to allow myself to you occasionally
   to befrein. Anna. condescend , gift'ger scum of a man, known for the
   debt to me to allow Uncommon cursed to curse thee.

   Gloster. You know, better than a mouth you can give!

   rental period geduld'ge me entschuld'gen. Anna. You know, simple as
   a heart you can remember! For you shall not Entschuld'gen as you
   hang. Gloster. so despairing, sued 'I myself Anna. And in despair if
   you were excused, Through Exercise würd'ger revenge on yourself "The
   murder of du unwürd'gen others practiced. Gloster. Setz, I slew them
   not. Anna.

   So if they were not dead, but they are dead, and hell bondage, through
   you. Gloster. I was not your husband. Anna. Now well, so he still lives.
   Gloster. No, he is dead, and he suggested Eduards hand. Anna. You
   lie in your throat; Margretha saw blood in his mördrisch your knife
   steam, the wall once you test against their chest, only your
   brothers beat it aside. Gloster. I was irritated by their blasphemous
   tongue, that the guilt sets' on my guiltless head. Anna. You were
   irritated by your sense blut'gen, The never dreamed of other things'
   as Metzgerein. Hast thou not kill this king ? Gloster. I'll
   give it to. Anna. To give you's, hedgehog? Well, so geb 'to
   God, That you damn seist for the evil deed! Oh, he was kind, mild and
   tugendsam. Gloster. So he is good at Lord of heaven to live. Anna.
   He is in heaven, where you never go. Gloster. He would like to thank
   me, then ruling him: he good for the place, not for the earth. Anna.
   You suck for not for the place than hell. Gloster. Yes, even if I may
   call it. Anna . A prison. Gloster. your bedroom. Anna. Banished was Ruh
   'from the room where you are lying. Gloster. That's it, lady, till
   I lie with you. Anna. I hope so. Gloster. I know it .-- But, dear Lady
   Anne, to the rapid start of our joke in a multi-tone set to fall: Is
   who caused the untimely death The two Plantagenet, Henry and Edward,
   As reprehensible as the executor not? Anna. You were the cause 'and
   cursed effect. Gloster. Eu'r stimulus alone was cause' of this effect,
   Eu'r charm, the home is looking for me 'in my sleep, from all over
   the world to the death for an hour' to your sweet bosom. Anna. Dächt
   'I, murderer, these nails should be from my cheeks tear this appeal.

   Gloster. This eye can not obliterate the charm sehn; your tätet
   him no harm, stands' I do. Like all the world to the sun Labtest,
   So I to him: he is my day, my life.

   Anna. night blackness, death of your day and your life. Gloster. curse
   hold creature, you do not: you're both. Anna. I want ', I's about
to get to you to avenge.

   Gloster. There is a trade against nature, you take revenge on the
man who loves you.

   Anna. There is a trade by reason and law, Mich. revenge on the
   murderer of my husband. Gloster. The bereft thee, lady, your
   husband,'s deed, to you to create a better husband.

   Anna. beßrer One breathes on earth not. Gloster. We who lives, who loves
   you better than him. Anna. rated him. Gloster. Plantagenet. Anna. So
   he said yes . Gloster. same name, but when Anna beßrer Art. Where is
   he? Gloster. Here. (you speit after him.) Why you feed me? Anna.
   Wär 'it is deadly poison to deinethalb! Gloster. Never came such sweet
   poison from the ground. Anna. Never hung poison on a simple newt.
   From my eyes away! you put them on. Gloster. Your eyes, mistress,
   has contaminated mine. Anna. O wär's a Basilisk, you totzublitzen!
   Gloster. I want to 'be yourself, died so I at once, because there are
   jetzo me lebend'gen death . Your eyes blackmailed my salt tears,
   Embarrassed 'kind'scher light with her wealth drops, the eyes, never
   wet tears of pity: Not when my father York and Edward wept At Rutland
   anxious misery, as his sword, the black resist him Clifford zückte
   ; yet tapfrer as your father as a child my father told pathetic
   death innehielt And ten to sob, crying that he who is standing, had wet
   their cheeks Like Leaves in the rain: the time traur'gen rejected
   my eye niedre male tears, And what this sorry he could not entsaugen,
   The tat thy charm and makes' it blind from crying. I never begged neither
   friend nor foe, never learned my tongue Schmeichel words: But now your
   attraction to me is set for the price, Da implores my proud heart
   and draws the tongue. (She sees him in contempt.) No, do not teach
   your lips such scorn: To kiss created mistress, they are yes. Verzeihn
   Can not rachbegierig your heart to offer, I see! this scharfgespitzte
   sword; Birg's, if you want, in this true breast And let the soul ',
   which idolizes you: I put them to death Streiche And just
   ask, humbly kneeling, to death. (He bared his chest, it aims with the
   sword for him.) No, not zögre: yes, I beat King Henry, But
   your beauty attracted me to. Only! Because I erstach the young Eduard:
   (you aim back to his chest.) But thy heavenly face drove me. (You
   can fall to the sword.) Bring on the sword, or take me on. Anna.
   Steh, hypocrites on! Wish I had your death, I will not be his
   executioner. Gloster. So hot I kill myself, and I will. Anna. I did
   it already. Gloster. That was in thy rage. Say it again and the same
   should this hand, your love The 'from love' slew to you, love you long
   loyal sake 'slain, both of you will blame his death. Anna. Can I just
   your heart! Gloster. On my tongue's lives. Anna. Maybe are both
   wrong. Gloster. Then nobody believes it faithfully. Anna. Now, probably,
   will bring the sword. Gloster. you grant me peace? Anna. This should
   be your future sehn. Gloster. Can I live in hope? Anna. I hope
   everyone's doing. Gloster. Carrying this ring from me. Anna. Unhold
   is not going to happen. (She puts the ring on.) Gloster. Look how
   the umfasset your ring finger, So thy bosom a My poor heart; Trag both
   because they are both yours. And if thy faithful servant may Request
   a favor from your hand gnäd'gen, Sun only you luck with him
   forever. Anna. What is it? Gloster. That this is your work traur'ge
   the überlaßt, The greater scope cause 'has leidzutragen And you
   immediately after, Crosby Yard begebt; Where I once I solemnly buried
   in Chertsey, Munster this noble king And repentant genetzt his
   grave with tears, With all schuld'gen Ehr' you want to visit.
   From some secret reasons, I ask, Gives me this. Anna. From all my
   heart, and it gives me great pleasure to sehn, so that you are repentant
   been .-- Wessel and Berkeley, has accompanied me. Gloster. Tell
   me Lebwohl. Anna . 's is more than your merits, but because you, to
   flatter you, taught me To think I already told you adieu. (with
   Princess Anna from the two nobles.) Gloster. Take on the corpses',
   her Lord. ZweiterEdelmann. After Chertsey, noble lord? Gloster. No, the
   Carmelites, where it awaits me. (The train from the corpse.) Ward ever
   in this Laun 'a woman privates? per Ward in this Laun' a woman won? I
   she wants to, but not long retain. How? I, the murderer of her
   husband and father, in her heart begin to disgust them, Im talking
   about curses, tears in her eyes, The bleeding witness of her hatred
   because, God, their conscience, all this against me, no friend to my
   request to support, as Heuchlerblicke and bare devil, and yet they
   win! Everything against nothing! Ha! Accounted as soon wackre that
   her prince, Edward, her husband, whom I before three moons to
   Tewkesbury in my wrath erstach? Such a liebenswürd'gen Mr. Holden,
   in the wastage of nature formed, young, brave, white and secure
   kinglike, Has not the world record more: And yet she wants her
   eyes on me erniedern, The prince of this golden flower And she broke
   saddened widowed in bed? On me, not the half of Eduard equivalent?
   on me, and the lagging mißgeschaffen is? My Herzogtum penny for
   a beggar, I am mistaken in me all the time: As I live, I can not find
   it's equal, you find't, I was a pretty amazing man I want to use as
   a mirror and a few Schneider dozen maintain order costumes auszusinnen
   which I stand. Since I myself am in favor come, So I will also leave
   me a little cost. But I created the first companions to the grave
   And jammernd then return to loved ones around. Come on, hold
   on Sundays ', as a mirror showing me zustatten And if I go, my shadow.
   (Ab) THIRD STAGE Ebendaselbst. A room in the palace.

(Queen Elizabeth, Lord Rivers, Marquis of Dorset and Lord Gray occur.)
Rivers. Be quiet, Princess: His Majesty will soon return to the
desired well-being can be found. Gray. It makes it worse, that's your
bad wear: For God's sake, then, are comforted him with cheers and joyful
words. Elizabeth. What would I encounter wär 'he dead? Gray. No other
suffering, as such Lord Loss. Elizabeth. Such of Mr closes each a loss.
Gray. The sky gives' you a brave son, so if he is to be your comforter.
Elizabeth. Oh! He is young, and up to the age leads him to worry about
Richard Gloster, a man who does not love me, yet from whom you. Rivers.
Is it identified that he is protector? Elizabeth. It has been decided
upon, not yet identified: But it must be if the king does not have.
(Buckingham and Stanley occur.) Gray. There are the Lords of Buckingham
and Stanley. Buckingham. Eu 's royal grace healing and happiness!

Stanley. God may' Eu'r Majesty as former erfreun! Elizabeth. The Countess
Richmond, dear Mylord Stanley, Says Eu'r well on most difficult prayer
Amen. But, Stanley, whether your wife And it's not love me, you,
the best Lord, be assured I do not hate you for their high spirits.
Stanley. Messter, I urge you, no faith in the false claimants of their
blasphemies, And would they gült'gen basic sued, Carrying their weakness,
which certainly arises from diseased crickets, neglected wickedness.
Elizabeth. Saht your King today, Mylord Stanley? Stanley. We come, Duke
Buckingham and I only just now by His Majesty.

Elizabeth. What is his appearance Beßrung , Lords? Buckingham. The best
hope Eu'r husband speaks cheerfully. Elizabeth. Gott geb 'him salvation!
Bespracht you with him?

   Buckingham. Yes, gnäd'ge woman: he wants the Duke Gloster With your
   brothers again And reconcile this with the upper ridges and said
   His Highness before they appear. Elizabeth. Wär's all good! But this
   will never be I fear our happiness has its Höh '.

   (Gloster and Hastings.) Gloster.

   You do me wrong, and I will not tolerate it.

   Who are they to complain to the king, I was think , hard and sweet 'it
   is not? When Holy Paul, who loves him the top, Who will be
   the ear with Zankgerüchten anfüllt.

   Because I do not flatter and beschwatzen can Zulachen, stroke, hintergehn
   and scrambling like a fox Schwänzend Franzmann and Aff 'To keep me for
   a häm'schen enemy.

   Is it not a simple man innocent life that is not his honest heart
would be abused by Seidner, clever, flatteringly fops?

   Gray. With whom in this circle speaks your grace? Gloster. With
   thee, neither virtue has grace.

   When grieved 'ich dich? when did I give you too close? And you? and
   you? When one of your brood? The Plague you all! Gnäd'ger Our Lord -
   the God get better as you wish!

   - Can hardly a breath Get quiet, that you do not interfere with wild
   claims. Elizabeth.

   Brother of Gloster, your mißnehmt the matter. The King has, on And most
   are not driven by a stranger prompted request, supposing Perhaps your
   inner hatred, which is doing in your opinion reveals, to my children,
   my brothers and myself, to you all, that he will be the cause 'of
   your resentment and away they creates.

   Gloster.

   I do not know - the world is so corrupted, Zaunkön'ge hausen, where
   eagle's dare not. Since all the nobleman Hans promised, it was some noble
   man to Hans. Elizabeth. Okay! one knows the thoughts, brother
   Gloster: Your neidet my friends and my happiness.

   God grant that we have never needed you!

   Gloster. God exists, however, that we have needed you, because our
   brother is arrested by you, I myself in disgrace ', and the nobility
   The ignominy price, since it gives senior posts daily, with
   honor to the crown, not yesterday Kron' had in the bag. Elisabeth.
   If the person making me banger Höh 'levied by the Los zufriednen, I
   enjoyed, I never appealed to His Majesty the Duke Clarence opponent,
   was much more a lawyer, who spoke for him eagerly.

   Mylord, you do me shameful injustice to me, Because your wrong in
   this suspicion brings. Gloster. You can also deny that your debt is
   held at Hastings Mylord recent arrests. Rivers. You can do it, Mylord;
   because - Gloster. You can do it, Lord Rivers? Oh, who knows not? You
   can do more than deny this, Lord, you can help you to some
   nice items, then denied her hand in the game And all mention of merit
   pay. What can they not? You can - yes traun! they can - Rivers. What
   can she traun? Gloster. traun What can they? With a king traun, And a
   young company, a handsome lad! Has your mama big so good privates?
   Elizabeth. Mylord of Gloster, I endured too long Eu'r clumsy
   and Schelten Eu'r bittres Schmähn. I announce to his majesty, the sky
   , The coarse mockery, which I so often suffered. I would prefer a large
   Queen Bauermagd As with the condition that I was so despised and
   assails. I have little joy 'on the throne of England. (Queen Margaret
   appears in the background.) Margaretha. The Wen'ge was reduced,
   God, I beseech you, I deserve your rank and honor seat. Gloster. What?
   Your threatening me, the king there to say? Says he's gentle and not
   see, what I said, I said in the king's presence. I wag it out
   in the tower to be clever. 's Speaking of time: one thinks not of my
   services. Margaretha. Fort, devil!

   I think your all too well. You broke my husband's test at the tower,
   And my poor son to Tewkesbury. Gloster. Eh 'Your bestiegt the throne
   and Eu'r husband, I was the pack horse of his great work, eradicate
   his foes proud, generous reward friends, His blood be princes, I
   potted mine. Margaretha. Yes, and much blood as hers beßres and yours.
   Gloster. In all this time your war't and Gray, Eu'r man, partiality
   for the House of Lancaster; you, Rivers, war't it .-- Not
   Feel your husband to St.

   Albans in Margrethas Battle ? I must remind you, if your's remember,
   what you previously had and now are, at the same time, what I was
and still am.

   

   
   "Arrange the procession," cried the twenty committee men.

   Amidst the cheers of the assembled throng, the band, and the
   constables, and the committee men, and the voters, and the horsemen,
   and the carriages took their places--each of the two-horse vehicles
   being closely packed with as many gentlemen as could manage to stand
   upright in it; and that assigned to Mr. Perker containing Mr.
   Pickwick, Mr. Tupman, Mr. Snodgrass, and about half-a-dozen of the
   committee beside.

   There was a moment of awful suspense as the procession waited for the
   Honourable Samuel Slumkey to step into his carriage.  Suddenly the
   crowd set up a great cheering.

   "He has come out," said little Mr. Perker, greatly excited; the more
   so as their position did not enable them to see what was going
   forward.

   Another cheer, much louder.

   "He has shaken hands with the men," cried the little agent.

   Another cheer, far more vehement.

   "He has patted the babies on the head," said Mr. Perker, trembling
   with anxiety.

   A roar of applause that rent the air.

   "He has kissed one of 'em!" exclaimed the delighted little man.

   A second roar.

   "He has kissed another," gasped the excited manager.

   A third roar.

   "He's kissing 'em all!" screamed the enthusiastic little gentleman.
   And hailed by the deafening shouts of the multitude the procession
   moved on.

Ladies and gentlemen, according to our modern ideas this account does not
do much to raise Mr. Perker in our estimation; but the best testimonial
to his memory is to be found in Mr. Pickwick's observation when, being at
last free from all his legal difficulties, he proposed to settle up with
his lawyer.

   "Well, now," said Mr. Pickwick, "let me have a settlement with you."

   "Of the same kind as the last?" inquired Perker, with another laugh,
   for Mr. Pickwick had just been dismissing Messrs. Dodson and Fogg with
   some strong language indeed.

   "Not exactly," said Mr. Pickwick, drawing out his pocket-book, and
   shaking the little man heartily by the hand; "I only mean a pecuniary
   settlement.  You have done me many acts of kindness that I can never
   repay, and have no wish to repay, for I prefer continuing the
   obligation."

   With this preface the two friends dived into some very complicated
   accounts and vouchers, which, having been duly displayed and gone
   through by Perker, were at once discharged by Mr. Pickwick with many
   professions of esteem and friendship.

Never was bill of costs so pleasantly discharged, though I know many
lawyers who have won the friendship and esteem of their clients.

The next type is that of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, of Freeman's Court,
Cornhill.  The character of the genial partner is best described by one
of his clerks in a conversation overheard by Mr. Pickwick and Sam Weller
while waiting for an interview with this celebrated firm.

   "There was such a game with Fogg here this morning," said the man in
   the brown coat, "while Jack was upstairs sorting the papers, and you
   two were gone to the stamp-office.  Fogg was down here opening the
   letters when that chap as we issued the writ against at Camberwell,
   you know, came in--what's his name again?"

   "Ramsey," said the clerk who had spoken to Mr. Pickwick.

   "Ah, Ramsey--a precious seedy-looking customer.  'Well, sir,' says old
   Fogg, looking at him very fierce--you know his way--'well, sir, have
   you come to settle?'  'Yes, I have, sir,' said Ramsey, putting his
   hand in his pocket and bringing out the money; 'the debt's two pound
   ten, and the costs three pound five, and here it is, sir,' and he
   sighed like bricks as he lugged out the money, done up in a bit of
   blotting-paper.  Old Fogg looked first at the money, and then at him,
   and then he coughed in his rum way, so that I knew something was
   coming.  'You don't know there's a declaration filed, which increases
   the costs materially, I suppose?' said Fogg.  'You don't say that,
   sir,' said Ramsey, starting back; 'the time was only out last night,
   sir.'  'I do say it, though,' said Fogg; 'my clerk's just gone to file
   it.  Hasn't Mr. Jackson gone to file that declaration in Bullman and
   Ramsey, Mr. Wicks?'  Of course I said yes, and then Fogg coughed
   again, and looked at Ramsey.  'My God!' said Ramsey; 'and here have I
   nearly driven myself mad, scraping this money together, and all to no
   purpose.'  'None at all,' said Fogg, coolly; 'so you had better go
   back and scrape some more together, and bring it here in time.'  'I
   can't get it, by God!' said Ramsey, striking the desk with his fist.
   'Don't bully me, sir,' said Fogg, getting into a passion on purpose.
   'I am not bullying you, sir,' said Ramsey.  'You are,' said Fogg; 'get
   out, sir; get out of this office, sir, and come back, sir, when you
   know how to behave yourself.'  Well, Ramsey tried to speak, but Fogg
   wouldn't let him, so he put the money in his pocket and sneaked out.
   The door was scarcely shut when old Fogg turned round to me, with a
   sweet smile on his face, and drew the declaration out of his coat
   pocket.  'Here, Wicks,' said Fogg, 'take a cab and go down to the
   Temple as quick as you can and file that.  The costs are quite safe,
   for he's a steady man with a large family, at a salary of five-and-
   twenty shillings a week; and if he gives us a warrant of attorney, as
   he must in the end, I know his employers will see it paid, so we may
   as well get all we can out of him, Mr. Wicks; it's a Christian act to
   do it, Mr. Wicks, for with his large family and small income he'll be
   all the better for a good lesson against getting into debt--won't he,
   Mr. Wicks, won't he?' and he smiled so good-naturedly as he went away
   that it was delightful to see him.  'He is a capital man of business,'
   said Wicks, in a tone of the deepest admiration; 'capital, isn't he?'"

Mr. Fogg, we are told, was an elderly, pimply-faced, vegetable diet sort
of man, in a black coat, and dark-mixtured trousers; and Mr. Dodson was a
plump, portly, stern-looking man, with a loud voice.  And it was from
these worthies that Mr. Pickwick had received a letter dated the 28th of
August, 1827.

   FREEMAN'S COURT, CORNHILL.
   _Bardell against Pickwick_.

   SIR,--Having been instructed by Mrs. Martha Bardell to commence an
   action against you for a breach of promise of marriage, for which the
   plaintiff lays her damages at fifteen hundred pounds, we beg to inform
   you that a writ has been issued against you in this suit in the Court
   of Common Pleas, and request to know, by return of post, the name of
   your attorney in London, who will accept service thereof.

   We are, Sir,
   Your obedient servants,
   DODSON AND FOGG.
   MR. SAMUEL PICKWICK.

I am bound to say that Mr. Pickwick did not conduct himself with his
usual dignity on the occasion of his interview on the subject of this
letter.  The two sharp practitioners had certainly commenced an action
against him on grounds which, though definite, were wholly inadequate.
But in this alone there was nothing to justify the very violent language
of Mr. Pickwick.

   "Very well, gentlemen, very well," said Mr. Pickwick, rising in person
   and wrath at the same time; "you shall hear from my solicitor,
   gentlemen."

   "We shall be very happy to do so," said Fogg, rubbing his hands.

   "Very," said Dodson, opening the door.

   "And before I go, gentlemen," said the excited Mr. Pickwick, turning
   round on the landing, "permit me to say, that of all the disgraceful
   and rascally proceedings--"

   "Stay, sir, stay," interposed Dodson, with great politeness.  "Mr.
   Jackson!  Mr. Wicks!"

   "Sir," said the two clerks, appearing at the bottom of the stairs.

   "I merely want you to hear what this gentleman says," replied Dodson.
   "Pray go on, sir--disgraceful and rascally proceedings, I think you
   said?"

   "I did," said Mr. Pickwick, thoroughly roused.  "I said, sir, that of
   all the disgraceful and rascally proceedings that ever were attempted
   this is the most so.  I repeat it, sir."

   "You hear that, Mr. Wicks?" said Dodson.

   "You won't forget these expressions, Mr. Jackson?" said Fogg.

   "Perhaps you would like to call us swindlers, sir," said Dodson.  "Pray
   do, sir, if you feel disposed; now pray do, sir."

   "I do," said Mr. Pickwick.  "You _are_ swindlers."

   "Very good," said Dodson.  "You can hear down there, I hope, Mr.
   Wicks?"

   "Oh, yes, sir," said Wicks.

   "You had better come up a step or two higher if you can't," added Mr.
   Fogg.  "Go on, sir; do go on.  You had better call us thieves, sir; or
   perhaps you would like to assault one of us.  Pray do it, sir, if you
   would; we will not make the slightest resistance.  Pray do it, sir."

   As Fogg put himself very temptingly within the reach of Mr. Pickwick's
   clenched fist there is little doubt that gentleman would have complied
   with his earnest entreaty but for the interposition of Sam, who,
   hearing the dispute, emerged from the office, mounted the stairs, and
   seized his master by the arm.

   "You just come avay," said Mr. Weller.  "Battledore and shuttlecock's
   a wery good game, when you ain't the shuttlecock and two lawyers the
   battledores, in which case it gets too excitin' to be pleasant.  Come
   avay, sir.  If you want to ease your mind by blowing up somebody come
   out into the court and blow up me; but it's rayther too expensive work
   to be carried on here."

With that good advice Mr. Weller took Mr. Pickwick away from the lawyers'
office.  But before we say anything about the trial itself let me
introduce to you another solicitor not so well known as either Perker or
Dodson and Fogg, but to my mind the most interesting as he certainly is
the most humorous.

Mr. Pell had the honour of being the legal adviser of Mr. Weller, Senior.
The latter gentleman always stoutly maintained that if Mr. Pickwick had
had the services of Mr. Pell, and had established an _alibi_, the great
case of Bardell against Pickwick would have been decided otherwise.  Mr.
Pell practised in the Insolvency Court.  He "was a fat, flabby, pale man,
in a surtout which looked green one moment, and brown the next, with a
velvet collar of the same chameleon tints.  His forehead was narrow, his
face wide, his head large, and his nose all on one side, as if Nature,
indignant with the propensities she observed in him at his birth, had
given it an angry tweak which it had never recovered.  Being short-necked
and asthmatic, however, he respired principally through this feature; so,
perhaps, what it wanted in ornament, it made up in usefulness."

Mr. Pell had successfully piloted Mr. Weller through the Insolvency
Court, and his services were sought to carry out the process by which Sam
Weller became a voluntary prisoner in the Fleet at the suit of his
obdurate parent.

   "The late Lord Chancellor, gentlemen, was very fond of me," said Mr.
   Pell.

   "And wery creditable in him, too," interposed Mr. Weller.

   "Hear, hear," assented Mr. Pell's client.  "Why shouldn't he be?"

   "Ah, why, indeed!" said a very red-faced man, who had said nothing
   yet, and who looked extremely unlikely to say anything more.  "Why
   shouldn't he?"

   A murmur of assent ran through the company.

   "I remember, gentlemen," said Mr. Pell, "dining with him on one
   occasion.  There was only us two, but everything as splendid as if
   twenty people had been expected--the great seal on a dumb-waiter at
   his right, and a man in a bag-wig and suit of armour guarding the mace
   with a drawn sword and silk stockings--which is perpetually done,
   gentlemen, night and day; when he said, 'Pell,' he said, 'no false
   delicacy, Pell.  You're a man of talent; you can get anybody through
   the Insolvent Court, Pell; and your country should be proud of you.'
   Those were his very words.  'My lord,' I said, 'you flatter me.'
   'Pell,' he said, 'if I do I'm damned.'"

   "Did he say that?" inquired Mr. Weller.

   "He did," replied Pell.

   "Vell, then," said Mr. Weller, "I say Parliament ought to ha' took it
   up; and if he'd been a poor man they _would_ ha' done it."

   "But, my dear friend," argued Mr. Pell, "it was in confidence."

   "In what?" said Mr. Weller.

   "In confidence."

   "Oh! wery good," replied Mr. Weller, after a little reflection.  "If
   he damned hisself in confidence, o' course that was another thing."

   "Of course it was," said Mr. Pell.  "The distinction's obvious, you
   will perceive."

   "Alters the case entirely," said Mr. Weller.  "Go on, sir."

   "No, I will not go on, sir," said Mr. Pell, in a low and serious tone.
   "You have reminded me, sir, that this conversation was private--private
   and confidential, gentlemen.  Gentlemen, I am a professional man.  It
   may be that I am a good deal looked up to in my profession--it may be
   that I am not.  Most people know.  I say nothing.  Observations have
   already been made in this room injurious to the reputation of my noble
   friend.  You will excuse me, gentlemen; I was imprudent.  I feel that
   I have no right to mention this matter without his concurrence.  Thank
   you, sir; thank you."

   Thus delivering himself, Mr. Pell thrust his hands into his pockets,
   and, frowning grimly around, rattled three-halfpence with terrible
   determination.

We hear also of Mrs. Pell.

   Mrs. Pell was a tall figure, a splendid woman, with a noble shape, and
   a nose, gentlemen, formed to command, gentlemen, and be majestic.  She
   was very much attached to me--very much--highly connected, too.  Her
   mother's brother, gentlemen, failed for eight hundred pounds, as a law
   stationer.

So we have, ladies and gentlemen, these three types of this honourable
profession.  To my mind they have never been quite placed in their proper
order.  Perker has been universally admired and looked up to; Dodson and
Fogg have been universally denounced; Mr. Pell has been suffered to
remain unnoticed.  Well, let us judge fairly the merits of these three
gentlemen.

If Mr. Perker had lived to-day instead of in the year 1827, he would
undoubtedly have been tried for the part he took in the Eatanswill
election.  What is the charge, after all, against Messrs. Dodson and
Fogg, except that question with regard to poor Ramsey?--which, after all,
is only a story told by the clerk Wicks, upon whom I do not think we can
place very much reliance.  What else did Dodson and Fogg do that should
make them the object of obloquy and universal execration?  They brought
an action for breach of promise of marriage--some people think such
actions should never be brought at all--they brought the action for
breach of promise of marriage; they made a little arrangement with regard
to costs, unprofessional if you like, but still nothing to bring down
upon them the denouncement to which they have been made subject.  So far
as Mr. Pickwick was concerned, he had absolutely nothing to complain of
in their conduct; and I venture to say it was most reprehensible in him
under the circumstances to use the language which he did upon the
occasion which I have quoted.  But against Mr. Pell there is absolutely
nothing to be said.  He perhaps romanced a little with regard to his
friendship with the Lord Chancellor; but which of us would not like to be
on friendly terms with the Lord Chancellor?  On that trifling
exaggeration there is nothing practically to be urged against him; and
while I claim for Mr. Pell the position of premier in this matter, I am
sorry I have to accord to Mr. Perker the third place.

Well, now, although I would love to linger over Mr. Pell, I must pass on
to say something of the counsel mentioned in this admirable work.  But
before I consider the more eminent and the more conspicuous of these,
there is one member of the Bar who is seldom alluded to, but of whom I
wish to say something to-night.  I refer to Mr. Prosee.  Mr. Prosee very
few of you have ever heard of.  He dined with Mr. Perker at Montague
Place, Russell Square, on one occasion.  It must have been rather a dull
dinner party, for there were present two good country agents, Mr. Snicks,
the Life Office Secretary, Mr. Prosee, the eminent counsel, three
solicitors, one Commissioner of Bankrupts, a special pleader from the
Temple, a small-eyed, peremptory young gentleman, his pupil, who had
written a lively book about the law of demises, with a vast quantity of
marginal notes and references; and several other eminent and
distinguished personages, including the Mr. Prosee just mentioned.

Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how it is, but I have always
associated Mr. Prosee with the Equity Bar.  It may be that his name
suggests it.

   Well, I come now to the counsel which is better known to you, namely
   Serjeant Snubbin.

   "We've done everything that's necessary," said Mr. Perker.  "I have
   retained Serjeant Snubbin."

   "Is he a good man?" inquired Mr. Pickwick.

   "Good man!" replied Perker.  "Bless your heart and soul, my dear sir,
   Serjeant Snubbin is at the very top of his profession.  Gets treble
   the business of any man in court--engaged in every case.  You needn't
   mention it abroad, but we say--we of the profession--that Serjeant
   Snubbin leads the court by the nose."

   "I should like to see him," said Mr. Pickwick.

   "See Serjeant Snubbin, my dear sir!" rejoined Perker, in utter
   amazement.  "Pooh, pooh! my dear sir, impossible!  See Serjeant
   Snubbin!  Bless you, my dear sir, such a thing was never heard of
   without a consultation fee being previously paid, and a consultation
   fixed.  It couldn't be done, my dear sir--it couldn't be done!"

Thus was Mr. Pickwick brought face to face with the difficulty of seeing
his own counsel.  We know that D. Luis was not holding a gun in his
life. Fortunately, the count was not more skillful in fencing, but had
never studied theology or thought to be a cleric. The conditions
of the duel were reduced, once the sword in hand, each of the two
combatants do the God gave him to understand. It closed the door of
the room. The tables and chairs were set aside in a corner to clear the
ground. The lights were placed in an appropriate manner.

D. Luis and the count took off jackets and Levites, were in shirtsleeves
and took up arms. There were witnesses to one side. In a sign of the
captain, began the combat. From two people who did not know to stop the
fight or defend itself should be brief, and it was.

   The fury of the count, hold for a few minutes, it exploded and blinded.
   It was rugged, had an iron fist, and shook the rain from saber cuts
   without a warrant or concert. Played four times for D. Luis,
   fortunately always flat. Hurt his shoulder, but not injuring him. Was
   necessary to force all of the young theologian demolished to avoid the
   tremendous shock and pain of bruises. Still he played the Count for
   the fifth time in D. Louis, and gave the left arm. Here was the wound
   edge, but jealously. The blood of D. Luis began running in abundance.
   A little away from content, the count charged with more anger, to
   hurt again: almost got under the sword of Luis. This, rather
   than prepare to stop, dropped the sword with verve and a stab at getting
   the head count. The blood came out with a vengeance and spread to the
   forehead and ran on the eyes. Stunned by the coup, took the count with
   his body on the floor. The whole business of battle was a few seconds.
   D. Luis had been serene, like a stoic philosopher, whom the hard law
   of necessity compels them to such a conflict, so contrary to
   their customs and way of thinking, but not well looked at his opponent
   on land, covered in blood, and died, D. Luis felt a great anxiety and
   fear that give it a heartbreak.

   He, who is not believed capable of killing a sparrow, it had just killed
   a man.

   He, who was still determined to become a priest, to be a missionary,
to be minister of the Gospel and nuncio, had five or six hours, had
committed or was accused of having committed at any time all crimes
and of having violated all the commandments God's law.

   Had not been mortal sin that is not contaminated.

   Its purposes are perfect holiness and heroic first had vanished. Purpose
   of a sanctity its easier, comfortable and _burguesa_, then faded.

   The Devil disrupted their plans. On a whim and it could even be a
   Christian Philemon, for it was not good beginning for the idyll of
   perpetual rip the head of a neighbor sablazo.

   The status of D. Louis, after the turmoil of all that day was that of
   a man who has cerebral fever. Currito and the master, each one hand,
   grabbed it and drove home. * * * * * D.

   Pedro Vargas got up shock when told that his son was injured. He went
   to see him, examined the wound and bruises of the arm, and saw
that did not care, but gave the cry in heaven, saying he was going
to take revenge for that offense, and will not be reassured to know
that the set, and that D.

   Luis was able to take revenge for it, despite its theology.

   The doctor came soon after to heal D. Luis, and predicted that in three
   or four days was Don Luis to go on the street, as if such a thing.

   Count hand, had for months. His life, however, no danger. Had returned
   from her faint, and had asked him to lead his people, not a league
   far more than the place where these events went. Carricoche had
   sought a lease and he was taken, going in company with his servant and
   the two strangers who helped him witness. For the four days of launch,
   it actually met the forecasts of the doctor, and D. Luis, but bruised
   by the blows and the wound still open, was in a state of leaving
and promising a full restoration on a very short time.

   The first duty that D. Luis thought he needed to fulfill, as it gave
   him high, he was confessing to his father his love affair with
Pepita and declare their intention to marry her.

   D. Pedro had not been to the area or had been used but in caring for
   their child during illness. Almost always at his side and accompanying
   mimándole with singular affection.

   In the morning of June 27, after leaving the doctor, D.

   Peter was left alone with his son, and then so difficult to confession
   D. Luis took place as follows. * * * * * - My Father - said D. Luis
   - I do not I fooling you any longer. Today I will confess my faults
   to you and discard the hypocrisy. - Boy, if confession you do, the
   better you call the father vicar. I am very holgachón approach,
   and absolve you all, without my acquittal for you worth anything.

   But if you want to entrust some deep secret to your best friend
starts, you hear. - What I have to entrust to you is a serious lack
of mine, and I am ashamed ... - So you have no shame with your
father and say without rebozo.

   Here D. Luis, becoming very red, and with visible embarrassment,
   said: - My secret is that I love ... Pepita Jiménez, D. and her ...
   Pedro interrupted his son with a laugh and continued the sentence: -
   And that she is in love with you, and that evening the night of San
   Juan were in fresh talks with her until two o'clock, and that she looked
   up the count with a haul of Genazahar you have broken the head.

   Well, son, bravo secret trust me. No dog or cat in the place that
   is not already aware of everything.

   The only thing that seemed to hide the duration of the symposium was
   until two o'clock, but a gypsy buñoleras you saw out of the house
and did not stop until the entire bug life.

   Pepita also does not conceal anything more, and done well,
   because it's the disguise of Antequera ... Since you're sick Pepita comes
   here twice a day, and another two or three times to send Antoñona
   namely your health, and if you have not come to see you, because I have
   opposed so you do not fuss. The confusion and the rush of D. Luis
   rose point when he heard his father tell the whole story in terse
   compendium. - What a surprise - he said - what a surprise you will
   have been to! - No surprise, or wonder, boy . In the place you know
   things are only four days ago, and truth be told, your transformation
   has stunned.

   Look at the Take it and kill him groping silent, watching the cat
   dead and santurrón, people exclaim, with what has come to break away!
   The vicar father, especially, has been turulato. Junctions still being
   done, considering how much work in the vineyard of the Lord on the
   night of 23-24, and how varied and diverse were your work. But I do
   not got the shock news, unless your wound. The old feel the grass
   grow. It is not easy to fool the chickens recoveros. - It's true: I
   wished to deceive you I've been a hypocrite! - Do not be silly: I
   do not mean by motejarte.

I say this to give me insightful tone. But speaking frankly, my boast
is unmotivated. I know point by point the progress of your love affair
with Pepita, for more than two months, but because I know your Uncle
Dean, who write your impressions, I was involved throughout. Hears the
accusing letter from your uncle, and hear the answer I gave him, very
important document that I have saved minuta. D. Pedro out of the pocket
and some papers read as follows: _Carta of deán_ .-- "My dear
brother: I feel in your soul that you have bad news, but I trust
God to be patient and suffering concederte enough so you do not
acibare and angry too.

Luisito I write, a few days ago, strange letters, where he discovers,
through the exaltation of his mystique, a very earthly and sinful
inclination towards some viuditas, pretty, naughty and coquetísima, in
that place. I had cheated here, believing firmly's vocation Luisito,
and I'm flattered to give it to the Church of God, a priest wise,
virtuous and exemplary, but the letters have been referred to destroy
my dreams. Luisito is there more male poet who truly pious, and the
widow, to be the skin of bars, you will pay with little to do. Although
I am writing to Luisito warning to flee from temptation, and be assured
that I will fall into it. Pesarme this should not, because if you miss
it and be gallant and cortejante better is that its poor condition is
discovered early and not become a clergyman. I would not, therefore,
serious objections to Luisito continue there, and was tested and
analyzed in the crucible and touchstone for such love, so that the
reagent was viuditas through which the gold was discovered their
virtues clerical or low league with the gold is mixed, but stumbled
into the pitfall that the widow, was to become faithful contrast,
it is your intention and I do not know if your love. happen then
chestnut dark that your son becomes your rival.

This would be a monstrous scandal, and to save time, I write today, so
that, claiming anything, send or bring to Luisito here, the sooner
the better. "Don Luis I listened in silence and with eyes low. His father
continued: - A letter from the Dean replied as follows: _Contestación_
.-- 'Brother dear and venerable spiritual father: I give you a
thousand thanks for the news and send me your tips and alerts.

List price although I confess my blunder on this occasion. Vanity cegaba
me. Pepita Jiménez, who came from my son, I was so gentle and loving
showed me the promised happy. Your letter has been necessary to make me
realize. Now I understand that, having been humanized to make many
feasts and dancing in front of the water, did not look me in the naughty
Pepita but the father of theologian beardless. Do not deny it: I am
a bit distressed and mortifies this disappointment in the beginning
but then I reflected all due to the maturity and my mortification and grief
became my joy. The kid is excellent. I have taken much affection from
being me. I separated from him and he gave you to get educated,
because my life was not very exemplary, and in this town, so this
and other reasons, had been raised as a savage. You were beyond my
expectations and even my desires, and only recently learned from a Luisito
Father of the Church. Having a child saint had flattered my vanity, but I
had sense to stay without an heir of my house and name, give me that
beautiful grandchildren, and after my death to enjoy my property, they
are my glory, because I purchased with ingenuity and labor, and not doing
fullerías and scams. Maybe it was the persuasion that I had no choice,
that Luis would catechize the Chinese, the Indians and the Little Monicongo,
I decided to get married to prolong my inheritance. Naturally I put my
eyes in Pepita Jiménez, which is not like the skin of Barabbas think, but
a creature remonísima more blessed to the heavens and more passionate
to flirt. I have such a good view Pepita that if she returned to sixteen
years and a mother imperative that the violent, and I have eighty years
as D. Gumersindo, that is, if I saw death and doors, to take Pepita by
women to smile at me as if the death of my guardian angel who had taken
human body, and to leave my position, my wealth and my name. But neither
has Pepita and sixteen years, but twenty, and is not subject to the saga
of her mother nor I have eighty years, but fifty-five. I'm at the worst
age, because I start to feel tired damaged, with a bit of asthma, a lot
of cough, rheumatic pain and many other alifafes, but, damn I want to
die.

I think that in twenty years or I will die, and as he took a Pepita
twenty-five calculates the disastrous future that awaits you with
this long-lasting. After a few years of married me would have hated,
despite how good it is. Because it's good and did not want discreet, no
doubt, accepted by her husband, despite the insistence and
stubbornness with which I have proposed.

How much I appreciate it now! The tip of vanity was hurt by his neglect
to consider that as dull, if not love me, love my blood was my son's
clothing. If you do not want to be cool and lush ivy link to the old
trunk, and rotting, climb up it, I think, to ascend to renew the
tender and green and flower bud. God bless you and prosper both these
loves. Far from taking the boy again, we retain here, even by force if
necessary. I decided to conspire against his vocation. With dreams
and married him. I'm going to renovate contemplating a gentle couple,
united by love. And when I get a few kids? Instead of going as a
missionary and bring Madagascar to Australia or India or the number of
newcomers, with a span of cards, such as Tizna black, or yellow
like the estezado and owl eyes Could it be better to preach Luisito at
home, and I get plenty of catecumenillos a blond, smiling, with eyes like
those of Pepita, and cherubim angels appear? Catechumens who brought me
from there, it must be a respectable distance so they do not infect me,
and they here for me to smell the roses paradise, and would get on my
knees and play with me and kiss me, and call me grandpa, and I would
pat the bald, which I have. What do you want? When I was in my place,
not thinking of the home delight, but now I'm so close to old age, if I
am no longer there, as I do not cenobitic, I expect that I will
be pleased in the role of Patriarch.

   And do not understand that I will confine myself to expect the nascent
   courtship rennet, but I have to work so that rennet. Following
   your comparison, which transforms it into a crucible Pepita
   and Luis Metal, I seek or have sought or bellows and a torch useful,
   to help fan the flames so that the metal melts soon. This torch is
   Antoñona, mother Pepita very lizard, very quiet and very affecting its
   owner. Antoñona is already with me, and I know that she is dead
   Pepita loves. We agreed that I should continue to turn a blind eye
   and giving me no understanding of anything.
   Inquire within.'"  Here Serjeant
   Buzfuz paused, while several gentlemen of the jury took a note of the
   document.

   "There is no date to that, is there?" inquired a juror.

   "There is no date, gentlemen," replied Serjeant Buzfuz; "but I am
   instructed to say that it was put in the plaintiff's parlour-window
   just this time three years.  I entreat the attention of the jury to
   the wording of this document.  'Apartments furnished for a single
   gentleman!'  Mrs. Bardell's opinions of the opposite sex, gentlemen,
   were derived from a long contemplation of the inestimable qualities of
   her lost husband.  She had no fear, she had no distrust, she had no
   suspicion, all was confidence and reliance.  'Mr. Bardell,' said the
   widow, 'Mr. Bardell was a man of honour, Mr. Bardell was a man of his
   word, Mr. Bardell was no deceiver, Mr. Bardell was once a single
   gentleman himself; _to_ single gentlemen I look for protection, for
   assistance, for comfort, and for consolation; _in_ single gentlemen I
   shall perpetually see something to remind me of what Mr. Bardell was
   when he first won my young and untried affections: to a single
   gentleman, then, shall my lodgings be let.'  Actuated by this
   beautiful and touching impulse (among the best impulses of our
   imperfect nature, gentlemen) the lonely and desolate widow dried her
   tears, furnished her first floor, caught the innocent boy to her
   maternal bosom, and put the bill up in her parlour-window.  Did it
   remain there long?  No.  The serpent was on the watch, the train was
   laid, the mine was preparing, the sapper and miner was at work.  Before
   the bill had been in the parlour-window three days--three days,
   gentlemen--a Being, erect upon two legs, and bearing all the outward
   semblance of a man, and not of a monster, knocked at the door of Mrs.
   Bardell's house.  He inquired within--he took the lodgings; and on the
   very next day he entered into possession of them.  The man was
   Pickwick--Pickwick, the defendant."

   Serjeant Buzfuz, who had proceeded with such volubility that his face
   was perfectly crimson, here paused for breath.  The silence awoke Mr.
   Justice Stareleigh, who immediately wrote down something with a pen
   without any ink in it, and looked unusually profound, to impress the
   jury with the belief that he always thought most deeply with his eyes
   shut.  Serjeant Buzfuz proceeded.

   "Of this man Pickwick I will say little; the subject presents but few
   attractions; and I, gentlemen, am not the man, nor are you, gentlemen,
   the men, to delight in the contemplation of revolting heartlessness
   and of systematic villainy."

   Here Mr. Pickwick, who had been writhing in silence for some time,
   gave a violent start, as if some vague idea of assaulting Serjeant
   Buzfuz, in the august presence of justice and law, suggested itself to
   his mind.  An admonitory gesture from Perker restrained him, and he
   listened to the learned gentleman's continuation with a look of
   indignation, which contrasted forcibly with the admiring faces of Mrs.
   Cluppins and Mrs. Sanders.

   "I say systematic villainy, gentlemen," said Serjeant Buzfuz, looking
   through Mr. Pickwick, and talking _at_ him; "and when I say systematic
   villainy, let me tell the defendant Pickwick, if he be in Court--as I
   am informed he is--that it would have been more decent in him, more
   becoming, in better judgment, and in better taste, if he had stopped
   away.  Let me tell him, gentlemen, that any gestures of dissent or
   disapprobation in which he may indulge in this Court will not go down
   with you; that you will know how to value and how to appreciate them;
   and let me tell him further, as my lord will tell you, gentlemen, that
   a counsel, in the discharge of his duty to his client, is neither to
   be intimidated, nor bullied, nor put down; and that any attempt to do
   either the one or the other, or the first, or the last, will recoil on
   the head of the attempter, be he plaintiff or be he defendant, be his
   name Pickwick, or Noakes, or Stoakes, or Stiles, or Brown, or
   Thompson."

   This little divergence from the subject in hand had, of course, the
   intended effect of turning all eyes to Mr. Pickwick.  Serjeant Buzfuz,
   having partially recovered from the state of moral elevation into
   which he had lashed himself, resumed,--

   "I shall show you, gentlemen, that for two years Pickwick continued to
   reside constantly, and without interruption or intermission, at Mrs.
   Bardell's house.  I shall show you that Mrs. Bardell, during the whole
   of that time, waited on him, attended to his comforts, cooked his
   meals, looked out his linen for the washerwoman when it went abroad,
   darned, aired, and prepared it for wear, and, in short, enjoyed his
   fullest trust and confidence.  I shall show you that, on many
   occasions, he gave halfpence, and on some occasions even sixpences, to
   her little boy; and I shall prove to you, by a witness whose testimony
   it will be impossible for my learned friend to weaken or controvert,
   that on one occasion he patted the boy on the head, and, after
   inquiring whether he had won any _alley tors_ or _commoneys_ lately
   (both of which I understand to be a particular species of marbles much
   prized by the youth of this town), made use of this remarkable
   expression: 'How should you like to have another father?'  I shall
   prove to you, gentlemen, that about a year ago Pickwick suddenly began
   to absent himself from home during long intervals, as with the
   intention of gradually breaking off from my client; but I shall show
   you also that his resolution was not at that time sufficiently strong,
   or that his better feelings conquered, if better feelings he has, or
   that the charms and accomplishments of my client prevailed against his
   unmanly intentions; by proving to you that on one occasion, when he
   returned from the country, he distinctly and in terms offered her
   marriage; previously, however, taking special care that there should
   be no witnesses to their solemn contract; and I am in a situation to
   prove to you, on the testimony of three of his own friends--most
   unwilling witnesses, gentlemen--most unwilling witnesses--that on that
   morning he was discovered by them holding the plaintiff in his arms,
   and soothing her agitation by his caresses and endearment."

   A visible impression was produced upon the auditors by this part of
   the learned Serjeant's address.  Drawing forth two very small scraps
   of paper, he proceeded,--

   "And now, gentlemen, but one word more.  Two letters have passed
   between these parties, letters which are admitted to be in the
   handwriting of the defendant, and which speak volumes indeed.  These
   letters, too, bespeak the character of the man.  They are not open,
   fervent, eloquent epistles, breathing nothing but the language of
   affectionate attachment.  They are covert, sly, underhanded
   communications; but, fortunately, far more conclusive than if couched
   in the most glowing language and the most poetic imagery--letters that
   must be viewed with a cautious and suspicious eye--letters that were
   evidently intended at the time, by Pickwick, to mislead and delude any
   third parties into whose hands they might fall.  Let me read the
   first:--'Garraway's, twelve o'clock.  Dear Mrs. B.--Chops and Tomato
   sauce; Yours, PICKWICK.'  Gentlemen, what does this mean?  Chops and
   Tomato sauce.  Yours, PICKWICK!  Chops!  Gracious heavens! and Tomato
   sauce!  Gentlemen, is the happiness of a sensitive and confiding
   female to be trifled away by such shallow artifices as these?  The
   next has no date whatever, which is in itself suspicious.  'Dear Mrs.
   B., I shall not be at home till to-morrow.  Slow coach.'  And then
   follows this very remarkable expression: 'Don't trouble yourself about
   the warming-pan.'  The warming-pan!  Why, gentlemen, who _does_
   trouble himself about a warming-pan?  When was the peace of mind of
   man or woman broken or disturbed by a warming-pan, which is in itself
   a harmless, a useful, and I will add, gentlemen, a comfortable article
   of domestic furniture?  Why is Mrs. Bardell so earnestly entreated not
   to agitate herself about this warming-pan, unless (as is no doubt the
   case) it is a mere cover for hidden fire--a mere substitute for some
   endearing word or promise, agreeably to a preconcerted system of
   correspondence, artfully contrived by Pickwick with a view to his
   contemplated desertion, and which I am not in a condition to explain!
   And what does this allusion to the slow coach mean?  For aught I know,
   it may be a reference to Pickwick himself, who has most unquestionably
   been a criminally slow coach during the whole of this transaction, but
   whose speed will now be very unexpectedly accelerated, and whose
   wheels, gentlemen, as he will find to his cost, will very soon be
   greased by you!"

   Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz paused in this place to see whether the jury
   smiled at his joke; but as nobody took it but the greengrocer, whose
   sensitiveness on the subject was very probably occasioned by his
   having subjected a chaise cart to the process in question on that
   identical morning, the learned Serjeant considered it advisable to
   undergo a slight relapse into the dismals before he concluded.

   "But enough of this, gentlemen," said Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz, "it is
   difficult to smile with an aching heart; it is ill jesting when our
   deepest sympathies are awakened.  My client's hopes and prospects are
   ruined, and it is no figure of speech to say that her occupation is
   gone indeed.  The bill is down--but there is no tenant.  Eligible
   single gentlemen pass and repass--but there is no invitation for them
   to inquire within or without.  All is gloom and silence in the house;
   even the voice of the child is hushed--his infant sports are
   disregarded when his mother weeps; his 'alley tors' and his
   'commoneys' are alike neglected; he forgets the long familiar cry of
   'knuckle down,' and at tip-cheese, or odd or even, his hand is out.
   But Pickwick, gentlemen, Pickwick, the ruthless destroyer of this
   domestic oasis in the desert of Goswell Street--Pickwick, who has
   choked up the well and thrown ashes on the sward--Pickwick, who comes
   before you to-day with his heartless tomato sauce and
   warming-pans--Pickwick still rears his head with unblushing
   effrontery, and gazes without a sigh on the ruin he has made.  Damages,
   gentlemen--heavy damages--is the only punishment with which you can
   visit him; the only recompense you can award to my client.  And for
   those damages she now appeals to an enlightened, a high-minded, a
   right-feeling, a conscientious, a dispassionate, a sympathising, a
   contemplative jury of her civilised countrymen."

With this beautiful peroration, Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz sat down, and Mr.
Justice Stareleigh woke up.

Of the judge of this famous case we hear but little.  Brakenbury. I urge
Eu'r graces both to verzeihn, But His Majesty has strictly ordered
that no one, what state he was set to speak secretly with his
brother.

   Gloster. So yes! Popular Eu'r's Edeln, Brakenbury, So just hear
   everything we say, too: It is not treason, my friend. We say that the
   king was so white 'as tugendsam, And his dear Ehgemahl of years
   handsome, beautiful and without jealousy; We say Shores woman've
   got a pretty little feet, A Kirschenmündchen, Äugelein and wundersüße
   tongue, And that the Kön'gin been noble clan. What say you, sir?
   everything is not it? Brakenbury. Mylord, I'm nothing at all useful.
   Gloster. nothing in Mrs. Shore? Listening to society: Who Is it useless
   as the one that the offender 'is better in secret, alone. Brakenbury.
   When any one Mylord? Gloster. Her husband, you scoundrel, do you
   want me to catch? Brakenbury. I urge Eu 's grace to verzeihn, as well
   as no longer to speak with the noble duke.

Clarence. We know your order, Brakenbury, And wolln obey. Gloster. We are
the Verworfnen The Queen and must already obey.'s brother, lives well!
I want to go to the king, And what some would like you need me, should
I also mention Edward's widow sister, I will perform to bring you befrein.
However, this deep disgrace in brotherhood touches me deeper than you
think you can. Clarence. I know it, they both do not like us. Gloster.
well, arresting Eu'r will not last: I make you free, otherwise I
located for you.

However you have patience. Clarence. I must, leb wohl! (Clarence with
Brakenbury and from the guard.) Gloster. just go down the road, you never
wiederkehrst, Einfält'ger Clarence! As much as I love you, soon I will
send your soul to heaven, When he Was' from our hands to take. But who
comes here? neubefreite of Hastings? (Hastings occurs.) Hastings. Vergnügte
morning gnäd'gen my Lord!
Charles Dickens--Mr. Henry Fielding
Dickens--referred to by my friend Mr. Lockwood.  Mr. Henry Dickens has
not followed in his father's footsteps; he has chosen for himself the
profession of the bar; and in that profession he has gained for himself a
high and honourable name.  At this hour I cannot permit myself to say
more than to ask you to join in the vote of thanks which I now move to my
friend Mr. Lockwood for the very admirable lecture which he has just
given.

Vote of thanks seconded by MR. HILLIARD.

Mr. HENRY FIELDING DICKENS: Sir Charles Russell, ladies and gentlemen,--I
assure you that when I came into this room to-night I had no more idea
that I was to make any observations than--the man in the moon.  I came
here with the idea of listening to my old friend Mr. (Droll and Demetrius
from. Lysander comes back.) Lysander. Always before he moves me with
a loud threat, I come where he calls, he escaped. Schurk is nimble in
the course than I: I followed him quickly, but faster he avoided me, So
that I fell on a dark, rough track, And now here ruhn wants .-- (Sets
down.) Holderegger day to brich! Once I only your gray light, I Avenge
the death penalty and ridicule my enemy . (Entschläft.) (Droll Demetrius
and come back.) Droll. Ho, ho! memme you, why do not you come? Demetrius.
Steh, if you can, and see my face. I remember well, from one place to
another Do you me and let me wander around. Where are you now? Droll.
Hieher come! I'm here.
I assure you with all the warmth in my heart, and
in the name of my sister and other members of the family, that I thank
you most sincerely, not only for your generous reception of myself, but
for the feeling you have demonstrated that you bear for my dear father.

Mr. FRANK LOCKWOOD: Sir Charles Russell, ladies and gentlemen,--I shall
only detain you to say that I thank you for your great kindness to me to-
night; it has been a pleasure to me to come.  Popular gnädger my Lord
and Repentance, the court of his half to give good, So I am happy, when
he sent me the other half to use it, after his death the man to reimburse
The recently stole his daughter.

.