An English writer in speaking of the Japanese says: "There must really
have been a double portion of politeness bestowed upon these people
who in the deepest domestic grief would smile and smile, so that a
guest in the home might not be burdened with their sorrow. The habit
is in striking contrast with the weeping and wailing, the mourning
streamers, the hatbands, plumes, palls, black chargers, and funeral
hearses with which we struggle to stir the envy, if not the hearts of
all beholders!"

In Japan, so we are told, manners are included in the public teaching
of morality. Among our western peoples our public school boys would
deem it strange if a master gave them an hour's instruction in the
correct manner of behaving toward their father and mother or sisters.
Yet such knowledge might be urgently needed and do good here as it
does in Japan where it is counted the most vital instruction of all.
Step by step the Japanese child is led along the course of behavior,
learning how to stand up, sit down, bow, hang up its hat, and how to
think of its parents, brothers and sisters, and of its country. Later
on these lessons are repeated with illustrations from short stories,
and still later by incidents from actual history and the lives of
great men of all countries. Before the end of the course of
instruction is reached all manner of virtues and points of behavior
have been introduced, such as patriotism, cleanliness, and (especially
in the case of girls) the proper way of advancing and retiring,
offering and accepting things, sleeping and eating, visiting,
congratulating and condoling, mourning and holding public meetings. So
the school course continues from year to year, the elementary school
course lasting four years and the secondary course four years more,
and leading the boys and girls up to the study of benevolence, their
duty to ancestors, to other people's property, other people's honor,
other people's freedom, and, finally, to self-discipline, modesty,
dignity, dress, labor, the treatment of animals, and the due relations
of men and women, both of whom are to be regarded equally as "lords"
of creation. From end to end of the long course of training, behavior
rather than knowledge is insisted upon, even down to the tiniest
detail of what our good great-grandmothers valued as deportment.

To such scrupulous deportment and close attention to minuteness of
habit, some objection can be raised, perhaps. "Some men's behavior,"
said Bacon, "is like a verse wherein every syllable is measured," and
he warned us that manners must be like apparel, "not too strait or
point-device, but free for exercise or motion." However, it is better
to err on the side of too much attention to our manners rather than to
be thought careless of our persons and our behavior.

Civilized peoples cannot help but be concerned with manners,
refinement, good breeding, and in a more minute sense, with the forms
of etiquette. It is these things that distinguish civilization from
savagery, and so unmistakably lift the cultured person above the one
who does not see fit to cultivate the grace of gentility.

It has been truly said that we judge our neighbors severely by the
breach of written or traditional laws, and choose our society, and
even our friends, by the touchstone of courtesy. It is not an uncommon
occurrence for a girl or a boy to win an advantageous position in
life, not by superior mental or physical endowments but by a
graciousness of manners that have smoothed for them the ways that lead
to success.

For some quite unwarranted reason society seems to have taken the
position that we have a right to expect more from our girls than from
our boys in the matter of good manners. This, however, is not the view
held by those who know the true meaning of good breeding. The demand
that every boy shall be a gentleman is as firm and binding as is that
which says that every girl must be a gentle woman and a thorough lady.

Every girl knows what is expected of her. Her parents, brothers,
sisters, teachers, society and the world intend that she shall be good
and gentle and gracious. They will be satisfied with nothing short of
all that and it will be well for every girl to learn early in life to
pursue only the paths that will lead into ways wherein these qualities
of person and character may be found. So here and now it is timely to
ask of the readers of these lines--

           WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO?

    What are you going to do, girls,
      With the years that are hurrying on?
    Do you mean to begin life's purpose to win
      In the freshness and strength of the dawn?
    The builders who build in the morning,
      At even may joyfully rest,
    Their victories won, as they watch the glad sun
      Sink down in the beautiful west.

    What are you going to do, girls,
      With time as it ceaselessly flows?
    Are you molding a heart that will pleasures impart
      As perfume exhales from the rose?
    Let all that is purest and grandest
      In duty's fair wreath be entwined;
    There is no other grace can illumine the face
      Like the charm of a beautiful mind.

A student of the subject of ethics must understand that the true
spirit of good manners is very closely allied to that of good morals.
It has been pointed out that no stronger proof of this assertion is
required than the fact that the Messiah himself, in his great moral
teachings, so frequently touches upon the subject of manners. He
teaches that modesty is the true spirit of good behavior, and openly
rebukes the forward manner of His followers in taking the upper seats
at the banquet and the highest seats in the synagogues.

The philosophers whose names are recorded in history, although they
were, themselves, seldom distinguished for fine manners, did not fail
to teach the importance of them to others. Socrates and Aristotle have
left behind them a code of ethics that might easily be turned into a
"Guide to the Complete Gentleman;" and Lord Bacon has written an essay
on manners in which he reminds us that a stone must be of very high
value to do without a setting.

The motive in cultivating good manners should not be shallow and
superficial. Lord Chesterfield says that the motive that makes one
wish to be polite is a desire to shine among his fellows and to raise
one's self into a society supposed to be better than his own. It is
unnecessary to state that Lord Chesterfield's good manners, fine as
they appear, do not bear the true stamp of genuineness. There is not
the living person back of them possessing heart and character. They
seem to him, in a measure, what a fine gown does to the wax figure in
the dressmaker's window. True manners mean more than mannerisms. They
cannot be taught entirely from a book in which there are sets of rules
to be observed on any and every occasion. They are rather a cultivated
method of thinking and feeling and the forming of a character that
knows, intuitively, the nice and kind and appropriate thing to do
without reference to what a printed rule of conduct may set forth.

It is generally agreed that our best and only right motive in the
cultivation of good manners should be to make ourselves better than we
otherwise would be, to render ourselves agreeable to every one whom we
may meet, and to improve, it may be, the society in which we are
placed. With these objects in view, it is plainly as much a moral duty
to cultivate one's manners as it is to cultivate one's mind, and no
one can deny that we are better citizens when we observe the nicer
amenities of society than we are when we pay no heed to them.

