That which follows is marked by that simplicity of conception and
facility of execution which render the doctrine of the Nippon philosopher
absolutely efficacious.

Produced by William Koven, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team

JOURNEYS THROUGH BOOKLAND
A New and Original Plan For Reading Applied To The World's Best
Literature For Children 
BY 
CHARLES H."What should I do if I were in the place of the person with whom I am
discussing?

"I found myself one day on the slope of a hill named Yung-Tshi, and I
remarked that the majority of the trees were stript of their foliage.

"The season seeming to me not sufficiently advanced for this condition of
vegetation, I exprest my astonishment to a passer-by, who replied to me:

"'Alas! This occurs every year at the same time, and it is not well to
cultivate trees on the height of Yung-Tshi, for the sun, being too hot,
dries them up before the time when the foliage ought to fall.'

"A few days afterward my steps lead me on the opposite slope of the
same hill.

"There the trees were covered with foliage, still green but uncommon, and
their appearance indicated an unhealthy condition of growth.

"'Alas!' said a man who was working in the hedges to me, 'it is not well
to cultivate trees on the height of Tung-Tshi, for the sun never shines
there, and they can only acquire the vigor they would possess if they
were planted in another country.'

"And, altho recognizing the truth of these two opinions, so
contradictory, I could not help thinking that they were the reproduction
of those which men, deprived of common sense, express every day.

"The same hill produced a vegetation, affected in different ways, by
reason of different causes; and the people, instead of taking into
consideration how carelessly they had chosen the location of their
plantation, preferred to attribute the defect to the site itself, rather
than to their lack of precaution.

"Both of them were suffering from a hurtful exaggeration, but each one
explained it in a way arbitrarily exclusive.

"He of the north made out that the sun never shone on the summit of
Yung-Tshi, and the inhabitant of the south affirmed that the
health-giving shade was unknown there."

This is why it is indispensable to the successful resolution of the
thousand and one problems of daily life, both those whose sole importance
is derived from their multiplicity and those whose seriousness justly
demands our attention, to employ the very simple method which prescribes
that we place ourselves mentally in the position and circumstances of the
person with whom we are discussing.

If each one of the inhabitants of Yung-Tshi had followed this precept,
instead of declaring that the hill never received the sun or that shade
never fell upon it, they would each one have thought for himself.

"At what conclusions should I arrive, if I had planted my trees on the
opposite side?"

I am always finding out, a day or two after, that I have been with
somebody very remarkable and did not know it at the time.

Under date of May 18th she writes to her sister Mary:--
DEAR M.

,--I can compare the embarrassment of our London life, with its multiplied
solicitations and infinite stimulants to curiosity and desire, only to
that annual perplexity which used to beset us in our childhood on
Thanksgiving Day.

Like Miss Edgeworth's philosophic little Frank, we are obliged to make
out a list of what man _must_ want, and of what he _may_ want; and
in our list of the former we set down, in large and decisive
characters, one quiet day for the exploration and enjoyment of
Windsor.

The ride was done all too soon.

About eleven o'clock we found ourselves going up the old stone steps
to the castle.

We went first through the state apartments. The principal thing that
interested me was the ball-room, which was a perfect gallery of
Vandyke's paintings.

After leaving the ball-room we filed off to the proper quarter to show
our orders for the private rooms. The state apartments, which we had
been looking at, are open at all times, but the private apartments
can only be seen in the Queen's absence and by a special permission,
which had been procured for us on that occasion by the kindness of
the Duchess of Sutherland.

One of the first objects that attracted my attention upon entering the
vestibule was a baby's wicker wagon, standing in one corner. It
was much such a carriage as all mothers are familiar with; such
as figures largely in the history of almost every family.

It had neat curtains and cushions of green merino, and was not
royal, only maternal. I mused over the little thing with a good deal of
interest.

We went for our dinner to the White Hart, the very inn which Shakespeare
celebrates in his "Merry Wives," and had a most overflowing merry
time of it.

After dinner we had a beautiful drive.

We were bent upon looking up the church which gave rise to Gray's
"Elegy in a Country Churchyard," intending when we got there to
have a little scene over it; Mr.

S., in all the conscious importance of having been there before,
assuring us that he knew exactly where it was. So, after some difficulty
with our coachman, and being stopped at one church which would not
answer our purpose in any respect, we were at last set down by
one which looked authentic; embowered in mossy elms, with a most
ancient and goblin yew-tree, an ivy-mantled tower, all perfect as
could be.

Here, leaning on the old fence, we repeated the Elegy, which certainly
applies here as beautifully as language could apply.

Imagine our chagrin, on returning to London, at being informed that
we had not been to the genuine churchyard after all.

The gentleman who wept over the scenes of his early days on the wrong
doorstep was not more grievously disappointed.

However, he and we could both console ourselves with the reflection that
the emotion was admirable, and wanted only the right place to make
it the most appropriate in the world.

The evening after our return from Windsor was spent with our kind
friends, Mr. and Mrs. Gurney. After breakfast the next day, Mr. S.,
C., and I drove out to call upon Kossuth.

We found him in an obscure lodging on the outskirts of London. I would
that some of the editors in America, who have thrown out insinuations
about his living in luxury, could have seen the utter bareness and
plainness of the reception room, which had nothing in it beyond the
simplest necessaries.

He entered into conversation with us with cheerfulness, speaking English
well, though with the idioms of foreign languages.

When we parted he took my hand kindly and said, "God bless you,
my child!"
I have been quite amused with something which has happened lately.
This week the "Times" has informed the United Kingdom that Mrs.

Stowe is getting a new dress made! It wants to know if Mrs.
It is common sense which will preserve us from excesses, by establishing
the equilibrium of the annoyances which result from them, with reference
to the doubtful pleasure which they procure.

Thanks to common sense, we shall avoid the weariness of late nights and
the danger of giving oneself up to the delights of dissipation.

"It is common sense," says the philosopher, "which forces us at a banquet
to raise our eyes to the hour-glass to find out how late it is.

"It is under the inspiration of this great quality of mind that we shall
avoid putting to our lips the cup already emptied many times.

"Common sense will reflect upon the mirror of our imagination the specter
of the day after the orgy; it will evoke the monster of the headache
which works upon the suffering cranium with its claws of steel; and, at
some future day, it will show us precocious decrepitude as well as all
bodily ills which precede the final decay of those who yield to their
passions. It will also impose upon us the performance of duty under the
form which it has adopted for each individual.

"Common sense represents for some the care of public affairs; for others
those of the family; for us all the great desire to leave intact to our
descendants the name which we have received from our fathers.

"For some of those still very young, it is like a lover long desired!

"For sages and warriors, it blows the trumpet of glory.

"Finally, common sense is the chosen purpose of every one, courted,
demanded, desired or accepted, but it exists, and under the penalty of
most serious inconveniences it does not permit us to forget its
existence."

Coming down from the heights where he allows himself to be transported at
times for a brief moment, Yoritomo tells us the part played by common
sense with reference to health.

"Common sense" he assures us, "is the wisest physician whom it is
possible to consult.

"If we followed its advice, we should avoid the thousand and one little
annoyances of illnesses caused by imprudence.

"The choice of clothing would be regulated according to the existing
temperature.

"One would avoid the passing at once from extreme heat to extreme cold.

"One would never proffer this stupid reflection: Bah! I shall take care
of myself, which impudent people declare when exposing themselves
carelessly to take cold.

"We should understand that disease is a cause of unparalleled disorder
and discord.

"In addition to the thought of possible sufferings, that of grief for
those whom we love, joined to the apprehension of a cessation of social
functions, on whose achievement depends our fortune, would suffice to
eliminate all idea of imprudence, if we had the habit of allowing common
sense to participate in all our actions of daily life.

"To those who walk under its guidance; it manifests itself without
ceasing; it dominates all actions without their being compelled to
separate themselves from it.

"It is unconsciously that they appeal to common sense and they have no
need of making an effort to follow its laws.

"Common sense is the intelligence of instinct."


LESSON VII

POWER OF DEDUCTION


Before entering the path which relates directly to the intellectual
efforts concerning the acquisition of common sense, the Shogun calls our
attention to the power of deduction.

"It is only," said he, "where we are sufficiently permeated with all the
principles of judgment that we shall be able to think of acquiring this
quality, so necessary to the harmony of life.

"The most important of all the mental operations which ought to be
practised by him who desires common sense to reign supreme in all his
actions and decisions, is incontestably deduction.

"When the union of ideas, which judgment permits, is made with perception
and exactness, there results always an analysis, which, if practised
frequently, will end by becoming almost a mechanical act.

"It is, however, well to study the phases of this analysis, in order to
organize them methodically first.

"Later, when the mind shall be sufficiently drilled in this kind of
gymnastics, all their movements will be repeated in an almost unconscious
way, and deduction, that essential principle of common sense, will be
self-imposed.

"In order that deductions may be a natural development, the element
relating to those which should be the object of judgment should be
grouped first.

"The association of statements is an excellent method for it introduces
into thought the existence of productive agents.

"We have already spoken of the grouping of thoughts, which is a more
synthetical form of that selection.

"Instead of allowing it to be enlarged by touching lightly on all that
which is connected with the subject, it is a question, on the contrary,
of confining it to the facts relating to only one object.

"These facts should be drawn from the domain of the past; by comparison,
they can be brought to the domain of the present in order to be able to
associate the former phenomena with those from which it is a question of
drawing deductions.

"It is rarely that these latter depend on one decision alone, even when
they are presented under the form of a single negation or affirmation.

"Deduction is always the result of many observations, formulated with
great exactness, which common sense binds together.

"That which is called a line of action is always suggested by the
analysis of the events which were produced under circumstances analogous
to those which exist now.

"From the result of these observations, the habit of thinking permits of
drawing deductions and common sense concludes the analysis.

I came home with a heavy heart, sorrowing, desolate, and wishing
my husband and father were here.

About one o'clock this morning Miss Stewart suddenly opened my door
crying, "Mrs.

Stowe, Henry is vomiting." I was on my feet in an instant, and lifted up
my heart for help.
"Secondly, the incident of to-day ought to produce the same effects,
unless the circumstances which surround it are different.

"It is then a question of analyzing the circumstances and of weighing the
causes whose manifestation could determine a disparity in the results.

"We shall interest ourselves first in the surroundings for thus, as we
have said, habits of thought and feeling vary according to the epoch and
the environment.

"A comparison will be established between persons or things, in order to
be absolutely convinced of their degree of conformity.

"The state of mind in which we were when the previous events were
manifested will be considered, and we shall not fail to ascertain
plainly the similarity or change of humor at the moment as related to
that of the past.

"It is also of importance to observe the state of health, for under the
affliction of sickness things assume very easily a hostile aspect.

"It would be wrong to attribute to events judged during an illness the
same value which is given to them at this present moment.

"When one is absolutely decided as to the relation of new perceptions and
mental representations, one can calculate exactly the degree of
comparison.

I passed most of the day in bed, but in the evening I had to get up, as I
had engaged to drink tea with two thousand people.

Our kind friends, Dr. and Mrs. Wardlaw, came after us, and Mr. S.
and I went in the carriage with them.

Our carriage stopped at last at the place. I have a dim remembrance of
a way being made for us through a great crowd all round the house, and
of going with Mrs.

Wardlaw up into a dressing-room where I met and shook hands with
many friendly people.

Then we passed into a gallery, where a seat was reserved for our party,
directly in front of the audience. Our friend Bailie Paton presided.
Mrs. Wardlaw and I sat together, and around us many friends, chiefly
ministers of the different churches, the ladies and gentlemen of
the Glasgow Anti-Slavery Society and others.

But the philosopher, who thinks of everything, has foreseen the case
where false ideas have obscured the clearness of the deductions, and he
said to us:

"The association of false ideas, if it does not proceed from the
difficulty of controlling things, is always in ungovernable opposition to
the veracity of the deduction.

"What would be thought of a man of eighty years who, coming back to
his country after a long absence, said, on seeing the family roof from
a distance:

