"I believe you eat the Bible and sleep on the Bible," said the woman,
with a faint smile, taking at the same time a corner of her apron to
wipe away a stray tear which had gathered in her eye. "I am glad it
rests you, Nettie."

"And you, mother."

"Sometimes," Mrs. Mathieson answered, with a sigh. "But there's your
father going to bring home a boarder, Nettie."

"A boarder, mother!--What for?"

"Heaven knows!--if it isn't to break my back, and my heart together. I
thought I had enough to manage before, but here's this man coming, and
I've got to get everything ready for him by to-morrow night."

"Who is it, mother?"

"It's one of your father's friends; so it's no good," said Mrs.
Mathieson.

"But where can he sleep?" Nettie asked, after a moment of thinking. Her
mother paused.

"There's no room but yours he can have. Barry wont be moved."

"Where shall I sleep, mother?"

"There's no place but up in the attic. I'll see what I can do to fit up
a corner for you--if I ever can get time," said Mrs. Mathieson, taking
up her pail. Nettie followed her example, and certainly did not smile
again till they reached the house. They went round to the front door,
because the back door belonged to another family. At the door, as they
set down their pails again before mounting the stairs, Nettie smiled at
her mother very placidly, and said--

"Don't you go to fit up the attic, mother; I'll see to it in time. I can
do it just as well."

Mrs. Mathieson made no answer but groaned internally, and they went up
the flight of stairs which led to their part of the house. The ground
floor was occupied by somebody else. A little entry way at the top of
the stairs received the wooden pail of water, and with the tin one
Nettie went into the room used by the family. It was her father and
mother's sleeping-room, their bed standing in one corner. It was the
kitchen apparently, for a small cooking-stove was there, on which Nettie
put the tea-kettle when she had filled it. And it was the common
living-room also; for the next thing she did was to open a cupboard and
take out cups and saucers and arrange them on a leaf table which stood
toward one end of the room. The furniture was wooden and plain; the
woodwork of the windows was unpainted; the cups and plates were of the
commonest kind; and the floor had no covering but two strips of rag
carpeting; nevertheless the whole was tidy and very clean, showing
constant care. Mrs. Mathieson had sunk into a chair, as one who had no
spirit to do anything; and watched her little daughter setting the table
with eyes which seemed not to see her. They gazed inwardly at something
she was thinking of.

"Mother, what is there for supper?"

"There is nothing. I must make some porridge." And Mrs. Mathieson got up
from her chair.

"Sit you still, mother, and I'll make it. I can."

"If both our backs are to be broken," said Mrs. Mathieson, "I'd rather
mine would break first." And she went on with her preparations.

"But you don't like porridge," said Nettie. "You didn't eat anything
last night."

"That's nothing, child. I can bear an empty stomach, if only my brain
wasn't quite so full."

Nettie drew near the stove and looked on, a little sorrowfully.

"I wish you had something you liked, mother! If only I was a little
older, wouldn't it be nice? I could earn something then, and I would
bring you home things that you liked out of my own money."

This was not said sorrowfully, but with a bright gleam as of some
fancied and pleasant possibility. The gleam was so catching, Mrs.
Mathieson turned from her porridge-pot which she was stirring, to give a
very heartfelt kiss to Nettie's lips; then she stirred on, and the
shadow came over her face again.

"Dear," she said, "just go in Barry's room and straighten it up a little
before he comes in--will you? I haven't had a minute to do it, all day;
and there wont be a bit of peace if he comes in and it isn't in order."

Nettie turned and opened another door, which let her into a small
chamber used as somebody's bedroom. It was all brown, like the other; a
strip of the same carpet in the middle of the floor, and a small cheap
chest of drawers, and a table. The bed had not been made up, and the
tossed condition of the bedclothes spoke for the strength and energy of
the person that used them, whoever he was. We spend our time in school
during the day, and in studying in the evening. My plan of
study is to read rhetoric and prepare exercises for my class the first
half hour in the evening; after that the rest of the evening is divided
between French and Italian. Thus you see the plan of my employment and
the character of my immediate companions. Besides these, there are others
among the teachers and scholars who must exert an influence over my
character. Miss Degan, whose constant occupation it is to make others
laugh; Mrs. Gamage, her room-mate, a steady, devoted, sincere
Christian. . . . Little things have great power over me, and if
I meet with the least thing that crosses my feelings, I am often rendered
unhappy for days and weeks. . . .She set about patiently
bringing things to order. First made the bed, which it took all her
strength to do: for the coverlets were of a very heavy and coarse
manufacture of cotton and woollen mixed, blue and white; and then
gradually found a way to bestow the various articles in Barry's
apartment, so that things looked neat and comfortable. But perhaps it
was a little bit of a sign of Nettie's feeling, that she began softly to
sing to herself,

    "'There is rest for the weary.'"

"Hollo!" burst in a rude boy of some fifteen years, opening the door
from the entry,--"who's puttin' my room to rights?"

A very gentle voice said, "I've done it, Barry."

"What have you done with that pine log?"

"Here it is,--in the corner behind the bureau."

"Don't you touch it now, to take it for your fire,--mind, Nettie!
Where's my kite?"

"You wont have time to fly it now, Barry; supper will be ready in two
minutes."

"What you got?"

"The same kind we had last night."

"_I_ don't care for supper." Barry was getting the tail of his kite
together.

"But please, Barry, come now; because it will make mother so much more
trouble if you don't. She has the things to clear away after you're
done, you know!"

"Trouble! so much talk about trouble! _I_ don't mind trouble. I don't
want any supper, I tell you."

Nettie knew well enough he would want it by and by, but there was no use
in saying anything more, and she said nothing. Barry got his kite
together and went off. Then came a heavier step on the stairs, which she
knew; and she hastily went into the other room to see that all was
ready. The tea was made, and Mrs. Mathieson put the smoking dish of
porridge on the table, just as the door opened and a man came in. A
tall, burly, strong man, with a face that would have been a good face
enough if its expression had been different, and if its hue had not been
that of a purplish-red flush. He came to the table and silently sat down
as he took a survey of what was on it.

"Give me a cup of tea! Have you got no bread, Sophia?"

"Nothing but what you see. I hoped you would bring home some money, Mr.
Mathieson. I have neither milk nor bread; it's a mercy there's sugar. I
don't know what you expect a lodger to live on."

"Live on his board,--that'll give you enough. But you want something to
begin with. I'd go out and get one or two things--but I'm so confounded
tired. I can't."

Mrs. Mathieson, without a word, put on a shawl and went to the closet
for her bonnet.

"I'll go, mother! Let me go, please. I want to go," exclaimed Nettie,
eagerly. "I can get it. What shall I get, father?"

Slowly and weariedly the mother laid off her things, as quickly the
child put hers on.

"What shall I get, father?"

"Well, you can go down the street to Jackson's, and get what your mother
wants: some milk and bread; and then you'd better fetch seven pounds of
meal and a quart of treacle. And ask him to give you a nice piece of
pork out of his barrel."

"She can't bring all that!" exclaimed the mother; "you'd better go
yourself, Mr. Mathieson. That would be a great deal more than the child
can carry, or I either."

"Then I'll go twice, mother; it isn't far; I'd like to go. I'll get it.
Please give me the money, father."

He cursed and swore at her, for answer. "Go along, and do as you are
bid, without all this chaffering! Go to Jackson's and tell him you want
the things, and I'll give him the money to-morrow. He knows me."

Nettie knew he did, and stood her ground. Her father was just enough in
liquor to be a little thick-headed and foolish.

"You know I can't go without the money, father," she said, gently; "and
to-morrow is Sunday."

He cursed Sunday and swore again, but finally put his hand in his pocket
and threw some money across the table to her. He was just in a state not
to be careful what he did, and he threw her crown-pieces where if he had
been quite himself he would have given shillings. Nettie took them
without any remark, and her basket, and went out.

It was just sundown. The village lay glittering in the light, that would
be gone in a few minutes; and up on the hill the white church, standing
high, showed all bright in the sunbeams from its sparkling vane at the
top of the spire down to the lowest step at the door. Nettie's home was
in a branch-road, a few steps from the main street of the village that
led up to the church at one end of it. All along that street the
sunlight lay, on the grass and the roadway and the sidewalks and the
tops of a few elm-trees. The street was empty; it was most people's
supper-time. Nettie turned the corner and went down the village. She
went slowly; her little feet were already tired with the work they had
done that day, and back and arms and head all seemed tired too. But
Nettie never thought it hard that her mother did not go instead of
letting her go; she knew her mother could not bear to be seen in the
village in the old shabby gown and shawl she wore; for Mrs. 'Twas the
Lion who moved to adjourn, He couldn't turn Tail, Peter left none to
Turn.

[Illustration: M]
_M is for Michael_

M is for Michael--ssssh!--whisper it low!
In Pirate Circles he's called Blackbeard Joe!
[Illustration: N] 
_N is for Napoleon and Nana_
N is Napoleon--Mystic--Profound And N is for Nana the Noble Nurse
Hound-- Two wonderful natures--each great in his way, One's dead
and the other is "Having his Day." 

[Illustration: O]
_O's for Odds-fish!!_ 

O's for Odds-fish--the Pirate's Oath.What should Nettie
do? Might she keep and give to her mother what was over? it was, and
would be, so much wanted! and from her father they could never get it
again. He had his own ways of disposing of what he earned, and very
little of it indeed went to the wants of his wife and daughter. What
might Nettie do? She pondered, swinging her basket in her hand, till she
reached a corner where the village street turned off again, and where
the store of Mr. Jackson stood. There she found Barry bargaining for
some things he at least had money for.

"O Barry, how good!" exclaimed Nettie; "you can help me carry my things
home."

"I'll know the reason first, though," answered Barry. "What are you
going to get?"

"Father wants a bag of corn meal and a piece of pork and some treacle;
and you know I can't carry them all, Barry. I've got to get bread and
milk besides."

"Hurra!" said Barry, "now we'll have fried cakes! I'll tell you what
I'll do, Nettie--I'll take home the treacle, if you'll make me some
to-night for supper."

"O I can't, Barry! I've got so much else to do, and it's Saturday
night."

"Very good--get your things home yourself then."

Barry turned away, and Nettie made her bargains. He still stood by
however and watched her. When the pork and the meal and the treacle were
bestowed in the basket, it was so heavy she could not manage to carry
it. How many journeys to and fro would it cost her?

"Barry," she said, "you take this home for me, and if mother says so,
I'll make you the cakes."

"Be quick then," said her brother, shouldering the basket, "for I'm
getting hungry."

Nettie went a few steps further on the main road of the village, which
was little besides one long street and not very long either; and went in
at the door of a very little dwelling, neat and tidy like all the rest.
It admitted her to the tiniest morsel of a shop--at least there was a
long table there which seemed to do duty as a counter; and before, not
behind, it sat a spruce little woman sewing. She jumped up as Nettie
entered. By the becoming smartness of her calico dress and white collar,
the beautiful order of her hair, and a certain peculiarity of feature,
you might know before she spoke that the little baker was a Frenchwoman.
She spoke English quite well, though not so fast as she spoke her own
tongue.

"I want two loaves of bread, Mrs. August; and a pint of milk, if you
please."

"How will you carry them, my child? you cannot take them all at the
time."

"O yes, I can," said Nettie, cheerfully. "I can manage. They are not
heavy."

"No, I hope not," said the Frenchwoman; "it is not heavy, my bread! but
two loaves are not one, no more. Is your mother well?"

She then set busily about wrapping the loaves in paper and measuring out
the milk. Nettie answered her mother was well.

"And you?" said the little woman, looking at her sideways. "Somebody is
tired this evening."

"Yes," said Nettie, brightly; "but I don't mind. One must be tired
sometimes. Thank you, ma'am."

The woman had put the loaves and the milk carefully in her arms and in
her hand, so that she could carry them, and looked after her as she went
up the street.

"One must be tired sometimes!" said she to herself, with a turn of her
capable little head. "I should like to hear her say 'One must be rested
sometimes;' but I do not hear that."

So perhaps Nettie thought, as she went homeward. It would have been very
natural. Now the sun was down, the bright gleam was off the village; the
soft shades of evening were gathering and lights twinkled in windows.
Nettie walked very slowly, her arms full of the bread. Perhaps she
wished her Saturday's work was all done, like other people's. All I can
tell you is, that as she went along through the quiet deserted street,
all alone, she broke out softly singing to herself the words,

    "No need of the sun in that day
     Which never is followed by night."

And that when she got home she ran up stairs quite briskly, and came in
with a very placid face; and told her mother she had had a pleasant
walk--which was perfectly true.

"I'm glad, dear," said her mother, with a sigh. "What made it pleasant?"

"Why, mother," said Nettie, "Jesus was with me all the way."

"God bless you, child!" said her mother; "you are the very rose of my
heart!"

There was only time for this little dialogue, for which Mr. In its
commencement slavery overspread every State in the Union: the progress
of society has now emancipated the North from its yoke. In Kentucky,
Tennessee, Virginia, and Maryland, at different times, strong movements
have been made for emancipation,--movements enforced by a comparison
of the progressive march of the adjoining free States with the poverty
and sterility and ignorance produced by a system which in a few years
wastes and exhausts all the resources of the soil without the power
of renewal.Mrs. Mathieson did that; and then sat down to make darns and
patches on various articles of clothing, till the old clock of the
church on the hill tolled out solemnly the hour of twelve all over the
village.


CHAPTER II.

SUNDAY'S REST.


Nettie's room was the only room on that floor besides her mother's and
Barry's. It was at the back of the house, with a pleasant look-out over
the trees and bushes between it and the spring. Over these the view went
to distant hills and fields, that always looked pretty in all sorts of
lights, Nettie thought. Besides that, it was a clean, neat little room;
bare to be sure, without even Barry's strip of rag carpet; but on a
little black table lay Nettie's Bible and Sunday-school books; and each
window had a chair; and a chest of drawers held all her little wardrobe
and a great deal of room to spare besides; and the cot-bed in one corner
was nicely made up. It was a very comfortable-looking room to Nettie.

"So this is the last night I shall sleep here!" she thought as she went
in. "To-morrow I must go up to the attic. Well,--I can pray there just
the same; and God will be with me there just the same."

It was a comfort; but it was the only one Nettie could think of in
connexion with her removal. The attic was no room, but only a little
garret used as a lumber place; not boarded up, nor plastered at all;
nothing but the beams and the side-boarding for the walls, and nothing
but the rafters and the shingles between it and the sky. Besides which,
it was full of lumber of one sort and another. How Nettie was to move up
there the next day, being Sunday, she could not imagine; but she was so
tired that as soon as her head touched her pillow she fell fast asleep,
and forgot to think about it.

The next thing was the bright morning light rousing her, and the joyful
thought that it was Sunday morning. A beautiful day it was. The eastern
light was shining over upon Nettie's distant hills, with all sorts of
fresh lovely colours and promise of what the coming hours would bring.
Nettie looked at them lovingly, for she was very fond of them and had a
great many thoughts about those hills. "As the mountains are round about
Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people;"--that was one thing
they made her think of. She thought of it now as she was dressing, and
it gave her the feeling of being surrounded with a mighty and strong
protection on every side. It made Nettie's heart curiously glad, and her
tongue speak of joyful things; for when she knelt down to pray she was
full of thanksgiving.

The next thing was, that taking her tin pail Nettie set off down to the
spring to get water to boil the kettle. It was so sweet and pleasant--no
other spring could supply nicer water. The dew brushed from the bushes
and grass as she went by; and from every green thing there went up a
fresh dewy smell that was reviving. The breath of the summer wind,
moving gently, touched her cheek and fluttered her hair, and said God
had given a beautiful day to the world; and Nettie thanked him in her
heart and went on rejoicing. Sunday was Nettie's holiday, and
Sunday-school and church were her delight. And though she went in all
weathers, and nothing would keep her, yet sunshine is sunshine; and she
felt so this morning. So she gaily filled her pail at the spring and
trudged back with it to the house. The next thing was to tap at her
mother's door.

Mrs. Mathieson opened it, in her nightgown; she was just up, and looked
as if her night's sleep had been all too short for her.

"Why, Nettie!--is it late?" she said, as Nettie and the tin pail came
in.

"No, mother; it's just good time. You get dressed, and I'll make the
fire ready. It's beautiful out, mother."

