FIRST. The spirit of grace is compared to water. 'Whosoever,'
saith the Lamb, 'drinketh of the water that I shall give him,
shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be
in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life' (John
4:14). What can here by water be intended, but the Spirit of grace
that this poor harlot, the woman of Samaria, wanted, although
she was ignorant of her want, as also of the excellency thereof?
Which water also is here said to be such as will spring up, in
them that have it, as a well into everlasting life.

Again, 'In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood
and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and
drink.' But of what? Why of his rivers of living waters. But what
are they? Why he answers, 'This spake he of the Spirit, which they
that believe on him should receive' (John 7:37-39).

Yes, the prophets and servants of God in the Old Testament, did
take this water of life for the Spirit of grace that should in the
latter days be poured out into the church. Hence, Isaiah calls
water God's Spirit and blessing, and Zechariah, the Spirit of grace.
'I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the
dry ground: I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing
upon thine offspring' (Isa 44:3). And Zechariah saith, 'I will pour
upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
the spirit of grace and of supplication,--and they shall mourn,'
&c. (Zech 12:10). Behold, in all these places the Spirit of grace
is intended, and for our better understanding it is compared to
water, to a well of water, to springs of water, and to floods of
water.

SECOND. It is also called the Spirit of life, [either] more closely,
[or] more openly.

More closely, where it is called 'living water,' 'that living water,'
and 'water springing up into everlasting life' (John 4:10,11,14,
7:38).

Then more openly or expressly it is called 'the Spirit of life.'
'And after three days and an half, the Spirit of life from God
entered into them, and they stood upon their feet' (Rev 11:11).

From hence, therefore, I conclude, that by these terms, water of
life, is meant the Spirit of grace, or the Spirit and grace of
the gospel. And the terms are such as are most apt to set forth
the Spirit and grace of the gospel by: for,

[First. The term WATER.]

1. Henry Savile_ quotes from the Classics perhaps a little too
freely for the taste of a decadent age, and his friends, _Dr.
Ashford, Lady Grace_, the bishop's wife, _Olive_, her niece, and
_Philip Daly_, nephew of an archdeacon and parliamentary
candidate for Sunningwell, would be a little more amusing if they
were treated in a more Trollopian manner, and did not so
faithfully discuss the burning controversies of the time. But,
after all, the great excitement in _Dr. Ashford and His Neighbours_
(and I really cannot advise any resident in--shall we say Mercia?

--to be without it) is the chance it affords for such questions
as: Who is the Dean? Does the author really mean Canon X? Are we
living in Sunningwell, or is it L----? Even I myself, in this
metropolitan backwater, have made one or two ingenious guesses,
but wild taxicabs would not drag them from me.

* * * * *
At this time of day to attempt criticism upon a new novel by MISS
RHODA BROUGHTON seems almost impertinent. The tens of thousands
to whom she has given such pleasure before now would probably be
willing to read anything that was put before them with the guarantee
of her name.

Fortunately in the case of _Concerning a Vow_ (STANLEY PAUL) this
confidence would be by no means misplaced. I can say at once,
with my hand upon my reviewer's heart, that in freshness and vivacity
and power of sprightly character-drawing here is a story that
need fear comparison with none of its most popular predecessors.
The vow of the title was that exacted by _Meg Champneys_ on her
death-bed from her sister _Sally_, binding the latter not to marry
_Edward Branley_.

_Edward_, in some fashion that was never made quite clear to me, had
previously jilted both the sisters. But this all happened
before the beginning of the book. In it poor _Edward_ is made so
pitiable and heart-broken a figure that I found it hard to credit
his previous infidelities.
However, most of the other characters detested him, and said that
nothing was too bad for him; and as they themselves were delightful
and quite human people I am ready to suppose that they had their
reasons.

Of course _Edward_ and _Sally_ were really in love all the time,
and of course too they find resistance to this impossible; though
I must own that their method of circumventing the vow reminded
me dangerously of the young man who used a cigarette-holder
because he had been told to keep away from tobacco. I speak
flippantly; but as a matter of fact the story of _Edward_ and
_Sally_ is not free from tragedy, very simply and movingly
told.

If _Concerning a Vow_ does not add to Miss BROUGHTON'S popularity
it will only be because this is impossible; it certainly will
do nothing to lessen it.
'He showed me the water
of life.' In that, therefore, there is added to this word water,
that of life, it is, in the general, to show what excellent virtue
and operation there is in this water. It is aquae vitae, water of
life, or water that hath a health and life in it. And this term
shows us,

1. That the world of graceless men are dead; dead in trespasses
and sins (John 5:21,25; Eph 2:1; Col 2:13). Dead, that is, without
life and motion Godward, in the way of the testament of his Son.

2. It also shows us that there is not any thing in the world, or
in the doctrine of the world, the law, that can make them live.
Life is only in this water, death is in all other things.[3] The
law, I say, which is that that would, if anything in the whole
world, give life unto the world, but that yet killeth, condemneth,
and was added that the offence might abound; wherefore there is
no life either in the world or in the doctrine of the world. It
is only in this water, in this grace of God, which is here called
the after of life, or God's aquae vitae.[4]

3. It is also called the water of life to show that by the grace
of God men may live, how dead soever their sins have made them.
When God will say to a sinner, 'live,' though he be dead in his
sins, 'he shall live.' 'When thou wast in thy blood, I said unto
thee, Live; yea, when thou wast in thy blood, I said, Live' (Eze
16:6). And again, 'The dead shall hear the voice of the Son of
God; and they that hear shall live' (John 5:25). That is, when
he speaks words of grace, and mixeth those words with the Spirit
and grace of the gospel, then men shall live; for such words so
attended, and such words only, are spirit and life. 'The words
that I speak unto you,' saith Christ, 'they are spirit, and they
are life' (John 6:63).

4. In that this grace of God is here presented unto us under the
terms of water of life, it is to show that some are sick of that
disease that nothing can cure but that. There are many diseases
in the world, and there are also remedies for those diseases;
but there is a disease that nothing will, can, or shall cure, but
a dram of this bottle, a draught of this aquae vitae, this water
of life. This is intimated by the invitation, 'let him take the
water of life freely' (Rev 22:17). And again, 'I will give unto
him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely'
(Rev 21:6). This is spoken to the sick, to them that are sick of
the disease that only Christ, as a physician, with his water of
life, can cure (Mark 2:17). But few are sick of this disease, but
few know what it is to be made sick of this disease.[5] There is
nothing can make sick of this disease but the law and sin, and
nothing can cure but the grace of God by the gospel, called here
the water of life.

[THE GREATNESS AND ABUNDANCE OF THE WATER OF LIFE.]

[SECOND.] We come now to discourse of the second thing with which
we are presented by the text, and that is, the quantity that there
is of this water of life. It is a RIVER--'He showed me a river of
water of life.' Waters that are cordial, and that have in them a
faculty to give life to them that want it, and to maintain life
where it is, are rare and scarce, and to be found only in close
places and little quantities; but here you see there is abundance,
a great deal, a RIVER, a river of water of life. In my handling
of this point I will show you,

FIRST. What a river of water of life this is. SECOND. And then
draw some inferences therefrom.

FIRST. What a river this is, this river of water of life.[6]

First. It is a deep river. It is a river that is not shallow, but
deep, with an 'O the depth!' (Rom 11:33). 'I will make their waters
deep, saith God' (Eze 32:14). And again, they 'have drunk of the
deep waters' (Eze 34:18). A river of water of life is much, but
a deep river is more. Why, soul-sick sinner, sin-sick sinner, thou
that art sick of that disease that nothing can cure but a potion
of this river of the water of life, here is a river for thee,
a deep river for thee. Those that at first are coming to God by
Christ for life, are of nothing so inquisitive as of whether there
is grace enough in him to save them. But, for their comfort, here
is abundance, abundance of grace, a river, a deep river of the
water of life, for them to drink of.

Second. As this river is deep, so it is wide and broad (Eph 3:18;
Job 11:9). Wherefore, as thou art to know the depth, that is, that
it is deep, so thou art to know its breadth, that is, that it is
broad; it is broader than the sea, a river that cannot be passed
over (Eze 47:5). Never did man yet go from one side of this river
to the other when the waters indeed were risen; and now they are
risen, even now they proceed out of the throne of God and of the
Lamb too. Hence this grace is called 'the unsearchable riches of
Christ' (Eph 3:8). Sinner, sick sinner, what sayest thou to this?
Wouldst thou wade? wouldst thou swim? here thou mayest swim, it
is deep, yet fordable at first entrance. And when thou thinkest
that thou hast gone through and through it, yet turn again and try
once more, and thou shalt find it deeper than hell, and a river
that cannot be passed over. If thou canst swim, here thou mayest
roll up and down as the fishes do in the sea.[7] Nor needest thou
fear drowning in this river, it will bear thee up, and carry thee
over the highest hills, as Noah's waters did carry the ark. But,

Third. As this river of water of life is deep and large, so it is
a river that is full of waters. A river may be deep and not full.
A river may be broad and not deep. Aye, but here is a river deep
and broad, and full too. 'Thou waterest it; thou greatly enrichest
it with the river of God, which is full of water' (Psa 65:9).
Full of grace and truth. Fill the water-pots, saith Christ, up to
the brim. The waters of a full cup the wicked shall have; and a
river full of the water of life is provided for those who indeed
have a desire thereto.

Fourth. As this river is deep, broad, and full, so it still
aboundeth with water. The waters, says the prophet, 'were risen'
(Eze 47:4). Hence, the Holy Ghost saith, God causeth the waters to
flow (Psa 147:18). And again, 'And it shall come to pass in that
day [the day of the gospel] that the mountains shall drop down
new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the rivers
of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall come forth
of the house of the Lord, and shall water the valley of Shittim'
(Joel 3:18). When a river overflows it has more water than its
banks can bound: it has water. 'Behold, he smote the rock, that
the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed' (Psa 78:20).
This river of water of life, which is also signified by these
waters, is a river that abounds and that overflows its banks in an
infinite and unspeakable manner. Thus much for the river, to wit,
what a river of water of life it is. It is a river deep, broad,
full, and abounding with this water, with this Spirit and grace
of the gospel.

[Inferences to be drawn from this term RIVER.]

SECOND. Now I shall come to draw some inference from it, that is,
from this term, a river. A river of water of life.

First. Then, a river is water that is common, common in the
streams, though otherwise in the head. This river proceeds out
of the throne, and so, as to its rise, it is special; it is also
called the water of life, and as it is such, it is special; but
as it is a river it is common, and of common use, and for common
good. He went a little farther up the track, and shinning up a pole
he took his heavy jack-knife, and after a hard effort, succeeded
in cutting two wires. Another pole was climbed and only one wire
cut from it.

With this strand he made a joint so that the two ends of the
despatcher's wire could be brought in easy contact. Then by knocking
the two ends together he sent the warning. His cutting of the wire
had made a peculiar loud twang and one of the outlaws heard it.
And by David or Judah and Jerusalem is
comprehended every soul that would drink of the water of life or
living water. And hence it is that this river is said to 'go down
into the desert and go into the sea,' where all kinds of fishes
are (Eze 47:8). By sea is meant the world, and by fish the people,
and thither shall run this river of water of life. But,

Second. Though a river, in the streams of it, is common, yet a
river, as it passes through a country or province, will choose
its own way, it will run in the valleys, in the plains, not over
steeples and hills. It will also fetch its compasses and circuits;
it will go about and reach hither and thither, and according to
its courses it will miss by its turnings what places and people it
lists, yet it is common, for that it lies open, yet it is common
for all the beasts of the field. There is, therefore, a difference
to be put betwixt the commonness of a thing and its presence. A
thing may be common, yet far enough off of thee. In spite of his
pleadings and promises he was hung up for ten days.

It must be said, however, that such men as these were rarities:
most of the men, especially those representing the great dailies,
were only too willing to abide by orders.'He sendeth the springs into
the valleys which run among the hills' (Psa 104:10). Indeed, he
openeth his river in high places, in his throne, and of the Lamb,
but still they run in the midst of the valleys to water the humble
and the lowly. Wherefore, they that thirst and would drink are bid
to come down to the waters--'Ho, every one that thirsteth, come
ye to the waters, and he that hath no money, come ye, buy,' &c.
(Isa 55:1). And again, 'If any man thirst, let him come unto me
and drink' (John 7:37). The waters are common, but you must come
to them, to them where they are, or you will be nothing the better
for them. 'Come ye to the waters.'

