During his first hour at the office he did nothing. One or two of the
younger clerks came in and congratulated him with much heartiness. He
was popular at his office, and they had got a step by his promotion.
Then he met one or two of the elder clerks, and was congratulated
with much less heartiness. "I suppose it's all right," said one bluff
old gentleman. "My time is gone by, I know. I married too early to be
able to wear a good coat when I was young, and I never was acquainted
with any lords or lords' families." where should all other Nations that
professe the trueth of Christianitie, thinke that they might haue
shrowded them selues to be free from his tyrannie, and safe from his
murderers and cruel executioners? If they saw not that their owne
destruction was ioyned with the ruine of the Queene of England,
either it must be saide that they woulde denie Christ, or that they
were blinded to their owne miserie by the vengeance of God, for
their secret sinnes.

For where the cause of hostilitie is all one, the like effect
and issue is to be looked for at the hands of a cruell and raging
enemie of the trueth: for in a maner, all the inhabitants of the
Hanse Townes are very good fauourers of the reformed Religion, and
mortall enemies to the Romish errors.
But there was
something frank and English even in his mode of bowing before the
mighty ones, and to those who were not mighty he was rather too civil
than either stern or supercilious. He knew that he was not very
clever, but he knew also how to use those who were clever. He seldom
made any mistake, and was very scrupulous not to tread on men's
corns. Though he had no enemies, yet he had a friend or two; and we
may therefore say of Mr Butterwell that he had walked his path in
life discreetly. At the age of thirty-five he had married a lady with
some little fortune, and now he lived a pleasant, easy, smiling life
in a villa at Putney. When Mr Butterwell heard, as he often did hear,
of the difficulty which an English gentleman has of earning his bread
in his own country, he was wont to look back on his own career with
some complacency. He knew that he had not given the world much; yet
he had received largely, and no one had begrudged it to him. "Tact,"
Mr Butterwell used to say to himself, as he walked along the paths of
his Putney villa. "Tact. Tact. Tact."

"Crosbie," he said, as he entered the room cheerily, "I congratulate
you with all my heart. I do, indeed. You have got the step early in
life, and you deserve it thoroughly;--much better than I did when I
was appointed to the same office."

"Oh, no," said Crosbie, gloomily.

"But I say, oh, yes. We are deuced lucky to have such a man, and so I
told the commissioners."

"I'm sure I'm very much obliged to you."

"I've known it all along,--before you left even. Sir Raffle Buffle
had told me he was to go to the Income-tax Office. The chair is two
thousand there, you know; and I had been promised the first seat at
the Board."

"Ah;--I wish I'd known," said Crosbie.

"You are much better as you are," said Butterwell. "There's no
pleasure like a surprise! Besides, one knows a thing of that kind,
and yet doesn't know it. I don't mind saying now that I knew
it,--swearing that I knew it,--but I wouldn't have said so to a
living being the day before yesterday. There are such slips between
the cups and the lips. Suppose Sir Raffle had not gone to the
Income-tax!"

"Exactly so," said Crosbie.

"But it's all right now. Indeed I sat at the Board yesterday, though
I signed the letter afterwards. I'm not sure that I don't lose more
than I gain."

"What! with three hundred a year more and less work?"

"Ah, but look at the interest of the thing. The secretary sees
everything and knows everything. But I'm getting old, and, as you
say, the lighter work will suit me. By-the-by, will you come down to
Putney to-morrow? Mrs Butterwell will be delighted to see the new
secretary. There's nobody in town now, so you can have no ground for
refusing."

But Mr Crosbie did find some ground for refusing. It would have been
impossible for him to have sat and smiled at Mrs Butterwell's table
in his present frame of mind. In a mysterious, half-explanatory
manner, he let Mr Butterwell know that private affairs of importance
made it absolutely necessary that he should remain that evening in
town. "And indeed," as he said, "he was not his own master just
at present." "By-the-by,--of course not. I had quite forgotten to
congratulate you on that head. So you're going to be married? Well;
I'm very glad, and hope you'll be as lucky as I have been."

[Sidenote: The Citie of Hamboroughs letters to the Queenes Maiestie.]

But what? will the inhabitants of the Hanse Townes pretend that they
knewe not the Queene of Englands pleasure?

The Citie of Hamborough by their letters written vnto the Queenes
Maiestie, the 21. of September, in the yeere 1585 hauing besought
her, that their ships might passe quietly vnto Spaine and Portugal,
without stop or hindrance either in their passage or repassage, by
her Maiesties Captaines at Sea, receiued not they answere to this
effect?

[Sidenote: The Queenes Maiesties letters to the Hamburgers.]
_We doubt not, but you haue heard what occasions of discorde are
lately fallen out betweene vs and the king of Spaine, whereof wee
cannot throughly coniecture what troubles are like to ensue.

If peace arise, we meane to deny you nothing, being our ancient
confederates: but if it grow to a warre, we wish you aduisedly to
consider, that it standeth not with the safetie of our kingdome,
to suffer our enemies to bee ayded with corne, and prouisions for
warre, thereby to be armed against vs.

Which things, according to your accustomed wisedomes you calling
to minde, wee hope you will demaunde nothing at our handes, which
may be hurtfull to our state:
as for the transporting of other sortes of marchandise into those
partes, whereby our enemies may neither bee ayded with victuals,
nor necessaries of warre, we will not hinder you, but will permit
your shippes to ride on our coastes, and to passe long with all
fauour for the performance of their intended nauigation: with which
our answere, we hope you will be fully satisfied and contented, the
present state of things considered._
[Sidenote: The Hamburgers petitorie message to the Queenes Maiestie.]

Secondly, whereas two yeeres after that, to wit, the last yeere the
saide Burgomasters of Hamburrough sent _Sebastian Berghen_ their
Secretarie and _Agent_ with letters vnto the Queene of England,
desiring that vnder the colour and title of Newtralitie, they might
freely passe into Spaine and Portingal, and repasse againe with al
kind of marchandise whatsoeuer, was not the said _Sebastian_ answered
in this wise by the Lordes of her Maiesties Counsaile?

[Sidenote: The answere to the petition of ye Hamburge messenger.]

_Whereas the King of Spaine, hauing sent out his Nauie to inuade
this Realme, to roote out the Christian Religion, & to worke the ruine
& destruction of the Queenes Maiestie, hath declared more clearely
then the light it self, what he would haue the Queene of England
to thinke of him, she deemeth it not reasonable vpon any colour to
graunt either to the Hambourgers, or any other the Haunse Townes
whosoeuer, to carry corne, gunnepowder, and other appurtenances for
the warre to so obstinate and manifest enemie of the true Christian
Religion. That such as presumptuously durst attempt the contrary,
should suffer the punishment of their vnbrideled licensiousness,
if they fell into the handes of the Captaines, or other Subiects
of the Queene of Englande, their goods and marchandises whatsoeuer
thus transported against her Maiesties will to be made good prises
to any man that can take them, no excuse of Newtralitie preuailing
to the contrary._
[Sidenote: The Alderman of the Stilliard in London, commanded to
aduise the Hanse Townes.]

Moreouer it is not to be omitted, that the Lords of her Maiesties
Counsell aforesaid, hauing called for _Maurice Tymberman_ resident
in London, and Alderman (as they call him) of the Stilliard, commanded
him to giue warning to all the _Haunse_ Townes that her Maiestie
willed, and according to her Soueraigne auctoritie in her Dominions,
commanded that they shoulde forbeare from thenceforth, from the
beginning of the moneth of Ianuarie last past from carying of corne,
and generally of all prouision of warre, cables, mastes, and like
marchandise into Spaine and Portingall, whereby the enemie of her
Kingdome might be the better furnished, vnder the paine of losse
both of ships and goods, to be inflicted vpon such, as should violate
this her princely commandement.

[Sidenote: The letters of the Lubeckers, Hamburgers, and Dantiskers.]

That the _Haunse_ Townes were not ignorant of this inhibition,
appeareth by the letters of the Cities of Lubecke, and Hamborough,
written afterwarde to the Queenes Maiestie, the 26. of March, and
from Dantiske, the 13. of the saide moneth, before those ships set
out from home, which are now taken.

Has not an obedient Minister a right to the praise of
those powers which he obeys?

Mr Optimist was, in truth, an industrious little gentleman, very well
connected, who had served the public all his life, and who was, at
any rate, honest in his dealings. Nor was he a bully, such as his
predecessor. It might, however, be a question whether he carried guns
enough for the command in which he was now to be employed. There
was but one other member of the Board, Major Fiasco by name, a
discontented, broken-hearted, silent man, who had been sent to the
General Committee Office some few years before because he was not
wanted anywhere else. He was a man who had intended to do great
things when he entered public life, and had possessed the talent
and energy for things moderately great. He had also possessed to a
certain extent the ear of those high in office; but, in some way,
matters had not gone well with him, and in running his course he had
gone on the wrong side of the post. He was still in the prime of
life, and yet all men knew that Major Fiasco had nothing further to
expect from the public or from the Government. Indeed, there were not
wanting those who said that Major Fiasco was already in receipt of a
liberal income, for which he gave no work in return; that he merely
filled a chair for four hours a day four or five days a week, signing
his name to certain forms and documents, reading, or pretending to
read, certain papers, but, in truth, doing no good. Major Fiasco, on
the other hand, considered himself to be a deeply injured individual,
and he spent his life in brooding over his wrongs. He believed now
in nothing and in nobody. He had begun public life striving to be
honest, and he now regarded all around him as dishonest. He had no
satisfaction in any man other than that which he found when some
event would show to him that this or that other compeer of his own
had proved himself to be self-interested, false, or fraudulent.
"Don't tell me, Butterwell," he would say--for with Mr Butterwell
he maintained some semi-official intimacy, and he would take that
gentleman by the button-hole, holding him close. "Don't tell me. I
know what men are. I've seen the world. I've been looking at things
with my eyes open. I knew what he was doing." And then he would
tell of the sly deed of some official known well to them both, not
denouncing it by any means, but affecting to take it for granted
that the man in question was a rogue. Butterwell would shrug his
shoulders, and laugh gently, and say that, upon his word, he didn't
think the world so bad as Fiasco made it out to be.

Nor did he; for Butterwell believed in many things. He believed in
his Putney villa on this earth, and he believed also that he might
achieve some sort of Putney villa in the world beyond without
undergoing present martyrdom. His Putney villa first, with all its
attendant comforts, and then his duty to the public afterwards. It
was thus that Mr Butterwell regulated his conduct; and as he was
solicitous that the villa should be as comfortable a home to his wife
as to himself, and that it should be specially comfortable to his
friends, I do not think that we need quarrel with his creed.

Mr Optimist believed in everything, but especially he believed in
the Prime Minister, in the _Daily Jupiter_, in the General Committee
Office, and in himself. He had long thought that everything was
nearly right; but now that he himself was chairman at the General
Committee Office, he was quite sure that everything must be right.
In Sir Raffle Buffle, indeed, he had never believed; and now it was,
perhaps, the greatest joy of his life that he should never again be
called upon to hear the tones of that terrible knight's hated voice.

Seeing who were the components of the new Board, it may be presumed
that Crosbie would look forward to enjoying a not uninfluential
position in his office. There were, indeed, some among the clerks who
did not hesitate to say that the new secretary would have it pretty
nearly all his own way. As for "Old Opt," there would be, they said,
no difficulty about him. Only tell him that such and such a decision
was his own, and he would be sure to believe the teller. Butterwell
was not fond of work, and had been accustomed to lean upon Crosbie
for many years. As for Fiasco, he would be cynical in words, but
wholly indifferent in deed. If the whole office were made to go to
the mischief, Fiasco, in his own grim way, would enjoy the confusion.

"Wish you joy, Crosbie," said Sir Raffle, standing up on the rug,
waiting for the new secretary to go up to him and shake hands. But
Sir Raffle was going, and the new secretary did not indulge him.

"Thank ye, Sir Raffle," said Crosbie, without going near the rug.

"Mr Crosbie, I congratulate you most sincerely," said Mr Optimist.
"Your promotion has been the result altogether of your own merit. You
have been selected for the high office which you are now called upon
to fill solely because it has been thought that you are the most fit
man to perform the onerous duties attached to it. Hum-hum-ha. Did
he not openly pronounce that course of theirs altogether vnlawfull?
let the Contract it selfe concluded the 6.
day of April be lookt into.

[Sidenote: The Danes and Swethens enemies: the Hanse men confederats.]

When the Kings of Denmarke, and of Swethlande were at difference
one with another, was it permitted to these Hansemen to conuay
freely any thing into one of their kingdomes, which was not in
deede ceased vpon & confiscated, if it fel into the laps of the
other, not hauing first obtained speciall libertie for the same?

Was this stately, & so much priuiledged name of Newtralitie at that
time, of such force, that without vsing of any mediatour, it could
recouer againe their goods out of the hands of the Danes & Swethens,
& countenance the same in safetie, & securitie?

Let them acknowledge that, whereof they are not ignorant, that although
the Emperour _Ferdinande_ and other Princes of the Empire
dealt in their behalfe by way of intreatie and mediation, and
that from the solemne assemblie of the said Empire, yet they in this
case preuailed nothing at all with _Ericke_, the king of
Swethland.

[Sidenote: The Emperour and the King of Poland enemies to the Moscouite:

the English and Hanse men friends.]
And further in the time of hostilitie betwene the Empire, wherewith
as then the king of _Poland_ ioyned against the great Duke of
Muscouie, went these matters otherwise then?

Could either the English marchants, or anie other frequent the
_Narue_ in _Liuonia_, or any other partes of the Dukes dominions
freely, and without daunger?

Did the Hanse men which then were for their king and Emperor, deliuer
and restore againe the shippes which they had intercepted and taken,
from those which made such attempts? Many mens goods surprised by
the Hanse men and others, as then intertained against the _Moscouite_,
and by them still detained, without anie precedent prohibition of
passing to the said _Moscouite_, are hereof very good witnesses.

It is also a thing well knowen, that the noble Prince of _Orange_,
and the States, exercised the like iustice, as well against the
Hanse men, as others in times past.

And verely the foresaid Princes in these arrestes did that which was
according to the tenour, and prescription of the lawes of the equitie
of nations.

For that same priuiledge of Newtralitie, is in such sort to bee vsed
and inioyed, that in helping one of our confederates, we hurt not
another: so that hee which helpeth one, & thereby damnifieth another,
falleth from his priuiledge and contract: not because he helpeth
one of his confederates, but because he doeth preiudice another,
and by that fact of his, makes himselfe an enemie, as offering the
first iniurie, and therefore in so doing, he is to bee taken and
reputed for an Adherent, and Assistant to the enemie, and a very
enemy himselfe.

In any matter of importance you will, of course, consult us,
and I feel very confident that we shall go on together with great
comfort and with mutual confidence." Then Mr Optimist looked at his
brother commissioners, sat down in his arm-chair, and taking in his
hands some papers before him, began the routine business of the day.

It was nearly five o'clock when, on this special occasion, the
secretary returned from the board-room to his own office. Not for a
moment had the weight been off his shoulders while Sir Raffle had
been bragging or Mr Optimist making his speech. He had been thinking,
not of them, but of Lily Dale; and though they had not discovered his
thoughts, they had perceived that he was hardly like himself.

"I never saw a man so little elated by good fortune in my life," said
Mr Optimist.

"Ah, he's got something on his mind," said Butterwell. "He's going to
be married, I believe."

"If that's the case, it's no wonder he shouldn't be elated," said
Major Fiasco, who was himself a bachelor.

