Produced by Eric Eldred, Clay Massei
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


The Desert and The Sown


MARY HALLOCK FOOTE


CONTENTS


I.    A COUNCIL OF THE ELDERS

II.   INTRODUCING A SON-IN-LAW

III.  THE INITIAL LOVE

IV.   "A MAN THAT HAD A WELL IN HIS OWN COURT"

V.    DISINHERITED

VI.   AN APPEAL TO NATURE

VII.  MARKING TIME

VIII. A HUNTER'S DIARY

IX.   THE POWER OF WEAKNESS

X.    THE WHITE PERIL

XI.   A SEARCHING OF HEARTS

XII.  THE BLOOD-WITE

XIII. CURTAIN

XIV.  KIND INQUIRIES

XV.   A BRIDEGROOM OF SNOW

XVI.  THE NATURE OF AN OATH

XVII. THE HIDDEN TRAIL

XVIII.THE STAR IN THE EAST

XIX.  PILGRIMS AND STRANGERS

XX.   A STATION IN THE DESERT

XXI.  INJURIOUS REPORTS CONCERNING AN OLD HOUSE

XXII. THE CASE STRIKES IN

XXIII.RESTIVENESS

XXIV. INDIAN SUMMER

XXV.  THE FELL FROST

XXVI. PEACE TO THIS HOUSE


I


A COUNCIL OF THE ELDERS

It was an evening of sudden mildness following a dry October gale. The
colonel had miscalculated the temperature by one log--only one, he
declared, but that had proved a pitchy one, and the chimney bellowed with
flame. From end to end the room was alight with it, as if the stored-up
energies of a whole pine-tree had been sacrificed in the consumption of
that four-foot stick.

The young persons of the house had escaped, laughing, into the fresh night
air, but the colonel was hemmed in on every side; deserted by his
daughter, mocked by the work of his own hands, and torn between the duties
of a host and the host's helpless craving for his after-dinner cigar.

Across the hearth, filling with her silks all the visible room in his own
favorite settle corner, sat the one woman on earth it most behooved him to
be civil to,--the future mother-in-law of his only child. That Moya was a
willing, nay, a reckless hostage, did not lessen her father's awe of the
situation.

Mrs. Bogardus, according to her wont at this hour, was composedly doing
nothing. The colonel could not make his retreat under cover of her real or
feigned absorption in any of the small scattering pursuits which distract
the female mind. When she read she read--she never "looked at books." When
she sewed she sewed--presumably, but no one ever saw her do it. Her mind
was economic and practical, and she saved it whole, like many men of
force, for whatever she deemed her best paying sphere of action.

It was a silence that crackled with heat! The colonel, wrathfully
perspiring in the glow of that impenitent stick, frowned at it like an
inquisitor. Presently Mrs. Bogardus looked up, and her expression softened
as she saw the energetic despair upon his face.

"Colonel, don't you always smoke after dinner?"

"That is my bad habit, madam. I belong to the generation that
smokes--after dinner and most other times--more than is good for us."
Colonel Middleton belonged also to the generation that can carry a
sentence through to the finish in handsome style, and he did it with a
suave Virginian accent as easy as his seat in the saddle. Mrs. Bogardus
always gave him her respectful attention during his best performances,
though she was a woman of short sentences herself.

"Don't you smoke in this room sometimes?" she asked, with a barely
perceptible sniff the merest contraction of her housewifely nostrils.

"Ah--h! Those rascally curtains and cushions! You ladies--women, I should
say--Moya won't let me say ladies--you bolster us up with comforts on
purpose to betray us!"

"You can say 'ladies' to me," smiled the very handsome one before him.
"That's the generation _I_ belong to."

The colonel bowed playfully. "Well, you know, I don't detect myself, but
there's no doubt I have infected the premises."

"Open fires are good ventilators. I wish you would smoke now. If you
don't, I shall have to go away, and I'm exceedingly comfortable."

"You are exceedingly charming to say so--on top of that last stick, too!"
The colonel had Irish as well as Virginian progenitors. "Well," he sighed,
proceeding to make himself conditionally happy, "Moya will never forgive
me! We spoil each other shamefully when we're alone, but of course we try
to jack each other up when company comes. It's a great comfort to have
some one to spoil, isn't it, now? I needn't ask which it is in your
family!"

"The spoiled one?" Mrs. Bogardus smiled rather coldly. "A woman we had for
governess, when Christine was a little thing, used to say: 'That child is
the stuff that tyrants are made of!' Tyrants are made by the will of their
subjects, don't you think, generally speaking?"

"Well, you couldn't have made a tyrant of your son, Mrs. Bogardus. He's
the Universal Spoiler! He'll ruin my striker, Jephson. I shall have to
send the fellow back to the ranks. I don't know how you keep a servant
good for anything with Paul around."

"Paul thinks he doesn't like to be waited on," Paul's mother observed
shrewdly. "He says that only invalids, old people, and children have any
claim on the personal service of others."

"By George! I found him blacking his own boots!"

Mrs. Bogardus laughed.

"But I'm paying a man to do it for him. It upsets my contract with that
other fellow for Paul to do his work. We have a claim on what we pay for
in this world."

"I suppose we have. But Paul thinks that nothing can pay the price of
those artificial relations between man and man. I think that's the way he
puts it."

"Good Heavens! Has the boy read history? It's a relation that began when
the world was made, and will last while men are in it."

"I am not defending Paul's ideas, Colonel. I have a great sympathy with
tyrants myself. You must talk to him. He will amuse you."

"My word! It's a ticklish kind of amusement when _we_ get talking. Why,
the boy wants to turn the poor old world upside down--make us all stand on
our heads to give our feet a rest. Now, I respect my feet,"--the colonel
drew them in a little as the lady's eyes involuntarily took the direction
of his allusion,--"I take the best care I can of them; but I propose to
keep my head, such as it is, on top, till I go under altogether. These
young philanthropists! They assume that the Hands and the Feet of the
world, the class that serves in that capacity, have got the same nerves as
the Brain."

"There's a sort of connection," said Mrs. Bogardus carelessly. "Some of
our Heads have come from the class that you call the Hands and Feet,
haven't they?"

The colonel admitted the fact, but the fact was the exception. "Why,
that's just the matter with us now! We've got no class of legislators. I
don't wish to plume myself, but, upon my word, the two services are about
all we have left to show what selection and training can do. And we're
only just getting the army into shape, after the raw material that was
dumped into it by the civil war."

"Weren't you in the civil war yourself?"

"I was--a West Pointer, madam; and I was true to my salt and false to my
blood. But, the flag over all!--at the cost of everything I held dear on
earth." After this speech the colonel looked hotter than ever and a trifle
ashamed of himself.

Mrs. Bogardus's face wore its most unobservant expression. "I don't agree
with Paul," she said. "I wish in some ways he were more like other young
men--exercise, for instance. It's a pity for young men not to love
activity and leadership. Besides, it's the fashion. A young man might as
well be out of the world as out of the fashion. Blood is a strange thing,"
she mused.

The colonel looked at her curiously. In a woman so unfrank, her occasional
bursts of frankness were surprising and, as he thought, not altogether
complimentary. It was as if she felt herself so far removed from his
conception of her that she might say anything she pleased, sure of his
miscomprehension.

"He is not lazy intellectually," said the colonel, aiming to comfort her.

"I did not say he was lazy--only he won't do things except to what he
calls some 'purpose.' At his age amusement ought to be purpose enough. He
ought to take his pleasures seriously--this hunting-trip, for instance. I
believe, on the very least encouragement, he would give it all up!"

"You mustn't let him do that," said the colonel, warming. "All that
country above Yankee Fork, for a hundred miles, after you've gone fifty
north from Bonanza, is practically virgin forest. Wonderful flora and
fauna! It's late for the weeds and things, but if Paul wants game trophies
for your country-house, he can load a pack-train."

Mrs. Bogardus continued to be amused, in a quiet way. "He calls them
relics of barbarism! He would as soon festoon his walls with scalps, as
decorate them with the heads of beautiful animals,--nearer the Creator's
design than most men, he would say."

"He's right there! But that doesn't change the distinction between men and
animals. He is your son, madam--and he's going to be mine. But, fine boy
as he is, I call him a crank of the first water."

"You'll find him quite good to Moya," Mrs. Bogardus remarked
dispassionately. "And he's not quite twenty-four."

"Very true. Well, _I_ should send him into the woods for the sake of
getting a little sense into him, of an every-day sort. He 'll take in
sanity with every breath."

"And you don't think it's too late in the season for them to go out?"

There was no change in Mrs. Bogardus's voice, unconcerned as it was; yet
the colonel felt at once that this simple question lay at the root of all
her previous skirmishing.

"The guide will decide as to that," he said definitely. "If it is, he
won't go out with them. They have got a good man, you say?"

"They are waiting for a good man; they have waited too long, I think. He
is expected in with another party on Monday, perhaps, Paul is to meet the
Bowens at Challis, where they buy their outfit. I do believe"--she laughed
constrainedly--"that he is going up there more to head them off than for
any other reason."

"How do you mean?"

"Oh, it's very stupid of them! They seem to think an army post is part of
the public domain. They have been threatening, if Paul gives up the trip,
to come down here on a gratuitous visit."

"Why, let them come by all means! The more the merrier! We will quarter
them on the garrison at large."

"Wherever they were quartered, they would be here all the time. They are
not intimate friends of Paul's. _Mrs._ Bowen is--a very great friend. He
is her right-hand in all that Hartley House work. The boys are just
fashionable young men."

"Can't they go hunting without Paul?"

"Wheels within wheels!" And there will be my cousins, and Edward Warner,
and Margaret James, and some one who is worth them all; though I don't
talk of him as you talk of your Papa."
After musing a few minutes, with her pencil in her hand, and her
head resting upon a slate, she joyfully exclaimed, "I have it, I
have it indeed!"

"And what have you got?" cried Isabella, as she sprang from her
seat, and looked over Miss Bruce's shoulder.

"Only my ideas; neither apples nor plums. But I wish you would not wipe
my face with your curls. I have got the clue to my fable; I will have
Mrs. Adair, and I think your papa too."
"I am sure you never shall: you never saw papa!"
"Indeed Miss Isabella, you are quite mistaken; I have seen him in
shop windows, in magazines, and I am certain he is in a fine gilt
frame in our study."

"I wish people would not take such liberties. Papa has no business to be in
windows, and other people's frames."
"Why, don't you know that only great writers, and great fighters, and
very good men, and very bad men, are noticed that way! If your papa was not
good as well as great, he would not be fixed in our house, unless in the
servant's room, with Jemmy and Sandy, and the Storm, and Auld Robin Grey.
Whatever you may think, it is a very great honour to be noticed by somebody
that I could name."

"I have not any thing to do with honour," cried Isabella, "and talking
of things I don't know."
"Hush! don't speak! Can't you see that I am busy. I wish I knew what people
do when they have great books to write. My thoughts jumble so together,
I can't tell what to make of them; it is sad teasing work."

"If Caroline was here, she could tell you what to write."
"And do you think that I should ask a dunce? If I could but begin, I know
I could go on."

Here Miss Bruce considered a little. "I must think of my thoughts: no, I
must write them down."

"O, Miss Bruce, Miss Bruce!" cried Isabella, eagerly, "do look through
the window; there is a balloon flying, and a paper boy tied to it!"

"I wish you were flying too: don't you see that I want to write my
fable. Let me see: Ass, 1; Farmer Killwell, 2; somebody's papa, but not
mine. Turkey, 3; Barn-fowls, 4; Little schoolgirl, 5. O, how shall I put
all these words together to make any thing of them! O, that I could but
begin! There it is!"

said Miss Bruce joyfully; and she wrote several words upon her slate.
"Well, there is nothing like a good beginning! I will finish to-night;
so now let us go to the ladies," and Miss Bruce skipped out of the room,
with her slate and Isabella.

CHAPTER XII.

With some surprise, Miss Damer, in looking over the themes, read the
following fable:

"One bleak, cold winter morning, an ass and her foals were loitering
upon the edge of a wild common; not a tree was to be seen, and
scarcely a bit of herbage for their breakfast to be found.

'This is a comfortless life!'

said the ass; 'the winds are chilly, the snow will soon fall, and we
have not a shed to cover us! What shall we do? for I fear we shall be
lost.'

The ass turned her head, for she heard the tinkling of bells, and saw a
shepherd driving sheep from the common. 'Ah! a happy thought!
we will go to Farmer Killwell, and tell our sorrows unto him.' No sooner
said than done; they plodded through miry lanes, waded through shallow
brooks, and at length arrived at the farmer's gate. The tale was soon
told. The farmer pitied their piteous case; 'but,' said he, 'idleness
bringeth want. Exert yourselves, and you will find friends. Begin a
school at once; here are my poultry, my birds, and my young cattle
to teach: not a moment is to be lost.'

--'It is a good thing to have a good friend!' said the ass, as she stalked
into the farm-yard. Here she brayed with a most audible voice:
'Hearken to me, parents and little ones!' she cried; 'I am come hither to
inspire you all with wisdom.'
"The goose, as wise as a goose can be, stared at the speaker; tossed her
head on one side, gave a loud quack, and returned to comfort her
goslings, who were fluttering in every direction.

"'You little ducklings,' continued the ass, 'don't spread your feet so
vulgarly. Mrs. Turkey, I have long sighed for the honour of your patronage:
the charming little poults, I hope, will gain new beauties from our
exertions. Mrs. Barn-fowl, your chickens are too timid; we shall soon
teach them to hop with grace. As for these awkward maudlin rabbits, I fear
we cannot do any thing with them; and these ill-bred creatures, Mrs. Sow's
progeny, we cannot attempt to teach.'

A sturdy mastiff, who had followed the group of gazers, now barked furiously;
dispersed the poultry, pushed Mrs. Sow and her family into the mud; and,
spite of Farmer Killwell, drove the ass and her foals out of the farm-yard.
A little girl, who was witness to the hubbub, exclaimed, 'Ah!
this is excellent! Mrs.

Adair has borrowed a garment from the ass, to teach simple ones wisdom; but
she will never teach little girls to love new rules.'"
"Where is the moral to your fable?" asked Miss Damer, with some degree
of anger.

"I never thought of the moral; of what use would it be to my theme?"
returned Miss Bruce.

"And of what use is any theme or fable without a moral? But I wish to
know your motive for writing this ridiculous piece."
"To vex Mrs. Adair, certainly, because she won't let me go to my Aunt's on
Thursday."

"And do you really think that it is in your power to vex Mrs. Adair
with this trifling nonsense? You may be assured of this, Miss Bruce, the
only notice she will take of this childish, insignificant fable, will
be to make you read it to the ladies."
"I won't be talked to in this way, though you are my monitress. I
will write what I please;" so saying, she snatched the slate from
Miss Damer, and in haste rubbed off the words.

"The wisest thing you could do," said Miss Damer. "Now sit down, and reflect
seriously upon your conduct, and then tell me whether you feel quite
satisfied with yourself, or whether you are grateful to Mrs. Adair for
her care of you, and attention to you.

You are the only little girl who has not a mamma: who would be so indulgent,
so tender to you, as Mrs. Adair?"
At these words Miss Bruce sobbed violently; but her sorrow was of short
duration: "You would vex any thing, Miss Damer, with talking so quietly.
I like people to be angry with me, and then I can be angry myself."
"My dear, I shall not listen to you, so I advise you to cease talking:
it is my plan never to argue with unruly little girls. Come, Miss Grey, and
Isabella; we will go into the play-ground."
Isabella whispered to Miss Bruce as she passed her; "do, dear Miss
Bruce, be good. Why should you vex Miss Damer when she is so kind to
you?" Miss Bruce pushed her companion's hand from her shoulder, and
turned her face to the wall, and there they found her on their
return.

When the bell rang for prayers, Miss Bruce sprang across the room to
Miss Damer, who was seated, talking to Miss Arden, and throwing her arms
round her neck, she exclaimed, "You must indeed forgive me; I cannot sleep
unless you say, 'good night.'"
Miss Damer turned round, and kissed her: "Now, my dear, I hope you
will never offend me again."
"Oh, Miss Damer! I will love you for ever, for forgiving me so soon." The
bell rang, and she hastened out of the room.

"Should you not have been a little more stern?" said Miss Arden.

"My dear friend, ask yourself whether you could be so to a little girl
who has no mother."
Tears started into Miss Arden's eyes. "I did not think of that."

CHAPTER XIII.

One evening after school-hours, Mrs. Adair went into Jane's apartment,
who at this time was chiefly confined to her chamber, and found her
busily employed sealing small parcels. One was directed, "For my
friend Miss Damer;" another, "For my dear little Isabella Vincent;"
and a third, "For my amiable young friend Miss Arden."

Mrs. Adair seated herself with the work in which she was engaged: and as her
eyes glanced to the sealed parcels, tears stole down her cheeks.

"My dear mother," said Jane with tenderness, "I am only making a little
preparation before my journey.

You must have been aware, some time, that the days of my life were
numbered; and they will now be very few.

But do not grieve on my account: it is the appointment of One, who
is unerring in his ways.

Excepting the separation from you and my sister, I feel that I have no
regret at leaving this world.

"Death is a subject that I have often contemplated. The grave, and the last
perishable garment in which I shall be clothed, have now lost all their
terrors.

The evening I first arrived at school, when my mind was filled with grief
at our separation, I remember being greatly shocked at the slow, solemn,
deep tones of the village church-bell. I cannot describe my feelings at the
time.

Sorrow at leaving home rendered the awful muffled peal more dismal to my
ears: but from that night I may date my first serious thoughts of
another world.

I have never troubled my friends with my reflections, but that bell was
as a monitor, to warn me that I was not for this world."

Miss Arden now entered the room; and Mrs. Adair gladly escaped, to
indulge her tears in secret.

With a calm collected countenance she then re-joined her pupils; but at the
same time experienced the sorrow of a parent, who knows she is
soon to be deprived of a beloved child.

For Jane's appearance too plainly denoted, that the period was at hand "when
the keepers of the house would tremble." At this time her uneasiness was
increased by a melancholy, distressing letter from Mrs.
Vincent, urging her not to delay a moment coming to her; that she was to
undergo an operation, that would either close life or restore her to her
family. Various feelings agitated Mrs. Adair's mind as she read the letter.
After a little reflection, she fixed upon the proper mode of acting, and
in an hour a chaise was at the door, to convey her to her old friend.

Jane had now been confined wholly to her chamber a fortnight. Her disease
was of a fluctuating nature: sometimes she appeared almost in perfect
health; at others, as one dropping into the grave. She was seated in
an arm-chair, supported with pillows.

When Mrs. Adair entered the chamber, one hand rested upon a book that lay
open upon a small table, and near the book was her watch; her head was
thrown back, and her face was covered with a muslin handkerchief. Mrs.
Adair, who had slowly opened the door, now as cautiously advanced; listened
to hear her daughter breathe; and then gently raised the handkerchief.
Jane started.
Afraid of disturbing her, Mrs.

Adair remained some time with fixed attention, holding the handkerchief
from her face. A hectic flush was upon her cheeks; but her countenance was
placid and happy. When she returned into her own chamber, Elizabeth was
there, who anxiously inquired if she had seen her sister. "But have you
taken leave of her?" she cried.

Mrs.

Adair drew the veil of her bonnet over her face, as she said, "taking leave
is a trial of all others--" and here she paused; "this is not of any
consequence to you."
"O, my dear mother, we have no earthly hope, no support but yourself;
let my sister's eyes rest for the last time upon the mother she has
so tenderly loved; she will not die in peace unless you are with
her."

"My feelings are as irritable as your own," said Mrs.

Adair; "leave me to act according to my own judgment: not another word.
Bring Isabella to me, for the chaise is at the door."
While the ladies were walking with Miss Wilkins, the teacher,
Elizabeth went into her sister's chamber; and at the door met Mrs.

Lloyd, the housekeeper, who had been ordered by Mrs. Adair to explain
the motive of the journey to Jane.

"O, sister," cried Elizabeth, "how could my mother, so considerate and
good as she is, leave you in this state!"
"We cannot tell all her motives," said Jane; "only consider what
were my mother's feelings, when she fixed her eyes upon this poor emaciated
frame, as she supposed, for the last time."

"It was cruelty in the extreme," cried Elizabeth.

"Do no speak rashly, my dear Elizabeth; we will hope--" and her eyes
brightened with an expression of joy, "that all will yet be well; that,
through the mercy of Providence, Mrs.

Vincent will be restored to health, and that I shall be permitted to
remain a little longer with you."
"O, that it were to the day of my own death," exclaimed Elizabeth
with fervency.

"There are few persons to whom my heart earnestly inclines, and I would
have them with me through this life, and all eternity."
"My dear sister, these things are not at our disposal.

But let us consider the subject: every night we experience temporary
dissolution:
and then we are separated, even as if the hand of death had smitten us;
when we go to rest, we have no positive assurance that we are to open our
eyes again upon the objects of this world; still we project schemes;
calculate upon probable and improbable events; but the entire suspension
of our faculties is never taken into the account. Yet we are ignorant
whether we are to open our eyes on the objects of this world, or
that which is to come.

I own I have not any desponding thoughts; I rest alone upon the mercies and
the merits of a suffering and a redeeming Saviour; he is my sole refuge.
To our mother, my conscience acquits me either of intentional errors, or
errors of omission. This is a source of the purest consolation; it clears
the rough, the thorny path to the valley of death.

Elizabeth, my dearest sister, listen to me before I go hence, and
be no more seen.

Every night recall to mind the actions of the day.
Let this be the question you put to yourself: "Have I done my duty
in all things?"

Where you have failed, let the morning sun, as it rises, be a token to
you that another day is given for wise and good purposes; in the
grave there is no remembrance of error, no atonement to be made for
transgression, for neglect of the social duties of life."

Elizabeth gazed at her sister with feelings of tenderness and sorrow.

"All things pass away," said Jane, as she raised her eyes to her
sister's agitated face; "but 'when this mortal has put on immortality,'
then Elizabeth, when we meet again, it will not be for transient
days, and years, but for ages of eternity."

Exhausted with speaking so long, she pointed to the book upon the table.
"The spirit is willing," said she, faintly, "but my voice is weak;
will you oblige me, sister?"

"From my heart I will," exclaimed Elizabeth; "would that I could
not only oblige, but retain you for our comfort, for this world to
my mother will be a wilderness indeed."

"Not so," said Jane, tears flowing into her eyes; "my affectionate, my
warm-hearted sister will be my substitute!

O, Elizabeth, friend dearest to me, may you be blessed where your
heart is fixed."

Elizabeth started, and her countenance became pale as death.

"Sister," Jane slowly added, "you could not keep the secret from
me; I have traced it in all your actions; but, rest assured, it
will descend with me to the grave."

CHAPTER XIV.

Elizabeth was restless and uneasy the whole of the day that her mother
had taken her departure for Colonel Vincent's. The evening was wet
and gloomy; the young people could not, therefore, take their usual exercise
in the play-ground.

After sitting some time with her sister and Miss Arden, she sauntered
into the school-room, to observe how they were employed.

Some of the young ladies were attending to their lessons for the
following day.

One party had spread the road to happiness upon a work-box; all
anxious to attain the desired haven.

Another young lady was seated alone, joining the map of Europe.

In a corner of the room, apart from all her companions, Miss Bruce
was reading the admirable instructive tale "Display."

Elizabeth looked over her shoulder, "My dear, I thought you had
read that book six months ago."

"O yes, ma'am; but I can read it over and over again: there is
not a new book now in the school."

"You mean," said Elizabeth, smiling, "that you have read them all.

But can you explain the word "Display?"

for I think most young ladies are partial to it, in one shape or another."
A carriage now stopped at the door; and Elizabeth exclaimed, "who
is in that carriage?"

Miss Grey, who was near the window, raised herself upon a box, and looking
over the blind, cried, "Mrs.

Adair, ma'am, and Miss Isabella Vincent."
Elizabeth hastened from the room, and met her mother at the hall
door, joyfully exclaiming, "O, my dear mother, this is an unexpected,
welcome pleasure!

But how is Mrs. Vincent?"
"Composed and comfortable; the operation was performed yesterday: but it was
not my intention to desert you: how could you think so?"
The truth was, Mrs. Adair had called upon the physician, and begged that he
would inform her daughter that she would return in the evening: but a
press of engagements had prevented his visit to Jane, who now with
joy beheld her mother enter her chamber.

"I thought you would return to see me on my journey," she exclaimed; "and
you are returned, my dear mother. Blessed be this hour!"
Miss Arden and Miss Damer, from the hour they met in the summer-house,
were strict friends.

Their capacities were similar, and they were at the head of the
different classes.

On the days appointed for geography, the young ladies were in a room
called the study.

Miss Arden had observed that one of the servants, a respectable
looking young woman, generally contrived to enter the apartment,
and busy herself with one thing or another: but always looked,
anxiously at the globes, or the maps, and stopped a moment to listen,
either to the teacher or the pupils.

Miss Arden noticed the circumstance to her friend; "I will certainly
ask Catherine," she said, "if she has any motive in attending to
our pursuits; there is something in her countenance that excites
my curiosity."

The first time she met her alone, she made the inquiry.

"I have, indeed, ma'am, a motive," said Catherine; "I would give all my
wages, could I but learn as you do."
"But of what use, Catherine, would learning be to you? You can read your
Bible; and it will shew you all that is necessary for you to know.
Your duty as a servant, and the way to heaven, the place where we all
hope to meet, when we have done with this world, and its cares."
"Ah, ma'am, I am not satisfied even with knowing this, though it is all
that a servant should know."
"I do not understand you, Catherine. Tell me why you wish to gain
other knowledge?"

"Because, ma'am, I am most wishful to be useful to my parents. They are poor,
and have a large family to bring up.

If I could but open a little school in our village, what a blessing should
I be to them!"

"Well, Catherine," said Miss Arden, after considering a little, "I will
do what I can for you--I mean if Miss Damer approves; for I dare
not trust to my own judgment.

Meet me in the school-room early to-morrow morning, and I well tell
you how it is to be."

When the friends met in the play-ground, they talked the subject over.

"There cannot, I think, be any thing wrong in doing good to a
fellow-creature," said Miss Damer, "therefore I think we may venture;
but we must rise an hour earlier than usual."

Catherine was delighted when she heard the result of their conference;
and, with many expressions of thankfulness, promised to leave a lamp at
their door.

The young ladies began the employment of teaching with alacrity.

They endeavoured to ground Catherine in those things that would be useful
in a village school.

But geography her mind was bent upon, so Miss Arden presented to her a
book; likewise several little works, which she thought would be useful.

One morning, however, they were surprised in the midst of their lessons.
"Begin that line again," said Miss Arden. Elizabeth had walked gently into
the room, and now stood by the table where the two young ladies were seated,
and Catherine standing. When they beheld her, they all started, and looked
aghast. "You are very early at your tasks, young ladies! But I did
not know that we had a new pupil. Pray when did she arrive?"
"I beg you a thousand pardons, ma'am, for leading the young ladies to do
wrong! It was all my fault," said Catherine.

Miss Arden related the matter plainly as it was.

"I commend Catherine," said Elizabeth, "for her wish to serve her
parents; nor am I offended with you, young ladies, for wishing to
serve her.

But you must beware that we are not to do a wrong thing, even with
the very best motives. There is always something mean in acting
clandestinely. Why could you not have been candid, and told me her
wish? You must not meet here again. Catherine, when you have leisure,
continue your lessons; and I will fix upon some other mode of instructing
you; at least a proper time, not by the light of a lamp."

CHAPTER XV.

When the physician was first called in to attend Jane, he strictly
forbad any person sleeping with her: Elizabeth, therefore, removed to a
small camp bed, which was placed by her sister.

A few mornings after Mrs. Adair's visit to Mrs.

Vincent, Jane suddenly awoke; and in an earnest, quick tone of
voice, begged that her sister would come to her.

"But first draw aside the window curtain," said she, "That is right.

Now come into my bed--only this morning--never--never again."
Surprised at a request so unusual, Elizabeth instantly obeyed. "Do
not sit up, sister, nor creep from me; lay your head upon my pillow."

Jane now folded her arms round her sister's neck, and kissed her
tenderly.--"This is my first and last proof of affection! O, sister!
where--and when shall we meet again?"

The sun had risen, and gilded every part of the room. Jane raised herself,
as if by magic. "Let me behold every thing--for I shall never behold any
objects upon earth again! This day my soul will be required by my
Heavenly Father! Ah, my soul! it is an awful thing to die; even
with hope and trust in thy Almighty Power! But Thou art mighty to
strike,--merciful and gracious in raising thy servants unto glory."

Jane now paused; other thoughts seemed to arise. Her glazed eyes
wandered from object to object. "Ah! there is my writing-desk; give
that to my mother! There is my Bible; that is for my dear little
favourite!If the farmer had
ever drunk water himself, except as tea or coffee, or mixed with something
stronger, he must have been an early victim, to his own crass ignorance.
He was a vigorous, heavy-set man, a grand field for typhoid. But he
prospered, and the young doctor was turned down with the full weight and
breadth of the Van Elten thumb, or the Broderick; Abraham's build was that
of his maternal grandmother, Hillotje Broderick.

On the Ridge, which later developed into a valuable slate quarry, there
was a spring of water, cold and perpetual, flowing out of the
trap-formation. Abraham had piped this water down to his barns and
cattle-sheds; it furnished power for the farm-work. But to bring it to the
house, in obedience to the doctor's meddlesome advice, would be an
acknowledgment of fatal mistakes in the past; would raise talk and blame
among the neighbors, and do away with the honor of a special visitation;
would cost no trifle of money; would justify the doctor's interference,
and insult the old well of his father and his father's father, the
fountain of generations. To seal its mouth and bid its usefulness cease in
the house where it had ministered for upwards of a hundred years was an
act of desecration impossible to the man who in his stolid way loved the
very stones that lined its slimy sides. The few sentiments that had taken
hold on Abraham's arid nature went as deep as his obstinacy and clung as
fast as his distrust of new opinions and new men. The question of water
supply was closed in his house; but the well remained open and kept up its
illicit connection with the drain.

Old Becky, keeper of the widower's keys, had followed closely the history
of those unhappy "cases;" she had listened to discussions, violent or
suppressed, she had heard much talk that went on behind her master's back.

Employers of that day and generation were masters; and masters are meant
to be outwitted. Emily, the youngest and last of the flock, was now a
child of four, dark like her mother, sturdy and strong like her father. On
an August day soon after the mother's funeral, Becky took her little
charge to the well and showed her a tumbler filled, with water not freshly
drawn.

"See them little specks and squirmy things?" Emmy saw them. She followed
their wavering motion in the glass as the stern forefinger pointed. "Those
are little baby snakes," said Becky mysteriously. "The well is full of
'em. Sometimes you can see 'em, sometimes you can't, but they're always
there. They never grow big down the well; it's too dark 'n' cold. But you
drink that water and the snakes will grow and wriggle and work all through
ye, and eat your insides out, and you'll die. Your mother"--in a
whisper--"she drunk that water, and she died. Your sister Ruth, and Dirck,
and Jimmy, they drunk it, and they died. Now if Emmy wants to die"--Large
eyes of horror fastened on the speaker's face. "No--o, she don't want to
die, the Loveums! She don't want Becky to have no little girl left at all!
No; we mustn't ever drink any of that bad water--all full of snakes, ugh!
But if Emmy's thirsty, see here! Here's good nice water. It's going to be
always here in this pail--same water the little lambs drink up in the
fields. Becky 'll take Emmy up on the hill sometime and show where the
little lambs drink."

Grief had not clouded the farmer's oversight in petty things. He noticed
the innocent pail on the area bench, never empty, always specklessly
clean.

"What is this water?" he asked.

Becky was surly. "Drinking water. Want some?"

"What's it doing here all the time?"

"I set it there for Emmy. She can't reach up to the bucket."

Abraham tasted the water suspiciously. The well-water was hard, with a
tang of iron. The spring soft, and less cold for its journey to the barn.

"Where did you get this water?"

"Help yourself. There's plenty more."

"Becky, where did this water come from? Out o' the well?"

Becky gave a snort of exasperation. "Sam Lewis brought it from the barn!
I'm too lame to be histin' buckets. I've got the rheumatiz' awful in my
back and shoulders, if ye want to know!"

"Becky, you're lying to me. You've been listening to what don't concern
you. Now, see here. You are not going to ask the men to carry water for
you. They've got something else to do. _There's_ your water, as handy as
ever a woman had it; use that or go without."

Abraham caught up the pail and flung its contents out upon the grass,
scattering the hens that came sidling back with squawks of inquiring
temerity.

When next Emmy came for water, the old woman took her by the hand in
silence and led her into the dim meat-cellar, a half-basement with one low
window level with the grass. There was the pail, safe hidden behind the
soft-soap barrel.

"I had to hide it from your pa," Becky whispered. "Don't you never let him
know you're afraid o' the well-water. He drunk it when he was a little
boy. He don't believe in the snakes. But _there wa'n't none then_. It's
when water gets old and rotten. You can believe what Becky says. _She_
knows! But you mustn't ever tell. Your father 'd be as mad as fire if he
knowed I said anything about snakes. He'd send me right away, and some
strange woman would come, and maybe she'd whip Emmy. Emmy want Becky to
go?" Sobs, and little arms clinging wildly to Becky's aproned skirts. "No,
no! Well, she ain't goin'. But Emmy mustn't tell tales or she might have
to. Tattlers are wicked anyway. 'Telltale tit! Your tongue shall be slit,
and all the little dogs'--There! run now! There's your poppy. Don't you
never,--never!"

Emmy let her eyes be wiped, and with one long, solemn, secret look of awed
intelligence she ran out to meet her father. She did not love him, and the
smile with which she met him was no new lesson in diplomacy. But her first
secret from him lay deep in the beautiful eyes, her mother's eyes, as she
raised them to his.

"Ain't that wonderful!" said Becky, with a satisfied sigh, watching her.
"Safe as a jug! An' she not five years old!" For vital reasons she had
taught the child an ugly lesson. Such lessons were common enough in her
experience of family discipline. She never thought of it again.

That year which took Emmy's mother from her brought to the child her first
young companion and friend. Adam Bogardus came as chore-boy to the
farm,--an only child himself, and sensitive through the clashing of gentle
instincts with rough and inferior surroundings; brought up in that
depressed God-fearing attitude in which a widow not strong, and earning
her bread, would do her duty by an only son. Not a natural fighter, she
took what little combativeness he had out of him, and made his school-days
miserable--a record of humiliations that sunk deep and drove him from his
kind. He was a big, clumsy, sagacious boy, grave as an old man, always
snubbed and condescended to, yet always trusted. Little Emmy made him her
bondslave at sight. His whole soul blossomed in adoration of the
beautiful, masterful child who ordered him about as her vassal, while
slipping a soft little trustful hand in his. She trotted at his heels like
one of the lambs or chickens that he fed. She brought him into perpetual
disgrace with Becky, for wasting his time through her imperious demands.
She was the burden, the delight, the handicap, the incentive, and the
reward of his humble apprenticeship. And when he was promoted to be one of
the regular hands she followed him still, and got her pleasure out of his
day's work. No one had such patience to tell her things, to wait for her
and help her over places where her tagging powers fell short. But though
she bullied him, she looked up to him as well. His occupations commanded
her respect. He was the god of the orchards and of the cider-making; he
presided at all the functions of the farm year. He was a perfect calendar
besides of country sports in their season. He swept the ice pools in the
meadow for winter sliding, after his day's work was done. He saved up
paper and string for kite-making in March. He knew when willow bark would
slip for April's whistles. In the first heats of June he climbed the tall
locust-trees to put up a swing in which she could dream away the perfumed
hours. At harvest she waited in the meadow for him to toss her up on the
hay-loads, and his great arms received her when she slid off in the barn.
She knelt at his feet on the bumping boards of the farm-wagon while he
braced himself like a charioteer, holding the reins above her head. He
threshed the nut-trees and routed marauding boys from her preserves, and
carved pumpkin lanterns to light her to her attic chamber on cold November
nights, where she would lie awake watching strange shadows on the sloping
roof, half worshiping, half afraid of her idol's ugliness in the dark.

These were some of Paul's illustrations of that pastoral beginning, and no
doubt they were sympathetically close to the truth. He lingered over them,
dressing up his mother's choice instinctively to the little aristocrat
beside him.

When Emmy grew big enough to go to the Academy, three miles from the farm,
it was all in the day's work that Adam should take her and fetch her home.
He combined her with the mail, the blacksmith, and other village errands.
Whoever met her father's team on those long stony hills of Saugerties
would see his little daughter seated beside his hired man, her face turned
up to his in endless confiding talk. It was a face, as we say, to dream
of. But there were few dreamers in that little world. The farmers would
nod gravely to Adam. "Abraham's girl takes after her mother; heartier
lookin', though. Guess he'll need a set o' new tires before spring." The
comments went no deeper.

Abraham was now well on in years; he made no visits, and he never drove
his own team at night. When his daughter began to let down her frocks and
be asked to evening parties, it was still Adam who escorted her. He sat in
the kitchen while she was amusing herself in the parlor. She discussed her
young acquaintances with him on their way home. The time for distinctions
had come, but she was too innocent to feel them herself, and too proud to
accept the standards of others. He was absolutely honest and unworldly. He
thought it no treachery to love her for herself, and he believed, as most
of us do, that his family was as good as hers or any other.

It would be hard to explain the old man's obliviousness. Perhaps he had
forgotten his own youth; or class prejudice had gone so deep with him as
to preclude the bare thought of a child of his falling in love with one of
his "men." His imagination could not so insult his own blood. But when the
awakening came, his passion of anger and resentment knew no bounds. To
discharge his faithless employee out of hand would be the cripple throwing
away his crutch. Though he called Adam _one_ of his men, and though his
pay was that of a common laborer, his duties had long been of a much
higher order. Abraham had made a very good bargain out of the widow's son.
Adam knew well that he could not be spared, and pitied the old man's
helpless rage. He took his frantic insults as part of his senility, and
felt it no unmanliness to appease it by giving his promise that he would
speak no more of love to Emmy while he was taking her father's wages. But
Emmy did not indorse this promise fully. To her it looked like weakness,
and implied a sort of patience which did not become a lover such as she
wished hers to be. The winter wore on uncomfortably for all. Towards
spring, Becky's last illness and passing away brought the younger ones
together again, and closer than before. Adam kept his promise through days
and nights of sickroom intimacy; but though no word of love was spoken,
each bore silent witness to what was loveliest in the other, and the bond
between them deepened.

Then spring came, and its restlessness was strong upon them both. But it
was Emmy to whom it meant action and rebellion.

They stood on the orchard hill one Sunday afternoon at the pause of the
year. Buds were swelling and the edges of the woods wore a soft blush
against the vaporous sky. The bare brown slopes were streaked with snow. A
floe of winter ice, grinding upon itself with the tide, glared yellow as
an old man's teeth in the setting sun. From across the river came the
thunder of a train, bound north, two engines dragging forty cars of
freight piled up by some recent traffic-jam; it plunged into a tunnel, and
they waited, listening to the monster's smothered roar. Out it burst, its
breath packed into clouds, the engines whooped, and round the curve where
a point of cedars cut the sky the huge creature unwound itself, the hills
echoing to its tread.

Emmy watched it out of sight, and breathed again. "Hundreds, hundreds
going every day! It seems easy enough for everybody else. Oh, if I were a
man!"

"What do you want I should do, Emmy?" Adam knew well what man she was
thinking of.

"_I_ want? Don't you ever want things yourself?"

"When I want a thing bad, I gen'ly think it's worth waiting for."

"People don't get things by waiting. I don't know how you can stand
it,--to stay here year after year. And now you've tied yourself up with a
promise, and you know you cannot keep it!"

"I'm trying to keep it."

"You couldn't keep it if you cared--really and truly--as some do!" She
dropped her voice hurriedly. "To live here and eat your meals day after
day and pass me like a stick or a stone!"

The slow blood burned in Adam's face and hammered in his pulses. His blue
eyes were bashful through its heat. "I don't feel like a stick nor a
stone. You know it, Emmy. You want to be careful," he added gently. "Would
going away look as if I cared?"

"Why--why don't you ask me to go with you?" The girl tried to meet his
eyes. She turned off her question with a proud laugh.

"Be--careful, child! You know why I can't take you up on that. Would you
want we should leave him here alone--without even Becky? You're only
trying me for fun."

"No; I am not!" Emmy was pale now. Her breast was rising in strong
excitement. "If we were gone, he would know then what you are worth to
him. Now, you're only Adam! He thinks he can put you down like a boy. He
won't believe I care for you. There's only one way to show him--that is,
if we do care. In one month he would be sending for us back. Then we could
come, and you would take your right place here, and be somebody. You would
not eat in the kitchen, then. Haven't you been like a son to him? And why
shouldn't he own it?"

"But if he won't? Suppose he don't send for us to come back?"

"Then you could strike out for yourself. What was Tom Madden, before he
went away to Colorado, or somewhere--where was it? And now everybody stops
to shake hands with him;--he's as much of a man as anybody. If you could
make a little money. That's the proof he wants. If you were rich, you'd be
all right with him. You know that!"

"I'd hate to think it. But I'll never be rich. Put that out of your mind,
Emmy. It don't run in the blood. I don't come of a money-making breed."

"What a silly thing to say! Of course, if you don't believe you can, you
can't. Who has made the money here for the last ten years?"

"It was his capital done it. It ain't hard to make money after you've
scraped the first few thousands together. But it's the first thousand that
costs."

"How much have you got ahead?"

Adam answered awkwardly, "Eleven hundred and sixty odd." He did not like
to talk of money to the girl who was the prayer, the inspiration, of his
life. It hurt him to be questioned by her in this sordid way.

"You earned it all, didn't you?"

"I've took no risks. Here was my home. He give me the chance and he showed
me how. And--he's your father. I don't like to talk about his money, nor
about my own, to you."

"Oh, you are good, good! Nobody knows! But it's all wasted if you haven't
got any push--anything inside of yourself that makes people know what you
are. I wish I could put into you some of my _fury_ that I feel when things
get in my way! You have held yourself in too long. You can't--_can't_ love
a girl, and be so careful--like a mother. Don't you understand?"

"Stop right there, Emmy! You needn't push no harder. I can let go whenever
you say so. But--do _you_ understand, little girl? Man and wife it will
have to be."

Emmy did not shrink at the words. Her face grew set, her dark eyes full of
mystery fixed themselves on the slow-moving ice-floe grinding along the
shore.

"I know," she assented slowly.

"I can't give you no farm, nor horses and carriages, nor help in the
kitchen. It's bucklin' right down with our bare hands--me outside and you
in? And you only eighteen. See what little hands--If I could do it all!"

"Your promise is broken," she whispered. "I made you break it. You will
have to tell him now, or--we must go."

"So be!" said Adam solemnly. "And God do so to me and more also, if I have
to hurt my little girl,--Emmy--wife!"

He folded her in his great arms clumsily--the man she had said was like a
mother. He was almost as ignorant as she, and more hopeful than he had
dared to seem, as to their worldly chances. But the love he had for her
told him it was not love that made her so bold. The first touch of such
love as his would have made her fear him as he feared her. And the subtle
pain of this instinctive knowledge, together with that broken promise,
shackled the wings of his great joy. It was not as he had hoped to win the
crown of life.

Paul, it may be supposed, had never liked to think of his mother's
elopement. It had been the one hard point to get over in his conception of
his father, but he could never have explained it by such a scene as this.
It would have hampered him terribly in his tale had he dreamed of it. He
passed over the unfortunate incident with a romancer's touch, and dwelt
upon his grandfather's bitter resentment which he resented as the son of
his mother's choice. The Van Eltens and Brodericks all fared hardly at the
hands of their legatee.

It was not only in the person of a hireling who had abused his trust that
Abraham had felt himself outraged. There were old neighborhood spites and
feuds going back, dividing blood from blood--even brothers of the same
blood. There was trouble between him and his brother Jacob, of New York,
dating from the settlement of their father's, Broderick Van Elten's,
estate; and no one knows what besides that was private and personal may
have entered into it. It was years since they had met, but Jacob kept well
abreast of his brother's misfortunes. A bachelor himself, with no children
to lose or to quarrel with, it was not displeasing to him to hear of the
breaks in his brother's household.

"What, what, what! The last one left him,--run off with one of his men!
What a fool the man must be. Can't he look after his women folks better
than that? Better have lost her with the others. Two boys, and Chrissy,
and the girl--and now the last girl gone off with his hired man. Poor
Chrissy! Guess she had about enough of it. Things have come out pretty
much even, after all! There was more love and lickin's wasted on Abe.
Father was proudest of him, but he couldn't break him. Hi! but I've
crawled under the woodshed to hear him yell, and father would tan him with
a raw-hide, but he couldn't break him; couldn't get a sound out of him.
Big, and hard, and tough--Chrissy thought she knew a man; she thought she
took the best one."

With slow, cold spite Jacob had tracked his brother's path in life through
its failures. Jacob had no failures, and no life.


V


DISINHERITED

Proud little Emmy, heiress no longer, had put her spirit into her
farm-hand and incited him to the first rebellion of his life. They crossed
the river at night, poling through floating ice, and climbed aboard one of
those great through trains whose rushing thunder had made the girlish
heart so often beat. This was long before the West Shore Line was built.
Neither of them had ever seen the inside of a Pullman sleeper. Emmy could
count the purchased meals she had eaten in her life; she had never slept
in a hotel or hired lodging till after her marriage. Hardly any one could
be so provincial in these days.

Adam Bogardus was a plodder in the West as he had been in the East. He was
an honest man, and he was wise enough not to try to be a shrewd one. He
tried none of the short-cuts to a fortune. Hard work suited him best, and
no work was too hard for his iron strength and patient resolution. But it
broke the spirit of a man in him to see his young wife's despair. Poverty
frightened and quelled her. The deep-rooted security of her old home was
something she missed every day of her makeshift existence. It was
degradation to live in "rooms," or a room; to move for want of means to
pay the rent. She pined for the good food she had been used to. Her health
suffered through anxiety and hard work. She was too proud to complain, but
the sight of her dumb unacceptance of what had come to her through him
undoubtedly added the last straw to her husband's mental strain.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is hard for me to realize it as I once did," said Paul, as the story
paused. "You make tragedy a dream. But there is a deep vein of tragedy in
our blood. And my theory is that it always crops out in families where
it's the keynote, as it were."

"Never mind, you old care-taker! We Middletons carry sail enough to need a
ton or two of lead in our keel."

"But, you understand?"--

"I understand the distinction between what I call your good blood, and the
sort of blood I thought you had. It explains a certain funny way you have
with arms--weapons. Do you mind?"

"Not at all," said Paul coldly. "I hate a weapon. I am always ashamed of
myself when I get one in my hand."

"You act that way, dear!"

"God made tools and the Devil made weapons."

"You are civil to my father's profession."

"Your father is what he is aside from his profession."

"You are quite mistaken, Paul. My father and his profession are one. His
sword is a symbol of healing. The army is the great surgeon of the nation
when the time comes for a capital operation."

"It grows harder to tell my story," said Paul gloomily;--"the short and
simple annals of the poor."

"Now come! Have I been a snob about my father's profession?"

"No; but you love it, naturally. You have grown up with its pomp and
circumstance around you. You are the history makers when history is most
exciting."

"Go on with your story, you proud little Dutchman! When I despise you for
your farming relatives, you can taunt me with my history making."

Paul was about two years old when his parents broke up in the Wood River
country and came south by wagon on the old stage-road to Felton. Whenever
he saw a "string-bean freighter's" outfit moving into Bisuka, if there was
a woman on the driver's seat, he wanted to take off his hat to her. For so
his mother sat beside his father and held him in her arms two hundred
miles across the Snake River desert. The stages have been laid off since
the Oregon Short Line went through, but there were stations then all along
the road.

One night they made camp at a lonely place between Soul's Rest and
Mountain Home. Oneman Station it was called; afterwards Deadman Station,
when the keeper's body was found one morning stiff and cold in his bunk.
He died in the night alone. Emily Bogardus had cause to hate the man when
he was living, and his dreary end was long a shuddering remembrance to
her, like the answer to an unforgiving prayer.

The station was in a hollow with bare hills around, rising to the highest
point of that rolling plain country. The mountains sink below the plain,
only their white tops showing. It was October. All the wild grass had been
eaten close for miles on both sides of the road, but over a gap in the
Western divide was the Bruneau Valley, where the bell-mare of the team had
been raised. In the night she broke her hopples and struck out across the
summit with the four mules at her heels. Towards morning a light snow fell
and covered their tracks. Adam was compelled to hunt his stock on foot;
the keeper refusing him a horse, saying he had got himself into trouble
before through being friendly with the company's horses. He started out
across the hills, expecting that the same night would see him back, and
his wife was left in the wagon camp alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I know this story very well," said Paul, "and yet I never heard it but
once, when mother decided I was old enough to know all. But every word was
bitten into me--especially this ugly part I am coming to. I wish it need
not be told, yet all the rest depends on it; and that such an experience
could come to a woman like my mother shows what exposure and humiliation
lie in the straightest path if there is no money to smooth the way. You
hear it said that in the West the toughest men will be chivalrous to a
woman if she is the right sort of a woman. I'm afraid that is a romantic
theory of the Western man.

"That night, before his team stampeded, as he sat by the keeper's fire,
father had made up his mind that the less they had to do with that man the
better. He may have warned mother; and she, left alone with the brute, did
not know the wisdom of hiding her fear and loathing of him. He may have
meant no more than a low kind of teasing, but her suffering was the same.

"Father did not come. She dared not leave the camp. She knew no place to
go to, and in his haste, believing he would soon be with her again, he had
taken all their little stock of funds. But he had left her his gun, and
with this within reach of her hand in the shelter of the wagon hood,
without fire and without cooked food, she kept a sleepless watch.

"The stages came and went; help was within sound of her voice, but she
dared make no sign. The passengers were few at that season, always men, on
the best of terms with the keeper. He had threatened--well, no
matter--such a threat as a more sophisticated woman would have smiled at.
She was simple, but she was not weak. It was a moral battle between them.
There were hours when she held him by the power of her eye alone; she
conquered, but it nearly killed her.

"One morning a man jumped down from the stage whose face she knew. He had
recognized my father's outfit and he came to speak to her, amazed to find
her in that place alone. There was no need to put her worst fear into
words; he knew the keeper. He made the best he could of father's
detention, but he assured her, as she knew too well, that she could not
wait for him there. He was on his way East, and he took us with him as far
as Mountain Home. To this day she believes that if Bud Granger had led the
search, my father would have been found; but he went East to sell his
cattle, the snows set in, and the search party came straggling home. The
man, Granger, had left a letter of explanation, inclosing one from mother
to father, with the keeper. He bribed and frightened him, but for years
she used to agonize over a fear that father had come back and the keeper
had withheld the letter and belied her to him with some devilish story
that maddened him and drove him from her. Such a fancy might have come out
of her mental state at that time. I believe that Granger left the letter
simply to satisfy her. He must have believed my father was dead. He could
not have conceived of a man's being lost in that broad country at that
season; but my father was a man of hills and farms, all small, compact.
The plains were another planet to him.

"The letter was found in the keeper's clothing after his death; no one
ever came to claim it of his successor. Somewhere in this great wilderness
a tired man found rest. What would we not give if we knew where!

"And she worked in a hotel in Mountain Home. Can you imagine it! Then
Christine was born and the multiplied strain overcame her. Strangers took
care of her children while she lay between life and death. She had been
silent about herself and her past, but they found a letter from one of her
old schoolmates asking about teachers' salaries in the West, and they
wrote to her begging her to make known my mother's condition to her
relatives if any were living. At length came a letter from
grandfather--characteristic to the last. The old home was there, for her
and for her children, but no home for the traitor, as he called father.
She must give him up even to his name. No Bogardus could inherit of a Van
Elten.

"She had not then lost all hope of father's return, and she never forgave
her father for trying to buy her back for the price of what she considered
her birthright. She settled down miserably to earn bread for her children.
Then, when hope and pride were crushed in her, and faith had nothing left
to cling to, there came a letter from Uncle Jacob, the bachelor, who had
bided his time. Out of the division in his brother's house he proposed to
build up his own; just as he would step in and buy depreciated bonds to
hold them for a rise. He offered her a home and maintenance during his
lifetime, and his estate for herself and her children when he was through.
There were no conditions referring to our father, but it was understood
that she should give up her own. This, mainly, to spite his brother, yet
under all there was an old man's plea. She felt she could make the
obligation good, though there might not be much love on either side.
Perhaps it came later; but I remember enough of that time to believe that
her children's future was dearly paid for. Grandfather died alone, in the
old rat-ridden house up the Hudson. He left no will, to every one's
surprise. It might have been his negative way of owning his debt to nature
at the last.

"That is how we came to be rich; and no one detects in us now the crime of
those early struggles. But my father was a hired man; and my mother has
done every menial thing with those soft hands of hers." A softer one was
folded in his own. Its answering clasp was loyal and strong.

"Is _this_ the story you had not the courage to tell me?"

"This is the story I had the courage to tell you--not any too soon,
perhaps you think?"

"And do you think it needed courage?"

"The question is what you think. What are we to do with Uncle Jacob's
money? Go off by ourselves and have a good time with it?"

"We will not decide to-night," said Moya, tenderly subdued. But, though
the story had interested and touched her, as accounting for her lover's
saddened, conscience-ridden youth, it was no argument against teaching him
what youth meant in her philosophy. The differences were explained, but
not abolished.

"It was spite money, remember, not love money," he continued, reverting to
his story. "It purchased my mother's compliance to one who hated her
father, who forced her to listen, year after year, to bitter, unnatural
words against him. I am not sure but it kept her from him at the last; for
if Uncle Jacob had not stepped in and made her his, I can't help thinking
she would have found somehow a way to the soft place in his heart.
Something good ought to be done with that money to redeem its history."

"You must not be morbid, Paul."

"That sounds like mother," said Paul, smiling. "She is always jealous for
our happiness; because she lost her own, I think, and paid so heavily for
ours. She prizes pleasure and success, even worldly success, for us."

"I don't blame her!" cried Moya.

"No; of course not. But you mustn't both be against me, and Chrissy, too.
She is so, unconsciously; she does not know the pull there is on me,
through knowing things she doesn't dream of, and that I can never forget."

"No," said Moya. "I am sure she is perfectly unconscious. We exchanged
biographies at school, and there was nothing at all like this in hers. Why
was she never told?"

"She has always been too strained, too excitable. Every least incident is
an emotion with her. When she laughs, her laugh is like a cry. Haven't you
noticed that? Startle her, and her eyes are the very eyes of fear. Mother
was wise, I think, not to pour those old sorrows into her little fragile
cup."

"So she emptied them all into yours!"

"That was my right, of the elder and stronger. I wouldn't have missed the
knowledge of our beginnings for the world. What a prosperous fool and ass
I might have made of myself!"

"Morbid again," said Moya. "You belong to your own day and generation. You
might as well wear country shoes and clothes because your father wore
them."

"Still, if we have such a thing in this country as class, then you and I
do not belong to the same class except by virtue of Uncle Jacob's money.
Confess you are glad I am a Bevier and a Broderick and a Van Elten, as
well as a Bogardus."

"I shall confess nothing of the kind. Now you do talk like a _nouveau_
Paul, dear," said Moya, with her caressing eyes on his--they had paused
under the lamp at the top of the steps--"I think your father must have
been a very good man."

"All our fathers were," Paul averred, smiling at her earnestness.

"Yes, but yours in particular; because _you_ are an angel; and your mother
is quite human, is she not?--almost as human as I am? That carriage of the
head,--if that does not mean the world!"--

"She has needed all her pride."

"I don't object to pride, myself," said the girl, "but you dwell so upon
her humiliations. I see no such record in her face."

"She has had much to hide, you must remember."

"Well, she can hide things; but one's self must escape sometimes. What has
become of little Emily Van Elten who ran away with her father's hired man?
What has become of the freighter's wife?"

"She is all mother now. She brought us back to the world, and for our
sakes she has learned to take her place in it. Herself she has buried."

"Yes; but which is--was herself?"

"And you cannot see her story in her face?"

"Not that story."

"Not the crushing reserve, the long suspense, the silence of a sorrow that
even her children could not share?"

"I know her silence. Your mother is a most reticent woman. But is she now
the woman of that story?"

"I don't understand you quite," said Paul. "How much are we ourselves
after we have passed through fires of grief, and been recast under the
pressure of circumstances! She was that woman once."

"The saddest part of the story to me is, that your father, who loved her
so, and worked so hard for his family, should have served you all the
better by his death."

"Oh, don't say that, dear! Who knows what is best? But one thing we do
know. The sorrow that cut my mother's life in two brought you and me
together. It rent the stratum on which I was born and raised it to the
level of yours, my lady!"

"I shall not forget," whispered Moya with blissful irony, "that you are
the Poor Man's son!"


VI


AN APPEAL TO NATURE

The autumn days were shortening imperceptibly and the sunsets had gained
an almost articulate splendor: cloud calling unto cloud, the west horizon
signaling to the east, and answering again, while the mute dark circle of
hills sat like a council of chiefs with their blankets drawn over their
heads. Soon those blankets would be white with snow.

Behind the Post where the hills climb toward the Cottonwood Creek divide,
there is a little canon which at sunset is especially inviting. It hastens
twilight by at least an hour during midsummer, and in autumn it leads up a
stairway of shadow to the great spectacle of the day--the day's departure
from the hills.

The canon has its companion rivulet always coming down to meet the
stage-road going up. As this road is the only outlet hillward for all the
life of the plain, and as the tendency of every valley population is to
climb, one thinks of it as a way out rather than a way in. Higher up, the
stage-road becomes a pass cut through a wall of splintered cliffs; and
here it leads its companion, the brook, a wild dance over boulders, and
under culverts of fallen rock. At last it emerges on what is called The
Summit; and between are green, deep valleys where the little ranches,
fields and fences and houses, seem to have slid down to the bottom and lie
there at rest.

A party of young riders from the post had gone up this road one evening,
and two had come down, laughing and talking; but the other two remained in
the circle of light that rested on the summit. Prom where they sat in the
dry grass they could hear a hollow sound of moving feet as the cattle
wandered down through folds of the hills, seeking the willow copses by the
water. On the breast of her habit Moya wore the blossoms of the wild
evening primrose, which in this region flowers till the coming of frost.
They had been gathered for her on the way up, and as she had waited for
them, sitting her horse in silence, the brown owls gurgled and hooted
overhead from nest to nest in the crannies of the rocks.

"You need not hold the horses," she commanded, in her fresh voice. "Throw
my bridle over your saddle pommel and yours over mine.--There!" she said,
watching the horses as they shuffled about interlinked. "That is like half
the marriages in this world. They don't separate and they don't go astray,
but they don't _get_ anywhere!"

"I have been thinking of those 'two in the Garden,'" mused Paul, resting
his dark, abstracted eyes on her. "Whether or no your humble servant has a
claim to unchallenged bliss in this world, there's no doubt about your
claim. If my plans interfere, I must take myself out of the way."

"Oh, you funny old croaker!" laughed the girl. "Take yourself out of the
way, indeed! Haven't you chosen me to show you the way?"

"Moya, Moya!" said Paul in a smothered voice.

"I know what you are thinking. But stop it!" she held one of her crushed
blossoms to his lips. "What was this made for? Why hasn't it some work to
do? Isn't it a skulker--blooming here for only a night?"

"'Ripen, fall, and cease!'" Paul murmured.

"How much more am I--are you, then? The sum of us may amount to something,
if we mind our own business and keep step with each other, and finish one
thing before we begin the next. I will not be in a hurry about being good.
Goodness can take care of itself. What you need is to be happy! And it's
my first duty to make you so."

"God knows what bliss it would be."

"Don't say 'would be.'"

"God knows it is!"

"Then hush and be thankful!" There was a long hush. They heard the far,
faint notes of a bugle sounding from the Post.

"Lights out," said Moya. "We must go."

"You haven't told me yet where our Garden is to be," he said.

"I will tell you on the way home."

When they had come down into the neighborhood of ranches, and Bisuka's
lights were twinkling below them, she asked: "Who lives now in the
grandfather's house on the Hudson?"

"The farmer, Chauncey Dunlop."

"Is there any other house on the place?"

"Yes. Mother built a new one on the Ridge some years ago."

"What sort of a house is it?"

"It was called a good house once; but now it's rather everything it
shouldn't be. It was one of the few rash things mother ever did; build a
house for her children while they were children. Now she will not change
it. She says we shall build for ourselves, how and where we please. Stone
Ridge is her shop. Of course, if Chrissy liked it--But Chrissy considers
it a 'hole.' Mother goes up there and indulges in secret orgies of
economy; one man in the stable, one in the garden--'Economy has its
pleasures for all healthy minds.'"

"Economy is as delicious as bread and butter after too much candy. I
should love to go up to Stone Ridge and wear out my old clothes. Did any
one tell me that place would some day be yours?"

"It will be my wife's on the day we are married."

"That is where your wife, sir, would like to live."

"It is a stony Garden, dear! The summer people have their places nearer
the river. Our land lies back, with no view but hills. For one who has the
world before her where to choose, it strikes me she has picked out a very
humble Paradise."

"Did you think my idea was to travel--a poor army girl who spends her life
in trunks? Do we ever buy a book or frame a picture without thinking of
our next move? As for houses, who am I that I should be particular? In the
Army's House are many mansions, but none that we can call our own. Oh, I'm
very primitive; I have the savage instinct to gather sticks and stones,
and get a roof over my head before winter sets in."

To such a speech as this there was but one obvious answer, as she rode at
his side, her appealing slenderness within reach of his arm. It did not
matter what thousands he proposed to spend upon the roof that should cover
her; it was the same as if they were planning a hut of tules or a burrow
in the snow.

"It is a poor man's country," he said; "stony hillsides, stony roads lined
with stone fences. The chief crop of the country is ice and stone. In one
of my grandfather's fields there is a great cairn which Adam Bogardus,
they say, picked up, stone by stone, with his bare hands, and carted there
when he was fourteen years old. We will build them into the walls of our
new house for a blessing."

"No," said Moya. "We will let sleeping stones lie!"


VII


MARKING TIME

There was impatience at the garrison for news that the hunters had
started. Every day's delay at Challis meant an abridgment of the
bridegroom's leave, and the wedding was now but a fortnight away. It began
to seem preposterous that he should go at all, and the colonel was annoyed
with himself for his enthusiasm over the plan in the first place. Mrs.
Bogardus's watchfulness of dates told the story of her thoughts, but she
said nothing.

"Mamsie is restless," said Christine, putting an arm around her mother's
solid waist and giving her a tight little hug apropos of nothing. "I
believe it's another case of 'mail-time fever.' The colonel says it comes
on with Moya every afternoon about First Sergeant's call. But Moya is
cunning. She goes off and pretends she isn't listening for the bugle."

"'First Sergeant or Second,' it's all one to me," said Mrs. Bogardus. "I
never know one call from another, except when the gun goes off."

"Mamsie! 'When the gun goes off!' What a civilian way of talking. You are
not getting on at all with your military training. Now let me give you
some useful information. In two seconds the bugle will call the first
sergeant--of each company--to the adjutant's office, and there he'll get
the mail for his men. The orderly trumpeter will bring it to the houses on
the line, and the colonel's orderly--beautiful creature! There he goes!
How I wish we could take him home with us and have him in our front hall.
Fancy the feelings of the maids! And the rage on the noble brow of
Parkins--awful Parkins. I should like to give his pride a bump."

Mother and daughter were pacing the colonel's veranda, behind a partial
screen of rose vines--October vines fast shedding their leaves. Every
breeze shook a handful down, which the women's skirts swept with them as
they walked. Mrs. Bogardus turned and clasped Christine's arm above the
elbow; through the thin sleeve she could feel its cool roundness. It was a
soft, small, unmuscular arm, that had never borne its own burdens, to say
nothing of a share in the burdens of others.

"Get your jacket," said the mother. "There is a chill in the air."

"There is no chill in me," laughed Christine. "You know, mamsie, you
aren't a girl. I should simply die in those awful things that you wear.
Did you ever know such a hot house as the colonel keeps!"

"The rooms are small, and the colonel is--impulsive," Mrs. Bogardus added
with a smile.

"There is something very like him about his fire-making. I should know by
the way he puts on wood that he never would have "--Mrs. Bogardus checked
herself.

"A large bank account?" Christine supplied, with her quick wit, which was
not of a highly sensitive order.

"He has a large heart," said her mother.

"And plenty of room for it, bless him! The slope of his chest is like the
roof of a house. The only time I envy Moya is when she lays her head down
on it and tries to meet her arms around him as if he were a tree, and he
strokes her hair as if his hand was a bough! If ever I marry a soldier he
shall be a colonel with a white mustache and a burnt-sienna complexion,
and a sword-belt that measures--what is the colonel's waist-measure, do
you suppose?"

Mrs. Bogardus listened to this nonsense with the smile of a silent woman
who has borne a child that can talk. Moya had often noticed how uncritical
she was of Christine's "unruly member."

"It isn't polite to speak of waist-measures to middle-aged persons like
your mother and the colonel," she said placidly. "You like it very much
out here?"

"Fascinating! Never had such a good time in my whole life."

"And you like the West altogether? Would you like to live here?"

"Oh, if it came to living, I should want to be sure there was a way out."

"There generally is a way out of most things. But it costs something."
Mrs. Bogardus was so concise in her speech as at times to be almost
oracular.

"Army people are sure of their way out," said Christine, "and I guess they
find it costs something."

"Why do they buy so many books, I wonder? If I moved as often as they do,
I'd have only paper covers and leave them behind."

"You are not a reader, mummy. You're a business woman. You look at
everything from the practical side."

"And if I didn't, who would?" Mrs. Bogardus spoke with earnestness. "We
can't all be dreamers like Paul or privileged persons like you. There has
to be one in every family to say the things no one likes to hear and do
the things nobody likes to do."

"We are the rich repiners and you are the household drudge!" Christine
shouted, laughing at her own wit.

"Hush, hush!" her mother smiled. "Don't make so much noise."

"I should like to know who's to be the drudge in Paul's privileged family.
It doesn't strike me it's going to be Moya. And Paul only drudges for
people he doesn't know."

"Moya is a girl you can expect anything of. She is a wonderful mixture of
opposites. She has the Irish quickness, and yet she has learned to obey.
She has had the freedom and the discipline of these little lordly army
posts. She is one of the few girls of her age who does not measure
everything from her own point of view."

"Is that a dig at me, ma'am?"

At that moment Moya came out upon the porch.

She was very striking with the high color and brilliant eyes that
mail-time fever breeds. Christine looked at her with freshly aroused
curiosity, moved by her mother's unwonted burst of praise. The faintest
tinge of jealousy made her feel naughty. As Moya went down the board walk,
the colonel's orderly came springing up the steps to meet her with the
mail-bag. He saluted and turned off at an angle down the embankment not to
present his back to the ladies.

"Did you see that! He never raised his eyes. They are like priests. You
can't make them look at you." Moya looked at Christine in amazement. The
man himself might have heard her. It was not the first time this
privileged guest had rubbed against garrison customs in certain directions
hardly worth mentioning. Moya hesitated. Then she laughed a little, and
said: "Only a raw recruity would look at an officer's daughter, or any
lady of the line."

"Oh, you horrid little aristocrat! Well, I look at them, when they are as
pretty as that one, and I forgive them if they look at me."

Moya turned and hovered over the contents of the mail-bag. In the exercise
of one of her prerogatives, it was her habit to sort its contents before
delivering it at the official door.

"All, all for you!" she offered a huge packet of letters, smiling, to Mrs.
Bogardus. It was faced with one on top in Paul's handwriting. "All but
one," she added, and proceeded to open her own much fatter one in the same
hand. She stood reading it in the hall.

Mrs. Bogardus presently followed and remained beside her. "Could I speak
to your father a moment?" she asked.

"Certainly, I will call him," said Moya.

"Wait: I hear him now." The study door opened and Colonel Middleton joined
them. Mrs. Bogardus leading the way into the sitting-room, the colonel
followed her, and Moya, not having been invited, lingered in the hall.

"Well, have the hunters started yet?" the colonel inquired in his breezy
voice, which made you want to open the doors and windows to give it room."
Be seated! Be seated! I hope you have got a long letter to read me."

Mrs. Bogardus stood reflecting. "The day this letter was mailed they got
off--only two days ago," she said. "Could I reach them, Colonel, with a
telegram?"

"Two days ago," the colonel considered. "They must have made Yankee Fork
by yesterday. Today they are deep in the woods. No; I should say a man on
horseback would be your surest telegram. Is it anything important?"

"Colonel, I wish we could call them back! They have gone off, it seems to
me, in a most crazy way--against the judgment of every one who knows. The
guide, this man whom they waited for, refused, it appears, to go out again
with another party so late in the fall. But the Bowens were determined.
They insisted on making arrangements with another man. Then, when 'Packer
John,' they call him, heard of this, he went to Paul and urged him, if he
could not prevent the others from going, to give up the trip himself. The
Bowens were very much annoyed at his interference, and with Paul for
listening to him. And Paul, rather than make things unpleasant, gave in.
You know how young men are! What silly grounds are enough for the most
serious decisions when it is a question of pride or good faith. The Bowens
had bought their outfit on Paul's assurance that he would go. He felt he
could not leave them in the lurch. On that, the guide suddenly changed his
mind and said he would go with them sooner than see them fall into worse
hands. They were, in a way, committed to the other man, so they took _him_
along as cook--the whole thing done in haste, you see, and unpleasant
feelings all around. Do you call that a good start for a pleasure trip?"

"It's very much the way with young troops when they start out--everything
wrong end foremost, everybody mad with everybody else. A day in the saddle
will set their little tempers all right."

"That isn't the point," Mrs. Bogardus persisted gloomily. As she spoke,
the two girls came into the room and stood listening.

"What is the point, then?" Christine demanded. "Moya has no news; all
those pages and pages, and nothing for anybody or about anybody!"

"'Such an intolerable deal of sack to such a poor pennyworth of bread,'"
the colonel quoted, smiling at Moya's bloated envelope.

"But what do you think?" Mrs. Bogardus recalled him. "Don't you think it's
a mistake all around?"

"Not at all, if they have a good man. This flat-footed fellow, John, will
take command, as he should. There is no danger in the woods at any season
unless the party gets rattled and goes to pieces for want of a head."

"Father!" exclaimed Moya. "You know there is danger. Often, things have
happened!"

"Why, what could happen?" asked Christine, with wide eyes.

"Many things very interesting could happen," the colonel boasted
cheerfully. "That is the object of the trip. You want things to happen. It
is the emergency that makes the man--sifts him, and takes the chaff out of
him."

"Take the chaff out of Banks Bowen," Moya imprudently struck in, "and what
would you have left?" She had met Banks Bowen in New York.

"Tut, tut!" said the colonel. "Silence, or a good word for the
absent--same as the"--The colonel stopped short.

"You are so scornful about the other men, now you have chosen one!"
Christine's face turned red.

"Why, Chrissy! You would not compare your brother to those men! Papa, I
beg your pardon; this is only for argument."

"I don't compare him; but that's not to say all the other men are chaff!"
Christine joined constrainedly in the laugh that followed her speech.

"You need not go fancying things, Moya," she cried, in answer to a
quizzical look. "As if I hadn't known the Bowen boys since I was so high!"

"You might know them from the cradle to the grave, my dear young lady, and
not know them as Paul will, after a week in the woods with them."

The colonel had missed the drift of the girls' discussion. He was
considering, privately, whether he had not better send a special messenger
on the young men's trail. His assurances to the women left a wide margin
for personal doubt as to the prudence of the trip. Aside from the lateness
of the start, it was, undoubtedly, an ill-assorted company for the woods.
There was a wide margin also for suspense, as all mail facilities ceased
at Challis.


VIII


A HUNTER'S DIARY

Early in November, about a week before the hunters were expected home, a
packet came addressed to Moya. It was a journal letter from Paul, mailed
by some returning prospector chance encountered in the forest as the party
were going in. Moya read it aloud, with asterisks, to a family audience
which did not include her father.

"To-day," one of the first entries read, "we halt at Twelve-Mile Cabin,
the last roof we shall sleep under. There are pine-trees near the cabin
cut off fifteen feet above the ground, felled in winter, John tells us,
_at the level of the snow!_

"These cabins are all deserted now; the tide of prospecting has turned
another way. The great hills that crowd one another up against the sky are
so infested and overridden by this enormous forest-growth, and the
underbrush is so dense, it would be impossible for a 'tenderfoot' to gain
any clear idea of his direction. I should be a lost man the moment I
ventured out of call. Woodcraft must be a sixth sense which we lost with
the rest of our Eden birthright when we strayed from innocence, when we
ceased to sleep with one ear on the ground, and to spell our way by the
moss on tree-trunks. In these solitudes, as we call them, ranks and clouds
of witnesses rise up to prove us deaf and blind. Busy couriers are passing
every moment of the day; and we do not see, nor hear, nor understand. We
are the stocks and stones. Packer John is our only wood-sharp;--yet the
last half of the name doesn't altogether fit him. He is a one-sided
character, handicapped, I should say, by some experience that has humbled
and perplexed him. Two and two perhaps refused to make four in his account
with men, and he gave up the proposition. And now he consorts with trees,
and hunts to live, not to kill. He has an impersonal, out-door odor about
him, such as the cleanest animals have. I would as soon eat out of his
dry, hard, cool hand, as from a chunk of pine-bark.

"It is amusing to see him with a certain member of the party who tries to
be fresh with him. He has a disconcerting eye when he fixes it on a man,
or turns it away from one who has said a coarse or a foolish thing.

"'The jungle is large,' he seems to say, 'and the cub he is small. Let him
think and be still!'"

"Who is this 'certain member' who tries to be 'fresh'?" Christine inquired
with perceptible warmth.

"The cook, perhaps," said Moya prudently.

"The cook isn't a 'member'!--Well, can't you go on, Moya? Paul seems to
need a lot of editing." Moya had paused and was glancing ahead, smiling to
herself constrainedly.

"Is there more disparagement of his comrades?" Christine persisted.

"Christine, be still!" Mrs. Bogardus interfered. "Moya ought to have the
first reading of her own letter. It's very good of her to let us hear it
at all."

"Oh dear, there's no disparagement. Quite the contrary! I'll go on with
pleasure if you don't mind." Moya read hurriedly, laughing through her
words:--

"'If you were here,
(Ah, _if_ you were here!)
You should lend me an ear--
One at the least
Of a pair the prettiest'--

which is, within a foot or two, the rhythm of 'Wood Notes.' Of course you
don't know it!"

"This is a gibe at me," Moya explained, "because I don't read Emerson. 'It
is the very measure of a marching chorus,' he goes on to say, 'where the
step is broken by rocks and tree-roots;'--and he is chanting it to himself
(to her it was in the original) as they go in single file through these
'haughty solitudes, the twilight of the gods!'"

"'Haughty solitudes'!" Christine derided.

Mrs. Bogardus sighed with impatience, and Moya's face became set. "Well,
here he quotes again," she haughtily resumed. "Anybody who is tired of
this can be excused. Emerson won't mind, and I'm sure Paul won't!" She
looked a mute apology to Paul's mother, who smiled and said, "Go on, dear.
I don't read Emerson either, but I like him when Paul reads him for me."

"Well, I warn you there is an awful lot of him here!" Moya's voice was a
trifle husky as she read on.

"Old as Jove,
Old as Love'"

"I thought Love was young!"--Christine in a whisper aside.

"'Who of me
Tells the pedigree?
Only the mountains old,
Only the waters cold,
Only the moon and stars,
My coevals are.'"

Moya sighed, and sank into prose again. "There is a gaudy yellow moss in
these woods that flecks the straight and mournful tree-trunks like a
wandering glint of sunlight; and there is a crêpe-like black moss that
hangs funeral scarfs upon the boughs, as if there had been a death in the
forest, and the trees were in line for the burial procession. The grating
of our voices on this supreme silence reminds one of 'Why will you still
be talking, Monsieur Benedick?--nobody marks you.'

"There are silences, and again there are whole symphonies of sound. The
winds smites the tree-tops over our heads, a surf-like roar comes up the
slope, and the yellow pine-needles fall across the deepest darks as motes
sail down a sunbeam. One wearies of the constant perpendicular, always
these stiff, columnar lines, varied only by the melancholy incline where
some great pine-chieftain is leaning to his fall supported in the arms of
his comrades, or by the tragic prostration of the 'down timber'--beautiful
straight-cut English these woodsmen talk.

"Last evening John and I sat by the stove in the men's tent, while the
others were in the cabin playing penny-ante with the cook (a sodden brute
who toadies to the Bowens, and sulks with John because he objected to our
hiring the fellow--an objection which I sustained, hence his logical spite
includes me). John was melting pine gum and elk tallow into a dressing for
our boots. I took a mean advantage of him, his hands being in the tallow
and the tent-flap down, and tried on him a little of--now, don't deride
me!--'Wood Notes.' It is seldom one can get the comment of a genuine
woodsman on Nature according to the poets.'"

Moya read on perfunctorily, feeling that she was not carrying her audience
with her, and longing for the time when she could take her letter away and
have it all to herself. If she stopped now, Christine, in this sudden new
freak of distrustfulness, would be sure to misunderstand.

    "'For Nature ever faithful is
    To such as trust her faithfulness.
    When the forest shall mislead me,
    When the night and morning lie,
    When sea and land refuse to feed me,
    Will be time enough to die.

    Then will yet my Mother yield
    A pillow in her greenest field;
    Nor the June flowers scorn to cover
    The clay of their departed lover.'"

"That is beautiful," Mrs. Bogardus murmured hastily. "Even I can
understand that." Moya thanked her with a glance.

"And what did the infallible John say?" Christine inquired.

"John looked at me and smiled, as at a babbling infant"--

"Good for John!"

"Christine, be still!"

"John looked at me and smiled," Moya repeated steadily. Nothing could have
stopped her now. She only hoped for some further scattering mention of
that "certain member" who had set them all at odds and spoiled what should
have been an hour's pure happiness. "'You'll get the pillow all right,' he
said. 'It might not be a green one, nor I wouldn't bank much on the
flowers; but you'll be tired enough to sleep without rocking about the
time you trust to Nature's tuckin' you in and puttin' victuals in your
mouth. I never _see_ nature till I came out here. I'd seen pretty woods
and views, that a young lady could take down with her paints; but how are
you going to paint that?'--he waved his tallow-stick towards the night
outside. 'Ears can't reach the bottom of that stillness. That's creation
before God ever thought of man. Long as I've been in the woods, I never
get over the feeling that there's _something behind me_. Some chess writers
have loved to dwell upon the unending fertility of its powers of combinations.
They have calculated by arithmetical rules the myriads of positions of
which the pieces and pawns are susceptible.

They have told us that a life time of many ages would hardly suffice
even to count them.
We know, too, that while the composers of the orient and the occident have
displayed during long centuries an admirable subtility and ingenuity in
the fabrications of problems, yet the chess stratagems of the last quarter
of a century have never been excelled in intricacy and beauty. We have
witnessed, in our day contests brilliant with skilful maneuvers
unknown to the sagacious and dexterous chess artists of the Eighteenth
century.

Within the last thirty years we have seen the invention of an opening as
correct in theory, and as elegant in practice as any upon the board,
and of which our fathers were utterly ignorant.
The world is not likely to tire of an amusement which never repeats itself,
of a game which presents today, features as novel, and charms as fresh as
those with which it delighted, in the morning of history, the dwellers
on the banks of the Ganges and Indus.

An Indian philosopher thus described it:

It is a representative contest, a bloodless combat, an image, not only
of actual military operations, but of that greater warfare which every
son of the earth, from the cradle to the grave, is continually waging,
the battle of life. Its virtues are as innumerable as the sands of
African Sahara. It heals the mind in sickness, and exercises it in
health. It is rest to the overworked intellect, and relaxation to the
fatigued body. It lessens the grief of the mourner, and heightens the
enjoyment of the happy.
It teaches the angry man to restrain his passions, the light-minded
to become grave, the cautious to be bold, and the venturesome to
be prudent.

It affords a keen delight to youth, a sober pleasure to manhood, and a
perpetual solace to old age. It induces the poor to forget their poverty,
and the rich to be careless of their wealth.
It admonishes Kings to love and respect their people, and instructs
subjects to obey and reverence their rulers.

It shows how the humblest citizens, by the practise of virtue and
the efforts of labour, may rise to the loftiest stations, and how
the haughtiest lords, by the love of vice and the commission of
errors, may fall from their elevated estate.

It is an amusement and an art, a sport and a science. The erudite and
untaught, the high and the low, the powerful and the weak, acknowledge
its charms and confirm its enticements.

We learn to like it in the years of our youth, but as increased familiarity
has developed its beauties, and unfolded its lessons, our enthusiasm
has grown stronger, and our fondness more confirmed.

NOTE. The earliest example of praise and censure of chess strikes us as very
curious and sufficiently interesting to be presented as illustrating
two varieties of Arabian style, and as exhibiting two sides of the
question.

It is from one of the early Arabian manuscripts called the Yawakit ul Mawakit
in the collection Baron Hammer Purgstall at Vienna.

By Ibn Ul Mutazz.

CENSURE OF CHESS.

The chess player is ever absorbed in his chess and full of care,
swearing false oaths and making many vain excuses, one who careth
only for himself and angereth his Maker.

'Tis the game of him who keepeth the fast only when he is hungry, of the
official who is in disgrace, of the drunkard till he recovereth
from his drunkenness, and in the Yatimat ul Dehr it is said, Abul
Casim al Kesrawi hated chess, and constantly abused it, saying, you
never see a chess player rich who is not a sordid miser, nor hear
a squabbling that is not on a question of the chess board.

IN PRAISE OF CHESS

O thou whose cynic sneers express the censure of our favourite chess,
Know that its skill is science self, its play distraction from distress,
It soothes the anxious lover's care, it weans the drunkard from
excess, It counsels warriors in their art, when dangers threat and
perils press, And yields us when we need them most, companions in
our loneliness.

------
The manuscript of the Asiatic Society presented to them by Major
Price, is a curious but interesting production, the author is
unknown, but he is regarded as a very quaint individual, an opinion
perhaps not unwarranted by his preface, and many a one (he says)
has experienced a relief from sorrow, and affliction in consequence
of this magic recreation, and this same fact has been asserted by
the celebrated physician, Mohammed Zakaria Razi, in his book,
entitled "The Essence of Things," "and such is likewise the opinion
of the physician Abi Bin Firdaus as I shall notice more fully towards
the end of the present work for the composing of which I am in the
hope of receiving my reward from God, who is most high and most
glorious.

"I have passed my life since the age of fifteen among all the masters of
chess living in my time, and since that period till now, when I
have arrived at middle age, I have travelled through Irak Arab, and
Irak Ajarm, and Khurasam and the regions of Mawara al Nahr
(Transoxania), and I have there met with many a master of this art,
and I have played with all of them, and through the favour of Him
who is adorable and Most High, I have come off victorious.

Likewise in playing without seeing the board I have overcome most
opponents, nor had they the power to cope with me.

I, the humble sinner now addressing you have played with one opponent
over the board and at the same time I have carried on four different
games with as many adversaries without seeing the board, whilst I
conversed freely with my friends all along and through the Divine
favour I conquered them all."

The ten advantages of chess as set forth by the anonymous author of the
Asiatic Society's M.S. form the most remarkable specimens of chess
criticism.

The first discusses it as food and exercise for the mind, the second,
he says is in Religion and free will, 3 relates to Government, 4
to war, 5 to the Heavens and stars, 6 to the Temperaments, 7 in
obtaining repose, 8 The social advantage of chess, 9 Wisdom and
knowledge, 10, In combining war with sport.

Advantage the ninth is in wisdom and knowledge, and that wise men do play
chess, and to those who object that foolish men also play chess, and
though constantly engaged in it, become no wiser, it may be answered,
that the distinction between wise and foolish men in playing chess, is as
that of man and beast in eating of the tree, that the man chooses
its ripe and sweet fruit, while the beast eats but the leaves and
branches, and the unripe and bitter fruit, and so it is with players
of chess.

The wise man plays for those virtues and advantages which have been already
mentioned, and the foolish man plays it for mere sport and gambling, and
regards not its advantages and virtues.

Thus may be seen, one man who breaks the stone of the fruit and
eats the kernel, while another will even skin it to obtain the innermost
part, and in pursuit of knowledge men do likewise. One man is content with
the exterior and apparent meaning of the words, nor seeks its hidden
sense, and this is the man who eats the fruit and throws away the
kernel.

Another desires to be acquainted with the secret and inmost meaning
that he may enjoy the whole benefit of it, and he is like unto the
man who takes out the very oil of the nut, and mixes it with sugar
and makes therewith a precious sweetmeat, which he eats and throws
away the rest.

This is the condition of the wise man, and the foolish man in playing
chess.

The game of chess received by the Arabians from the Persians was differently
regarded by the various sects, some practising, others disapproving it.
Familiar references occur to it in the time of the Prophet, who died 632
A.D.

Commentators considered that a passage in the Koran concerning lots
and images embraced chess within the meaning of the latter term.

The words are "O true believers, surely wine, and lots, and images, and
divining arrows are an abomination of the works of Satan, therefore
avoid ye them that ye may prosper."

Mussulman commentators supposed that the interdict applied not to the
game itself in which chance had no part, but to the carved figures,
representing the pieces, Men, Horses, Elephants, &c.

According to Sokeiker of Damascus, the author of the book Mustatraph
and others, it is related from the Sunna.

That about the time of Mahomet they played in the East at chess with
figured men. As Ali accidentally passed by some men playing at chess
he said to them, "What are these small images upon which ye are
so intent."

From which it appears says the historian, the Prophet saw small
images of which he knew not the use.

The Mahometans of the Persian sect, it is said, used figures, and the
Turks and Arabians plain pieces.

The Arabians had among them very expert chess players.

The progress of chess from Persia to Arabia plainly appears from the number
of Persian words which are never used by the Arabians except in this game.
The Elephants which held a place in it, and the Chariot, Ship, or Boat,
original terms for the Bishop of our game are among the proofs
adduced of its Indian origin which neither European nor Asiatic
writers seem to doubt, whilst with chess players the agreement in
principle and identity of pieces in the present game with the ancient
Chaturanga is deemed almost conclusive.

Al Suli, who died in 946 is recorded to have been the greatest player among
the Arabians. Adali al Rumi was also a player of the very highest class,
both of these as well as Abul Abbas a physician, who died in 899, and
Lajlaj in the same age wrote treatises on the game. Ibn Dandun and Al
Kunaf, both of Bagdad were of the first class, called Aliyat.

NOTE. Khusra Naushirawan, King of Persia, who reigned 528 to 576 (Anna
Comnena, Lambe) or 531 to 579 (Forbes and biographers) seems to be the
first Royal patron of chess and if we consider the accounts of
Alexander the Great, and his contemporary Indian Kings insufficiently
vouched Shahnama, (Asiatic Society's M.S.), ranks as our earliest
reigning great patron, (Justinian perhaps coming next).

Al Walid, conqueror of Spain, 705 to 715 A.D. is the first mentioned among
Arabian rulers before the famous Harun Ar Rashid. The enlightened, mild
and humane Al Mamun (second son of Harun) the great patron of science, comes
seventh on the list, and is supposed to have been the most enthusiastic
and liberal of all the Khalifs, and we are told that it was a happy
thing for any worthy man of learning or scholar to become known to
him.

"Unluckily it is said for Oriental literature, but few of the Arabian treasures
have been preserved, and of those that have, scarcely any are
translated," but there are abundant references to shew that some
of the most powerful Eastern rulers were chess players, (Gibbon and
others and Eastern historians) and probably as has been suggested,
(Lambe, Bland, Forbes, &c., &c.,) many of them were devoted to or
partial to the game, list of the Khalifs, Sultans, Emperors and
Kings of the East, Africa, Spain and at times of Egypt and Persia,
from Abu Bekr 632 to 1212 A.D.

(the great battle) which finally overthrew the Moorish ascendancy.

The versions of Persian Chess.

Burzuvia 1, King of Hind 2.

------

Abu Feda, who is regarded as one of the most reliable historians in the
annals of the Muslims, records the following letter from Nicephorus,
Emperor of the Romans to Harun, "Sovereign of the Arabs," the date
given being about 802 A.D.

After the usual compliments the epistle proceeds:

"The Empress (Irene) into whose place I have succeeded looked upon
you as a Rukh, and herself as a mere Pawn, therefore she submitted to pay
you a tribute more than the double of which she ought to have exacted
from you. All this has been owing to female weakness and timidity.

Now, however, I insist that you immediately on reading this letter repay
to me all the sums of money you ever received from her. If you hesitate,
the sword shall settle our accounts."

In reply to this pithy epistle, Harun in great wrath wrote on the
back of the leaf:

"`In the name of God the Merciful and Gracious.'

From Harun the Commander of the Faithful to the Roman dog,
Nicephorus.

"I have read thine epistle, thou son of an infidel mother. My answer to
it thou shalt see not here. Nicephorus had to sue for peace, and to pay
the tribute as before."
The above is adduced as tending to confirm by the familiar allusion
to Rukh and Pawn that the game was known to the Greeks and Arabians
in the eighth century.

NOTE. The unknown Persian philosopher in his M.S. presented by Major
Price, the eminent Orientalist to the Asiatic Society attributes the
invention of chess to Hermes, who lived in the time of Moses. This M.S.
which is the one upon which Bland mainly bases his admirable treatise on
Persian Chess is imperfect, many pages being missing, including that in
which the title, name of author and date would doubtless appear
if the M.

S. was perfect, what exists however is singularly curious and interesting.
It commences with a description of the author himself, and his prowess and
achievements. It then sets forth under ten headings the advantages of chess,
explains its terms, and describes it fully, gives the names of
great players with many positions, including some of Al Mutasem,
eighth Khalif of Abbaside, (833 to 842) and 18 by Ali Shaturanji
the Philidor of Timur's time.

Bland assigns about the Tenth century, between the time of the death
of Al Razi the physician of Bagdad, and that of the poet Firdausi,
as the age of the document.

Forbes strongly contends that it was more probably written in the time
of Tamerlane, between 1380 and 1400 A.D. and hints that it may
have been prepared to please that monarch himself with an illustration
of the great game called the Complete or Perfect Chess of Timur
(with 56 pieces and 112 squares) to which he had become much attached.

Blindfold play by the author and others is described in the M.S. as well as
the giving of odds, there being no less than thirteen grades of players
enumerated.

Anna Comnena was born 1083 and died 1148, she was the daughter of
the Emperor "Alexis Comnenus" and "The Empress Irene."

During the latter years of her life she composed a work to which she gave
the name of Alexius, which is divided into 15 books, and has been
more or less esteemed by critics, generally, and is called a
memorable work by all.

The Biographical Dictionary 1842 describes it as one of the most important
and interesting works of the time, and the chief source for the life of
Alexius I, mention is made of her great beauty and extraordinary
talents, also of her learning, and that her palace was the rendezvous
of the most eminent Greek scholars, poets, artists, and statesmen,
and was surrounded by many of the distinguished barons of the first
Crusaders, on their appearance at Constantinople; reference is made
to her attachment to arts and sciences, but as to chess or music,
or the diversions, or recreations, common to the period, or favoured
at the Court not one word is said, and this seems very remarkable,
as due prominence is given to her notice of chess by chess writers.

The article is initialed W. P.

William Plate, L.L.D., M.R., Geographical Society of Paris. This gentleman
may have been unacquainted with chess, and so may Don Pascual de Gayangos
and Dr. Sprenger, the other writers in the Biography, but it happens that
many of the articles in the same volume are by Duncan Forbes, who in other
works so prominently makes due mention of Anna Comnena and her references
to chess, and the fact that her father Alexius was in the habit of
playing the game.

We are told by Hyde that the Princess Anna Comnena relates, in the Alexius
a work written by her in the beginning of the 12th century, "that
the Emperor (Alexius), her father, in order to dispel the cares
arising from affairs of state, occasionally played chess at night
with some of his relations or kinsfolk.

She then says that this game had been originally brought into use among
the Byzantines from the Assyrians."

The fair historian says nothing as to the time when the game came
from Assyria, which may have been five centuries before she wrote,
her statement, however, proves that it came from Persia, and not
from Arabia, for Assyria formed an important portion of the Persian
Empire under the Sassassian dynasty, and in fact was for some
centuries a kind of debatable land, and alternately occupied by the
Persians and Romans, according as victory swayed to one side or the
other.

The term Assyria, then, denoting Persia in general, is used here
in a well known figurative sense "per synecdechen," a part taken
for the whole, just as the term Fers is employed to at this day to
denote the whole of Persia, whereas it is only the name of a single
insignificant province of that kingdom.

Finally, the once splendid empire of Assyria, of Media, and of Persia, had
all passed away long before Anna Comnena wrote, so that one name is just
as likely to be employed by her as another. (Forbes.)
------
The European origin of chess, or rather the supposed time of its first
introduction through the Arabs into Spain 713, 715, though resting
on a general consensus of agreement may yet prove to be ill matured, for
though it is clear that Spain did get knowledge of it at the conquest and
occupancy during Al Walid's reign by the armies under Musa Ibn Nosseyr
and Tarik Ibn Yeyzad it is not so certain, if the Romans were acquainted
with it at the time of the edict, 830 years earlier, that it
may not have been known in some parts of Europe before the time supposed,
besides which we have the Asiatic Society's statement, through its
Persian M.S., and from the Shahnama applicable to Alexander the Great's
time, and the Indian Kings in treaty with him.

The commonly accepted theory, that England first got chess through
William of Normandy at the Conquest or on the return of the first
Crusaders (in the latter case about 1100 A.D.), though concurred
in with tolerable unanimity by all writers until Sir Frederic Madden
raised his doubts in 1828 also appears scarcely consistent with
previous incidents found on record.

Canute's partiality for chess (he reigned 1017 to 1035) events mentioned
in the reigns of Athelstan and Edgar and the chess pieces and
boards we read of including those dug up at the Isle of Lewis, and
of Pepin, Charlemagne, Harfagia, King of Norway, and in Iceland
seem to be unnoticed or too slightly regarded by those who wrote
on assumed Saxon or English chess, first knowledge.

The period assigned for chess in England is 500 years later than its
arrival in Persia, and subsequent receipt in Arabia, and probably in Greece,
and nearly 400 years after its practice among the Spaniards, the Aquitaines
and the Franks. The Saxon monarchs who first became most given to the
search after knowledge of all kinds and who were acquainted with
and contemporary with Pepin and Charlemagne and Harun and the great
Al Mamun may well have heard of and acquired some knowledge of a
game so popular as chess had become at the Carlovingian and Greek
Courts, and in the Eastern dominions and Mohammedan Spain.

The reigns of Offa and Egbert seem not improbable ones in which chess might
have become known among us, the scholar Alcuin from his long sojourn
and domestication with Charlemagne and his family, by all of whom
he was revered and beloved, was familiar with that monarch's tastes
and amusements.

He was in fact his preceptor in the sciences. By arrangement with Charlemagne
he paid a visit to his native country, England, during the years 790 to 793
A.D., he probably knew chess and was familiar with the celebrated chess
men which the Emperor valued so much, and have been reported on
in our own times, and he seems the least unlikely person to have
noticed and assisted in encouraging a judicious practice of it in
England.

Offa also corresponded with Charlemagne. Egbert took refuge at his Court
before he began to reign and was well received, and for a time served
in the Emperor's army, and that those kings may have known of the
royal game, through Alcuin, or even direct is not impossible or
even improbable.

H. T.
"That? That is only a snowdrift. It grows faster than I
can shovel it away."

The packer had forgotten his own question. He dozed off, and presently
roused again as suddenly as he had slept. His utterance was clearer, but
not his meaning.

"What--you want to fetch me back for?"

"Back?" Paul repeated.

"I was most gone, wa'n't I?"

"Back to life, you mean? You came back of yourself. I hadn't much to do
with it."

"What's been the matter--gen'ly speaking?"

"You were hurt, don't you remember? Something like wound fever set in. The
altitude is bad for fevers. You have had a pretty close call."

"Been here all the time?"

"Have I been here?--yes."

"'Lone?"

"With you. How is your chest? Does it hurt you still when you breathe?"

The sick man filled his lungs experimentally. "Something busted inside, I
guess," he panted. "'Tain't no killing matter, though."

Nourishment, in a tin cup, warm from the fire was offered him, refused
with a gesture, and firmly urged upon him. This necessitated another rest.
It was long before he spoke again--out of some remoter train of thought
apparently.

"Family all in New York?"

"My family? They were at Bisuka when I left them."

"You don't _live_ West!"

"No. I was born in the West, though. Idaho is my native state."

The patient fell to whimpering suddenly like a hurt child. He drew up the
blanket to cover his face. Paul, interpreting this as a signal for more
nourishment, brought the sad decoction,--rinds of dried beef cooked with
rice in snow water.

"Guess that'll do, thank ye. My tongue feels like an old buckskin glove."

"When I was a little fellow," said the nurse, beguiling the patient while
he tucked the spoonfuls down, "I was like you: I wouldn't take what the
doctor ordered, and they used to pretend I must take it for the others of
the family,--a kind of vicarious milk diet, or gruel, or whatever it was.
'Here's a spoonful for mother, poor mother,' they would say; and of course
it couldn't be refused when mother needed it so much. 'And now one for
Chrissy'"--

"Who?"

"My sister, Christine. And then I'd take one for 'uncle' and one for each
of the servants; and the cupful would go down to the health of the
household, and I the dupe of my sympathies! Now you are taking this for
me, because it's nicer to be shut up here with a live man than a dead one;
and we haven't the conveniences for a first-class funeral."

"You never took a spoonful for 'father,'--eh?"

Paul answered the question with gravity. "No. We never used that name in
common."

"Dead was he?"

"I will tell you some time. Better try to sleep now."

Paul returned the saucepan to the fire, after piecing out its contents
with water, and retired out of his patient's sight.

Again came a murmur, chiefly unintelligible, from the bunk.

"Did you ask for anything?"

The sick man heaved a worried sigh. "See what a mis'rable presumptuous
piece of work!" he muttered, addressing the logs overhead. "But that
Clauson--he wa'n't no more fit to guide ye than to go to heaven! Couldn't
'a' done much worse than this, though!"

"He has done worse!" Paul came over to the bunk-side to reason on this
matter. "They started back from here, four strong men with all the animals
and all the food they needed for a six weeks' trip. We came in in one. If
they got through at all, where is the help they were to send us?"

"Help!" The packer roused. "They helped themselves, and pretty frequent. I
said to them more than once--they didn't like it any too well: 'We can't
drink up here like they do down to the coast. The air is too light. What a
man would take with his dinner down there would fit him out with a
first-class jag up here, 'leven thousand above the sea!'"

"It's a waste of breath to talk about them--breath burns up food and we
haven't much to spare. We rushed into this trouble and we dragged you in
after us. We have hurt you a good deal more than you have us."

The sick man groaned. He flung one hand back against the logs, dislodging
ancient dust that fell upon his corpse-like forehead. It was carefully
wiped away. Helpless tears stole down the rigid face.

"John," said Paul with animation, "your general appearance just now
reminds me of those worked-out placer claims we passed in Ruby Gulch, the
first day out. The fever and my cooking have ground-sluiced you to the
bone."

John smiled faintly. "Don't look very fat yourself. Where'd you git all
that baird on your face?"

"We have been here some time, you know--or you don't know; you have been
living in places far away from here. I used to envy you sometimes. And
other times I didn't."

"You mean I was off my head?"

"At times. But more of the time you were dreaming and talking in your
dreams; seeing things out loud by the flash-light of fever."

"Talking, was I? Guess there wa'n't much sense in any of it?" The hazard
was a question.

"A kind of sense,--out of focus, distorted. Some of it was opium. Didn't
you coax a little of his favorite medicine out of the cook?"

Packer John apologized sheepishly, "I cal'lated I was going to be left.
You put it up on me--making out you were off with the rest. _That_ was all
right. But I wa'n't going to suffer it out; why should I? A gunshot would
have cured me quicker, perhaps. Then some critter might 'a' found me and
called it murder. A word like that set going can hang a man. No, I just
took a little to deaden the pain."

"The whole discussion was rather nasty, right before the man we were
talking about," said Paul. "I wanted to get them off and out of hearing.
Then we had a few words."

At intervals during that day and the next, Paul's patient expended his
strength in questions, apparently trivial. His eyes, whenever they were
open, followed his nurse with a shrinking intelligence. Paul was on his
guard.

"What day of the month do you make it out to be?"

"The second of December."

"December!" The packer lay still considering. "Game all gone down?"

"I am not much of a pot-hunter," said Paul. "There may be game, but I
can't seem to get it. The snow is pretty deep."

"Wouldn't bear a man on snowshoes?"

"He would go out of sight."

"Snowing a little every day?"

"Right along, quietly, for I don't know how many days! I think the sky is
packed with it a mile deep."

"How much grub have we got?"

Paul gave a flattering estimate of their resources. The patient was not
deceived.

"Where's it all gone to? You ain't eat anything."

"I've eaten a good deal more than you have."

"I was livin' on fever."

"You can't live on fever any longer. The fever has left you, and you'll go
with it if you don't obey your doctor."

"But where's all the stuff _gone_ to?"

"There were four of them, and they allowed for some delay in getting out,"
Paul explained, with a sickly smile.

"Well, they was hogs! I knew how they'd pan out! That was why"--He wearied
of speech and left the point unfinished.

On the evening following, when the two could no longer see each other's
faces in the dusk, Paul spoke, controlling his voice:--

"I need not ask you, John, what you think of our chances?"

"I guess they ain't much worth thinking about." The fire hissed and
crackled; the soft subsidence of the snow could be heard outside.

"We are 'free among the dead,' how does it go? 'Like unto them that are
wounded and lie in the grave.' What we say to each other here will stop
here with our breath. Let us put our memories in order for the last
reckoning. I think, John, you must, at some time in your life, have known
my father, Adam Bogardus? He was lost on the Snake River plains,
twenty-one years ago this autumn."

Receiving no answer, the pale young inquisitor went on, choosing his words
with intense deliberation as one feeling his way in the dark.

"Most of us believe in some form of communication that we can't explain,
between those who are separated in body, in this world, but closely united
in thought. Do I make myself clear?"

There was a sound of deep breathing from the bunk; it produced a similar
conscious excitement in the speaker. He halted, recovered himself, and
continued:--

"After my father's disappearance, my mother had a distinct
presentiment--it haunted her for years--that something had happened to him
at a place called One Man Station. Did you ever know the place?"

"I might have." The words came huskily.

"Father had left her at this place, and to her knowledge he never came
back. But she had this intimation--and suffered from it--that he did come
back and was foully dealt with there--wronged in body or mind. The place
had most evil associations for her; it was not strange she should have
connected it with the great disaster of her life. As you lay talking to
yourself in your fever, you took me back on that lost trail that ended, as
we thought, in the grave. But we might have been mistaken. Is there
anything it would not be safe for you and me to speak of now? Do you know
any tie between men that should be closer than the tie between us? Any
safer place where a man could lay off the secret burdens of his life and
be himself for a little while--before the end answers all? I know you have
a secret. I believe that a share of it belongs to me."

"We are better off sometimes if we don't get all that belongs to us," said
John gratingly.

"It doesn't seem to be a matter of choice, does it? If you were not meant
to tell me--what you have partly told me already--where is there any
meaning in our being here at all? Let us have some excuse for this
senseless accident. Do you believe much in accidents? How foolish"--Paul
sighed--"for you and me to be afraid of each other! Two men who have
parted with everything but the privilege of speaking the truth!"

The packer raised himself in his bunk slowly, like one in pain. He looked
long at the listless figure crouching by the fire; then he sank back again
with a low groan. "What was it you heared me say? Come!"

"I can't give you the exact words. The words were nothing. Haven't you
watched the sparks blow up, at night, when the wind goes searching over
the ashes of an old camp-fire? It was the fever made you talk, and your
words were the sparks that showed where there had been fire once. Perhaps
I had no right to track you by your own words when you lay helpless, but I
couldn't always leave you. Now I'd like to have my share of that--whatever
it was--that hurt you so, at One Man Station."

"You ought to been a lawyer," said the packer, releasing his breath. There
was less strain in his voice. It broke with feeling. "You put up a mighty
strong case for your way of looking at it. I don't say it's best. There,
if you will have it! Sonny--my son! It--it's like startin' a snow-slide."

The sick man broke down and sobbed childishly.

"Take it quietly! Oh, take it quietly!" Paul shivered. "I have known it a
long time."

Hours later they were still awake, the packer in his bunk, Paul in his
blankets by the winking brands. The pines were moving, and in pauses of
the wind they could hear the incessant soft crowding of the snow.

"When they find us here in the spring," said the packer humbly, "it won't
matter much which on us was 'Mister' and which was 'John.'"

"Are you thinking of that!" Paul answered with nervous irritation. "I
thought you had lived in the woods long enough to have got rid of all that
nonsense!"

"I guess there was some of it where you've been living."

"We are done with all that now. Go to sleep,--Father." He pronounced the
word conscientiously to punish himself for dreading it. The darkness
seemed to ring with it and give it back to him ironically. "Father!"
muttered the pines outside, and the snow, listening, let fall the word in
elfin whispers. Paul turned over desperately in his blankets. "Father!" he
repeated out loud. "Do _you_ believe it? Does it do you any good?"

"I wouldn't distress myself, one way or t' other, if it don't come
natural," the packer spoke, out of his corner in the darkness. "Wait till
you can feel to say it. The word ain't nothing."

"But do you feel it? Is it any comfort to you at all?"

"I ain't in any hurry to feel it. We'll get there. Don't worry. And s'pose
we don't! We're men. Man to man is good enough for me."

Paul spent some wakeful hours after that, trying not to think of Moya, of
his mother and Christine. They were of another world,--a world that dies
hard at twenty-four. Towards morning he slept, but not without dreams.

He was in the pent-road at Stone Ridge. It was sunset and long shadows
striped the lane. A man stood, back towards him, leaning both arms on the
stone fence that bounds the lane to the eastward,--a plain farmer figure,
gazing down across the misty fields as he might have stood a hundred times
in that place at that hour. Paul could not see his face, but something
told him who it must be. His heart stood still, for he saw his mother
coming up the lane. She carried something in her hand covered with a
napkin, and she smiled, walking carefully as if carrying a treat to a sick
child. She passed the man at the fence, not appearing to have seen him.

"Won't you speak to him, mother? Won't you speak to"--He could not utter
the name. She looked at him bewildered. "Speak? who shall I speak to?" The
man at the fence had turned and he watched her, or so Paul imagined. He
felt himself choking, faint, with the effort to speak that one word. Too
late! The moment passed. The man whom he knew was his father, the solemn,
quiet figure, moved away up the road unquestioned. He never looked back.
Paul grew dizzy with the lines of shadow; they stretched on and on, they
became the ties of a railroad--interminable. He awoke, very faint and
tired, with a lost feeling and the sense upon him of some great
catastrophe. The old man was sleeping deeply in his bunk, a ray of white
sunlight falling on his yellow features. He looked like one who would
never wake again. But as Paul gazed at him he smiled, and sighed heavily.
His lips formed a name; and all the blood in Paul's body dyed his face
crimson. The name was his mother's.


XII


THE BLOOD-WITE

A few hours seemed days, after the great disclosure. Both men had recoiled
from it and were feeling the strain of the new relation. Three times since
their first meeting the elder had adjusted himself quietly to a change in
the younger's manner to him. First there had been respectful curiosity in
the presence of a new type, combined with the deference due a leader and
an expert in strange fields. Then indignant partisanship, pity, and the
slight condescension of the nurse. This had hurt the packer, but he took
it as he accepted his physical downfall. The last change was hardest to
bear; for now the time was short, and, as Paul himself had said, they were
in the presence of the final unveiling.

So when Paul made artificial remarks to break the pauses, avoiding his
father's eye and giving him neither name nor title, the latter became
silent and lay staring at the logs and picking at his hands.

"If I was hunting up a father," he said to himself aloud one day, "I'd try
to find a better lookin' one. I wouldn't pa'm off on myself no such old
warped stick as I be." The remark seemed a tentative one.

"I had the choice, to take or leave you," Paul responded. "You were an
unconscious witness. Why should I have opened the subject at all?"

Both knew that this answer was an evasion. By forcing the tie they had
merely marked the want of ease and confidence between them. As "Packer
John" Paul could have enjoyed, nay, loved this man; as his father, the sum
and finality of his filial dreams, the supplanter of that imaginary
husband of his mother's youth, the thing was impossible. And the father
knew it and did not resent it in the least, only pitied the boy for his
needless struggle. He was curious about him, too. He wanted to understand
him and the life he had come out of: his roundabout way of reaching the
simplest conclusions; his courage in argument, and his personal shying
away from the truth when found. More than all he longed for a little plain
talk, the exile's hunger for news from home. It pleased him when Paul,
rousing at this deliberate challenge, spoke up with animation, as if he
had come to some conclusion in his own mind. It could not be expected he
would express it simply. The packer had become used to his oddly elaborate
way of putting things.

"If we had food enough and time, we might afford to waste them discussing
each other's personal appearance. _I_ propose we talk to some purpose."

"Talking sure burns up the food." The packer waited.

"I wish I knew what my father was doing with himself, all those years when
his family were giving him the honors of the dead."

"I warned ye about this pumping out old shafts. You can't tell what you'll
find in the bottom. I suppose you know there are things in this world,
Boy, a good deal worse than death?"

"Desertion is worse. It is not my father's death I want explained, it is
his life, your life, in secret, these twenty years! Can you explain that?"

The packer doubled his bony fist and brought it down on the bunk-side.
"Now you talk like a man! I been waiting to hear you say that. Yes, I can
answer that question, if you ain't afeard of the answer!"

"I am keeping alive to hear it!" said Paul in a guarded voice.

"You might say you're keeping me alive to tell it. It's a good thing to
git off of one's mind; but it's a poor thing to hand over to a son. All
I've got to leave ye, though: the truth if you can stand it! Where do you
want I should begin?"

"At the night when you came back to One Man Station."

"How'd you know I come back?"

"You were back there in your fever, living over something that happened in
that place. There was a wind blowing and the door wouldn't shut. And
something had to be lifted,"--the old man's eyes, fixed upon his son, took
a look of awful comprehensions,--"something heavy."

"Yes; great Lord, it was heavy! And I been carrying it ever since!" His
chest rose as if the weight of that load lay on it still, and his breath
expired with a hoarse "haugh." "I got out of the way because it was _my_
load. I didn't want no help from them." He paused and sat picking at his
hands. "It's a dreadful ugly story. I'd most as soon live it over again as
have to tell it in cold blood. I feel sometimes it _can't be!_"

"You need not go back beyond that night. I know how my mother was left,
and what sort of a man you were forced to leave her with. Was it--the
keeper?"

"That's what it was. That was the hard knot in my thread. Nothing wouldn't
go past that. Some, when they git things in a tangle, they just reach for
the shears an' cut the thread. I wa'n't brought up that way. I was taught
to leave the shears alone. So I went on stringin' one year after another.
But they wouldn't join on to them that went before. There was the knot."

"It was between you and him--and the law?" said Paul.

"You've got it! I was there alone with it,--witness an' judge an' jury; I
worked up my own case. Manslaughter with extenuatin' circumstances, I made
it--though he was more beast than man. I give myself the outside
penalty,--imprisonment for life. And I been working out my sentence ever
since. The Western country wa'n't home to me then--more like a big prison.
It's been my prison these twenty-odd years, while your mother was enjoying
what belonged to her, and making a splendid job of your education. If I
had let things alone I might have finished my time out: but I didn't, and
now the rest of it's commuted--for the life of my son!"

"Don't put it that way! I am no lamb of sacrifice. Why, how can we let
things alone in this world! Should I have stood off from this secret and
never asked my father for his defense?"

"Do you mean to say a boy like you can take hold of this thing and
understand it?"

"I can," said Paul. "I could almost tell the story myself."

"Put it up then!" said the packer. The fascination of confession was
strong upon him.

"You had been out in the mountains--how long?"

"Two days and three nights, just as I left camp."

"You were crazed with anxiety for us. You came back to find your camp
empty, the wife and baby gone. You had reason to distrust the keeper. Not
for what he did--for what you knew he meant to do."

"For what he meant and tried to do. I seen it in his eye. The devil that
wanted him incited him to play with me and tell me lies about my wife. She
scorned the brute and he took his mean revenge. He kep' back her letter,
and he says to me, leerin' at me out of his wicked eyes, 'Your livestock
seems to be the strayin' kind. The man she went off with give me
that,'--he lugged a gold piece out of his clothes and showed me,--'give me
that,' he says, 'to keep it quiet.' He kep' it quiet! Half starved and
sick's I was, the strength was in me. But vengeance in the hand of a man,
it cuts both ways, my son! His bunk had a sharp edge to it like this. He
fell acrost it with my weight on top of him and he never raised up again.
There wasn't a mark on him. His back was broke. He died slow, his eyes
mocking me.

"'You fool,' he says. 'Go look in that coat hangin' on the wall.' I found
her letter there inside of one from Granger. He watched me read it and he
laughed. 'Now, go tell her you've killed a man!' He knew I didn't come of
a killin' breed. There was four hours to think it over. Four hours! I
thought hard, I tell you! 'T was six of one and half a dozen of t' other
'twixt him and me, but I worked it back 'n' forth a good long while about
her. First, taking her away from her father, an old man whose bread I'd
eat. She was like a child of my own raising. I always had felt mean about
that. We'd had bad luck from the start,--my luck,--and now disgrace to cap
it all. Whether I hid it or told her and stood my trial, I'd never be a
free man again. There he lay! And a sin done in secret, it's like a drop
of nitric acid: it's going to eat its way out--and in!

"I knew she'd have friends enough, once she was quit of me. That was the
case between us. The thing that hurt me most was to put her letter back
where I found it, and leave it, there with him. Her little cry to me--and
I couldn't come! I read the words over and over, I've said 'em to myself
ever since. I've lived on them. But I had to leave the letter there to
show I'd never come back. I put it back after he was dead.

"The sins of the parents shall be visited,--when it's in the blood! But I
declare to the Almighty, murder wa'n't in my blood! It come on me like a
stroke of lightning hits a tree, and I had a clear show to fall alone.

"That's the answer. Maybe I didn't see all sides of it, but there never
was no opening to do different, after that night. Now, you've had an
education. I should be glad to hear your way of looking at it?"

"I should think you might stand your trial, now, before any judge or jury,
in this world or the next," Paul answered.

"There is only one Judge." The packer smiled a beautiful quiet smile that
covered a world of meanings. "What a man re'ly wants, if he'd own up it,
is a leetle shade of partiality. Maybe that's what we're all going to
need, before we git through."

Paul was glad to be saved the necessity of speech, and he felt the swift
discernment with which the packer resumed his usual manner. "Got any more
of that stuff you call soup? Divide even! I won't be made no baby of."

"We might as well finish it up. It's hardly worth making two bites of a
cherry."

"Call this 'cherry'! It's been a good while on the bough. What's it mostly
made of?"

"Rind of bacon, snow water,--plenty of water,--and a tablespoonful of
rice."

"Good work! Hungry folks can live on what the full bellies throw away."

"Oh, I can save. But there comes a time when you can't live by saving what
you haven't got."

"That's right! Well, let's talk, then, before the bacon-rind fades out of
us."

The packer's face and voice, his whole manner, showed the joy of a soul
that has found relief. Paul was not trying now to behave dutifully; they
were man to man once more. The quaint, subdued humor asserted itself, and
the narrator's speech flowed on in the homely dialect which expressed the
man.

"I stayed out all that winter, workin' towards the coast. One day, along
in March, I fetched a charcoal burner's camp, and the critter took me in
and nursed my frost-bites and didn't ask no questions, nor I of him. We
struck up a trade, my drivin' stock, mostly skin and bone, for a show in
his business. He wa'n't gettin' rich at it, that was as plain as the hip
bones on my mules. I kep' in the woods, cuttin' timber and tendin' kiln,
and he hauled and did the sellin'. Next year he went below to Portland and
brought home smallpox with him. It broke out on him on the road. He was a
terrible sick man. I buried him, and waited for my turn. It didn't come. I
seemed kind o' insured. I've been in lots of trouble since then, but
nothing ever touched me till now. I banked on it too strong, though. I
sure did! My pardner was just such another lone bird like me. If he had
any folks of his own he kep' still about them. So I took his name--whether
it was his name there's no knowing. Guess I've took full as good care of
it as he would. 'Hagar?' folk would say, sort o' lookin' me over. 'You
ain't Jim Hagar.' No, but I was John, and they let it go at that.

"I heard of your mother that summer, from a prospector who came up past my
camp. He'd wintered in Mountain Home. He told me my own story, the way
they had it down there, and what straits your mother was in. I had scraped
up quite a few dollars by then, and was thinking how I'd shove it into a
bank like an old debt coming to Adam Bogardus. I was studying how I was
going to rig it. There wasn't any one who knew me down there, so I felt
safe to ventur' a few inquiries. What I heard was that she'd gone home to
her folks and was as well off as anybody need be. That broke me all up at
first. I must have had a sneakin' notion that maybe some day I could see
my way to go back to her, but that let me out completely. I quit then, and
I've stayed quit. The only break I made was showin' up here at the
'leventh hour, thinking I could be some use to my son!"

"It was to be," said Paul. "For years our lives have been shaping towards
this meeting. There were a thousand chances against it. Yet here we are!"

"Here we are!" the packer repeated soberly. "But don't think that I lay
any of my foolishness on the Almighty! Maybe it was meant my son should
close my eyes, but it's too dear at the price. Anybody would say so, I
don't care who."

"But aside from the 'price,' is it something to you?"

"More--more than I've got words to say. And yet it grinds me, every breath
I take! Not that I wish you'd done different--you couldn't and be a man. I
knew it even when I was kickin' against it. Oh, well! It ain't no use to
kick. I thought I'd learned something, but I ain't--learned--a thing!"


XIII


CURTAIN

A greater freedom followed this confession, as was natural. It became the
basis for lighter confidences and bits of autobiography that came to the
surface easily after this tremendous effort at sincerity. Paul found that
he could speak even of the family past, into which by degrees he began to
fit the real man in place of that bucolic abstraction which had walked the
fields of fancy. He had never dared to actuate the "hired man," his
father, on a basis of fact. He knew the speech and manners of the class
from which he came,--knew men of that class, and talked with them every
summer at Stone Ridge; but he had brooded so deeply over the tragic and
sentimental side of his father's fate as to have lost sight of the fact
that he was a man.

Reality has its own convincing charm, not inconsistent with plainness or
even with commonness. To know it is to lose one's taste for toys of the
imagination. Paul, at last, could look back almost with, a sense of humor
at the doll-like progenitor he had played with so long. But when it came
to placing the real man, Adam Bogardus, beside that real woman, once his
wife, their son could but own with awe that there is mercy in extinction,
after all; in the chance, however it may come to us, for slipping off
those cruel disguises that life weaves around us.

In the strange, wakeful nights, full of starvation dreams, he saw his
mother as she would look on state occasions in the hostess's place at her
luxurious table; the odor of flowers, the smell of meats and wines,
tantalized and sickened him. Christine would come in her dancing frocks,
always laughing, greedy in her mirth; but Moya, face to face, he could
never see. It was torture to feel her near him, a disembodied embrace.
Passionate panegyrics and hopeless adjurations he would pour out to that
hovering loveliness just beyond his reach. The agony of frustration would
waken him, if indeed it were sleep that dissolved his consciousness, and
he would be irritable if spoken to.

The packer broke in, one morning, on these unnerving dreams. "You wouldn't
happen to have a picture of her along with you?"

Paul stared at him.

"No, of course you wouldn't! And I'd be 'most afeard to look at it, if you
had. She must have changed considerable. Time hasn't stood still with her
any more than the rest of us."

"I have no picture of my mother," Paul replied.

The packer saw that his question had jarred; he had waited weeks to ask
it. He passed it off now with one of his homely similes. "If you was to
break a cup clean in two, and put the halves together again while the
break was fresh, they'd knit so you wouldn't hardly see a crack. But you
take one half and set it in the chainy closet and chuck the other half out
on the ash-heap,--them halves won't look much like pieces of the same cup,
come a year or two. The edges won't jine no more than the lips of an old
cut that's healed without stitches. No; married folks they grow together
or they grow apart, and they're a-doing of the one or the other every
minute of the time, breaks or no breaks. Does she go up to the old place
summers?"

"Not lately, except on business," said Paul. "A company was formed to open
slate quarries on the upper farm, a good many years ago. They are worth
more than all the land forty times over."

"I always said so; always told the old man he had a gold mine in that
ridge. Was this before he died?"

"Long after. It was my mother's scheme mainly. She controls it now. She is
a very strong business woman."

"She got her training, likely, from that uncle in New York. He had the
business head. The old man had no more contrivance than one of the bulls
in his pastures. He could lock horns and stay there, but it wa'nt no
trouble to outflank him. More than once his brother Jacob got to the
windward of him in a bargain. He was made a good deal like his own land.
Winters of frost it took to break up that ground, and sun and rain to
meller it, and then't was a hatful of soil to a cartful of stone. The
plough would jump the furrows if you drew it deep. My arms used to ache as
if they'd been pounded, with the jar of them stones. They used to tell us
children a story how Satan, he flew over the earth a-sowing it with rocks
and stones, and as he was passing over our county a hole bu'st through his
leather apron and he lost his whole load right slam there. I could 'a'
p'inted out the very spot where the heft on it fell. Ten Stone meadow,
so-called. Ten million stone! I was pickin' stone in that field all of one
summer when I was fifteen year old. We built a mile of fence with it.

"Them quarries must have brought a mint of money into the country.
Different sort of labor, too. Well, the world grows richer and poorer
every year. More difference every year between the way rich folks and poor
folks live. I wouldn't know where I belonged, 't ain't likely, if I was to
go back there. I'd be way off! One while I used to think a good deal about
going back, just to take a look around. It comes over me lately like
hunger and thirst. I think about the most curious things when I'm
asleep--foolish, like a child! I can smell all the good home smells of a
frosty morning: apple pomace, steaming in the barnyard; sausage frying;
Becky scouring the brass furnace-kittle with salt and vinegar. Killin'
time, you know--makes you think of boiling souse and head-cheese. You ever
eat souse?" The packer sucked in his breath with a lean smile. "It ain't
best to dwell on it. But you can't help yourself, at night. I can smell
Becky's fresh bread, in my dreams, just out of the brick oven. Never eat
bread cooked in a stove till I came out here. I never drunk any water like
that spring on the ridge. Last night I was back there, and the maples were
all yellow like sunshine. Once it was spring, and apple-blooms up in the
hill orchard. And little Emmy, a-setting on the fence, with her bunnit
throwed back on her neck. 'Addy!' she called, way across the lot; 'Addy,
come, help me down!' She was a master hand for venturin' up on places, but
she didn't like the gettin' down.

"Well, she 'a learned the ups and downs by this time. She don't need Addy
to help her. I'd have helped a big sight more if I had kep' my distance.
It's a thing so con-demned foolish and unnecessary--I can't be reconciled
to it noway!"

"You see only one side of it," said Paul. Unspeakable thoughts had kept
pace with his father's words. "Nothing that happens, happens through
us--or to us--alone. There was a girl I knew, outside. She was as happy,
when I knew her first, as you say my mother used to be. Then she met some
one--a man--and the shadow of his life crossed hers. He would have wrapped
her up in it and put out her sunshine if he had stayed in the same world.
Now she can be herself again, after a while. It cannot take long to forget
a person you have known only a little over a year."

The packer rose on one elbow. He reached across and shook his son.

"Where is that girl? Answer me! Take your face out of your hands!"

"At Bisuka Barracks. She is the commandant's daughter. I came out to marry
her."

"What possessed ye not to tell me?"

"Why should I tell you? We buried the wedding-day months back, in the
snow."

"Boy, boy!" the packer groaned.

"What difference can it make now?"

"_All_ the difference--all the difference there is! I thought you were out
here touring it with them fool boys and they were all the chance you had
for help outside. You suppose her father is going to see her git left?
_They_'ll get in here, if they have to crawl on their bellies or climb
through the tree-limbs. They know how! And we've wasted the grub and
talked like a couple of women!"

"Oh, don't--don't torment me!" Paul groaned. "It was all over. Can't you
leave the dead in peace!"

"We are not the dead! I 'most wish we were. Boy, I've got a big word to
say to you about that. Come closer!" The packer's speech hoarsened and
failed. They could only hear each other breathe. Then it seemed to the
packer that his was the only breath in the darkness. He listened. A faint
cheer arose in the forest and a crashing of the dead underlimbs of the
pines.

He turned frantically upon his son, but no pledge could be extorted now.
Paul's lips were closed. He had lost consciousness.


XIV


KIND INQUIRIES

The colonel's drawing-room was as hot as usual the first hour after
dinner, and as usual it was full of kindly participant neighbors who had
dropped in to repeat their congratulations on the good news, now almost a
week old. Mrs. Bogardus had not come down, and, though asked after by all,
the talk was noticeably freer for her absence.

Mrs. Creve, in response to a telegram from her brother, had arrived from
Fort Sherman on the day before, prepared for anything, from frozen feet to
a wedding. She had spent the afternoon in town doing errands for Moya, and
being late for dinner had not changed her dress. There never was such a
"natural" person as aunt Annie. At present she was addressing the company
at large, as if they were all her promising children.

"Nobody talks about their star in these days. I used to have a star. I
forget which it was. I know it was a pretty lucky one. Now I trust in
Providence and the major and wear thick shoes." She exhibited the shoes, a
particularly large and sensible kind which she imported from the East.
Everybody laughed and longed to embrace her. "Has Moya got a star?" she
asked seriously.

"The whole galaxy!" a male voice replied. "Doesn't the luck prove it?"

"Moya has got a 'temperament,'" said Doctor Fleming, the Post surgeon.
"That's as good as having a star. You know there are persons who attract
misfortune just as sickly children catch all the diseases that are going.
I knew that boy was sure to be found. Anything of Moya's would be."

"So you think it was Moya's 'temperament' that pulled him out of the
snow?" said the colonel, wheeling his chair into the discussion.

"How about Mr. Winslow's temperament? I prefer to leave a little of the
credit to him," said Moya sweetly.

A young officer, who had been suffering in the corner by the fire, jumped
to his feet and bowed, then blushed and sat down again, regretting his
rashness. Moya continued to look at him with steadfast friendliness.
Winslow had led the rescue that brought her lover home. A glow of sympathy
united these friends and neighbors; the air was electrical and full of
emotion.

"I suppose no date has been fixed for the wedding?" Mrs. Dawson, on the
divan, murmured to Mrs. Creve. The latter smiled a non-committal assent.

"I should think they would just put the doctor aside and be married
anyhow. My husband says he ought to go to a warmer climate at once."

"My dear, a young man can't be married in his dressing-gown and slippers!"

"No! It's not as bad as that?"

"Well, not quite. He's up and dressed and walks about, but he doesn't come
down to his meals,--he can eat so very little at a time, and it tires him
to sit through a dinner. It isn't one of those ravenous recoveries. It
went too far with him for that."

"His mother was perfectly magnificent through it all, they say."

"Have you seen much of Mrs. Bogardus?"

"No; we left them alone, poor things, when the pinch came. But I used to
see her walking the porch, up and down, up and down. Moya would go off on
the hills. They couldn't walk together! That was after Miss Chrissy went
home. Her mother took her back, you know, and then returned alone.
Perfectly heroic! They say she dressed every evening for dinner as
carefully as if she were in New York, and led the conversation. She used
to make Moya read aloud to her--history, novels--anything to pretend they
were not thinking. The strain must have begun before any of us knew. The
colonel kept it so quiet. What is the dear man doing with your bonnet?"

The colonel had plucked his sister's walking-hat, a pert piece of
millinery froward in feathers, from the trunk of the headless Victory,
where she had reposed it in her haste before dinner.

"Mustn't be disrespectful to the household Lar," he kindly reminded her.

"Where am I to put my hats, then? I shall wear them on my head and come
down to breakfast in them. Moya, dear, will you please rescue my hat? Put
it anywhere, dear,--under your chair. * * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

ADVICE, BY A MAN OF THE WORLD.

[We quoted _Contarini Fleming_ in our last volume, but were silent
on its character.

It is purely metaphysical, and metaphysics, at this season, may be "like
pork in the dog-days;" but there are certain portions which strike
out ideas so forcibly, and illustrate the _communia_ of life with
such vigour, as to tempt any lounging reader.

Contarini is stated to be Mr.
D'Israeli, the younger--Vivian Grey and the Young Duke,--with much more
of the crust and wing of age and experience than was found in either of
the fashionable novels. The real charm of Contarini is in its abstractedness,
and consists in being pleased and puzzled at the same moment. The
embellishment which the playful genius of the writer has gracefully,
not tawdrily, thrown over his pages will attract, but the main
purpose and merit of the work lies in its undercurrents, or, rather
it would consist in this feature if the judgment of the writer were
still more matured.

Perhaps Mr. D'Israeli, who began the world of letters as a writer of
fashionable novels, may leave us a work on metaphysics.

In the opening chapter of Contarini Fleming, Mr. D'Israeli explains his
object as follows:--]
I am desirous of writing a book which shall be all truth, a work of
which the passion, the thought, the action, and even the style,
should spring from my own experience of feeling, from the meditations
of my own intellect, from my own observation of incident, from my
own study of the genius of expression.

[We can only admit a passage which appears to us to contain much world-knowledge
and wholesome experience--what half the coroneted heads in Europe lack
most lamentably.

It is the advice tendered to Contarini by his father, previous to the youth
of promise repairing to the University:]
I wish you to mix as much as is convenient with society.

I apprehend that you have, perhaps, hitherto indulged a little too
much in lonely habits.

Young men are apt to get a little abstracted, and occasionally to
think that there is something singular in their nature, when the
fact is, if they were better acquainted with their fellow creatures,
they would find they were mistaken.

This is a common error, indeed the commonest.

I am not at all surprised that you have fallen into it.

All have. The most practical business-like men that exist have many of them,
when children, conceived themselves totally disqualified to struggle
in the world.

You may rest assured of this.

I could mention many remarkable instances. All persons, when young, are fond
of solitude, and, when they are beginning to think, are sometimes surprised
at their own thoughts. There is nothing to be deplored, scarcely
to be feared, in this.

It almost always wears off; but sometimes it happens, that they
have not judicious friends by them to explain, that the habits which
they think peculiar are universal, and, if unreasonably indulged,
can ultimately only turn them into indolent, insignificant members
of society, and occasion them lasting unhappiness.

But to enter society with pleasure, you must be qualified for it. I think
it quite time for you to make yourself master of some accomplishments.
Decidedly you should make yourself a good dancer. Without dancing, you can
never attain a perfectly graceful carriage, which is of the highest
importance in life, and should be every man's ambition.

You are yet too young fully to comprehend, how much in life depends upon
manner. Whenever you see a man, who is successful in society, try to
discover what makes him pleasing, and, if possible, adopt his system.
You should learn to fence. For languages, at present, French will
be sufficient.

You speak it fairly: try to speak it elegantly. Read French authors.
Read Rouchefoucault. The French writers are the finest in the world,
for they clear our heads of ridiculous ideas. Study precision.

Do not talk too much at present, do not _try_ to talk.

But whenever you speak, speak with self-possession. Speak in a
subdued tone, and always look at the person whom you are addressing.
Before one can engage in general conversation with any effect,
there is a certain acquaintance with trifling, but amusing subjects,
which must be first attained.

You will soon pick up sufficient by listening and observing.

Never argue. In society, nothing must be discussed: give only results. If
any person differ with you--bow and turn the conversation. In society, never
think--always be on the watch, or you will miss many opportunities, and
say many disagreeable things.

Talk to women, talk to women as much as you can. This is the best
school.

This is the way to gain fluency--because you need not care what you say,
and had better not be sensible. They too will rally you on many points,
and, as they are women, you will not be offended. Nothing is of so much
importance, and of so much use, to a young man entering life, as to be well
criticised by women. It is impossible to get rid of those thousand bad
habits, which we pick up in boyhood, without this supervision.
Unfortunately, you have no sisters.

But never be offended if a woman rally you.

    Encourage her. Otherwise, you will
    never be free from your awkwardness, or any little oddities, and
certainly never learn to dress.

You ride pretty well, but you had better go through the manège. Every
gentleman should be a perfect cavalier.

As you are to be at home for so short a time, and for other reasons, I think
it better that you should not have a tutor in the house.

Parcel out your morning, then, for your separate masters. Rise early and
regularly, and read for three hours. Read the Memoirs of the Cardinal de
Retz--the Life of Richelieu--everything about Napoleon,--read works
of that kind.
Read no history: nothing but biography, for that is life without
theory.

Then fence. Talk an hour with your French master, but do not throw the
burden of the conversation upon him. Give him an account of something.
Describe to him the events of yesterday, or give him a detailed account
of the constitution. You will have then sufficiently rested yourself
for your dancing. And after that ride and amuse yourself as much as
you can.

Amusement to an observing mind is study.

I pursued the system which my father had pointed out, with exactness, and
soon with pleasure.

I sacredly observed my hours of reading, and devoted myself to the study
of the lives of what my father considered really great men--that is to
say, men of great energies, and violent volition, who look upon
their fellow creatures as mere tools, with which they can build
up a pedestal for their solitary statue, and who sacrifice every
feeling which should sway humanity, and every high work which genius
should really achieve, to the short-sighted gratification of an
irrational and outrageous selfism.

As for my manners, I flattered myself that they advanced in measure with
my mind, although I already emulated Napoleon. I soon overcame the fear
which attended my first experiments in society, and by scrupulously
observing the paternal maxims, I soon became very self-satisfied.

I listened to men with a delightful mixture of defference and self-confidence:
were they old, and did I differ with them, I contented myself by
positively stating my opinion in a most subdued voice, and then
either turning the subject, or turning upon my heel.

But as for women, it is astonishing how well I got on.

The nervous rapidity of my first rattle soon subsided into a
continuous flow of easy nonsense.

Impertinent and flippant, I was universally hailed an original and
a wit.

But the most remarkable incident was, that the baroness and myself became
the greatest friends.

I was her constant attendant, and rehearsed to her flattered ear
all my evening performance.

She was the person with whom I practised, and as she had a taste
in dress, I encouraged her opinions.

Unconscious that she was at once my lay figure and my mirror, she
loaded me with presents, and announced to all her coterie, that I
was the most delightful young man of her acquaintance.

From all this it may easily be suspected, that at the age of fifteen I had
unexpectedly become one of the most affected, conceited, and intolerable
atoms that ever peopled the sunbeam of society.

* * * * *

[This gem is from a volume of Songs and other small Poems, by Barry Cornwall.
It is one of the prettiest poetical _bijoux_ of the season, and
shall receive more attention in our next.]

PETITION TO TIME.

Touch us gently, Time!

Let us glide adown thy stream Gently,--as we sometimes glide Through a
quiet dream!
Humble voyagers are We, Husband, wife, and children three-- (One
is lost,--an angel, fled To the azure overhead!)

Touch us gently, Time!
We've not proud nor soaring wings:
_Our_ ambition, _our_ content Lies in simple things.

Humble voyagers are We, O'er Life's dim unsounded sea, Seeking
only some calm clime:-- Touch us _gently_, gentle Time!

* * * * * 

THE SPIRIT OF SONG-WRITING.

Song-writing is the most difficult species of poetry; failure is not to be
recovered--one slip ruins the whole attempt. A good song is a little piece
of perfection, and perfection does not grow in every field. There
must be felicity of idea, lightness of tone, exquisiteness or extreme
naturalness and propriety of expression; and this within the compass of a
few verses.
And this is not all; the writer must betray a sustained tone of enthusiasm:

the song should have neither beginning nor end,--it must seem a
snatch from out of a continuous strain of melody--something that
swells upon the ear, as if the previous parts had been unheard, and
which dies away as if the air had carried its notes afar, and the
sounds were wafted along to other lands.

Men of genius are now and then born song-writers; such were Horace and
Burns, such is Béranger. England has not had hers yet, and perhaps never
may have.

Englishmen are not nationally calculated to make song-writers; but
individual genius makes light of running counter to a whole nation
of habits, and there is no saying that we may not have our true
lyricist yet.

Song-writing is most likely to spring up among people greatly susceptible
of the charms of music, and inventive of airs which, by some peculiar
charm they possess, spread over all the country, sink deep in the
memory, and come spontaneously on the thoughts in moments of sadness
or joy, and, in short, become what are called national.

National songs go with national airs, and spring up with circumstances. The
English have few native airs, and as few native songs of any excellence.
When an Englishman is in love, does he sing?

In camp, what wretched braying goes by that name!

at table, what have we of the generous, jovial sort?

Generally speaking, our table songs--always excepting our glees--are pieces
of bald sentiment, when they are English; but more generally, they are
borrowed from the Scotch, the Irish, and other national song-writers.
Gaiety, and that gaiety showing itself musically, is not _English_: when
we are poetically given, it is in the sad piping strain of the forlorn,
deserted, or hopeless lover. Gaiety is not English: we can be
sentimental, tender, witty, pretty, pompous, and glorious in our
songs; but we ever want the essential quality of gaiety--gaiety of
heart--the dancing life of the spirit, that makes the voice hum, the fingers
crack merrily, and the feet fidget restlessly on the ground.--_Spectator
Newspaper_.

* * * * *

LORD BYRON'S EARLY POEMS.

[The following specimens are from the Seventh Volume of the elegant Edition
of Lord Byron's Life and Works, now in the course of publication, under the
editorship of Mr. Moore:]

THE ADIEU.

_Written under the impression that the Author would soon die._

Adieu, thou hill![4] where early joy Spread roses o'er my brow; Where
science seeks each loitering boy With knowledge to endow.
Adieu, my youthful friends or foes, Partners of former bliss or woes; No
more through Ida's path we stray; Soon must I share the gloomy cell, Whose
ever-slumbering inmates dwell Unconscious of the day.

Adieu, ye hoary Regal Fanes, Ye spires of Granta's vale, Where learning
robed in sable reigns, And melancholy pale.
Ye comrades of the jovial hour, Ye tenants of the classic bower, On Cama's
verdant margin placed, Adieu! while memory still is mine, For offerings on
oblivion's shrine, These scenes must be effaced.

Adieu, ye mountains of the clime, Where grew my youthful years;
Where Loch na Garr in snows sublime His giant summit rears.

Why did my childhood wander forth From you, ye regions of the North,
With sons of pride to roam?
Why did I quit my Highland cave, Marr's dusky heath, and Dee's clear wave,
To seek a Sotheron home?

Hall of my sires! a long farewell; Yet why to thee adieu?
Thy vaults will echo back my knell, Thy towers my tomb will view; The
faltering tongue which sung thy fall, And former glories of thy hall Forgets
its wonted simple note; But yet the lyre retains the strings, And sometimes
on Aeolian wings, In dying strains may float.

Fields, which surround yon rustic cot, While yet I linger here,
Adieu!

you are not now forgot, To retrospection dear.
Streamlet[5] along whose rippling surge, My youthful limbs were wont to
urge At noontide heat their pliant course; Plunging with ardour from the
shore, Thy springs will lave these limbs no more, Deprived of active
force.

And shall I here forget the scene, Still nearest to my breast?
Rocks rise, and rivers roll between The spot which passion blest;
Yet, Mary,[6] all thy beauties seem Fresh as in Love's bewitching
dream, To me in smiles display'd:
Till slow disease resigns his prey To Death, the parent of decay,
Thine image cannot fade.

And thou, my friend!

[7] whose gentle love Yet thrills my bosom's chords, How much thy friendship
was above Description's power of words!

Still near my breast thy gift I wear, Which sparkled once with
feeling's tear.

Of Love, the pure, the sacred gem; Our souls were equal, and our lot
In that dear moment quite forgot; Let Pride alone condemn!

All, all is dark and cheerless now!
No smile of Love's deceit Can warm my veins with wonted glow, Can bid
Life's pulses beat:
Not e'en the hope of future fame Can wake my faint, exhausted frame.

Or crown with fancied wreaths my head.
Mine is a short inglorious race, To humble in the dust my face, And mingle
with the dead.

Oh Fame! thou goddess of my heart:
On him who gains thy praise, Pointless must fall the Spectre's dart, Consumed
in glory's blaze; But me she beckons from the earth, My name obscure,
unmark'd my birth, My life a short and vulgar dream:
Lost in the dull, ignoble crowd, My hopes recline within a shroud, My fate
is Lethe's stream.

When I repose beneath the sod, Unheeded in the clay, Where once my playful
footsteps trod, Where now my head must lay; The meed of pity will
be shed In dew-drops o'er my narrow bed, By nightly skies and storms
alone; No mortal eye will deign to steep With tears the dark
sepulchral deep Which hides a name unknown.

Forget this world, my restless sprite, Turn, turn thy thoughts to Heaven;
There must thou soon direct thy flight, If errors are forgiven, To bigots
and to sects unknown, Bow down beneath the Almighty's Throne; To
Him address thy trembling prayer:
He who is merciful and just, Will not reject a child of dust,
Although his meanest care.

Father of Light!

to Thee I call, My soul is dark within; Thou, who canst mark the sparrow's
fall, Avert the death of sin.
Thou, who canst guide the wandering star, Who calms't the elemental war,
Whose mantle is yon boundless sky, My thoughts, my words, my crimes
forgive; And, since I soon must cease to live, Instruct me how to
die.

1807.

[Now first published

.]

[4] Harrow.

[5] The river Grete at Southwell.

[6] Mary Duff.

[7] Eddlestone, the Cambridge chorister.

FAREWELL TO THE MUSE.

Thou power! who hast ruled me through infancy's days, Young offspring of
Fancy, 'tis time we should part, Then rise on the gale this the last of my
lays, The coldest effusion which springs from my heart.

This bosom, responsive to rapture no more, Shall hush thy wild notes,
nor implore thee to sing; The feelings of childhood, which taught thee to
soar, Are wafted far distant on Apathy's wing.

Though simple the themes of my rude flowing lyre, Yet even
these themes are departed for ever; No more beam the eyes which my dream
could inspire, My visions are flown, to return--alas, never!I cannot be parted from
my power to help her--such as it is."

"When she is Banks Bowen's wife she will need you more than ever!" said
Moya.

"She will. I could prevent the marriage, but I am afraid to. I am afraid!
So, as the family is cut in two--in three, for I"--Mrs. Bogardus stopped
and moistened her lips again. "So--I think you and Paul had better make
your arrangements and go as soon as you can wherever it suits you, without
minding about the rest of us."

Moya gave a little sobbing laugh. "You don't expect me to make the first
move!"

"Doesn't he say anything to you--anything at all?"

"He is too ill."

"He is not ill!" Mrs. Bogardus denied it fiercely. "Who says he is ill? He
is starved and frozen. He is just out of the grave. You must be good to
him, Moya. Warm him, comfort him! You can give him the life he needs. Your
hands are as soft as little birds. They comfort even me. Oh, don't you
understand!"

"Of course I understand!" Moya answered, her face aflame. "But I cannot
marry Paul. He has got to marry me."

"What nonsense that is! People say to a girl: 'You can't be too cold
before you are married or too kind after!' That does not mean you and
Paul. If you are not kind to him _now_, you will make a great mistake."

"He is not thinking of marriage," said Moya. "Something weighs on him all
the time. I cannot ask him questions. If he wanted to tell me he would.
That is why I come downstairs and leave him. But he won't come down! Is it
not strange? If we could believe such things I would say a Presence came
with, him out of that place. It is with him when I find him alone. It is
in his eyes when he looks at me. It is not something past and done with,
it is here--now--in this house! _What_ is it? What do _you_ believe?"

The eyes she sought to question hardened under her gaze. Here, too, was a
veil. Mrs. Bogardus sat with her hands clasped in her lap. She was
motionless, but the creaking of her silks could be heard as her bosom rose
and fell. After a moment she said: "Paul's tray is on the table in the
dining-room. Will you take it when you go up?"

Moya altered her own manner instantly. "But you?" she hesitated. "I must
not crowd you out of all your mother privileges. You have handed over
everything to me."

"A mother's privilege is to see herself no longer needed. I can do nothing
more for my son"--her smile was hard--"except take care of his money."

"Paul's mother!"

"My dear, do you suppose we mind? It is a very great privilege to be
allowed to step aside when your work is done."

"Paul's _mother!_" Moya insisted.

Mrs. Bogardus rose. "You don't remember your own mother, my dear. You have
an exaggerated idea of the--the importance of mothers. They are only a
temporary arrangement." She put out her hands and the girl's cheek touched
hers for an instant; then she straightened herself and walked calmly out
of the room. Moya remained a little longer, afraid to follow her. "If she
would not smile! If she would do anything but smile!"

Paul was walking about his room, half an hour later, when Moya stopped
outside his door. She placed the tray on a table in the hall. The door was
opened from within. Paul had heard his mother go up before, heard her
pause at the stairs, and, after a silence, enter her own room.

"She knows that I know," he said to himself. "That knowledge will be
always between us; we can never look each other in the face again." To
Moya he endeavored to speak lightly.

"It sounded very gay downstairs to-night. You must have had a houseful."

"I have been with your mother the last hour," answered Moya, vaguely on
the defensive. Since Paul's return there had been little of the old free
intercourse in words between them, and without this outlet their mutual
consciousness became acute. Often as they saw each other during the day,
the keenest emotion attached to the first meeting of their eyes.

Paul was unnerved by his sudden recall from death to life. Its contrasts
were overwhelming to his starved senses: from the dirt and dearth and
grimy despair of his burial hutch in the snow to this softly lighted,
close-curtained room, warm and sweet with flowers; from the gaunt,
unshaven spectre of the packer and his ghostly revelations, to Moya,
meekly beautiful, her bright eyes lowered as she trailed her soft skirts
across the carpet; Moya seated opposite, silent, conscious of him in every
look and movement. Her lovely hands lay in her lap, and the thought of
holding them in his made him tremble; and when he recalled the last time
he had kissed her he grew faint. He longed to throw off this exhausting
self-restraint, but feared to betray his helpless passion which he deemed
an insult to his soul's worship of her.

And she was thinking: "Is this all it is going to mean--his coming
home--our being together? And I was almost his wife!"

"So it was my mother you were talking to in the study? I thought I heard a
man's voice."

"It was the doctor. Your mother was not quite herself this evening. He
came in to see her, but he does not think she is ill. 'Rest and change,'
he says she needs."

Paul gave the words a certain depth of consideration. "Are you as well as
usual, Moya?"

"Oh, I am always well," she answered cheerlessly. "I seem to thrive on
anything--everything," she corrected herself, and blushed.

The blush made him gasp. "You are more beautiful than ever. I had
forgotten that beauty is a physical fact. The sight of you confuses me."

"I always told you you were morbid." They can hardly indite a leading article,
or make a stump speech, without showing their proclivities to
mob-law.

To be sure, if a known traitor is informally arrested, they rave about the
violation of the rights of the citizen; but they think Lynch-law
is good enough for "Abolitionists."

If a General is assailed as being over prudent and cautious in his
operations against the common enemy, they immediately laud him as
a Hannibal, a Caesar, and a Napoleon; they assume to be his special
friends and admirers; they adjure him to persevere in what they
conceive to be his policy of inaction; and, as he is a great master
in strategy, they hint that his best strategic movement would be a
movement, _à la_ Cromwell, on the Abolitionized Congress of the
United States.

Disunion, anarchy, the violation of all law, the appeal to the
lowest and fiercest impulses of the most ignorant portions of the
Northern people,--these constitute the real stock-in-trade of "the
Hang-Jeff.

-Davis-and-Charles-Sumner" party; but the thing is so managed, that, formally,
this party appears as the special champion of the Union, the
Constitution, and the Laws.

Those politicians who personally dislike the present holders
of political power, those politicians who think that the measures
of confiscation and emancipation passed by the Congress which has
just adjourned are both unjust and impolitic, unconsciously slide
into the aiders and abettors of the knaves they individually despise
and distrust.

The "radicals" must, they say, at all events, be checked; and they
lazily follow the lead of the rascals.

The rascals intend to ruin the country.

But then they propose to do it in a constitutional way.

The only thing, it seems, that a lawyer and a jurist can consider
is Form.

If the country is dismembered, if all its defenders are slain, if
the Southern Confederacy is triumphant, not only at Richmond, but
at Washington and New York, if eight millions of people beat twenty
millions, and the greatest of all democracies ignominiously succumbs
to the basest of all aristocracies, the true patriots will still
have the consolation, that the defeat, the "damned defeat," occurred
under the strictest forms of Law.

Better that ten Massachusetts soldiers should be killed than that one negro
should be illegally freed! Better that Massachusetts should be governed
by Jeff.

Davis than that it should be represented by such men as Charles
Sumner and Henry Wilson, notoriously hostile to the constitutional
rights of the South!

Subjection, in itself, is bad; but the great American idea of local
governments for local purposes, and a general government for general
purposes, still, thank God! may survive it. To be sure, we may be beaten
and enslaved, The rascals, renegades, and liberticides may gain their
object. This object we shall ever contemn. But if they gain it fairly,
under the forms of the Constitution, it is the duty of all good citizens
to submit.

Our Southern opponents, we acknowledge, committed some "irregularities";
but nobody can assert, that, in dealing with them, we deviated,
by a hair's-breadth, from the powers intrusted to the Government
by the Fathers of the Republic.

While the country is convulsed by a rebellion unprecedented in the whole
history of the world, we are compelled by our principles to look
upon it as lawyers, and not as statesmen.

We apply to it the same principles which our venerated forefathers applied
to Shay's Rebellion in Massachusetts and the Whiskey Insurrection in
Pennsylvania.

To be sure, the "circumstances" are different; but we need not
remind the philanthropic inhabitants of our section of the country,
that "principles are eternal."

We judge the existing case by these eternal principles. We may fail, and
fail ignominiously; but, in our failure, nobody can say that we
violated any sacred form of the ever-glorious Constitution of the
United States.

The Constitution has in it no provisions to secure its own existence by
unconstitutional means. It is therefore our duty, as lawyers as well as
legislators, to allow the gentlemen who have repudiated it, because
they were defeated in an election, to enjoy all its benefits.

That they do not seem to appreciate these benefits, but shoot, in
a shockingly "irregular" manner, all who insist on imposing on them
its blessings, furnishes no reason why we should partake in their
guilt by violating its provisions.

It is true that the Government established by the Constitution may fall
by a strict adherence to our notions of the Constitution; but even in that
event we shall have the delicious satisfaction of contemplating
it in memory as a beautiful idea, after it has ceased to exist as a
palpable fact. As the best constitution ever devised by human wisdom, we
shall always find a more exquisite delight in meditating on the mental
image of its perfect features than in enjoying the practical blessings of
any other Government which may be established after it is dead and gone;
and our feeling regarding it can be best expressed in the words in
which the lyric poet celebrates his loyalty to the soul of the departed
object of his affection:--

"Though many a gifted mind we meet, And fairest forms we see, To live
with them is far less sweet Than to remember thee!"

It is fortunate both for our safety and the safety of the Constitution,
that these politico-sentimental gentlemen represent only a certain
theory of the Constitution, and not the Constitution itself. Their leading
defect is an incapacity to adjust their profound legal intellects to the
altered circumstances of the country.

Any child in political knowledge is competent to give them this important
item of political information,--that by no constitution of government
ever devised by human morality and intelligence were the rights of rascals
so secured as to give them the privilege of trampling on the rights
of honest men.

Any child in political knowledge is competent to inform them of this
fundamental fact, underlying all laws and constitutions,--that,
if a miscreant attempts to cut your throat, you may resist him by
all the means which your strength and his weakness place in your
power.

Any child in political knowledge is further competent to furnish them with
this additional bit of wisdom,--that every constitution of government
provides, under the war-power it confers, against its own overthrow
by rebels and by enemies.

If rebels rise to the dignity and exert the power of enemies, they can be
proceeded against both as rebels and as enemies.

As rebels, the Government is bound to give them all the securities
which the Constitution may guaranty to traitors.

As enemies, the Government is restricted only by the vast and vague "rights
of war," of which its own military necessities must be the final
judge.

"But," say the serene thinkers and scholars whom the rogues use as
mouthpieces, "our object is simply to defend the Constitution.

We do not believe that the Government has any of the so-called
'rights of war' against the rebels.

If Jefferson Davis has committed the crime of treason, he has the same right
to be tried by a jury of the district in which his alleged crime
was committed that a murderer has to be tried by a similar jury.

We know that Mr. Davis, in case the rebellion is crushed, will not only
be triumphantly acquitted, but will be sent to Congress as Senator from
Mississippi.

This is mortifying in itself, but it still is a beautiful illustration of
the merits of our admirable system of government.

It enables the South to play successfully the transparent game of 'Heads
I win, tails you lose,' and so far must be reckoned bad.

But this evil is counterbalanced by so many blessings, that nobody but a
miserable Abolitionist will think of objecting to the arrangement.

We, on the whole, agree with the traitors, whose designs we lazily
aid, in thinking that Jeff.

Davis and Charles Sumner are equally guilty, in a fair estimate of
the causes of our present misfortunes.

Hang both, we say; and we say it with an inward confidence that neither
will be hanged, if the true principles of the Constitution be carried
out."
The political rogues and the class of honest men we have referred to are,
therefore, practically associated in one party to oppose the present
Government. The rogues lead; the honest men follow. If this new party
succeeds, we shall have the worst party in power that the country
has ever known. Buchanan as President, and Floyd as Secretary of
War, were bad enough.

But Buchanan and Floyd had no large army to command, no immense material
of war to direct.

As far as they could, they worked mischief, and mischief only. But their
means were limited.

The Administration which will succeed that of Abraham Lincoln will
have under its control one of the largest and ablest armies and
navies in the world.

Every general and every admiral will be compelled to obey the orders
of the Administration.

If the Administration be in the hands of secret traitors, the immense
military and naval power of the country will be used for its own
destruction.

A compromise will be patched up with the Rebel States. The leaders of the
rebellion will be invited back to their old seats of power.

A united South combined with a Pro-slavery faction in the North
will rule the nation.

And all this enormous evil will be caused by the simplicity of
honest men in falling into the trap set for them by traitors and
rogues.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

_The Tariff-Question, considered in Regard to the Policy of England and
the Interests of the United States; with Statistical, and Comparative
Tables_. By ERASTUS B. BIGELOW. Boston: Little, Brown, & Co. 4to.

Under this modest title, the American public is presented with a work
of uncommon research, and of great practical utility and value. Its author
is well known as a skilful and most successful inventor, in whose
admirable power-looms nearly all the carpets of the world are now woven.

On the subject of manufactures few can speak with more authority, whether
in reference to its general bearings or its minute details. The work
before us affords ample proof of his ability to discuss one of the most
important questions in political economy.

The hundred pages of text are followed by two hundred and thirty-four pages
of tabular statistics. This large and well-arranged body of invaluable
information, though styled an appendix, was, in fact, the precursor
of the argument, and constitutes the solid base on which it rests.

These tables are "not mere copies or abstracts, but the result of labored
and careful selection, comparison, and combination." In this treasury of
facts, derived for the most part from official records, the commercial
and industrial interests of the United States and of England, especially,
are presented in all their most important aspects and relations. The amount
of information here given is immense; and knowing, as we do, the scrupulous
care of the collector, we cannot doubt its accuracy. Independently of
its connection with the author's argument, this feature of the work cannot
fail to give it value and a permanent place in every library, office,
counting-room, and workshop of the country.

In his discussion of the tariff question, Mr. Bigelow assumes it as a
settled principle of national policy that revenue should be raised by duties
on imports. To clear the ground from ambiguity, he states exactly what he
means when he uses the terms "free-trade" and "protection," and
then proceeds to describe and explain the tariff-policy of Great Britain.
Not without good reason does he give this prominence to the action of that
great power. It is not merely that England stands at the head of manufacturing
and commercial nations, or that our business-connections with her
are intimate and extensive.

The fact which makes English policy so important an element in the
discussion is found in the persistent and too often successful
efforts of that country to shape American opinion and legislation
on questions of manufacture and trade.

Nowhere else have we seen the utter fallacy of the free-trade
argument, as urged by Great Britain on other countries upon the
strength of her own successful example, so clearly shown.

The nature, object, extent, and motive of the tariff-reforms effected by
Sir Robert Peel and Mr.

Gladstone are made plain, not only by the quoted explanations of
those statesmen, but by statistical facts and figures.

Until she had carried her manufactures to a height of prosperity where
competition could no longer touch them, England was, of all nations,
the most protective. Then she became of a sudden wondrously liberal. Her
protective laws were abolished, and, with a mighty show of generosity, she
opened her ports to the commerce of the world. Foreign producers were
magnanimously told that they could send their goods freely into
England at a time when English manufactures were underselling and
supplanting theirs in their own markets.

The sacrifice of duties actually made by England on foreign manufactures,
and which she paraded before the world as a reason why other nations
should imitate and reciprocate her action, amounted, as we learn from the
work before us, to this immense annual sum of two hundred and
eighteen thousand dollars, being "less than one-fourth part of the
tax which Englishmen annually pay for the privilege of keeping their
dogs!"

It is true that the exports and trade of England have increased with
extraordinary rapidity since 1853, and that the free-trade economists
of that country ascribe this great prosperity in large degree to their
alleged reforms. That they have no good ground for such a representation
is shown conclusively by Mr. Bigelow. During the same period, France,
with high protection, and the United States, with moderate protection, made
equal or even greater advances. The causes of this increased prosperity
must, therefore, have been general in their nature and influence. The
progress of invention and discovery, and the increased supply of gold,
are mentioned by the author as among the most efficient.

The immense extent and vast importance of English manufactures, and especially
of the cotton-manufacture, are fully unfolded, and we cannot wonder at
the earnest and unceasing efforts of that country to preserve and
to extend this great interest.

This necessity is strikingly evinced in the section on "The Dependent
Condition of England." We can only allude to this part of the argument, as
full of striking suggestions, and as showing that in some very
important respects England is the most dependent of all countries,
and that the continued maintenance of her life and power rests on
the maintenance of her manufacturing supremacy.

In the section headed "Efforts of England to extend her Manufactures,"
we have some curious and instructive history, and we specially
commend this part of the work to those who have been accustomed to
lend a willing ear to British talk on the subjects of protection
and free-trade.

Mr. Bigelow devotes a short, but graphic and comprehensive, section to
the "Condition and Resources of the United States." "The Tariffs of the
United States," their merits and defects, are briefly considered. His
"Reasons in Favor of a Protective Policy" leave, as it seems to us, very
little to be said on the other side.

From a multitude of passages which we have been tempted to quote,
we select the following, as a not unfavorable specimen of the work:--

"War is an evil to which we are always liable, and shall continue
to be liable, until the Millennium comes.

With reference to this always existent danger, no nation which is not
willing to be trampled on can safely take its position on Quaker ground.
That the possible event may not find us unprepared, we build
fortresses and war-ships, and maintain armies and artillery at vast
expense.

No one but the mere visionary denies the propriety or the necessity of this.
Yet it is demonstrable that a nation about to be involved in war
will find a well-developed industrial and productive power of more
real value than any or than all of the precautionary measures above
mentioned; since, without such power, neither forts nor armies can
long be sustained.

"It is obvious that the doctrine of free-trade (I mean, of course,
genuine free-trade, and not the British counterfeit) ignores the
probability, if not, indeed, the possibility of war. Could peace, perpetual
and universal, be guarantied to the world, the argument against protection
would possess a degree of strength, which, as things now are, does not and
cannot belong to it. May it not be well for us to consider, whether, on the
whole, we can do better than to take things as they are, by conforming
our national policy, not to an imaginary era of universal peace
and philanthropy, but to the hard and selfish world in which we
happen to live?

I'll be
disappointed in you if you make your mother any trouble about this. You've
treated me as square as any man could treat another. Remember, I say so,
and think as kindly as you can of a harmless, loony old impostor'--and he
signs himself 'John Hagar,'--which shows again how one lie leads to
another. We go to find 'John Hagar.'"

"Have you shown your mother this letter? You have not? Paul, you will not
rob her of her just defense!"

"I will not heap coals of fire on her head! This letter simply completes
his renunciation, and he meant it for her defense. But when a man signs
himself 'John Hagar' in the handwriting of my father, it shows that
somebody is not telling the truth. I used to pore over the old farm
records in my father's hand at Stone Ridge in the old account books stowed
away in places where a boy loves to poke and pry. I know it as well as I
know yours. Do you suppose she would not know it? When a man writes as few
letters as he does, the handwriting does not change." Paul laid the letter
upon the coals. "It is the only witness against her, but it loses the
case."

"She never could have loved him. I never believed she did!" said Moya.

"She thinks she can live out this deep-down, deliberate--But it will kill
her, Moya. Her life is ended from this on. How could I have driven her to
that excruciating choice! I ought to have listened to him altogether or
not at all. There is a hell for meddlers, and the ones who meddle for
conscience' sake are the deepest damned, I think."

Moya came and wreathed her arm in his, and they paced the room in silence.
At length she said, "If we go to find John Hagar, shall we not be meddling
again? A man who respects a woman's freedom must love his own. It is the
last thing left him. Don't hunt him down. I believe nothing could hurt him
now like seeing you again."

"He shall not see me unless he wants to, but he shall know where I stand
on this question of the Impostor. It shall be managed so that even he can
see I am protecting her. No, call himself what he will, the tie between
him and me is another of those facts."

"But do you love him, Paul?"

"Oh--I cannot forget him! He is--just as he used to be--'poor father out
there in the cold.' We must find him and comfort him somehow."

"For our own peace of mind? Forgive me for arguing when everything is so
difficult. But he is a man--a brave man who would rather be forever out in
the cold than be a burden. Do not rob him of his right to _be_ John Hagar
if he wants to, for the sake of those he loves. You do not tell me it was
love, but I am sure it was, in some mistaken way, that drove him into
exile. Only love as pure as his can be our excuse for dragging him back.
He did not want shelter and comfort from her. Only one thing. Have we got
that to give him?"

"Well then, I go for my own sake--it is a physical necessity; and I go for
hers. She has put it out of her own power to help him. It will ease her a
little to know I am trying to reach him in his forlorn disguise."

"But you were not going to tell her?"

"In words, no. But she will understand. There is a strange clairvoyance
between us, as if we were accomplices in a crime!"

Moya reflected silently. This search which Paul had set his heart upon
would equally work his own cure, she saw. Nor could she now imagine for
themselves any lover's paradise inseparable from this moral tragedy, which
she saw would be fibre of their fibre, life of their life. A family is an
organism; one part may think to deny or defy another, but with strange
pains the subtle union exerts itself; distance cannot break the thread.

They kissed each other solemnly like little children on the eve of a long
journey full of awed expectancy.

Mrs. Bogardus stood holding her door ajar as Moya passed on her way
downstairs. "You are very late," she uttered hoarsely. "Is nothing settled
yet?"

"Everything!" Moya hesitated and forced a smile, "everything but where we
shall go. We will start--and decide afterwards."

"You go together? That is right. Moya, you have a genius for happiness!"

"I wish I had a genius for making people sleep who lie awake hours in the
night thinking about other people!"

"If you mean me, people of my age need very little sleep."

"May I kiss you good-night, Paul's mother?"

"You may kiss me because I am Paul's mother, not because I do not sleep."

Moya's lips touched a cheek as white and almost as cold as the frosted
window-panes through which the moon was glimmering. She thought of the icy
roses on her wedding dress.

Downstairs her father was smoking his bedtime cigar. Mrs. Creve, very
sleepy and cosy and flushed, leaned over the smouldering bed of coals. She
held out her plump, soft hand to Moya.

"Come here and be scolded! We have been scolding you steadily for the last
hour."

"If you want that young man to get his strength back, you'd better not
keep him up talking half the night," the colonel growled softly. "Do you
see what time it is?"

Moya knelt and leaned her head against her father. She reached one hand to
Mrs. Creve. They did not speak again till her weak moment had passed. "It
will be very soon," she said, pressing the warm hand that stroked her own.
"You will help me pack, aunt Annie; and then you'll stay--with father? I
know you are glad to have me out of the way at last!"


XVII


THE HIDDEN TRAIL

Because they had set forth on a grim and sorrowful quest, it need not be
supposed that Paul and Moya were a pair of sorrowful pilgrims. It was
their wedding journey. At the outset Moya had said: "We are doing the best
we know. For what we don't know, let us leave it and not brood."

They did not enter at once upon the more eccentric stages of the search.
They went by way of the Great Northern to Portland, descending from snow
to roses and drenching rains. At Pendleton, which is at the junction of
three great roads, Paul sent tracers out through express agents and train
officials along the remotest slender feeders of these lines. Through the
same agents it was made known that for any service rendered or expense
incurred on behalf of the person described, his friends would hold
themselves gratefully responsible.

At Portland, Paul searched the steamer lists and left confidential orders
in the different transportation offices; and Moya wrote to his mother--a
woman's letter, every page shining with happiness and as free from
apparent forethought as a running brook.

They returned by the Great Northern and Lake Coeur d'Alene, stopping over
at Fort Sherman to visit Mrs. Creve, who was giddy with joy over the
wholesome change in Paul. She, too, wrote a woman's letter concerning that
visit, to the colonel, which cleared a crowd of shadows from his lonely
hearth.

Thence again to Pendleton came the seekers, and Paul gathered in his
lines, but found nothing; so cast them forth again. But through all these
distant elaborations of the search, in his own mind he saw the old man
creeping away by some near, familiar trail and lying hid in some warm
valley in the hills, his prison and his home.

It was now the last week in March. The travelers' bags were in the office,
the carriage at the door, when a letter--pigeon-holed and forgotten since
received some three weeks before--was put into Paul's hand.

I run up against your ad. in the Silver City Times [the communication
began]. If you haven't found your man yet, maybe I can put you onto the
right lead. I'm driving a jerky on the road from Mountain Home to Oriana,
but me and the old man we don't jibe any too well. I've got a sort of
disgust on me. Think I'll quit soon and go to mining. Jimmy Breen he runs
the Ferry, he can tell you all I know. Fifty miles from Mountain Home good
road can make it in one day. Yours Respecfully,

J. STRATTON.

It was in following up this belated clue that the pilgrims had come to the
Ferry inn, crossing by team from valley to valley, cutting off a great
bend of the Oregon Short Line as it traverses the Snake River desert;
those bare high plains escarped with basalt bluffs that open every fifty
miles or so to let a road crawl down to some little rope-ferry supported
by sheep-herders, ditch contractors, miners, emigrants, ranchmen, all the
wild industries of a country in the dawn of enterprise.

Business at the Ferry had shrunk since the railroad went through. The
house-staff consisted of Jimmy Breen, a Chinese cook of the bony, tartar
breed, sundry dogs, and a large bachelor cat that mooned about the empty
piazzas. In a young farming country, hungry for capital, Jimmy could not
do a cash business, but everything was grist that came to his mill; and he
was quick to distinguish the perennial dead beat from a genuine case of
hard luck.

"That's a good axe ye have there," pointing suggestively to a new one
sticking out of the rear baggage of an emigrant outfit. "Ye better l'ave
that with me for the dollar that's owing me. If ye have money to buy new
axes ye can't be broke entirely." Or: "Slip the halter on that calf behind
there. The mother hasn't enough to keep it alive. There's har'ly a
dollar's wort' of hide on its bones, but I'll take it to save it droppin'
on the road." Or, he would try sarcasm: "Well, we'll be shuttin' her down
in the spring. Then ye can go round be Walter's Ferry and see if they'll
trust ye there." Or: "Why wasn't ye workin' on the Ditch last winter?
Settin' smokin' your poipe in the tules, the wife and young ones packin'
sagebrush to kape ye warm!"

On the morning after their distinguished arrival, Jimmy's guests came down
late to a devastated breakfast-table. Little heaps of crumbs here and
there showed where earlier appetites had had their destined hour and gone
their way. At an impartial distance from the top and the foot of the table
stood the familiar group of sauce and pickle bottles, every brand dear to
the cowboy, including the "surrup-jug" adhering to its saucer. There was a
fresh-gathered bunch of wild phlox by Moya's plate in a tumbler printed
round the edge with impressions of a large moist male thumb.

"Catchee plenty," the Chinaman grinned, pointing to the plain outside
where the pale sage-brush quivered stiffly in the wind. "Bymbye plenty
come. Pretty col' now."

"You'll be getting a large hump on yourself, Han, me boy. 'T is a cash
crowd we have here--and a lady, by me sowl!" Thus Jimmy exhorted his
household. Times were looking up. They would be a summer resort before the
Ditch went through; it should be mentioned in the Ditch company's
prospectus. Jimmy had put his savings into land-office fees and had a
hopeful interest in the Ditch.

A spur in the head is worth two in the heel. Without a word from "the
boss" Han had found time to shave and powder and polish his brown forehead
and put on his whitest raiment over his baggiest trousers. There was loud
panic among the fowls in the corral. The cat had disappeared; the jealous
dogs hung about the doors and were pushed out of the way by friends of
other days.

Seated by the office fire, Paul was conferring with Jimmy, who was happy
with a fresh pipe and a long story to tell to a patient and paying
listener. He rubbed the red curls back from his shining forehead, took the
pipe from his teeth, and guided a puff of smoke away from his auditor.

"I seen him settin' over there on his blankets,"--he pointed with his pipe
to the opposite shore plainly visible through the office windows,--"but he
niver hailed me, so I knowed he was broke. Some, whin they're broke, they
holler all the louder. Ye would think they had an appointment wit' the
Governor and he sint his car'iage to meet them. But he was as humble, he
was, as a yaller dog.--Out! Git out from here--the pack of yez! Han, shut
the dure an' drive thim bloody curs off the piazzy. They're trackin' up
the whole place.--As I was sayin', sor, there he stayed hunched up in the
wind, waitin' on the chanst of a team comin', and I seen he was an ould
daddy. I stud the sight of him as long as I cud, me comin' and goin'. He
fair wore me out. So I tuk the boat over for 'im. One of his arrums he
couldn't lift from the shoulder, and I give him a h'ist wit' his bundle.
Faith, it was light! 'Twinty years a-getherin',' he cackles, slappin' it.
'Ye've had harrud luck,' I says. ''T is not much of a sheaf ye are packin'
home.' 'That's as ye look at it,' he says.

"I axed him what way was he goin'. He was thinking to get a lift as far as
Oriana, if the stages was runnin' on that road. 'Then ye 'll have to bide
here till morning,' I says, 'for ye must have met the stage goin' the
other way.' 'I met nothing,' says he; 'I come be way of the
bluffs,'--which is a strange way for one man travelin' afoot.

"The grub was on the table, and I says, 'Sit by and fill yourself up.' His
cheeks was fallin' in wit' the hunger. With that his poor ould eye begun
to water. 'Twas one weak eye he had that was weepin' all the time. 'I've
got out of the habit of reg'lar aitin',' he says. 'It don't take much to
kape me goin'.' 'Niver desave yourself, sor! 'T is betther feed three
hungry men than wan "no occasion."' His appetite it grew on him wit' every
mouthful. There was a boundless emptiness to him. He lay there on the
bench and slep' the rest of the evening, and I left him there wit' a big
fire at night. And the next day at noon we h'isted him up beside of Joe
Stratton. A rip-snorter of a wind was blowin' off the Silver City peaks.
His face was drawed like a winter apple, but he wint off happy. I think he
was warm inside of himself."

"Did you ask him his name?"

"Sure. Why not? John Treagar he called himself."

"Treagar? Hagar, you mean!"

"It was Treagar he said."

"John Hagar is the man I am looking for."

"Treagar--Hagar? 'T is comin' pretty close to it."

"About what height and build was he?"

"He was not to say a tall man; and he wasn't so turrible short neither.
His back was as round as a Bible. A kind of pepper and saltish beard he
had, and his hair was blacker than his beard but white in streaks."

"A _dark_ man, was he?"

"He would be a _dark_ man if he was younger."

"The man I want is blue-eyed."

"His eyes was blue--a kind of washed-out gray that maybe was blue wanst;
and one of them always weepin' wit' the cold."

"And light brown hair mixed with gray, like sand and ashes--mostly ashes;
and a thin straggling beard, thinner on the cheeks? A high head and a tall
stooping figure--six feet at least; hands with large joints and a habit of
picking at them when"--

"Ye are goin' too fast for me now, sor. He was not that description of a
man, nayther the height nor the hair of him. Sure't is a pity for ye
comin' this far, and him not the man at all. Faith, I wish I was the man
meself! I wonder at Joe Stratton anyhow! He's a very hasty man, is Joe. He
jumps in wit' both feet, so he does. I could have told ye that."

       *       *       *       *       *

Moya, always helplessly natural, and now very tired as well, when Paul
described with his usual gravity this anti-climax, fell below all the
dignities at once in a burst of childish giggling. Paul looked on with an
embarrassed smile, like a puzzled affectionate dog at the incomprehensible
mirth of humans. Paul was certainly deficient in humor and therefore in
breadth. But what woman ever loved her lover the less for having
discovered his limitations? Humor runs in families of the intenser
cultivation. The son of the soil remains serious in the face of life's and
nature's ironies.


XVIII


THE STAR IN THE EAST

So the search paused, while the searchers rested and revised their plans.
Spring opened in the valley as if for them alone. There were mornings
"proud and sweet," when the humblest imagination could have pictured
Aurora and her train in the jocund clouds that trooped along the
sky,--wind-built processions which the wind dispersed. Wild flowers spread
so fast they might have been spilled from the rainbow scarf of Iris
fleeting overhead. The river was in flood, digging its elbows into its
muddy banks. The willow and wild-rose thickets stooped and washed their
spring garments in its tide.

Primeval life and love were all around them. Meadow larks flung their
brief jets of song into the sunlight; the copses rustled with wings;
wood-doves cooed from the warm sunny hollows, and the soft booming of
their throaty call was like a beating in the air,--the pulse of spring.
They had found their Garden. Humanity in the valley passed before them in
forms as interesting and as alien as the brother beasts to Adam: the
handsome driver of the jerky, Joe Stratton's successor, who sat at dinner
opposite and combed his flowing mustache with his fork in a lazy,
dandified way; the darkened faces of sheep-herders enameled by sun and
wind, their hair like the winter coats of animals; the slow-eyed farmers
with the appetites of horses; the spring recruits for the ranks of labor
footing it to distant ranches, each with his back-load of bedding, and the
dust of three counties on his garments.

The sweet forces of Nature shut out, for a season, Paul's _cri du coeur_.
One may keep a chamber sacred to one's sadder obligations and yet the
house be filled with joy. Further ramifications of the search were mapped
out with Jimmy's indifferent assistance. For good reasons of his own,
Jimmy did little to encourage an early start. He would explain that his
maps were of ancient date and full of misinformation as to stage routes.
"See that now! The stages was pulled off that line five year ago, on
account of the railroad cuttin' in on them. Ye couldn't make it wid'out ye
took a camp outfit. There's ne'er a station left, and when ye come to it,
it's ruins ye'll find. A chimbly and a few rails, if the mule-skinners
hasn't burned them. 'Tis a country very devoid of fuel; sagebrush and
grease-wood, and a wind, bedad! that blows the grass-seeds into the next
county."

When these camping-trips were proposed to Moya, she hesitated and
responded languidly; but when Paul suggested leaving her even for a day,
her fears fluttered across his path and wiled him another way. Vaguely he
felt that she was unlike herself--less buoyant, though often restless; and
sometimes he fancied she was pale underneath her sun-burned color like
that of rose-hips in October. Various causes kept him inert, while
strength mounted in his veins, and life seemed made for the pure joy of
living.

The moon of May in that valley is the moon of roses, for the heats once
due come on apace. The young people gave up their all-day horseback rides
and took morning walks instead, following the shore-paths lazily to shaded
coverts dedicated to those happy silences which it takes two to make. Or,
they climbed the bluffs and gazed at the impenetrable vast horizon, and
thought perhaps of their errand with that pang of self-reproach which,
when shared, becomes a subtler form of self-indulgence.

But at night, all the teeming life of the plain rushed up into the sky and
blazed there in a million friendly stars. After the languor of the sleepy
afternoons, it was like a fresh awakening--the dawn of those white May
nights. The wide plain stirred softly through all its miles of sage. The
river's cadenced roar paused beyond the bend and outbroke again. All that
was eerie and furtive in the wild dark found a curdling voice in the
coyote's hunting-call.

In a hollow concealed by sage, not ten minutes' walk from the Ferry inn,
unknown to the map-maker and innocent of all use, lay a perfect floor for
evening pacing with one's eyes upon the stars. It was the death mask of an
ancient lake, done in purest alkali silt, and needing only the shadows
cast by a low moon to make the illusion almost unbelievable. Slow
precipitation, season after season, as the water dried, had left the lake
bed smooth as a cast in plaster. Subsequent warpings had lifted the alkali
crust into thin-lipped wavelets. But once upon the floor itself the
resemblance to water vanished. The warpings and Grumblings took the shape
of earth as made by water and baked by fire. Moya compared it to a bit of
the dead moon fallen to show us what we are coming to. They paced it
soft-footed in tennis shoes lest they should crumble its talc-like
whiteness. But they read no horoscopes, for they were shy of the future in
speaking to each other,--and they made no plans.

One evening Moya had said to Paul: "I can understand your mother so much
better now that I am a wife. I think most women have a tendency towards
the state of being _un_married. And if one had--children, it would
increase upon one very fast. A widow and a mother--for twenty years. How
could she be a wife again?"

Paul made no reply to this speech which long continued to haunt him;
especially as Moya wrote more frequently to his mother and did not offer
to show him her letters. In their evening walks she seemed distrait, and
during the day more restless.

One night of their nightly pacings she stopped and stood long, her head
thrown back, her eyes fixed upon the dizzy star-deeps. Paul waited a step
behind her, touching her shoulders with his hands. Suddenly she reeled and
sank backwards into his arms. He held her, watching her lovely face grow
whiter; her eyelids closed. She breathed slowly, leaning her whole weight
upon him.

Coming to herself, she smiled and said it was nothing. She had been that
way before. "But--we must go home. We must have a home--somewhere. I want
to see your mother. Paul, be good to her--forgive her--for my sake!"


XIX


PILGRIMS AND STRANGERS

Aunt Polly Lewis was disappointed in the latest of her beneficiaries. It
was nine years since her husband had locked up his savings in the Mud
Springs ranch, a neglected little health-plant at the mouth of the
Bruneau. If you were troubled with rheumatism, or a crick in the back, or
your "pancrees" didn't act or your blood was "out o' fix, why, you'd
better go up to Looanders' for a spell and soak yourself in that blue mud
and let aunt Polly diet ye and dost ye with yerb tea."

When Leander courted aunt Polly in the interests of his sanitarium, she
was reputed the best nurse in Ada County. The widow--by desertion--of a
notorious quack doctor of those parts: it was an open question whether his
medicine had killed or her nursing had cured the greater number of
confiding sick folk. Leander drove fifty miles to catechise this notable
woman, and finding her sound on the theory of packs hot and cold, and
skilled in the practice of rubbing,--and having made the incidental
discovery that she was a person not without magnetism,--he decided on the
spot to add her to the other attractions of Mud Springs ranch; and she
drove home with him next day, her trunk in the back of his wagon.

The place was no sinecure. Bricks without straw were a child's pastime to
the cures aunt Polly and the Springs effected without a pretense to the
comforts of life in health, to say nothing of sickness. Modern
conveniences are costly, and how are you to get the facilities for "pay
patients" when you have no patients that pay! Prosperity had overlooked
the Bruneau, or had made false starts there, through detrimental schemes
that gave the valley a bad name with investors. The railroad was still
fifty miles away, and the invalid public would not seek life itself, in
these days of luxurious travel, at the cost of a twelve hours' stage-ride.
However, as long as the couple had a roof over their heads and the Springs
continued to plop and vomit their strange, chameleon-colored slime,
Leander would continue to bring home the sick and the suffering for Polly
and the Springs to practice on. Health became his hobby, and in time, with
isolation thrown in, it began to invade his common sense. He tried in
succession all the diet fads of the day and wound up a convert to the
"Ralston" school of eating. Aunt Polly had clung a little longer to the
flesh-pots, but the charms of a system that abolished half the labor of
cooking prevailed with her at last, and in the end she kept a sharper eye
upon Leander at mealtime than ever he had upon her.

The ignorant gorgings of their neighbors were a head-shaking and a warning
to them, and more than once Leander's person was in jeopardy through his
zealous but unappreciated concern for the brother who eats in darkness.

He had started out one winter morning from Bisuka, a virtuous man. His
team had breakfasted, but not he. A Ralstonite does not load up his
stomach at dawn after the manner of cattle, and such pious substitutes for
a cup of coffee as are permitted the faithful cannot always be had for a
price. At Indian Creek he hauled up to water his team, and to make for
himself a cinnamon-colored decoction by boiling in hot water a preparation
of parched grains which he carried with him. This he accomplished in an
angle of the old corral fence out of the wind. There is no comfort nor
even virtue in eating cold dust with one's sandwiches. Leander sunk his
great white tushes through the thick slices of whole-wheat bread and
tasted the paste of peanut meal with which they were spread. He ate
standing and slapped his leg to warm his driving hand.

A flutter of something colored, as a garment, caught his eye, directing it
to the shape of a man, rolled in an old blue blanket, lying motionless in
a corner of the tumble-down wall. "Drunk, drunk as a hog!" pronounced
Leander. For no man in command of himself would lie down to sleep in such
a place. As if to refute this accusation, the wind turned a corner of the
blanket quietly off a white face with closed eyelids,--an old, worn,
gentle face, appealing in its homeliness, though stamped now with the
dignity of death. Leander knelt and handled the body tenderly. It was long
before he satisfied himself that life was still there. Another case for
Polly and the Springs. A man worth saving, if Leander knew a man; one of
the trustful, trustworthy sort. His heart went out to him on the instant
as to a friend from home.

It was closing in for dusk when he reached the Ferry. Jimmy was away, and
Han, in high dudgeon, brought the boat over in answer to Leander's hail.
He had grouse to dress for supper, inconsiderately flung in upon him at
the last moment by the stage, four hours late.

"Huh! Why you no come one hour ago? All time 'Hullo, hullo'! Je' Cli'! me
no dam felly-man--me dam cook! Too much man say 'Hullo'!"

The prospect was not good for help at the Ferry inn, so, putting his trust
in Polly and the Springs, Leander pushed on up the valley.

When Aunt Polly's patients were of the right sort, they stayed on after
their recovery and helped Leander with the ranch work. But for the most
part they "hit the trail" again as soon as their ills were healed, not
forgetting to advertise the Springs to other patients of their own class.
The only limit to this unenviable popularity was the size of the house.
Leander saw no present advantage in building.

But in case they ever did build--and the time was surely coming!--here was
the very person they had been looking for. Cast your bread upon the
waters. The winter's bread and care and shelter so ungrudgingly bestowed
had returned to them many-fold in the comfortable sense of dependence and
unity they felt in this last beneficiary, the old man of Indian Creek whom
they called "Uncle John."

"The kindest old creetur' ever lived! Some forgitful, but everybody's
liable to forgit. Only tell him one thing at once, and don't confuse him,
and he'll git through an amazin' sight of chores in a day."

"Just the very one we'll want to wait on the men patients," Aunt Polly
chimed in. "He can carry up meals and keep the bathrooms clean, and wash
out the towels, and he's the best hand with poultry. He takes such good
care of the old hens they're re'lly ashamed not to lay!"

It was spring again; old hopes were putting forth new leaves. Leander had
heard of a capitalist in the valley; a young one, too, more prone to
enthusiasm if shown the right thing.

"I'm going down to Jimmy's to fetch them up here!" Leander announced.

"Are there two of them?"

"He has brought his wife out with him. They are a young couple. He's the
only son of a rich widow in New York, and Jimmy says they've got money to
burn. Jimmy don't take much stock in this 'ere 'wounded guide'
story--thinks it's more or less of a blind. He's feeling around for a good
investment--desert land or mining claims. Jimmy thinks he represents big
interests back East."

Aunt Polly considered, and the corners of her mouth moistened as she
thought of the dinner she would snatch from the jaws of the system on the
day these young strangers should visit the ranch.

"By Gum!" Leander shouted. "I wonder if Uncle John wouldn't know something
about the party they're advertising for. That'd be the way to find out if
they're really on the scent. I'll take him down with me--that's what I'll
_do_--and let him have a talk with the young man himself. It'll make a
good opening. Are you listening, Polly?" She was not. "I wish you'd git
him to fix himself up a little. Layout one o' my clean shirts for him, and
I'll take him down with me day after to-morrow."

"I'll have a fresh churning to-morrow," Aunt Polly mused. "You can take a
little pat of it with you. I won't put no salt in it, and I'll send along
a glass or two of my wild strawberry jam. It takes an awful time to pick
the berries, but I guess it'll be appreciated after the table Jimmy sets.
I don't believe Jimmy'll be offended?"

"Bogardus is their name," continued Leander. "Mr. and Mrs. Bogardus, from
New York. Jimmy's got it down in his hotel book and he's showing it to
everybody. Jimmy's reel childish about it. I tell him one swallow don't
make a summer."

Uncle John had come into the room and sat listening, while a yellow pallor
crept over his forehead and cheeks. He moved to get up once, and then sat
down again weakly.

"What's the matter, Uncle?" Aunt Polly eyed him sharply. "You been out
there chopping wood too long in this hot sun. What did I tell you?"

She cleared the decks for action. Paler and paler the old man grew. He was
not able to withstand her vigorous sympathies. She had him tucked up on
the calico lounge and his shoes off and a hot iron at his feet; but while
she was hurrying up the kettle to make him a drink of something hot, he
rose and slipped up the outside stairs to his bedroom in the attic. There
he seated himself on the side of his neat bed which he always made himself
camp fashion,--the blankets folded lengthwise with just room for one quiet
sleeper to crawl inside; and there he sat, opening and clinching his
hands, a deep perplexity upon his features.

Aunt Polly called to him and began to read the riot act, but Leander said:
"Let him be! He gits tired o' being fussed over. You're at him about
something or other the whole blessed time."

"Well, I have to! My gracious! He'd forgit to come in to his meals if I
didn't keep him on my mind."

"It just strikes me--what am I going to call him when I introduce him to
those folks? Did he ever tell you what his last name is?"

"I wouldn't be surprised," Aunt Polly lowered her voice, "if he couldn't
remember it himself! I've heard of such cases. Whenever I try to draw him
out to talk about himself and what happened to him before you found him,
it breaks him all up; seemingly gives him a back-set every time. He sort
of slinks into himself in that queer, lost way--just like he was when he
first come to."

"He's had a powerful jar to his constitution, and his mind is taking a
rest." Leander was fond of a diagnosis. "There wasn't enough life left in
him to keep his faculties and his bod'ly organs all a-going at once. The
upper story's to let."

"I wish you'd go upstairs, and see what he is doing up there."

"Aw, no! Let him be. He likes to go off by himself and do his thinking. I
notice it rattles him to be talked to much. He sets out there on the
choppin'-block, looking at the bluffs--ever notice? He looks and don't see
nothin', and his lips keep moving like he was learning a spellin'-lesson.
If I speak to him sharp, he hauls himself together and smiles uneasy, but
he don't know what I said. I tell you he's waking up; coming to his
memories, and trying to sort 'em out."

"That's just what _I_ say," Aunt Polly retorted, "but he's got to eat his
meals. He can't live on memories."

Uncle John was restless that evening, and appeared to be excited. He
waited upon Aunt Polly after supper with a feverish eagerness to be of
use. When all was in order for bedtime, and Leander rose to wind the
clock, he spoke. It was getting about time to roll up his blankets and
pull out, he said. Leander felt for the ledge where the clock-key
belonged, and made no answer.

"I was saying--I guess it's about time for me to be moving on. The grass
is starting"--

"Are you cal'latin' to live on grass?" Leander drawled with cutting irony.
"Gettin' tired of the old woman's cooking? Well, she ain't much of a
cook!"

Uncle John remained silent, working at his hands. His mouth, trembled
under his thin straggling beard. "I never was better treated in my life,
and you know it. It ain't handsome of you, Lewis, to talk that way!"

"He don't mean nothing, Uncle John! What makes you so foolish, Looander!
He just wants you to know there's no begrudgers around here. You're
welcome, and more than welcome, to settle down and camp right along with
us."

"Winter and summer!" Leander put in, "if you're satisfied. There's nobody
in a hurry to see the last of ye."

Uncle John's mild but determined resistance was a keen disappointment to
his friends. Leander thought himself offended. "What fly's stung you,
anyhow! Heard from any of your folks lately?"

The old man smiled.

"Got any money salted down that needs turning?"

"Looander! Quit teasing of him!"

"Let him have his fun, ma'am. It's all he's likely to get out of me. I
have got a little money," he pursued. "'T would be an insult to name it in
the same breath with what you've done for me. I'd like to leave it here,
though. You could pass it on. You'll have chances enough. 'T ain't likely
I'll be the last one you'll take in and do for, and never git nothing out
of it in return."

There was a mild sensation, as the speaker, fumbling in his loose trousers,
appeared to be seeking for that money. Aunt Polly's eyes flamed indignation
behind her tears. She was a foolish, warm-hearted creature, and her eyes
watered on the least excuse.

"Looander, you shouldn't have taunted him," she admonished her husband,
who felt he had been a little rough.

"Look here, Uncle John, d'you ever know anybody who wasn't by way of
needing help some time in their lives? We don't ask any one who comes
here"--

"He didn't come!" Aunt Polly corrected.

"Well, who was brought, then! We don't ask for their character, nor their
private history, nor their bank account. I don't know but you're the first
one for years I've ever took a real personal shine to, and we've h'isted a
good many up them stairs that wasn't able to walk much further. I'd like
you to stay as a favor to us, dang it!"

Leander delivered this invitation as if it were a threat. His straight-cut
mustache stiffened and projected itself by the pressure of his big lips;
his dark red throat showed as many obstinate creases as an old
snapping-turtle's.

"I'm much obliged to you both. I want you to remember that. We--I--I'll
talk with ye in the morning."

"That means he's going all the same," said Leander, after Uncle John had
closed the outside door.

Sure enough, next morning he had made up his little pack, oiled his boots,
and by breakfast-time was ready for the road. Adair, "forty years of gaiety
is the utmost that a female can expect; and in scenes of pleasure, days,
months, and years glide swiftly away. The value of time is unknown: at
least, it is not properly estimated, till grey hairs, wrinkled features,
and a debilitated frame check the career; then eternity, with all its
hopes and fears, opens to the view. We will for a moment consider you
upon the bed of sickness, surrounded by your family; a physician, with an
air of irresolution, writing a prescription, and your anxious countenance
denoting the insufficiency of all earthly aid; will the remembrance
of balls, routs, and artificial scenes, cheer the dying hour?

The moment arrives when you close your eyes upon this world and its
vanities; 'ashes to ashes, and dust to dust,' finish the scene!
The mouldering earth is lightly scattered over the coffin, and the tomb is
deserted by survivors. But remember, a day will come when you will be
called to judgment, to answer for your deeds upon earth. In what manner
will days, months, and years of folly be justified, in the presence of
your Creator and Judge?"

CHAPTER XI.

A little time after the discovery of the letter Miss Vincent returned
home to her mamma, who had been some time seriously indisposed;
and, to the great joy of Mrs.

Adair, the following week Miss Russel left the school, to accompany her
parents to the Continent.

"Now we shall go on pleasantly," said Mrs. Adair to her daughters; "the
only two disagreeable girls we had under our care are removed: and if
ever I have another of a similar description, I will send her home immediately,
whatever be the consequence."
Mrs. Adair's mind, at the time she said this, was a little irritated, for
she had heard something particularly unpleasant respecting the conduct
of her late pupils. She now resolved to be strict in future; never allow
the young ladies to be alone, even in the play-ground, nor permit them to
spend an hour from the school between the vacations, except by the express
desire of parents in particular cases.

When the young ladies heard there would be no half-day holydays between
the vacations, there was a general consternation amongst them. Some murmured,
and others were satisfied that Mrs. Adair must have good reason for her
proceeding. When Miss Bruce heard the new rule, she said to Isabella
Vincent, "I never knew such a thing!

Not visit this half year! And my Aunt promised to take me to the exhibition,
and Miss Linwood's works, and I don't know where! I never knew any
thing so provoking! But I will be revenged, that I will!"
"And what will you do?" asked Isabella; "what do you mean by revenge?
I am sure it is something very wrong."

"It is only making others feel as well as ourselves, that's all."

"But if they vex us, why should we vex them?

I know I always feel sorry when I have made people angry."
"Don't talk to me--I will write such a theme!"
"Ah, Miss Bruce! mamma says we should never do wrong."
"I wish you would not mention your mamma, for it is a very ugly word."
"O, Miss Bruce, I never heard such a thing!"
"I once loved it dearly," said Miss Bruce, in a softened tone. "Those
were happy days! I can fancy I see somebody now, sitting up in
bed, with her nice white cap, so pale, and so pretty; and somebody
kneeling by her, and praying for her, and blessing her. But all
would not do, to save one I loved!" Here tears trickled from her
eyes: but she suddenly recollected herself; "I must not think of
it; it is over, and for ever gone!Nay, the living must speak first, or
the ghostly dead depart unquestioned. He asked only that he might forget
her and be himself forgotten. If it were that woman's right to call
herself Emily Bogardus, then was there no Adam her husband. Better the old
disguise which left him free to work out his own sentence and pay his
forfeit to the law. He had never desired that one breath of it should be
commuted, or wished to accept an enslaving pardon from those for whose
sake he had put himself out of the way. If he could have taken his own
comparative spiritual measurement, he might have smiled at the humor of
that forgiveness promised him in the name of the Highest by his son.

For many peaceful years solitude had been the habit of his soul. _--Archer's
Hope creek on Fry and Jefferson's map empties into James river but a
short distance below Jamestown, and in the Particulars of Land in Virginia,
referred to in note on page 37, Archer's Hope is named.
_At Hogg Island.He could not command his faculties--memory especially--when a
noise of many words and questions bruised his brain.

The stillness of the desert closed about him with delicious healing. He
was a world-weary child returned to the womb of Nature. His old camp-craft
came back; his eye for distance, his sense of the trail, his little pet
economies with food and fire. There was no one to tell him what to eat and
when to eat it. He was invisible to men. Each day's march built up his
muscle, and every night's deep sleep under the great high stars steadied
his nerves and tightened his resolve.

He thought of the young man--his son--with a mixture of pain and
tenderness. But Paul was not the baby-boy he had put out of his arms
with a father's smile at One Man station. Paul was himself a man now; he
had coerced him at the last, neither did he understand.

The blind instinct of flight began after a while to shape its own
direction. It was no new leaning with the packer. As many times as he
had crossed this trail he never had failed to experience the same pull.
He resisted no longer. He gave way to strange fancies and made them his
guides.

At some time during his flight from the hospital, in one of those blanks
that overtook him, he knew not how, he had met with a great loss. The
words had slipped from his memory--of that message which had kept him in
fancied touch with his wife all these many deluding years. Without them he
was like a drunkard deprived of his habitual stimulant. The craving to
connect and hold them--for they came to him sometimes in tantalizing
freaks of memory, and slipped away again like beads rolling off a broken
thread--was almost the only form of mental suffering he was now conscious
of. What had become of the message itself? Had they left it exposed to
every heartless desecration in that abandoned spot?--a scrap of paper
driven like a bit of tumble-weed before the wind, snatched at by spikes of
sage, trampled into the mire of cattle, nuzzled by wild beasts? Or, had
they put it away with that other beast where he lay with the scoff on his
dead face? Out of dreams and visions of the night that place of the
parting ways called to him, and the time was now come when he must go.

He approached it by one of those desert trails that circle for miles on
the track of water and pounce as a bird drops upon its prey into the
trampled hollow at One Man station--a place for the gathering of hoofs in
the midst of the plain.

He could trace what might have been the foundation of a house, a few
blackened stones, a hearthstone showing where a chimney perhaps had stood,
but these evidences of habitation would never have been marked except by
one who knew where to look. He searched the ground over for signs of the
tragedy that bound him to that spot--a smiling desolation, a sunny
nothingness. The effect of this careless obliteration was quieting. Nature
had played here once with two men and a woman. One of the toy men was
lost, the other broken. She had forgotten where she put the broken one.
There were mounds which looked like graves, but the seeker knew that
artificial mounds in a place like this soon sink into hollows; and there
were hollows like open graves, filled with unsightly human rubbish, washed
in by the yearly rains.

He spent three days in the hollow, doing nothing, steeped in sunshine,
lying down to rest broad awake in the tender twilight, making his peace
with this place of bitter memory before bidding it good-by. His thoughts
turned eastward as the planets rose. Time he was working back towards
home. He would hardly get there if he started now, before his day was
done. He saw his mother's grave beside his father's, in the southeast
corner of the burying-ground, where the trees were thin. All who drove in
through the big gate of funerals could see the tall white shafts of the
Beviers and Brodericks and Van Eltens, but only those who came on foot
could approach his people in the gravelly side-hill plots. "I'd like to be
put there alongside the old folks in that warm south corner." He could see
their names on the plain gray slate stones, rain-stained and green with
moss.

On the third May evening of his stay the horizon became a dust-cloud, the
setting sun a ball of fire. Loomed the figure of a rider topping the
heaving backs of his herd. All together they came lumbering down the
slopes, all heading fiercely for the water. The rider plunged down a
side-draw out of the main cloud. Clanking bells, shuffling hoofs, the
"Whoop-ee-youp!" came fainter up the gulch. The cowboy was not pleased as
he dashed by to see an earlier camp-fire smoking in the hollow. But he was
less displeased, being half French, than if he had been pure-bred
American.

The old man, squatting by his cooking-fire, gave him a civil nod, and he
responded with a flourish of his quirt. The reek of sage smoke, the smell
of dust and cattle rose rank on the cooling air. It was good to Boniface,
son of the desert; it meant supper and bed, or supper and talk, for
"Bonny" Maupin ("Bonny Moppin," it went in the vernacular) would talk
every other man to sleep, full or empty, with songs thrown in. To-night,
however, he must talk on an empty stomach, for his chuck wagon was not in
sight.

"W'ich way you travelin'?" he began, lighting up after a long pull at his
flask. The old man had declined, though he looked as if he needed a drink.

"East about," was the answer.

"Goin' far?"

"Well; summer's before us. I cal'late to keep moving till snow falls."

"Shucks! You ain' pressed for time. Maybe you got some friend back there.
Goin' back to git married?" He winked genially to point the jest and the
old man smiled indulgently.

"Won't you set up and take a bite with me? You don't look to have much of
a show for supper along."

"Thanks, very much! I had bully breakfast at Rock Spring middlin' late
this morning. They butcherin' at that place. Five fat hog. My chuck wagon
he stay behin' for chunk of fresh pig. I won' spoil my appetide for that
tenderloin. Hol' on yourself an' take supper wis me. No?--That fellah be
'long 'bout Chris'mas if he don' git los'! He always behin', pig or no
pig!"

Bonny strolled away collecting fire-wood. Presently he called back,
pointing dramatically with his small-toed boot. "Who's been coyotin' round
here?" The hard ground was freshly disturbed in spots as by the paws of
some small inquisitive animal. There was no answer.

"What you say? Whose surface diggin's is these? I never know anybody do
some mining here."

"That was me"--Bonny backed a little nearer to catch the old man's words.
"I was looking round here for something I lost."

"What luck you have? You fin' him?"

"Well, now, doos it reely matter to you, sonny?"

"Pardner, it don' matter to me a d--n, if you say so! I was jus' askin'
myself what a man _would_ look for if he los' it here. Since I strike this
'ell of a place the very groun' been chewed up and spit out reg'lar, one
hundred times a year. 'T'is a gris' mill!"

"I didn't gretly expect to find what I was lookin' for. I was just foolin'
around to satisfy myself."

"That satisfy me!" said Bonny pleasantly; and yet he was a trifle
discomfited. He strolled away again and began to sing with a boyish show
of indifference to having been called "sonny."

"Oh, Sally is the gal for me!
Oh, Sally's the gal for me!
On moonlight night when the star is bright--
Oh"--

"Halloa! This some more your work, oncle? You ain' got no chicken wing for
arm if you lif' this.--Ah, be dam! I see what you lif' him with. All same
stove-lid." Talking and swearing to himself cheerfully, Bonny applied the
end of a broken whiffletree to the blunt lip of the old hearthstone which
marked the stage-house chimney. He had tried a step-dance on it and found
it hollow. More fresh digging, and marks upon the stone where some prying
tool had taken hold and slipped, showed he was not the first who had been
curious.

"There you go, over on you' back, like snap' turtle; I see where you lay
there before. What the dev'! I say!" Bonny, much excited with his find,
extracted a rusty tin tobacco-box from the hole, pried open the spring lid
and drew forth its contents: a discolored canvas bag bulging with coin and
whipped around the neck with a leather whang. The canvas was rotten; Bonny
supported its contents tenderly as he brought it over to the old man.

"Oncle, I ask you' pardon for tappin' that safe. Pretty good lil'
nest-egg, eh? But now you got to find her some other place."

"That don't belong to me," said the old man indifferently.

"Aw--don't be bashful! I onderstan' now what you los'. You dig
here--there--migs up the scent. I just happen to step on that stone--ring
him, so, with my boot-heel!"

"That ain't my pile," the other persisted. "I started to build a fire on
that stone two nights ago. It rung hollow like you say. I looked and found
what you found."

--"And put her back! My soul to God! An' you here all by you'self!"

"Why not? The stuff ain't mine."

"Who _is_ she? How long since anybody live here?"

"I don't know,--good while, I guess."

"Well, sar! Look here! I open that bag. I count two hondre' thirteen
dolla'--make it twelve for luck, an' call it you' divvee! You strike her
first. What you say: we go snac'?"

"I haven't got any use for that money. You needn't talk to me about it."

"Got no h'use!--are you a reech man? Got you' private car waitin' for you
out in d' sagebrush? Sol' a mine lately?"

"I don't know why it strikes you so funny. It's no concern of mine if a
man puts his money in the ground and goes off and leaves it."

"Goes off and die! There was one man live here by himself--he die, they
say, 'with his boots on.' He, I think, mus' be that man belong to this
money. What an old stiff want with two hondre' thirteen dolla'? That money
goin' into a live man's clothes." Bonny slapped his chappereros, and the
dust flew.

"I've no objection to its going into _your_ clothes," said the old man.

"You thing I ain' particular, me? Well, eef the party underground was my
frien', and I knew his fam'ly, and was sure the money was belong to
him--I'd do differend--perhaps. Mais,--it is going--going--gone! You won'
go snac'?"

The old man smiled and looked steadily away.

"Blas' me to h--l! but you aire the firs' man ever I strike that jib at
the sight of col' coin. She don' frighten me!"

Bonny always swore when he felt embarrassed.

"Well, sar! Look here! You fin' you'self so blame indifferend--s'pose you
_so_ indifferend not to say nothing 'bout this, when my swamper fellah git
in. I don' wish to go snac' wis him. I don' feel oblige'. See?"

"What you want to pester me about this money for!" The old man was weary.
"I didn't come here, lookin' for money, and I don't expect to take none
away with me. So I'll say good-night to ye."

"Hol' on, hol' on! Don' git mad. What time you goin' off in the morning?"

"Before you do, I shouldn't wonder."

"But hol'! One fine idea--blazin' good idea--just hit me now in the head!
Wan' to come on to Chicago wis me? I drop this fellah at Felton. He take
the team back, and I get some one to help me on the treep. Why not you?
Ever tek' care of stock?"

"Some consid'able years ago I used to look after stock. Guess I'd know an
ox from a heifer."

"Ever handle 'em on cattle-car?"

"Never."

"Well, all there is, you feed 'em, and water 'em, and keep 'em on their
feets. If one fall down, all the others they have too much play. They
rock"--Bonny exhibited--"and fall over and pile up in heap. I like to do
one turn for you. We goin' the same way--you bring me the good luck, like
a bird in the han'. This is my clean-up, you understand. You bring me the
beautiful luck. You turn me up right bower first slap. Now it's goin' be
my deal. I like to do by you!"

The packer turned over and looked up at the cool sky, pricked through with
early stars. He was silent a long time. His pale old face was like a fine
bit of carving in the dusk.

"What you think?" asked Moppin, almost tenderly. "I thing you better come
wis me. You too hold a man to go like so--alone."

"I'll have to think about it first;--let you know in the morning."


XXI


INJURIOUS REPORTS CONCERNING AN OLD HOUSE

A Rush of wheels and a spatter of hoofs coming up the drive sent Mrs.
Dunlop to the sitting-room window. She tried to see out through streaming
showers that darkened the panes.

"Isn't that Mrs. Bogardus? Why, it is! Put on your shoes, Chauncey, quick!
Help her in 'n' take her horse to the shed. Take an umbrella with you."
Chauncey the younger, meekly drying his shoes by the kitchen fire, put
them on, not stopping to lace them, and slumped down the porch steps,
pursued by his mother's orders. She watched him a moment struggling with a
cranky umbrella, and then turned her attention to herself and the room.

Mrs. Bogardus made her calls in the morning, and always plainly on
business. She had not seen the inside of Cerissa's parlor for ten years.
This was a grievance which Cerissa referred to spasmodically, being seized
with it when she was otherwise low in her mind.

"My sakes! Can't I remember my mother telling how _her_ mother used to
drive over and spend the afternoon, and bring her sewing and the
baby--whichever one was the baby. They called each other Chrissy and
Angevine, and now she don't even speak of her own children to us by their
first names. It's 'Mrs. Bowen' and 'Mr. Paul;' just as if she was talking
to her servants."

"What's that to us? We've got a good home here for as long as we want to
stay. She's easy to work for, if you do what she says."

Chauncey respected Mrs. Bogardus's judgment and her straightforward
business habits. Other matters he left alone. But Cerissa was ambitious
and emotional, and she stayed indoors, doing little things and thinking
small thoughts. She resented her commanding neighbor's casual manners.
There was something puzzling and difficult to meet in her plainness of
speech, which excluded the personal relation. It was like the cut and
finish of her clothes--mysterious in their simplicity, and not to be
imitated cheaply.

When the two met, Cerissa was immediately reduced to a state of flimsy
apology which she made up for by being particularly hot and self-assertive
in speaking of the lady afterward.

"There is the parlor, in perfect order," she fretted, as she stood waiting
to open the front door; "but of course she wouldn't let me take her in
there--that would be too much like visiting."

The next moment she had corrected her facial expression, and was offering
smiling condolences to Mrs. Bogardus on the state of her attire.

"It is only my jacket. You might put that somewhere to dry," said the lady
curtly. Raindrops sparkled on the wave of thick iron-gray hair that lifted
itself, with a slight turn to one side, from her square low brow. Her eyes
shone dark against the fresh wind color in her cheeks. She had the
straight, hard, ophidian line concealing the eyelid, which gives such a
peculiar strength to the direct gaze of a pair of dark eyes. If one
suspects the least touch of tenderness, possibly of pain, behind that iron
fold, it lends a fascination equal to the strength. There was some
excitement in Mrs. Bogardus's manner, but Cerissa did not know her well
enough to perceive it. She merely thought her looking handsomer, and, if
possible, more formidable than usual.

She sat by the fire, folding her skirts across her knees, and showing the
edges of the most discouragingly beautiful petticoats,--a taste perhaps
inherited from her wide-hipped Dutch progenitresses. Mrs. Bogardus reveled
in costly petticoats, and had an unnecessary number of them.

"How nice it is in here!" she said, looking about her. Cerissa, with the
usual apologies, had taken her into the kitchen to dry her skirts. There
was a slight taint of steaming shoe leather, left by Chauncey when driven
forth. Otherwise the kitchen was perfection,--the family room of an old
Dutch farmhouse, built when stone and hardwood lumber were cheap,--thick
walls; deep, low window-seats; beams showing on the ceiling; a modern
cooking-stove, where Emily Bogardus could remember the wrought brass
andirons and iron backlog, for this room had been her father's
dining-room. The brick tiled hearth remained, and the color of those
century and a half old bricks made a pitiful thing of Cerissa's new
oil-cloth. The woodwork had been painted--by Mrs. Bogardus's orders, and
much to Cerissa's disgust--a dark kitchen green,--not that she liked the
color herself, but it was the artistic demand of the moment,--and the
place was filled with a green golden light from the cherry-trees close to
the window, which a break in the clouds had suddenly illumined.

"You keep it beautifully," said Mrs. Bogardus, her eyes shedding
compliments as she looked around. "I should not dare go in my own kitchen
at this time of day. There are no women nowadays who know how to work in
the way ladies used to work. If I could have such a housekeeper as you,
Cerissa."

Cerissa flushed and bridled. "What would Chauncey do!"

"I don't expect you to be my housekeeper," Mrs. Bogardus smiled. "But I
envy Chauncey."

"She has come to ask a favor," thought Cerissa. "I never knew her so
pleasant, for nothing. She wants me to do up her fruit, I guess." Cerissa
was mistaken. Mrs. Bogardus simply was happy--or almost happy--and deeply
stirred over a piece of news which had come to her in that morning's mail.

"I have telephoned Bradley not to send his men over on Monday. My son is
bringing his wife home. They may be here all summer. The place belongs to
them now. Did Chauncey tell you? Mr. Paul writes that he has some building
plans of his own, and he wishes everything left as it is for the present,
especially this house. He wants his wife to see it first just as it is."

"Well, to be sure! They've been traveling a long time, haven't they? And
how is his health now?"

"Oh, he is very well indeed. You will be glad not to have the trouble of
those carpenters, Cerissa? Pulling down old houses is dirty work."

"Oh, dear! I wouldn't mind the dirt. Anything to get rid of that old rat's
nest on top of the kitchen chamber. I hate to have such out of the way
places on my mind. I can't get around to do every single thing, and it's
years--years, Mrs. Bogardus, since I could get a woman to do a half-day's
cleaning up there in broad daylight!"

Mrs. Bogardus stared. What was the woman talking about!

"I call it a regular eyesore on the looks of the house besides. And it
keeps all the old stories alive."

"What stories?"

"Why, of course your father wasn't out of his head--we all know that--when
he built that upstairs room and slep' there and locked himself in every
night of his life. It was only on one point he was a little warped: the
fear of bein' robbed. A natural fear, too,--an old man over eighty livin'
in such a lonesome place and known to be well off. But--you'll excuse my
repeating the talk--but the story goes now that he re'ly went insane and
was confined up there all the last years of his life. And that's why the
windows have got bars acrost them. Everybody notices it, and they ask
questions. It's real embarrassin', for of course I don't want to discuss
the family."

"Who asks questions?" Mrs. Bogardus's eyes were hard to meet when her
voice took that tone.

"Why, the city folks out driving. They often drive in the big gate and
make the circle through the grounds, and they're always struck when they
see that tower bedroom with windows like a prison. They say, 'What's the
story about that room, up there?'"

"When people ask you questions about the house, you can say you did not
live here in the owner's time and you don't know. That's perfectly simple,
isn't it?"

"But I do know! Everybody knows," said Cerissa hotly. "It was the talk of
the whole neighborhood when that room was put up; and I remember how
scared I used to be when mother sent me over here of an errand."

Mrs. Bogardus rose and shook out her skirts. "Will Chauncey bring my horse
when it stops raining? By the way, did you get the furniture down that was
in that room, Cerissa?--the old secretary? I am going to have it put in
order for Mr. Paul's room. Old furniture is the fashion now, you know."

Cerissa caught her breath nervously. "Mrs. Bogardus--I couldn't do a thing
about it! I wanted Chauncey to tell you. All last week I tried to get a
woman, or a man, to come and help me clear out that place, but just as
soon as they find out what's wanted--'You'll have to get somebody else for
that job,' they say."

"What is the matter with them?"

"It's the room, Mrs. Bogardus; if I was you--I'm doing now just as I'd be
done by--I would not take Mrs. Paul Bogardus up into that room--not even
in broad daylight; not if it was my son's wife, in the third month of her
being a wife."

"Well, upon my word!" said Mrs. Bogardus, smiling coldly. "Do you mean to
say these women are afraid to go up there?"

"It was old Mary Hornbeck who started the talk. She got what she called
her 'warning' up there. And the fact is, she was a corpse within six
months from that day. Chauncey and me, we used to hear noises, but old
houses are full of noises. We never thought much about it; only, I must
say I never had any use for that part of the house. Chauncey keeps his
seeds and tools in the lower room, and some of the winter vegetables, and
we store the parlor stove in there in summer."

"Well, about this 'warning'?" Mrs. Bogardus interrupted.

"Yes! It was three years ago in May, and I remember it was some such a day
as this--showery and broken overhead, and Mary disappointed me; but she
came about noon, and said she'd put in half a day anyhow. She got her pail
and house-cloths; but she wasn't gone not half an hour when down she come
white as a sheet, and her mouth as dry as chalk. She set down all of a
shake, and I give her a drink of tea, and she said: 'I wouldn't go up
there again, not for a thousand dollars.' She unlocked the door, she said,
and stepped inside without thinkin'. Your father's old rocker with the
green moreen cushions stood over by the east window, where he used to sit.
She heard a creak like a heavy step on the floor, and that empty chair
across the room, as far as from here to the window, begun to rock as if
somebody had just rose up from them cushions. She watched it till it
stopped. Then she took another step, and the step she couldn't see
answered her, and the chair begun to rock again."

"Was that all?"

"No, ma'am; that wasn't all. I don't know if you remember an old wall
clock with a brass ball on top and brass scrolls down the sides and a
painted glass door in front of the pendulum with a picture of a castle and
a lake? The paint's been wore off the glass with cleaning, so the pendulum
shows plain. That clock has not been wound since we come to live here. I
don't believe a hand has touched it since the night he was carried feet
foremost out of that room. But Mary said she could count the strokes go
tick, tick, tick! She listened till she could have counted fifty, for she
was struck dumb, and just as plain as the clock before her face she could
see the minute-hand and the pendulum, both of 'em dead still. Now, how do
you account for that!

"I told Chauncey about it, and he said it was all foolishness. Do all I
could he would go up there himself, that same evening. But he come down
again after a while, and he was almost as white as Mary. 'Did you see
anything?' I says. 'I saw what Mary said she saw,' says he, 'and I heard
what she heard.' But no one can make Chauncey own up that he believes it
was anything supernatural. 'There is a reason for everything,' he says.
'The miracles and ghosts of one generation are just school-book learning
to the next; and more of a miracle than the miracles themselves.'"

"Chauncey shows his sense," Mrs. Bogardus observed.

"He was real disturbed, though, I could see; and he told me particular not
to make any talk about it. I never have opened the subject to a living
soul. But when Mary died, within six months, folks repeated what she had
been saying about her 'warning.' The 'death watch' she called it. We can't
all of us control our feelings about such things, and she was a lonely
widow woman."

"Well, do you believe that ticking is going on up there now?" asked Mrs.
Bogardus.

Cerissa looked uneasy.

"Is the door locked?"

"I re'ly couldn't say," she confessed.

"Do you mean to say that all you sensible people in this house have
avoided that room for three years? And you don't even know if the door is
locked?"

"I--I don't use that part for anything, and cleaning is wasted on a place
that's never used, and I can't _get_ anybody"--

"I am not criticising your housekeeping. Will you go up there with me now,
Cerissa? I want to understand about this."

"What, just now, do you mean? I'm afraid I haven't got the time this
morning, Mrs. Bogardus. Dinner's at half-past twelve. It's a quarter to
eleven"--

"Very well. You think the door is not locked?"

"If it is, the key must be in the door. Oh, don't go, please, Mrs.
Bogardus. Wait till Chauncey conies in"--

"I wish you'd send Chauncey up when he does come in. Ask him to bring a
screw-driver." Mrs. Bogardus rose and examined her jacket. It was still
damp. She asked for a cape, or some sort of wrap, as her waist was thin,
and the rain had chilled the morning air.

For the sake of decency, Cerissa escorted her visitor across the hall
passage into the loom-room--a loom-room in name only for upwards of three
generations. Becky had devoted it to the rough work of the house, and to
certain special uses, such as the care of the butchering products, the
making of soft soap and root beer. Here the churning was done, by hand,
with a wooden dasher, which spread a circle of white drops, later to
become grease-spots. The floor of the loom-room was laid in large brick
tiles, more or less loose in their sockets, with an occasional earthy
depression marking the grave of a missing tile. Becky's method of cleaning
was to sluice it out and scrub it with an old broom. The seepage of
generations before her time had thus added their constant quota to the old
well's sum of iniquity.

Mrs. Bogardus had not visited this part of the old house for many years.
After her father's death she had shrunk from its painful associations.
Later she grew indifferent; but as she passed now into the gloomy
place--doubly dark with the deep foliage of June on a rainy morning--she
was afraid of her own thoughts. Henceforth she was a woman with a diseased
consciousness. "What can't be cured must be _seared_," flashed over her as
she set her face to the stairway.

These stairs, leading up into the back attic or "kitchen chamber," being
somewhat crowded for space, advanced two steps into the room below. As the
stair door opened outward, and the stairs were exceedingly steep and dark,
every child of the house, in turn, had suffered a bad fall in consequence;
but the arrangement remained in all its natural depravity, for "children
must learn."

Little Emmy of the old days had loved to sit upon these steps, a trifle
raised above the kitchen traffic, yet cognizant of all that was going on,
and ready to descend promptly if she smelled fresh crullers frying, or
baked sweet apples steaming hot from the oven. If Becky's foot were heard
upon the stairs above, she would jump quick enough; but if the step had a
clumping, boyish precipitancy, she sat still and laughed, and planted her
back against the door. Often she had teased Adam in this way, keeping him
prisoner from his duties, helpless in his good nature either to scold her
or push her off. But once he circumvented her, slipping off his shoes and
creeping up the stairs again, and making his escape by the roof and the
boughs of the old maple. Then it was Emmy who was teased, who sat a
foolish half hour on the stairs alone and missed a beautiful ride to the
wood lot; but she would not speak to Adam for two days afterward.

Becky's had been the larger of the two bedrooms in the attic, Adam's the
smaller--tucked low under the eaves, and entered by crawling around the
big chimney that came bulking up to the light like a great tree caught
between house walls. The stairs hugged the chimney and made use of its
support. Adam would warm his hands upon it coming down on bitter mornings.
From force of habit, Emily Bogardus laid her smooth white hand upon the
clammy bricks. No tombstone could be colder than that heart of house
warmth now.

The roof of the kitchen chamber had been raised a story higher, and the
chimney as it went up contracted to quite a modern size. This elevation
gave room for the incongruous tower bedroom that had hurt the symmetry of
the old house, spoiled its noble sweep of roof, and given rise to so much
unpleasant conjecture as to its use. It was this excrescence, the record
of those last unloved and unloving years of her father's life, which Mrs.
Bogardus would have removed, but was prevented by her son.

"You go back now, Cerissa," she said to the panting woman behind her. "I
see the key is in the lock. You may send Chauncey after a while; there is
no hurry."

"Oh!" gasped Cerissa. "Do you see _that!_"

"What?"

"I thought there was something--something behind that slit."

"There isn't. Step this way. There, can't you see the light?"

Mrs. Bogardus grasped Cerissa by the shoulders and held her firmly in
front of a narrow loophole that pierced the partition close beside the
door. Light from the room within showed plainly; but it gave an
unpleasantly human expression to the entrance, like a furtive eye on the
watch.

"He would always be there," Cerissa whispered.

"Who?"

"Your father. If anybody wanted to see him after he shut himself in there
for the night, they had to stand to be questioned through that wall-slit
before he opened the door. Yes, ma'am! He was on the watch in there the
whole time like a thing in a trap."

"Are you afraid to go back alone?" Mrs. Bogardus spoke with chilling
irony.

Cerissa backed away in silence, her heart thumping. "She's putting it on,"
she said to herself. "I never see her turn so pale. Don't tell _me_ she
ain't afraid!"

There was a hanging shelf against the chimney on which a bundle of dry
herbs had been left to turn into dust. Old Becky might have put them there
the autumn before she died; or some successor of hers in the years that
were blank to the daughter of the house. As she pushed open the door a
sighing draught swept past her and seemed to draw her inward. It shook the
sere bundle. Its skeleton leaves, dissolving into motes, flickered an
instant athwart the light. They sifted down like ashes on the woman's dark
head as she passed in. Her color had faded, but not through fear of ghost
clocks. It was the searing process she had to face. And any room where she
sat alone with certain memories of her youth was to her a torture chamber.

       *       *       *       *       *

"She's been up there an awful long time. I wouldn't wonder if she's
fainted away."

"What would she faint at? I guess it's pretty cold, though. Give me some
more tea; put plenty of milk so I can drink it quick."

Chauncey's matter of fact tone always comforted Cerissa when she was
nervous. She did not mind that he jeered or that his words were often
rude; no man of her acquaintance could say things nicely to women, or ever
tried. A certain amount of roughness passed for household wit. Chauncey
put the screw-driver in his pocket, his wife and son watching him with
respectful anxiety. He thought rather well of his own courage privately.
But the familiar details of the loom-room cheered him on his way, the
homely tools of his every-day work were like friendly faces nodding at
him. He knocked loudly on the door above, and was answered by Mrs.
Bogardus in her natural voice.

"Bosh--every bit of it bosh!" he repeated courageously.

She was seated by the window in the chair with the green cushions. Her
face was turned towards the view outside. "What a pity those cherries were
not picked before the rain," she observed. "The fruit is bursting ripe;
I'm afraid you'll lose the crop."

Chauncey moved forward awkwardly without answering.

"Stop there one moment, will you?" Mrs. Bogardus rose and demonstrated.
"You notice those two boards are loose. Now, I put this chair here,"--she
laid her hand on the back to still its motion. "Step this way. You see?
The chair rocks of itself. So would any chair with a spring board under
it. That accounts for _that_, I think. Now come over here." Chauncey
placed himself as she directed in front of the high mantel with the clock
above it. She stood at his side and they listened in silence to that sound
which Mary Hornbeck, deceased, had deemed a spiritual warning.

"Would you call that a 'ticking'? Is that like any sound an insect could
make?" the mistress asked.

"I should call it more like a 'ting,'" said Chauncey. "It comes kind o'
muffled like through the chimbly--a person might be mistaken if they was
upset in their nerves considerable."

"What old people call the 'death-watch' is supposed to be an insect that
lives in the walls of old houses, isn't it? and gives warning with a
ticking sound when somebody is going to be called away? Now to me that
sounds like a soft blow struck regularly on a piece of hollow iron--say
the end of a stove-pipe sticking in the chimney. When I first came up
here, there was only a steady murmur of wind and rain. Then the clouds
thinned and the sun came out and drops began to fall--distinctly. Your
wife says the ticking was heard on a day like this, broken and showery.
Now, if you will unscrew that clock, I think you will find there's a
stove-pipe hole behind it; and a piece of pipe shoved into the chimney
just far enough to catch the drops as they gather and fall."

Chauncey went to work. He sweated in the airless room. The powerful screws
blunted the lips of his tool but would not start.

"I guess I'll have to give it up for to-day. The screws are rusted in
solid. Want I should pry her out of the woodwork?"

"No, don't do that," said Mrs. Bogardus. "Why should we spoil the panel?
This seems a very comfortable room. My son is right. It would be foolish
to tear it down. Such a place as this might be very useful if you people
would get over your notions about it."

"I never had no notions," Chauncey asserted. "When the women git talkin'
they like to make out a good story, and whichever one sees the most and
hears the most makes the biggest sensation."

Mrs. Bogardus waited till he had finished without appearing to have heard
what he was saying.

"Where is the key to this door?" she laid her hand over a knob to the
right of the stairs.

"I guess if there is one it's on the other side. Yes, it's in the
key-hole." Chauncey turned the knob and shoved and lifted. The door
yielded to his full strength, and he allowed Mrs. Bogardus to precede him.
She stepped into a room hardly bigger than a closet with one window,
barred like those in the outer room. It was fitted up with toilet
conveniences according to the best advices of its day. Over all the neat
personal arrangements there was the slur of neglect, a sad squalor which
even a king's palace wears with time.

Chauncey tested the plumbing with a noise that was plainly offensive to
his companion, but she bore with it--also with his reminiscences gathered
from neighborhood gossip. "He wa'n't fond of spending money, but he didn't
spare it here: this was his ship cabin when he started on his last voyage.
It looked funny--a man with all his land and houses cooped up in a place
like this; but he wanted to be independent of the women. He hated to have
'em fussin' around him. He had a woman to come and cook up stuff for him
to help himself to; but she wouldn't stay here overnight, nor he wouldn't
let her. As for a man in the house,--most men were thieves, he thought, or
waiting their chance to be. It was real pitiful the way he made his end."

"Open that window and shut the door when you come out," said Mrs.
Bogardus. "I will send some one to help you down with that secretary.
Cerissa knows about it. It is to be sent up on the Hill."


XXII


THE CASE STRIKES IN

Christine's marriage took place while Paul and Moya were lingering in the
Bruneau, for Paul's health ostensibly. Banks and Horace had been left to
the smiling irony of justice. They never had a straight chance to define
their conduct in the woods; for no one accused them. No awkward questions
were asked in the city drawing-rooms or at the clubs. For a tough half
hour or so at Fort Lemhi they had realized how they stood in the eyes of
those unbiased military judges. The shock had a bracing effect for a time.
Both boys were said to be much improved by their Western trip and by the
hardships of that frightful homeward march.

Mrs. Bogardus had matched her gift of Stone Ridge to her son, which was a
gift of sentiment, with one of more substantial value to her
daughter,--the income from certain securities settled upon her and her
heirs. Banks was carefully unprovided for. The big house in town was full
of ghosts--the ghosts that haunt such homes, made desolate by a breach of
hearts. The city itself was crowded with opportunities for giving and
receiving pain between mother and daughter. Christine had developed all
the latent hardness of her mother's race with a sickly frivolity of her
own. She made a great show of faith in her marriage venture. She boomed it
in her occasional letters, which were full of scarce concealed bravado as
graceful as snapping her fingers in her mother's face.

Mrs. Bogardus leased her house in town, and retired before the ghosts, but
not escaping them; Stone Ridge must be put in order for its new master and
mistress, and Stone Ridge had its own ghosts. She informed her absentees
that, before their return, she should have left for Southern California to
look after some investments which she had neglected there of late. It was
then she spoke of her plan for restoring the old house by pulling down
that addition which disfigured it; and Paul had objected to this erasure.
It would take from the house's veracity, he said. The words carried their
unintentional sting.

But it was Moya's six lines at the bottom of his page that changed and
softened everything. Moya--always blessed when she took the
initiative--contrived, as swiftly as she could set them down, to say the
very words that made the home-coming a coming home indeed.

"Will Madam Bogardus be pleased to keep her place as the head of her son's
house?" Independently of his skill as a player, he is regarded as a
living institution in chess. For a quarter of a century, with the late
Mr. Boden, and Bird still living he has been one of the foremost amateurs;
as a writer, he has contributed as much to the amusement and edification
of chess readers as any author known. He always has been, and is still
highly popular, with many intensely so; his geniality is so great,
as well as his wit, that his society is eagerly sought, and always
enjoyed.

The omission of the name of such a notable, worthy representative and general
favourite, is alone sufficient to detract from the value of the article
to no inconsiderable extent; if really intended as a trustworthy
narrative and record of the world's Chess Masters.

       The Amateur Masters are not so numerous that they need have been
passed over.

The Rev. W. Wayte is alike distinguished for his honorary writings
in support of chess, and his brilliant victories, at times, against the
finest players, extending over a long period, not very far short of the
experience of the writer of these lines. He is, in addition to his many
well-known scholarly qualifications, a very distinguished amateur chess
master, a liberal supporter of the game, and by many looked up to as the
head of the circle. His name would grace any article. Mr. Minchin's
national and international services are too well-known to require comment
and he would deprecate any reference to them; still I must express the
opinion that he has earned the gratitude of the entire chess-playing
world for his disinterested services in promoting and so largely
contributing to the success of great and popular gatherings.

Mr. Thorold's eminence as an exponent, and modesty and courtesy as an
opponent, are known to all; whilst Mr. Watkinson, though now out of
practice, was an equally forcible player, and has rendered inestimable
benefits to the cause of chess by conducting, for many years, a
journal of the highest class; which has never wounded the
susceptibilities of a member of the circle.

The life-long services of the Rev. Mr. Skipworth ought not to be forgotten;
he is, when free from his official duties, quite formidable as an
adversary, and is ever ready and willing to test conclusions with
the best of players.

The Rev. C. E.

Ranken, too, a very strong player and analyst, has, in many ways,
been of great service to the cause of chess.

Should the reader's stock of astonishment be at all limited, heavy
draws will have been already made upon it; yet another call,
however, remains, and that the most recent and in many respects the
most unaccountable.

The advent of a new chess master after a lapse of twenty years is
in itself an event of considerable interest in the chess world.

W. H. K. Pollock was early last year admittedly a master, in the opinion
of many considered competent to judge. In August of last year he won the
first prize in the "Irish Chess Association one game Master
Tournament," winning from Blackburne, Burn, and six leading Irish
players.

He is most modest and very chivalrous, always ready to play on convenient
occasions for pure love of the game and credit of victory alone. This
is truly a strange omission.

The author's assertion with regard to Morphy is that "He was head and
shoulders above the players of his time." What precise degree of
superiority that may imply in chess is not easy to define, and must be
left to the imagination of the reader. As a matter of fact Mr. Hoffer
never saw Morphy; and his statement is based upon his published games and
public chess opinion; which, it is true, mostly awards Morphy the highest
place in modern chess history; his title, however, is principally
based upon his victories over Anderssen and Lowenthal, the former
in bad health, and not in his best form at the time!

Staunton and Buckle, the best English players of their day, never encountered
Morphy. Against Harrwitz he won five to three, and fourteen to six against
Barnes. Morphy's record, though great, is not superior to Staunton's
before, and Steinitz's after him.
There do not appear sufficient grounds for estimating one more highly than
the other. Foreign critics sometimes as well as English ones have been apt
for purposes of inferential comparison to exalt one player and proportionately
disparage another; thus chess critics, with whom Staunton does not
stand in the highest favour in the past, or Steinitz in the present,
too often indulge in the most extravagant statements as to Morphy's
immeasurable superiority, not based on conclusive grounds; when the
games and evidence are closely and impartially tested.

The rapidly advancing chess skill of so many young amateurs in the
present day is a great stimulus to the rising generation of
chess-players, especially to such as aim at a high state of
proficiency; and, though this may be regarded as one of the most
interesting and popular features in the pursuit the author of the
article in question makes no reference to this branch of the subject.

The gradual introduction of the game as a mental recreation into seats
of learning and industrial establishments, and the formation of many Working
Men's Chess Clubs are now well known; the result is that for the first
time within the recollection of present players several amateurs have come
to the front scarcely inferior in force to the new Master, Pollock,
whilst some in style may compete with him!

Anger, Donisthorpe, Guest, Hooke, Hunter, Jacobs, and Mills, with the most
successful of the past University Chess Teams, Chepmell, Gattie, Gwinner,
Locock, Plunkett, and Wainwright, are names scarcely less familiar than
those of the half dozen older masters left, who form the remnant of the
little band of twenty recognised masters living in 1854.

Chess has become far more general than it formerly was because it is better
understood. Old fashioned notions that it was too serious and necessitated
an unreasonable absorption of time, are passing away. A well-known amateur,
whose games please the public much and are greatly admired in Professor
Ruskin's letters has played many of his best specimens within an
hour, some in half that time.

This same player states that he recurs with great interest, though
melancholy in its character, to some games, he has played with those afflicted
in various ways, on account of the solace and consolation as well as
pleasure it has been found to afford him! The excellent contests
some blind boys made against him with their raised boards; the enjoyment
they expressed and felt, as conveyed to him by the master of the
Asylum, is vivid in his remembrance. Chess has proved highly beneficial
to such of the lower classes, as have been fortunate enough to
resort to it, in place of more exciting and expensive indoor games.

The mental exercise called into play is of the most healthy character;
and those who interest themselves in the welfare of their less
fortunate brethren may benefit them and society, by assisting to
diffuse a better knowledge of its advantages for those at present
uninterested in it.

There may be something in the author's opinion that no extraordinary
mental power is needed for chess excellence; but his views, probably,
would have been more valuable if less general, and expressed with
such qualifications as the history of its masters suggests; his
idea, however, that anyone of average capacity may play average
chess, is not in accordance with experience, if, indeed, it is not
decidedly in opposition to it.

Some of the finest players may appear to Mr. Hoffer to possess but average
intellect; but, whether he is right or not, one thing is certain, that
many with the greatest endowments and known powers of calculation
and thought have failed at it and some have been candid enough to admit
that they abandoned the game because dissatisfied with their own
progress and skill at it.

Buckle in his opinion given by MacDonnell in "Life Pictures," (the amusing
and interesting work of the latter), considers imagination and calculation
necessary, but discards any idea of superior mental capacity.

It is clear, however, that the qualifications necessary to be met with
cannot well be defined; we have never found any successful attempt
to do so. Franklin did not attempt it. We find by experience that a likely
man fails and an unlikely one succeeds.

Stock-brokers have been very successful--mathematicians quite the reverse.
Twenty or thirty eminent players, barristers and solicitors, may
be quoted to four engineers and accountants, the latter, however, including
one of the masters! The Church has been very prolific as well as
medicine.

>From the programmes of our more recent tournaments we find the
most distinguished names of supporters, and the British Chess
Association is honoured with those of Lord Tennyson, Lord Randolph
Churchill, Professor Ruskin, and Sir Robert Peel on its presidential
list.

The late Prince Leopold was Patron of the St.
George's Club, and President of the Oxford University Chess Club.
The late J. P. Benjamin, Q.C., and formerly, Sir C. Russell were among its
admirers and supporters.

Sir H. James and Sir H.
Giffard also honour the list; and a very brilliant amateur in past
days, (scarcely inferior to John Cochrane and Mr.

Daniels), W.

Mackeson, Q.C., still honours the chess clubs with an occasional visit,
willingly taking a board and invariably running a hard race of
combination with the best performers.

Earl Granville, the Marquis of Hartington, the Marquis of Ripon,
and the Right Hon.

H. C. Childers, M.P., have also appeared as patrons and supporters.

Blackburne, Steinitz, and Zukertort, our three greatest professional
players, will not feel highly complimented to hear, for the first time,
that their excellence arises from twenty years hard labour; and that
inferentially their capacity, otherwise, is but common.

Memory, a quality not mentioned by the Reviewer or by Mr. Buckle, must be
essential in the playing of chess for hours without sight of board or
men; it must be also advantageous in the ordinary game, when many variations
have to be worked out; or the earlier combinations might be forgotten
when the latter are maturing.

Steinitz is now residing in New York, (this fact might well have been stated)
and the attacks upon him in his absence, moreover, can hardly
interest or gratify chess readers.

These attacks are in the worst possible taste; being calculated to lead
to controversy with his friends and supporters, who are still
numerous, both here and abroad.

They will arouse a well merited and just sense of indignation for
despite his faults of temper and a disposition, at times, prone to
be touchy and contentious, Steinitz is a true artist, a painstaking,
careful, conscientious, and impartial annotator, whilst as a describer
of play he is unrivalled.

Willing, at all times, to render full justice to the skill, style,
and play of others, he has been frequently heard to observe that
the "difference in force between the six leading chess-players is
so slight, that the result of a contest between two of them would
be always uncertain."

As a chess-player he is far from lacking modesty. No "head and shoulders"
comparison or claim of superiority has ever been made by Steinitz. He is
exceedingly courteous to young aspirants, and fairly communicative to
all; he is, when vexed, as likely, (or more so), to offend his best
friends as strangers. With all his shortcomings, however, it is doubtful
whether any real admirer of chess from its highest aspect will
feel aught but regret at the remarks applied to him; the space
devoted to these attacks (exceeding that allotted to all the English
players) might well have been devoted to chess in its social aspect,
to its advantages and prospects, or to some more agreeable phase
of it than extreme personality.

Even another page or two of chess-players' jokes and eccentricities would
have been less objectionable.

The personalities and lack of impartiality in the article cannot but be
regarded as a very serious drawback; it is not written in a tone which is
likely to benefit chess or advance its cause; and it is to be feared,
that it will afford but little instruction or lasting interest and pleasure
to its readers.

NATIONAL CHESS.
CHESS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.
BELFAST, (THE MOST RECENT MEETING).

As the events of the day or of the hour generally command the most
immediate interest in chess (as in many more important things), we may
commence notice of National Chess with the memorable event which has most
recently engaged public chess attention, viz., the North of Ireland Chess
Congress just concluded in the City of Belfast. The history of First
Class Modern Chess Competition upon an emulatory scale in our country may
be almost said to begin with Ireland. We know that a little band of chess
enthusiasts assembled regularly in Dublin so early as 1819, and that the
knowledge of it had a material influence on the advance of chess practice
at the time, and so far as we can gather the letter from Trinity
College, Dublin, in 1850, was the suggestion which first led to
discussions which resulted in the World's International Chess
Tournament, (the first on record) held in London in the succeeding
year.

There is little doubt moreover among old chess players, and probably will
be with observant young ones either, that from the appearance of the
courteous and chivalrous A. McDonnell, of Belfast, in 1828, may be dated
the origin of genuine first class chess rivalry.

It was McDonnell's skill, courage, perseverance and gallant stand against
the famous Louis de La Bourdonnais, of France, in 1834, and his
successes against all the other competitors he met with, and the
encouragement that his example inspired, which first established
British claims to ability in chess, and an equal reputation with
the best of other countries in the exposition of the game.

>From Greco's debut in Paris in 1626 to Philidor's first appearance
at London in 1746, (about 120 years) forms the first of three
previous epochs of chess progress; Philidor's own distinguished
career to 1795, a second, and the next quarter of a century, to the
first great correspondence match between Edinburgh and London, when
books on the game, literature, and the formation of chess clubs
first became conspicuous, marks the third epoch, from Queen Elizabeth's
time when probably chess first became the subject of any considerable
notice, or indication of approach to more general practice and
appreciation.

NOTE.

The extent to which the 1851 and 1883 Tournaments were aided by
Indian feeling and support is another great and pleasing feature.

The names of Cochrane and Minchin stand foremost in memory among
the inceptors.

------
The wonderful Evans Gambit attack which has ever in its manifold
branches continued so intensely popular, had been invented by Capt.

W. D. Evans, in 1830.

It was played 23 times, the attack won 15, the defence 5, and 3
were drawn.

The Belfast amateur gained considerably in form in the latter stages
and at the conclusion, whether in brilliancy or depth, there was
not much to choose between them, though the great French professional
would seem to have been the more rapid player.

       McDonnell died on the 14th September, 1834, aged 37, and La Bourdonnais
on the 13th December, 1840, aged 43, being about five years before
the appearance in the chess arena of the writer of this article,
and who now, owing to the hospitality and liberality of Belfast has
the honour and pleasure of taking part in a national British
competition in the native place of one who so greatly contributed
to the pioneering of these interesting tests of skill.

NOTE. The match between La Bourdonnais and McDonnell produced games which
for originality, enterprise and spirit have never been surpassed. They
commanded the admiration and enthusiasm of all lovers of chess at the
time, besides securing press notice and arousing a taste for its practice,
and a genuine emulation never witnessed before this great example, and
the appreciation of the games is now as great as ever, and few modern
matches can bear comparison with them.

Different versions of the score have appeared; it was probably finally
La Bourdonnais 43, McDonnell 29, and draws 13.

------

The Chess Congress of the North of Ireland, which will sound yet more familiar
to many ears, under the title of the Belfast or Belfast and Holywood
Chess Congress (for it is to the spirit and liberality of these
two places that the meeting owes its origin) commenced in the Central
Hall, Belfast, on September 12th, and concluded with one of Mr.

Blackburne's marvellous blindfold performances on September 24th, an ordinary
simultaneous competition of twenty-one games by Mr. Bird, on September
21st, having also apparently afforded some pleasure and
satisfaction.

The Belfast meeting must, owing to the originality and enterprise of its
conception, and the complete success which has attended it form a unique
item in Great Britain's local chess records, and will not form one
of the least interesting and significant features in the national
chess history of this generation, for it is the first occasion in
the record of the forty-eight counties gatherings held since the
first of 1841, in Leeds, that the idea has been conceived of adding
a contest between the greatest living masters in the country on
terms the most liberal and deeply appreciated.

The proceedings of the Congress, and the scores of the players in the
Tournaments have been reported from day to day in the Belfast papers, and
the games of the masters with some selected from the amateur handicaps
have also been given, and save that the same have been presented
without comment on the merits of the play, description, or notes which are
found so useful and acceptable to the general reader, otherwise considered,
from a purely local point of view, nothing remained to be desired. From
a national chess point of view, however, it seems to have been too lightly
regarded by the Press, some trophy in the amateur competitions to commemorate
the name of Alexander McDonnell, a native of Belfast, who did more in his
time than any other man to uphold British chess reputation, might also
not have been inappropriate on such an occasion. Personally I was
surprised that the name of McDonnell did not appear to be more vividly
remembered in his native city.

It seems desirable, if not indeed absolutely necessary before describing
the games contested by the four masters, Blackburne, Bird, Lee, and Mason,
to say a few words about the original inception of the great matches
in which it was at one time proposed that two other eminent players,
not British born should participate, but who at the last moment
sought certain undue advantages beyond the very liberal bonuses
provided, and even a controlling influence never anticipated by the
committee, and to which of course it could not, with any full sense
of propriety or regard to originally avowed intentions and subscribers
views consent.

Asking pardon for a slight digression I will first say a word or two about
the absentees in not an ill-natured way before coming to the essence
of the play.

It so happens that during the past few years the countries that
furnished us with visits from the chivalrous Anderssen, the hospitable
and princely Kolisch, the distinguished and retiring Szen, the
singularly modest Paulsen, the courteous and gallant Lowenthal, the
amiable, unassuming, and as some think incomparable Zukertort, and
the genuine and in many respects greatest of all chess artists,
Steinitz, have also domiciled with us two more recent additions of
chess experts, who arrived at the age when chess players most excel,
and playing under conditions of time and clocks most favourable to
them have each in turn achieved such remarkable successes, that
native players have retired entirely to the shade, and a forty year
Bird (competitor of Buckle, Staunton, Anderssen, Morphy and Steinitz,
and still the most successful representative of the rapid amusement
school), and a thirty year Blackburne, perhaps the greatest all
round chess genius who ever lived fade into significance before
these foreign champions who, with the most commendable energy,
combined with unbounded confidence and assurance, attempt to, and
well nigh succeed in placing chess influence at their feet with a
Boss the shows determination openly and unequivocally expressed.

The control of most of the London chess columns, and a large number
of the Provincial is also in foreign hands and proves a very powerful
weapon in advancing personal interests.

NOTE.

The chess of the Daily News, Evening News and Post, Standard, Field,
and Telegraph and nearly all the Provincial papers are conducted
by German players.

No leading British player has a regular chess column.
------
Gunsberg, the elder of the two (slightly it is feared on the wane
though still champion of many columns) and Lasker twenty-four years
of age, still at his height, are both wonderful performers, and
enjoy a vast popularity among their race, and in certain circles,
but in the long run it is not unlikely that either will feel extremely
dissatisfied if he can maintain for half the time the sustained
reputation of the oldest English players who so contentedly and
modestly at present occupy their retired back seats, and there are
not wanting reasons to believe that both Gunsberg and Lasker became
most anxious to enter for the prizes in the Belfast competition at
the very time when it was finally determined to confine it to four
leading national representatives.

------
NORTH OF IRELAND (BELFAST) CHESS CONGRESS, MASTERS' COMPETITION.

The proceedings opened at the Central Hall, Rosemary Street, Belfast, on
Monday, with an admirable address from Dr.

Barnett, who wished the players a happy and harmonious time and extended to
them a hearty welcome.

No.1. Bird against Blackburne offered an Evans Gambit.

This game was the only one played without clocks; both players
seemed at ease, and glad to be free from the formality and encumbrance
of time regulators and it is a happy omen that it proved one of the
most interesting in the programme:
The following is the complete list of the masters' games:

J.

H. Blackburne, H. E. Bird, T. J. Lee, and J. Mason
1 Bird Blackburne Evans declined 64 moves Drawn 2 Lee Mason Petroff 75 "
Mason 3 Bird Lee Queens Pawn counter 47 " Drawn 4 Blackburne Mason Vienna
44 " Blackburne 5 Lee Blackburne Kt KB3 PQ4 48 " Blackburne 6 Mason Bird
KP and QP 62 " Mason 7 Blackburne Bird Ruy Lopez Kt Q5 47 " Bird
8 Mason Lee KP and QP 18 " Drawn 9 Lee Bird PQ4 37 " Bird 10 Mason
Blackburne Ruy Lopez 28 " Draw 11 Blackburne Lee Ruy Lopez 43 "
Blackburne 12 Bird Mason Two Knights Def 38 " Mason 13 Lee Mason
Kt KB3 PKB4 35 " Mason 14 Bird Blackburne KP1 KPB2 42 " Draw 15
Bird Lee KP one 73 " Draw 16 Blackburne Mason Giuoco Piano 30 "
Draw 17 Mason Bird Sicilian 27 " Bird 18 Lee Blackburne Four Kts
20 " Draw
No.1 is the best and most instructive; No.17 was the most lively
and entertaining.

I kep' my
eye on him. Ah, the nasty, na-asty flower! Give it here to Katy till I
throw it!"

"There's no harm in the flower. But there is harm in strangers making up
to him when your back is turned. Don't you know the dreadful things we
read in the papers?"

Mrs. Bogardus said no more. It was Middy's supper-time. But later she
questioned Katy particularly concerning this old man who was spoken of
quite as if his appearance were taken for granted in the heart of the
farm. Katy recalled one other day when she had seen him asleep as she
thought in a corner of the fence by the big chestnut tree when she and the
boy were nutting. They had moved away to the other side of the tree, but
while she was busy hunting for nuts Middy had strayed off a bit and
foregathered with the old man, who was not asleep at all, but stood with
his back to her pouring a handful of big fat chestnuts into the child's
little skirt, which he held up. She called to him and the old man had
stepped back, and the nuts were spilled. Middy had cried and made her pick
them up, and when that was done the stranger was gone quite out of sight.

Chauncey, too, was questioned, and testified that the old man of the
fields was no myth. But he deprecated all this exaggerated alarm. The
stranger was some simple-minded old work-house candidate putting off the
evil day. In a few weeks he would have to make for shelter in one of the
neighboring towns. Chauncey could not see what legal hold they had upon
him even if they could catch him. He hardly came under the vagrancy law,
since he had neither begged, nor helped himself appreciably to the means
of subsistence.

"That is just the point," Mrs. Bogardus insisted. "He has the means--from
somewhere--to lurk around here and make friends with that child. There may
be a gang of kidnappers behind him. He is the harmless looking decoy. I
insist that you keep a sharp lookout, Chauncey. There shall be a hold upon
him, law or no law, if we catch him on our ground."

A cold rain set in. Paul and Moya wrote of delays in the house
preparations, and hoped the grandmother was not growing tired of her
charge. On the last of the rainy days, in a burst of dubious sunshine,
came a young girl on horseback to have tea with Mrs. Bogardus. She was one
of that lady's discoverers, so she claimed, Miss Sallie Remsen, very
pretty and full of fantastic little affectations founded on her intense
appreciation of the picturesque. She called Mrs. Bogardus "Madam," and
likened her to various female personages in history more celebrated for
strength of purpose than for the Christian virtues. Mrs. Bogardus, in her
restful ignorance of such futilities, went no deeper into these allusions
than their intention, which she took to be complimentary. Miss Sallie
hugged herself with joy when the rain came down in torrents for a clear-up
shower. Her groom was sent home with a note to inform her mother that Mrs.
Bogardus wished to keep her overnight. All the mothers were flattered when
Mrs. Bogardus took notice of their daughters,--even much grander dames
than she herself could pretend to be.

They had a charming little dinner by themselves to the tune of the rain
outside, and were having their coffee by the drawing-room fire; and Miss
Sallie was thinking by what phrase one could do justice to the massive,
crass ugliness of that self-satisfied apartment, furnished in the hideous
sixties, when the word was sent in that Mrs. Dunlop wished to speak with
Mrs. Bogardus. Something of Cerissa's injured importance survived the
transmission of the message, causing Mrs. Bogardus to smile to herself as
she rose. Cerissa was waiting in the dining-room. She kept her seat as
Mrs. Bogardus entered. Her eyes did not rise higher than the lady's dress,
which she examined with a fierce intentness of comparison while she opened
her errand.

"I thought you'd like to know you've got a strange lodger down to the old
house. I don't seem to ever get moved!" she enlarged. "I'm always runnin'
down there after first one thing 'n' another we've forgot. This morning 't
was my stone batter-pot. Chauncey said he thought it was getting cold
enough for buckwheat cakes. I don't suppose you want to have stray tramps
in there in the old house, building fires in the loom-room, where, if a
spark got loose, it would blaze up them draughty stairs, and the whole
house would go in a minute." Cerissa stopped to gain breath.

"Making fires? Are you sure of that? Has any smoke been seen coming out of
that chimney?"

"Why, it's been raining so! And the trees have got so tall! But I could
show you the shucks an' shells he's left there. I know how we left it!"

"You had better speak--No; I will see Chauncey in the morning." Mrs.
Bogardus never, if she could avoid it, gave an order through a third
person.

"Well, I thought I'd just step in. Chauncey said 't was no use disturbing
you to-night, but he's just that way--so easy about everything! I thought
you wouldn't want to be harboring tramps this wet weather when most
anybody would be tempted to build a fire. I'm more concerned about what
goes on down there now we're _out_ of the house! I seem to have it on my
mind the whole time. A house is just like a child: the more you don't see
it the more you worry about it."

"I'm glad you have such a home feeling about the place," said Mrs.
Bogardus, avoiding the onset of words. "Well, good-evening, Cerissa. Thank
you for your trouble. I will see about it in the morning."

Mrs. Bogardus mentioned what she had just heard to Miss Sallie, who
remarked, with her keen sense of antithesis, what a contrast _that_
fireside must be to _this_.

"Which fireside?"

"Oh, your lodger upon the cold ground,--making his little bit of a stolen
blaze in that cavern of a chimney in the midst of the wet trees! What a
nice thing to have an unwatched place like that where a poor bird of
passage can creep in and make his nest, and not trouble any one. Think
what Jean Valjeans one might shelter"--

"Who?"

"What 'angels unawares.'"

"It will be unawares, my dear,--very much unawares,--when I shelter any
angels of that sort."

"Oh, you wouldn't turn him out, such weather as this?"

"The house is not mine, in the first place," Mrs. Bogardus explained as to
a child. "I can't entertain tramps or even angels on my son's premises,
when he's away."

"Oh, he! He would build the fires himself, and make up their beds,"
laughed Miss Sallie. "If he were here, I believe he would start down there
now, and stock the place with everything you've got in the house to eat."

"I hope he'd leave us a little something for breakfast," said Mrs.
Bogardus a trifle coldly. But she did not mention the cause of her
uneasiness about this particular visitor. She never defended herself.

Miss Sallie was delighted with her callousness to the sentimental rebuke
which had been rather rubbed in. It was so unmodern; one got so weary of
fashionable philanthropy, women who talked of their social sympathies and
their principles in life. She almost hoped that Mrs. Bogardus had neither.
Certainly she never mentioned them.

"What did she say? Did she tell you what I said to her last night?"
Cerissa questioned her husband feverishly after his interview with Mrs.
Bogardus.

"She didn't mention your name," Chauncey took some pleasure in stating.
"If you hadn't told me yourself, I shouldn't have known you'd meddled in
it at all."

"What's she going to do about it?"

"How crazy you women are! 'Cause some poor old Sooner-die-than-work warms
his bones by a bit of fire that wouldn't scare a chimbly swaller out of
its nest! Don't you s'pose if there'd been any fire there to speak of, I'd
'a' seen it? What am I here for? Now I've got to drop everything, and git
a padlock on that door, and lock it up every night, and search the whole
place from top to bottom for fear there's some one in there hidin' in a
rathole!"

"Chauncey! If you've got to do that I don't want you to go in there alone.
You take one of the men with you; and you better have a pistol or one of
the dogs anyhow. Suppose you was to ketch some one in there, and corner
him! He might turn on you, and shoot you!"

"I wish you wouldn't work yourself up so about nothin' at all! Want me to
make a blame jackass of myself raisin' the whole place about a potato-peel
or a bacon-rind!"

"I think you might have some little regard for my feelings," Cerissa
whimpered. "If you ain't afraid, I'm afraid for you; and I don't see
anything to be ashamed of either. I wish you _wouldn't_ go _alone_
searching through that spooky old place. It just puts me beside myself to
think of it!"

"Well, well! That's enough about it anyhow. I ain't going to do anything
foolish, and you needn't think no more about it."

Whether it was the effect of his wife's fears, or his promise to her, or
the inhospitable nature of his errand founded on suspicion, certainly
Chauncey showed no spirit of rashness in conducting his search. He knocked
the mud off his boots loudly on the doorsill before proceeding to attach
the padlock to the outer door. He searched the loom-room, lighting a
candle and peering into all its cobwebbed corners. He examined the rooms
lately inhabited, unlocking and locking doors behind him noisily with
increasing confidence in the good old house's emptiness. Still, in the
fireplace in the loom-room there were signs of furtive cooking which a
housekeeper's eye would infallibly detect. He saw that the search must
proceed. It was not all a question of his wife's fears, as he opened the
stair-door cautiously and tramped slowly up towards the tower bedroom. He
could not remember who had gone out last, on the day the old secretary was
moved down. There had been four men up there, and--yes, the key was still
in the lock outside. He clutched it and it fell rattling on the steps. He
swung the door open and stared into the further darkness beyond his range
of vision. He waved his candle as far as his arm would reach. "Anybody
_in_ here?" he shouted. The silence made his flesh prick. "I'm goin' to
lock up now. Better show up. It's the last chance." He waited while one
could count ten. "Anybody in here that wants to be let free? Nobody's
goin' to hurt ye."

To his anxious relief there was no reply. But as he listened, he heard the
loud, measured tick, tick, of the old clock, appalling in the darkness, on
the silence of that empty room. Chauncey could not have told just how he
got the door to, nor where he found strength to lock it and drag his feet
downstairs, but the hand that held the key was moist with cold
perspiration as he reached the open air.

"Well, if that's rain I'd like to know where it comes from!" He looked up
at the moon breaking through drifting clouds. The night was keen and
clear.

"If I was to tell that to Cerissa she'd never go within a mile o' that
house again! Maybe I was mistaken--but I ain't goin' back to see!"

Next morning on calmer reflection he changed his mind about removing the
lawn-mower and other hand-tools from the loom-room as he had determined
overnight should be done. The place continued to be used as a storeroom,
open by day.

At night it was Chauncey's business to lock it up, and he was careful to
repeat his search--as far as the stair-door. Never did the silent room
above give forth a protest, a sound of human restraint or occupation. He
reported to the mistress that all was snug at the old house, and nobody
anywhere about the place.


XXV


THE FELL FROST

After the rain came milder days. The still white mornings slowly
brightened into hazy afternoons. The old moon like a sleep walker stood
exposed in the morning sky. The roads to Stone Ridge were deep in fallen
leaves. Soft-tired wheels rustled up the avenue and horses' feet fell
light, as the last of the summer neighbors came to say good-by.

We must confess that some of the so-called variations extracted from
the "Masterpieces," appear to be nothing more than advertisements. Notably,
on page 157, four "examples" are given, which do not go beyond the
4th move, and leave no mark on the positions, and then we are gravely
informed, in a manner already described, that White or Black won
in so-and-so many moves.

We notice with great pleasure the handsome and courteous manner in which
almost all the prominent chess masters of the day are mentioned in the
book, and the sense of fairness evinced by Mr. Bird in the selection of
variations and examples from his own practice, irrespective of his victory
or defeat. But his chess historical references are unreliable, and he often
wrongly ascribes the adoption of certain variations to different players
in a manner which could have been easily rectified by taking a
little more trouble.

This is not unimportant, for the reputed strength of a player is evidence
of the strength of an opening he favours in matches and tournaments.
We can only adduce a few instances which are more within the writer's
personal knowledge.

The statement about 5.

Q to K2, in the Buy Lopez, on page 16, is much confused. The move was adopted
by Mr. Blackburne in the final tie match of the Vienna tournament, but
it never occurred in the first game of the Steinitz-Blackburne
match, as Mr.

Bird can convince himself from his own book, where the latter game is
published in full on page 171.

Steinitz is also erroneously credited with strongly favouring the attack
in the Scotch Gambit, for we do not remember a single game on record in
which he ever adopted that form of opening as first player.

On the other hand, a variation in the Evans Gambit is ascribed to Zukertort,
which actually occurred first in a game between Steinitz and
Blackburne, played in the London Grand Tournament of 1872.

This error seems to have been quoted from Staunton and Wormald's "Chess
Theory and Practice."
A few more words about the problems at the end of the book and we have done
with the details.

There are about a dozen compositions mostly by high-class American authors,
and some of them of very good quality; but, unfortunately, Mr. Bird has
omitted to indicate their solutions. We must suppose this to be due
to an oversight, as he gives the key moves of the four problems by English
composers.
The omission is deplorable, for many students would wish to appreciate
the author's idea, and the merits of the construction, if they
fail to solve the problem.

To quote an instance from our own experience; we could not find any
solution to the problem on page 224, which composition, we conclude, is
either of the highest order or suffers from the gravest of all
faults, that of being impossible.

In either case we should have liked to examine the solution.

Our judgment of the book, on the whole, is that it cannot be ranked in the
first class with the works of Heydebrand, Zukertort, Staunton,
Lowenthal, Neuman and Suhle, Lange, &c.; but it will satisfy the
demands of the great number of lovers of the game who do not aspire
above the second rank.

Mr. Bird's ability and ingenuity is beyond doubt, and there is ample evidence
of his qualifications in the book before us, but he has not yet
acquired that element of genius which has been defined as the capacity
for taking pains. Mr. Bird could produce a much better book than this,
and we hope he will.

Variously estimated from 3,000 to 1,000 B.C.
CHATURANGA.

The Primeval Hindu Chess.

bp--krnb np--pppp rp------ kp------ ------pk ------pr pppp--pn
bnrk--pb 
[Diagram of a Chaturanga board with 4 armies.

Yellow is in upper left. Black is in upper right. Green is in lower left.
Red is in lower right.]
------
The Medieval and Modern Chess.

White RNBKQBNR PPPPPPPP -------- -------- -------- -------- pppppppp rnbkqbnr
Black
[Diagram of a standard chessboard, white pieces at the top, black pieces
at the bottom.]
Derived from the Persian Chatrang, 537-540 A.D.

------
833-842.
Problem I. by the Caliph MU'TASIM BILLAH.
Black -k------ RnR----- bN-p--r- p-nQpB-- p--N-b-r -------- -P--P---
-qBK---- White White to move, and give checkmate at the ninth
move.

------ 
About 1380.

Problem II. by 'ALI SHATRANJ.
Black ---r---r ppq---R- b--bkp-p -------- --PP---- PP-B-Q--
--K---PP --B----- White White to play and mate in eight moves.

CHESS HISTORY AND REMINISCENCES
CONCERNING THE ORIGIN OF CHESS
A not unfair criterion is afforded of the long prevailing and
continued misconception as to the origin of chess, by the lack of
knowledge regarding early records as to its history exhibited in
the literature of last century, and the press and magazine articles
of this even to the present year. We refer not to lines of poets
such as Pope, Dryden and others, with whom the ancient order of
fiction is permissible, or to writers of previous periods, from
Aben Ezra to Ruy Lopez, Chaucer and Lydgate, or Caxton and Barbiere,
but to presumably studied and special articles, such as those given
in Dictionaries of Arts and Sciences and in Encyclopaedias.The
strange motions of her breast, as she pressed his head against her, kept
the boy quiet, and in that silence she heard an inner sound--the awful
pulse of the old clock beating steadily, calling her, demanding the
evidence of her senses,--she who feared no ghosts,--beating out the hours
of an agony she was there to witness. And she was yet in time. The hapless
creature entrapped within that room dragged its weight slowly across the
floor. The clock, sole witness and companion of its sufferings, ticked on
impartially. Neither is this any new thing, it seemed to say. A life was
starved in here before--not for lack of food, but love,--love,--love!

She carried the child out into the air, and he ran before her like a
breeze. The women who met them stared at her sick and desperate face. She
made herself quickly understood, and as each listener drained her meaning
the horror spread. There was but one man left on the place, within call,
he with the boyish face and clean brown hands, who had ridden across the
fields for an afternoon's idle pleasure. He stepped to her side and took
the key out of her hand. "You ought not to do this," he said gently, as
their eyes met.

"Wednesday, Thursday, Friday," she counted mechanically. "He has been in
there six days and seven nights by my orders." She looked straight before
her, seeing no one, as she gave her commands to the women: fire and hot
water and stimulants, in the kitchen of the old house at once, and another
man, if one could be found to follow her.

The two figures moving across the grass might have stepped out of an
illustration in the pages of some current magazine. In their thoughts they
had already unlocked the door of that living death and were face to face
with the insupportable facts of nature.

The morbid, sickening, prison odor met them at the door--humanity's
helpless protest against bolts and bars. Again the young man begged his
companion not to enter. She took one deep breath of the pure outside air
and stepped before him. They searched the emptiness of the barely
furnished room. The clock ticked on to itself. Mrs. Bogardus's companion
stood irresolute, not knowing the place. The fetid air confused his
senses. But she went past him through the inner door, guided by
remembrance of the sounds she had heard.

She had seen it. She approached it cautiously, stooping for a better view,
and closing in upon it warily, as one cuts off the retreat of a creature
in the last agonies of flight. Her companion heard her say: "Show me your
face!--Uncover his face," she repeated, not moving her eyes as he stepped
behind her. "He will not let me near him. Uncover it."

The thing in the corner had some time been a man. There was still enough
manhood left to feel her eyes and to shrink as an earthworm from the
spade. They looked as if they had been read but only by the elder people
who liked a grave book, and there was nothing there meant for the young
people. So there were a good many new books bought, and weekly given out
at the Penny Club, with more or less vigour, for the next thirty
years or so.

The next public matter that greatly affected this place was the Crimean
War. It was a large proportion of our young men who were more or less
concerned in it. Captain Denzill Chamberlayne in the Cavalry, Lieut.
Julian B. Yonge, John Hawkins, Joseph Knight, James and William Mason, and
it was in the midst of the hurry and confusion of the departure that the
death of Mr.

W. C. Yonge took place, February 26th, 1854. Three of those above mentioned
lived to return home. Captain Chamberlayne shared in the famous charge of
the Light Brigade, at Balaclava, when
Into the jaws of death Rode the six hundred:
Cannon to right of them, Cannon to left of them, Volleyed and
thundered.

His horse, Pimento, was killed under him, but he escaped without a
wound, and on his return home was drawn up to the house by the people,
and had a reception which made such an impression on the children
that when one was asked in school what a hero was, she answered,
"Captain Chamberlayne."

John Hawkins, Joseph Knight, and William Mason died in the Crimea. A tablet
to commemorate them was built into the wall of the churchyard,
with the text--"It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his
youth," for the discipline of the army had been very good for these
youths, and, therefore, this verse was chosen for them by Mr.

Chauncey protested. "If the critter wanted to git out, why
couldn't he say so? I stood there holdin' the door open much as five
minutes. 'Who's in there?' I says. I called it loud enough to wake the
dead. 'Nobody wants to hurt ye,' says I. There want nothing to be afraid
of. He hadn't done nothing anyway. It's the strangest case ever I heard
tell of. And the doctor don't think he was much crazy either."

"Can he live?" asked Miss Sallie.

"He's alive now, but doctor don't know how long he'll last. There he comes
now. I must go and git his horse."

The doctor, who seemed nervous,--he was a young local practitioner,--asked
to speak with Miss Sallie's hero apart.

"Did Mrs. Bogardus say anything when she first saw that man? Did you
notice what she said?--how she took it?"

The hero, who was also a gentleman, looked at the doctor coolly.

"It was not a nice thing," he said. "I saw just as little as I could."

"You don't understand me," said the doctor. "I want to know if Mrs.
Bogardus appeared to you to have made any discovery--received any shock
not to be accounted for by--by what you both saw?"

"I shouldn't attempt to answer such a question," said the youngster
bluntly. "I never saw Mrs. Bogardus in my life before to-day."

The doctor colored. "Mrs. Bogardus has given me a telegram to send, and I
don't know whether to send it or not. It's going to make a whole lot of
talk. I am not much acquainted with Mrs. Bogardus myself, except by
hearsay. That's partly what surprises me. It looks a little reckless to
send out such a message as that, by the first hand that comes along.
Hadn't we better give her time to think it over?" He opened the telegram
for the other to read. "The man himself can't speak. But he just pants for
breath every time she comes near him: he tries to hide his face. He acts
like a criminal afraid of being caught."

"He didn't look that way to me--what was left of him. Not in the least
like a criminal."

"Well, no; that's a fact, too. Now they've got him laid out clean and
neat, he looks as if he might have been a very decent sort of man. But
_that_, you know--that's incredible. If she knows him, why doesn't he know
her? Why won't he own her? He's afraid of her. His eyes are ready to burst
out of his head whenever she comes near him."

"Did Mrs. Bogardus write that telegram herself?"

"She did."

"And what did she tell you to do with it?"

"Send it to her son."

"Then why don't you send it?"

This was the disputed message: "Come. Your father has been found. Bring
Doctor Gainsworth."

In the local man's opinion, the writer of that dispatch was Doctor
Gainsworth's true patient. What could induce a woman in Mrs. Bogardus's
position to give such hasty publicity to this shocking disclosure,
allowing it were true? The more he dwelt on it the less he liked the
responsibility he was taking. He discussed it openly; and, with the best
intentions, this much-impressed young man gave out his own counter-theory
of the case, hoping to forestall whatever mischief might have been done.
He put himself in the place of Mr. Paul Bogardus, whom he liked extremely,
and tried to imagine that young gentleman's state of mind when he should
look upon this new-found parent, and learn the manner of his resurrection.

This was the explanation he boldly set forth in behalf of those most
nearly concerned. DUCHESS. You were ill to sell yourself:
This dark'ning of your worth is not like that Which tradesmen use i' the
city; their false lights Are to rid bad wares off: and I must tell you,
If you will know where breathes a complete man (I speak it without
flattery), turn your eyes, And progress through yourself.

ANTONIO. Were there nor heaven nor hell, I should be honest: I have long
serv'd virtue, And ne'er ta'en wages of her.

DUCHESS. Now she pays it.
The misery of us that are born great!
We are forc'd to woo, because none dare woo us; And as a tyrant doubles
with his words, And fearfully equivocates, so we Are forc'd to express our
violent passions In riddles and in dreams, and leave the path Of
simple virtue, which was never made To seem the thing it is not.

Go, go brag You have left me heartless; mine is in your bosom:
I hope 'twill multiply love there. You do tremble:
Make not your heart so dead a piece of flesh, To fear more than to love
me. Sir, be confident:
What is 't distracts you? This is flesh and blood, sir; 'Tis not the figure
cut in alabaster Kneels at my husband's tomb. Awake, awake, man!
I do here put off all vain ceremony, And only do appear to you a young
widow That claims you for her husband, and, like a widow, I use but
half a blush in 't.

ANTONIO.

Truth speak for me; I will remain the constant sanctuary Of your good
name.

DUCHESS. I thank you, gentle love:
And 'cause you shall not come to me in debt, Being now my steward, here
upon your lips I sign your Quietus est.<25> This you should have
begg'd now.

I have seen children oft eat sweetmeats thus, As fearful to devour them
too soon.

ANTONIO. But for your brothers?

DUCHESS. Do not think of them:

All discord without this circumference Is only to be pitied, and
not fear'd:
Yet, should they know it, time will easily Scatter the tempest.

ANTONIO. These words should be mine, And all the parts you have spoke,
if some part of it Would not have savour'd flattery.

DUCHESS. Kneel.

[Cariola comes from behind the arras.]
ANTONIO. Ha!

DUCHESS.

Be not amaz'd; this woman 's of my counsel:
I have heard lawyers say, a contract in a chamber Per verba [de]
presenti<26> is absolute marriage.

[She and ANTONIO kneel.] Bless, heaven, this sacred gordian<27>
which let violence Never untwine!

ANTONIO. And may our sweet affections, like the spheres, Be still in
motion!

DUCHESS. Quickening, and make The like soft music!

ANTONIO. That we may imitate the loving palms, Best emblem of a peaceful
marriage, That never bore fruit, divided!

DUCHESS. What can the church force more?

ANTONIO.

That fortune may not know an accident, Either of joy or sorrow, to divide
Our fixed wishes!

DUCHESS. How can the church build faster?<28>
We now are man and wife, and 'tis the church That must but echo this.

--Maid, stand apart:
I now am blind.

ANTONIO. What 's your conceit in this?
DUCHESS. I would have you lead your fortune by the hand Unto your
marriage-bed:
(You speak in me this, for we now are one:) We 'll only lie and
talk together, and plot To appease my humorous<29> kindred; and if
you please, Like the old tale in ALEXANDER AND LODOWICK, Lay a naked
sword between us, keep us chaste.
O, let me shrowd my blushes in your bosom, Since 'tis the treasury
of all my secrets!
[Exeunt DUCHESS and ANTONIO.]
CARIOLA. Whether the spirit of greatness or of woman Reign most in
her, I know not; but it shows A fearful madness. I owe her much of
pity.
[Exit.] 

Act II 

Scene I<30>
[Enter] BOSOLA and CASTRUCCIO
BOSOLA. You say you would fain be taken for an eminent
courtier?

CASTRUCCIO. 'Tis the very main<31> of my ambition.
BOSOLA. Let me see: you have a reasonable good face for 't already,
and your night-cap expresses your ears sufficient largely. I would
have you learn to twirl the strings of your band with a good grace,
and in a set speech, at th' end of every sentence, to hum three or
four times, or blow your nose till it smart again, to recover your
memory. When you come to be a president in criminal causes, if you
smile upon a prisoner, hang him; but if you frown upon him and
threaten him, let him be sure to scape the gallows.Not the man."

"Good-by, Mrs. Bogardus," said the doctor. "Don't trouble to explain. You
and I have lived too long and seen too much of life not to recognize its
fatalities: the mysterious trend in the actions of men and women that
cannot be comprised in--in the locking of a door."

"It is of little consequence--what was done, compared to what was not
done." This was all the room for truth she could give herself to turn in.
The doctor did not try to understand her: yet she had snatched a little
comfort from merely uttering the words.

Paul and the doctor dined together, Mrs. Bogardus excusing herself.

"There seems to be an impression here," said the doctor, examining the
initials on his fish-fork, "that your mother is indulging an overstrained
fancy in this melancholy resemblance she has traced. It does not appear to
have made much headway as a fact, which rather surprises me in a country
neighborhood. Possibly your doctor here, who seems a very good fellow, has
wished to spare the family any unnecessary explanations. If you'll let me
advise you, Paul, I would leave it as it is,--open to conjecture. But, in
whatever shape this impression may reach you from outside, I hope you
won't let it disturb you in the least, so far as it describes your
mother's condition. She is one of the few well-balanced women I have had
the honor to know."

Paul did not take advantage of the doctor's period. He went on.

"Not that I do know her. Possibly you may not yourself feel that you
altogether understand your mother? She has had many demands upon her
powers of adaptation. I should imagine her not one who would adapt herself
easily, yet, once she had recognized a necessity of that sort, I believe
she would fit herself to its conditions with an exacting thoroughness
which in time would become almost, one might say, a second, an external
self. The 'lendings' we must all of us wear."

"There will be no explanations," said Paul, not coldly, but helplessly.

"Much the best way," said the doctor relieved, and glad to be done with a
difficult undertaking. "If we are ever understood in this world, it is not
through our own explanations, but in spite of them. My daughters hope to
see a good deal of your charming wife this winter. I hear great pleasure
expressed at your coming back to town."

"Thank you, Doctor. She will be up this evening. We shall stay here with
my mother for a time. It will be her desire to carry out
this--recognition--to the end. We must honor her wishes in the matter."

The talk then fell upon the patient's condition. The doctor left certain
directions and took shelter in professional platitudes, but his eyes
rested with candid kindness upon the young man, and his farewell
hand-clasp was a second prolonged.

He went away in a state of simple wonderment, deeply marveling at Paul's
serenity.

"Extraordinary poise! Where does it come from? No: the boy is happy! He
hides it; but it is the one change in him. He has experienced a great
relief. Is it possible"--

On his way down the river the doctor continued to muse upon the dignity,
the amazingly beautiful behavior of this rising family in whose somewhat
commonplace city fortunes he had taken a friendly interest for years. He
owned that he had sounded them with too short a line.

       *       *       *       *       *

Watching with the dying man hours when she was with him alone, Emily
Bogardus continued to test his resolution. He never retracted by a
look--faithful to the word she had spoken which made them strangers.

It was the slightest shell of mortality that ever detained a soul on
earth. The face, small like the face of an old, old child, waxed finer and
more spiritual, yet ever more startlingly did it bear the stamp of that
individuality which the spirit had held so cheap--the earthly so
impenetrated with the spiritual part that the face had become a
sublimation. As one sees a sheet of paper covered with writing wither in
flame and become a quivering ash, yet to the last attenuation of its fibre
the human characters will stand forth, till all is blown up chimney to the
stars.

Still, peaceful, implacable in its peace, settling down for the silence of
eternity. Still no sign.

The younger ones came and went. The little boy stole in alone and pushed
against his grandmother's knee,--she seated always by the bed,--gazed,
puzzled, at the strange, still face, and whispered obediently,
"Gran'faver." There was no response. Once she took the boy and drew him
close and placed his little tender hand within the dry, crumpled husk
extended on the bedclothes. The eyes unclosed and rested long and
earnestly on the face of the child, who yawned as if hypnotized and flung
his head back on the grandmother's breast. She bent suddenly and laid her
own hand where the child's had been. The eyes turned inward and shut
again, but a sigh, so deep it seemed that another breath might never come,
was all her answer.

Past midnight of the fourth night's watch Paul was awakened by a light in
his room. His mother stood beside him, white and worn. "He is going," she
said. It was the final rally of the body's resistance. A few moments'
expenditure, and that stubborn vitality would loose its hold.--The
strength of the soil!

The wife stood aside and gave up her place to the children. Her expression
was noble, like a queen rebuked before her people. There was comfort in
that, too. A great, solemn, mutual understanding drew this death-bed group
together. Within the sickle's compass so they stood: the woman God gave
this man to found a home; the son who inherited his father's gentleness
and purity of purpose; the fair flower of the generations that father's
sacrifice had helped him win; the bud of promise on the topmost bough.
Those astonished eyes shed their last earthly light on this human group,
turned and rested in the eyes of the woman, faded, and the light went out.
He died, blessing her in one whispered word. Her name.

Before daybreak on the morning of the funeral, Paul awoke under pressure
of disturbing dreams. There were sounds of hushed movements in the house.
He traced them to the door of the room below stairs where his father lay.
Some one had softly unlocked that door, and entered. He knew who that one
must be. His place was there alone with his mother, before they were
called together as a family, and the mask of decency resumed for those
ironic rites in the presence of the unaccusing dead.

The windows had been lowered behind closed curtains, and the air of the
death chamber, as he entered, was like the touch of chilled iron to the
warm pulse of sleep. Without, a still dark night of November had frosted
the dead grass.

The unappeasable curiosity of the living concerning the Great Transition,
for the moment appeared to have swept all that was personal out of the
watcher's gaze, as she bent above the straightened body. And something of
the peace there dawning on the cold, still face was reflected in her own.

FERDINAND. No?

CASTRUCCIO. No, my lord; he were far better do it by a deputy.

FERDINAND. Why should he not as well sleep or eat by a deputy?

This might take idle, offensive, and base office from him, whereas the
other deprives him of honour.
CASTRUCCIO. Believe my experience, that realm is never long in quiet
where the ruler is a soldier.
FERDINAND. Thou toldest me thy wife could not endure fighting.
CASTRUCCIO. True, my lord.
FERDINAND. And of a jest she broke of<5> a captain she met full of
wounds: I have forgot it."I dreamed of that likeness," said Paul, "only it was much
stronger--startling--so that the room was full of whispers and
exclamations as the neighbors--there were hundreds of them--filed past.
And you stood there, mother, flushed, and talking to each person who
passed and looked at him and then at you; you said--you"--

Mrs. Bogardus raised her head. "I know! I have been thinking all night. Am
I to do that? Is that what you wish me to do? Don't hesitate--to spare
me."

"Mother! I could not imagine you doing such a thing. It was like insanity.
I wanted to tell you how horrible, how unseemly it was, because I was sure
you had been dwelling on some form--some outward"--

"No," she said. "I know how I should face this if it were left to me. But
you are my only earthly judge, my son. Judge now between us two. Ask of me
anything you think is due to him. As to outsiders, what do they matter! I
will do anything you say."

"_I_ say! Oh, mother! Every hand he loved was against him--bruising his
gentle will. Each one of us has cast a stone upon his grave. But you took
the brunt of it. You spoke out plain the denial that was in my coward's
heart from the first. The stained glass of the south window of the Church
was given by the Reverend John Yonge, of Puslinch, Rector of Newton Ferrers,
in Devonshire, in memory of his youngest son, Edmund Charles, who died at
Otterbourne House in 1847.
Thirteen years previously, in 1834, the eldest son, James Yonge,
had likewise died at Otterbourne House.

Both the brothers lie buried here, one in the old churchyard, one
in the new. They are commemorated in their own church at Newton by a tablet
with the inscription--"What I do thou knowest not now, but thou shall
know hereafter."
In 1834 their father gave what made, as it were the second foundation of
the Lending Library, for there were about four-and-twenty very
serious books, given in Archdeacon Heathcote's time, kept in the
vestry at the old Church."All that came after," said Paul, taking her cold hands in his--"after his
last solemn recantation does not touch the true spirit of his sacrifice.
It was finished. My father died to us then as he meant to die. The body
remained--to serve out its time, as he said. But his brain was tired. I do
not think he connected the past very clearly with the present. I think you
should forget what has happened here. It was a hideous net of circumstance
that did it."

"There is no such thing as circumstance," said Mrs. Bogardus with
loftiness. Her face was calm and sweet in its exaltation. "I cannot say
things as you can, but this is what I mean. I was the wife of his
body--sworn flesh of his flesh. In the flesh that made us one I denied
him, and caused his death. And if I could believe as I used to about
punishment, I would lock myself in that room, and for every hour he
suffered there, I would suffer two. The Chess Openings:
Considered Critically And Practically By H. E. BIRD.

"This is the work of one of the most distinguished of English
players. Since the death of Mr. Staunton nobody can more fairly
claim to represent the national school of players than Mr.I shall take it as
it comes--drop by drop--slowly."

"Mother--my mother! The fashion of this world does not last; but one thing
does. Is it nothing to you, mother?"

"Have I my son--after all?" she said as one dreaming.

The night lamp expired in smoke that tainted the cold air. Paul drew back
the curtains one by one, and let in the new-born day.

"'Peace to this house,'" he said; "'not as the world giveth,'" his thought
concluded.