"And that is so essential for a conversazione," continued Mrs.
Proudie. "Now in Gloucester Place--" But we will not record all
her adverse criticisms, as Lady Lufton is waiting for us in the
ante-room. And now another arrival of moment had taken place;--an
arrival indeed of very great moment. To tell the truth, Miss
Dunstable's heart had been set upon having two special persons; and
though no stone had been left unturned,--no stone which could be
turned with discretion,--she was still left in doubt as to both
these two wondrous potentates. At the very moment of which we are
now speaking, light and airy as she appeared to be--for it was her
character to be light and airy--her mind was torn with doubts. If
the wished-for two would come, her evening would be thoroughly
successful; but if not, all her trouble would have been thrown away,
and the thing would have been a failure; and there were circumstances
connected with the present assembly which made Miss Dunstable very
anxious that she should not fail. That the two great ones of the
earth were Tom Towers of the _Jupiter_, and the Duke of Omnium, need
hardly be expressed in words. And now, at this very moment, as Lady
Lufton was making her civil speeches to young Gresham, apparently in
no hurry to move on, and while Miss Dunstable was endeavouring to
whisper something into the doctor's ear, which would make him feel
himself at home in this new world, a sound was heard which made that
lady know that half her wish had at any rate been granted to her. A
sound was heard--but only by her own and one other attentive pair of
ears. Mrs. Harold Smith had also caught the name, and knew that the
duke was approaching. There was great glory and triumph in this; but
why had his grace come at so unchancy a moment? Miss Dunstable had
been fully aware of the impropriety of bringing Lady Lufton and the
Duke of Omnium into the same house at the same time; but when she had
asked Lady Lufton, she had been led to believe that there was no hope
of obtaining the duke; and then, when that hope had dawned upon her,
she had comforted herself with the reflection that the two suns,
though they might for some few minutes be in the same hemisphere,
could hardly be expected to clash, or come across each other's
orbits. Her rooms were large and would be crowded; the duke would
probably do little more than walk through them once, and Lady Lufton
would certainly be surrounded by persons of her own class. Thus Miss
Dunstable had comforted herself. But now all things were going wrong,
and Lady Lufton would find herself in close contiguity to the nearest
representative of Satanic agency, which, according to her ideas, was
allowed to walk this nether English world of ours. If they were to
endeavour to demand what was necessary, whether payment of interest
or what not, and to threaten to use force, could any one suppose
that the great body of Irish Americans would stand by silently and
see that done? He believed that the United States would say to them:
"You have acknowledged your incompetence to govern Ireland; you
have given her practical independence, now you must take your
hands off her; we will not stand by and see her crushed."

He believed that there was no government in the United States which
could withstand such pressure as that which would be brought to bear
on it by the Irish Americans, especially if a Presidential election
were near.'
But is this allegation of failure actually true? For our part we
are inclined to agree with Lord Hartington, that the argument founded
on the paralysis of government in Ireland in recent years is
allowed more weight in this question than it should have. In the first
place, it is difficult to see how any government conducted as
ours has been during the last few years, could be other than disastrous,
Mr. Gladstone, at the commencement of his career as leader of the
Liberal party, pledged himself to the policy of Irish ideas,
ignorant, if not reckless, of what the term meant. Year by year he
has been getting a closer view of the creed he had unconsciously
adopted, and, after a struggle, he accepts one dogma, then another.

The great dogma of all in the Home Ruler's creed, that Englishmen
should be sent bag and baggage out of Ireland, has not yet been adopted;
and naturally the Home Ruler keeps his resources ready for that ringing
of the chapel bell to which Mr.
Gladstone alluded in speaking of the Clerkenwell explosion and its
effect on the question of the Irish Establishment. The 'dynamite
and the dagger,' to which Mr. Morley recently appealed as conclusive
reasons for passing the Cabinet scheme, retain their fascination for
the Irish mind.

As long as Mr. Gladstone is a power in English public life, and his
pledges given in Lancashire are unredeemed or unrepudiated, the Home
Rule party will press him without mercy; but it is not reasonable to
argue from their success, a success which Mr. Gladstone has given
them, that they exercise a permanent influence on Irish affairs.
When the Southport pledges were given, the Irish land laws were yet
without that reform which a series of Governments, Tory as well
as Whig, had admitted to be necessary. It could not be said until
after 1870 that the book of English neglect of Irish interests was
finally closed, and that is only sixteen years ago. During this
period we have seen the great English Parliamentary Ruler continually
plunging after coercion, and returning to make some other big
concession to agitation. Thus Ireland has had no chance of trying what
a good system of laws consistently administered could supply. The
principle of the Land Act of 1870 was a provision for the protection
of property--the tenants' property recognized by custom during a long
course of years, although ignored by the law and exposed to confiscation
by the reckless Whig legislation of 1850-2. The Land Act of 1881 was
an arbitrary attempt to remedy the misfortunes of an improvident
agricultural interest by legislative interference with contract.
Contracts were readjusted and finally settled for fifteen years to
come. Political economy was bidden to take itself off, but prices
varied quite regardless of Mr.She spoke no word, and retreated, as modest
virtue and feminine weakness must ever retreat, before barefaced vice
and virile power; but nevertheless she was held by all the world
to have had the best of the encounter. The duke, as he begged her
pardon, wore in his countenance that expression of modified sorrow
which is common to any gentleman who is supposed by himself to
have incommoded a lady. But over and above this,--or rather under
it,--there was a slight smile of derision, as though it were
impossible for him to look upon the bearing of Lady Lufton without
some amount of ridicule. All this was legible to eyes so keen as
those of Miss Dunstable and Mrs. Harold Smith, and the duke was known
to be a master of this silent inward sarcasm; but even by them,--by
Miss Dunstable and Mrs. Harold Smith,--it was admitted that Lady
Lufton had conquered. When her ladyship again looked up, the duke
had passed on; she then resumed the care of Miss Grantly's hand, and
followed in among the company.

"That is what I call unfortunate," said Miss Dunstable, as soon as
both belligerents had departed from the field of battle, "The Fates
sometimes will be against one."

"But they have not been at all against you here," said Mrs. Harold
Smith. "If you could arrive at her ladyship's private thoughts
to-morrow morning, you would find her to be quite happy in having
met the duke. It will be years before she has done boasting of her
triumph, and it will be talked of by the young ladies of Framley for
the next three generations."

The Gresham party, including Dr. Thorne, had remained in the
ante-chamber during the battle. The whole combat did not occupy above
two minutes, and the three of them were hemmed off from escape by
Lady Lufton's retreat into Dr. Easyman's lap; but now they, too,
essayed to pass on.

"What, you will desert me," said Miss Dunstable. "Very well; but I
shall find you out by and by. Frank, there is to be some dancing in
one of the rooms,--just to distinguish the affair from Mrs. Proudie's
conversazione. It would be stupid, you know, if all conversaziones
were alike; wouldn't it? So I hope you will go and dance."

"There will, I presume, be another variation at feeding time," said
Mrs. Harold Smith.

"Oh yes, certainly; I am the most vulgar of all wretches in
that respect. I do love to set people eating and drinking--Mr.
Supplehouse, I am delighted to see you; but do tell me--" and then
she whispered with great energy into the ear of Mr. Supplehouse, and
Mr. Supplehouse again whispered into her ear. "You think he will,
then?" said Miss Dunstable. Mr. Supplehouse assented; he did think
so; but he had no warrant for stating the circumstance as a fact. And
then he passed on, hardly looking at Mrs. Harold Smith as he passed.

"What a hang-dog countenance he has," said that lady.

"Ah, you're prejudiced, my dear, and no wonder; as for myself I
always liked Supplehouse. He means mischief; but then mischief is his
trade, and he does not conceal it. If I were a politician I should as
soon think of being angry with Mr. Supplehouse for turning against me
as I am now with a pin for pricking me. It's my own awkwardness, and
I ought to have known how to use the pin more craftily."

"But you must detest a man who professes to stand by his party, and
then does his best to ruin it."

"So many have done that, my dear; and with much more success than Mr.
Supplehouse! All is fair in love and war,--why not add politics to
the list? If we could only agree to do that, it would save us from
such a deal of heartburning, and would make none of us a bit the
worse."

Miss Dunstable's rooms, large as they were--"a noble suite of rooms
certainly, though perhaps a little too--too--too scattered, we
will say, eh, bishop?"--were now nearly full, and would have been
inconveniently crowded, were it not that many who came only remained
for half an hour or so. Space, however, had been kept for the
dancers--much to Mrs. Proudie's consternation. Not that she
disapproved of dancing in London, as a rule; but she was indignant
that the laws of a conversazione, as re-established by herself in the
fashionable world, should be so violently infringed.

"Conversaziones will come to mean nothing," she said to the bishop,
putting great stress on the latter word, "nothing at all, if they are
to be treated in this way."

"No, they won't; nothing in the least," said the bishop.

"Dancing may be very well in its place," said Mrs. Proudie.

"I have never objected to it myself; that is, for the laity," said
the bishop.

"But when people profess to assemble for higher objects," said Mrs.
Proudie, "they ought to act up to their professions."

"Otherwise they are no better than hypocrites," said the bishop.

"A spade should be called a spade," said Mrs. Proudie.

"Decidedly," said the bishop, assenting.

"And when I undertook the trouble and expense of introducing
conversaziones," continued Mrs. Proudie, with an evident feeling that
she had been ill-used, "I had no idea of seeing the word so--so--so
misinterpreted;" and then observing certain desirable acquaintances
at the other side of the room, she went across, leaving the bishop to
fend for himself.

Lady Lufton, having achieved her success, passed on to the dancing,
whither it was not probable that her enemy would follow her, and she
had not been there very long before she was joined by her son. Her
heart at the present moment was not quite satisfied at the state of
affairs with reference to Griselda. She had gone so far as to tell
her young friend what were her own wishes; she had declared her
desire that Griselda should become her daughter-in-law; but in answer
to this Griselda herself had declared nothing. It was, to be sure,
no more than natural that a young lady so well brought up as Miss
Grantly should show no signs of a passion till she was warranted in
showing them by the proceedings of the gentleman; but notwithstanding
this, fully aware as she was of the propriety of such reticence--Lady
Lufton did think that to her Griselda might have spoken some word
evincing that the alliance would be satisfactory to her. Griselda,
however, had spoken no such word, nor had she uttered a syllable to
show that she would accept Lord Lufton if he did offer. Then again
she had uttered no syllable to show that she would not accept him;
but, nevertheless, although she knew that the world had been talking
about her and Lord Dumbello, she stood up to dance with the future
marquess on every possible occasion. All this did give annoyance
to Lady Lufton, who began to bethink herself that if she could not
quickly bring her little plan to a favourable issue, it might be well
for her to wash her hands of it. She was still anxious for the match
on her son's account. Griselda would, she did not doubt, make a good
wife; but Lady Lufton was not so sure as she once had been that
she herself would be able to keep up so strong a feeling for her
daughter-in-law as she had hitherto hoped to do. "Ludovic, have you
been here long?" she said, smiling as she always did smile when her
eyes fell upon her son's face.

"This instant arrived; and I hurried on after you, as Miss Dunstable
told me that you were here. What a crowd she has! Did you see Lord
Brock?"

"I did not observe him."

"Or Lord De Terrier? I saw them both in the centre room."

"Lord De Terrier did me the honour of shaking hands with me as I
passed through."

"I never saw such a mixture of people. There is Mrs. Proudie going
out of her mind because you are all going to dance."

"The Miss Proudies dance," said Griselda Grantly.

"But not at conversaziones. You don't see the difference. And I saw
Spermoil there, looking as pleased as Punch. He had quite a circle of
his own round him, and was chattering away as though he were quite
accustomed to the wickedness of the world."

"There certainly are people here whom one would not have wished to
meet, had one thought of it," said Lady Lufton, mindful of her late
engagement.

"But it must be all right, for I walked up the stairs with the
archdeacon. That is an absolute proof, is it not, Miss Grantly?"

"I have no fears. When I am with your mother I know I must be safe."

"I am not so sure of that," said Lord Lufton, laughing. "Mother, you
hardly know the worst of it yet. Who is here, do you think?"

"I know whom you mean; I have seen him," said Lady Lufton, very
quietly.

"We came across him just at the top of the stairs," said Griselda,
with more animation in her face than ever Lord Lufton had seen there
before.

"What; the duke?"

"Yes, the duke," said Lady Lufton. "I certainly should not have come
had I expected to be brought in contact with that man. But it was an
accident, and on such an occasion as this it could not be helped."
Lord Lufton at once perceived, by the tone of his mother's voice and
by the shades of her countenance that she had absolutely endured some
personal encounter with the duke, and also that she was by no means
so indignant at the occurrence as might have been expected. There she
was, still in Miss Dunstable's house, and expressing no anger as to
Miss Dunstable's conduct. Lord Lufton could hardly have been more
surprised had he seen the duke handing his mother down to supper; he
said, however, nothing further on the subject.

"Are you going to dance, Ludovic?" said Lady Lufton.

"Well, I am not sure that I do not agree with Mrs. Proudie in
thinking that dancing would contaminate a conversazione. What are
your ideas, Miss Grantly?" Griselda was never very good at a joke,
and imagined that Lord Lufton wanted to escape the trouble of dancing
with her. This angered her. For the only species of love-making,
or flirtation, or sociability between herself as a young lady, and
any other self as a young gentleman, which recommended itself to
her taste, was to be found in the amusement of dancing. She was
altogether at variance with Mrs. Proudie on this matter, and gave
Miss Dunstable great credit for her innovation. In society Griselda's
toes were more serviceable to her than her tongue, and she was to
be won by a rapid twirl much more probably than by a soft word. The
offer of which she would approve would be conveyed by two all but
breathless words during a spasmodic pause in a waltz; and then as she
lifted up her arm to receive the accustomed support at her back, she
might just find power enough to say, "You--must ask--papa." After
that she would not care to have the affair mentioned till everything
was properly settled.

Bring the good old bugle, boys, we'll sing another song, Sing it with
the spirit that will start the world along,-- Sing it as we used
to sing it, fifty thousand strong, While we were marching through
Georgia.

CHORUS.

"Hurrah! hurrah! we bring the Jubilee!
Hurrah! hurrah! the flag that makes you free!" So we sang the chorus
from Atlanta to the sea While we were marching through Georgia.

How the darkies shouted when they heard the joyful sound!
How the turkeys gobbled which our commissary found!
How the sweet potatoes even started from the ground, While we were
marching through Georgia!--CHORUS.

Yes, and there were Union men who wept with joyful tears When
they saw the honored flag they had not seen for years; Hardly
could they be restrained from breaking forth in cheers While
we were marching through Georgia.--CHORUS.

"Sherman's dashing Yankee boys will never reach the coast!" So
the saucy rebel said, and 'twas a handsome boast; Had they not
forgotten, alas! to reckon with the host, While we were marching
through Georgia.--CHORUS.

So we made a thoroughfare for Freedom and her train, Sixty miles in
latitude,--three hundred to the main, Treason fled before us, for
resistance was in vain, While we were marching through
Georgia.--CHORUS.

[Illustration]

A THOUSAND YEARS.

KEY OF C.

[Illustration: SOLID SHOT.]
Lift up your eyes, desponding freemen!
Fling to the winds your needless fears!
He who unfurled your beauteous banner Says it shall wave a thousand
years.

CHORUS.

"A thousand years!" my own Columbia!
'Tis the glad day so long foretold!
'Tis the glad morn whose early twilight Washington saw in times of
old.

What if the clouds one little moment Hid the blue sky where morn
appears When the bright sun that tints them crimson Rises to shine
a thousand years!

--CHORUS.

Tell the great world these blessed tidings!
Yes, and be sure the bondman hears; Tell the oppress'd of ev'ry nation
Jubilee lasts a thousand years.--CHORUS.

Envious foes beyond the ocean!
Little we heed your threat'ning sneers; Little will they--our
children's children When you are gone a thousand years.--CHORUS.

Rebels at home! go hide your faces-- Weep for your crimes with bitter
tears; You could not bind the blessed daylight, Though you should
strive a thousand years.--CHORUS.

Back to your dens, ye secret traitors!
Down to your own degraded spheres!

Ere the first blaze of dazzling sunshine Shortens your lives
a thousand years.--CHORUS.

Haste thee along, thou glorious noonday!

Oh! for the eyes of ancient seers!

Oh! for the faith of Him who reckons Each of His days a thousand
years.--CHORUS.

[Illustration: SHERIDAN'S CAVALRY CORPS.]

HAIL COLUMBIA.

Copyrighted.

[Illustration: MAJ. GEN'L JOHN A. M'CLERNAND.]
Hail Columbia! happy land!
Hail, ye heroes! heaven-born band!
Who fought and bled in Freedom's cause, Who fought and bled in
Freedom's cause, And when the storm of war was gone Enjoyed the
peace your valor won.
Let Independence be our boast, Ever mindful what it cost; Ever
grateful for the prize, Let its altar reach the skies.
Firm united let us be, Rallying round our liberty; As a band of
brothers joined, Peace and safety we shall find.
Immortal patriots, rise once more, Defend your rights, defend your
shore, Let no rude foe, with impious hand, Let no rude foe, with
impious hand, Invade the shrine where sacred lies, Of toil and blood
the well-earned prize.
While offering peace sincere and just, In heaven we place a manly
trust, That truth and justice will prevail, And every scheme of
bondage fail.
Firm united let us be, etc.
Sound, sound the trump of fame!
Sound Washington's great name, Ring through the world with loud
applause, Ring through the world with loud applause; Let every clime
to Freedom dear Listen with a joyful ear; With equal skill and
godlike power, He governed in the fearful hour Of horrid war! or
guides with ease The happier times of honest peace, Firm united let
us be, etc.

[Illustration: 19TH CORPS.]
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE, MOTHER.
Used by permission of S. Brainard's Sons.

KEY OF B.
[Illustration: BRIG. GEN'L M.M. CROCKER.]
Just before the battle, mother, I am thinking most of you, While
upon the field we're watching, With the enemy in view.
Comrades brave are round me lying, Fill'd with tho'ts of home and
God, For well they know that on the morrow Some will sleep beneath
the sod.

CHORUS.
Farewell, mother, you may never Press me to your heart again; But
oh, you'll not forget me, mother, If I'm numbered with the slain.
Oh, I long to see you, mother, And the loving ones at home; But
I'll never leave our banner Till in honor I can come.You have been so good to me, that I would almost do
anything for you."

"Oh, no, no, no," she said, deprecating his praise, and the sacrifice
which he seemed to offer of his own hopes and aspirations. "I would
not for worlds have you do so for my sake. No mother ever had a
better son, and my only ambition is for your happiness."

"But, mother, she would not make me happy. I was mad enough for a
moment to think that she could do so--for a moment I did think so.
There was one occasion on which I would have asked her to take me,
but--"

"But what, Ludovic?"

"Never mind; it passed away; and now I shall never ask her. Indeed
I do not think she would have me. She is ambitious, and flying at
higher game than I am. And I must say this for her, that she knows
well what she is doing, and plays her cards as though she had been
born with them in her hand."

"You will never ask her?"

"No, mother; had I done so, it would have been for love of you--only
for love of you."

"I would not for worlds that you should do that."

"Let her have Dumbello; she will make an excellent wife for him, just
the wife that he will want. And you, you will have been so good to
her in assisting her to such a matter."

"But, Ludovic, I am so anxious to see you settled."

"All in good time, mother!"

"Ah, but the good time is passing away. Years run so very quickly. I
hope you think about marrying, Ludovic."

"But, mother, what if I brought you a wife that you did not approve?"

"I will approve of anyone that you love; that is--"

"That is, if you love her also; eh, mother?"

"But I rely with such confidence on your taste. I know that you can
like no one that is not ladylike and good."

"Ladylike and good; will that suffice?" said he, thinking of Lucy
Robarts.

"Yes; it will suffice, if you love her. I don't want you to care for
money. Griselda will have a fortune that would have been convenient;
but I do not wish you to care for that." And thus, as they stood
together in Miss Dunstable's crowded room, the mother and son settled
between themselves that the Lufton-Grantly alliance treaty was not
to be ratified. "I suppose I must let Mrs. Grantly know," said Lady
Lufton to herself, as Griselda returned to her side. There had
not been above a dozen words spoken between Lord Dumbello and his
partner, but that young lady also had now fully made up her mind that
the treaty above mentioned should never be brought into operation.

We must go back to our hostess, whom we should not have left for so
long a time, seeing that this chapter is written to show how well
she could conduct herself in great emergencies. She had declared
that after awhile she would be able to leave her position near the
entrance door, and find out her own peculiar friends among the crowd;
but the opportunity for doing so did not come till very late in the
evening. There was a continuation of arrivals; she was wearied to
death with making little speeches, and had more than once declared
that she must depute Mrs. Harold Smith to take her place. That lady
stuck to her through all her labours with admirable constancy, and
made the work bearable. Without some such constancy on a friend's
part, it would have been unbearable; and it must be acknowledged that
this was much to the credit of Mrs. Harold Smith. Her own hopes with
reference to the great heiress had all been shattered, and her answer
had been given to her in very plain language. But, nevertheless,
she was true to her friendship, and was almost as willing to endure
fatigue on the occasion as though she had a sister-in-law's right
in the house. At about one o'clock her brother came. He had not yet
seen Miss Dunstable since the offer had been made, and had now with
difficulty been persuaded by his sister to show himself.

"What can be the use?" said he. "The game is up with me now;"
--meaning, poor ruined ne'er-do-well, not only that that game
with Miss Dunstable was up, but that the great game of his whole life
was being brought to an uncomfortable termination.

"Nonsense," said his sister; "do you mean to despair because a man
like the Duke of Omnium wants his money? What has been good security
for him will be good security for another;" and then Mrs. Harold
Smith made herself more agreeable than ever to Miss Dunstable.

When Miss Dunstable was nearly worn out, but was still endeavouring
to buoy herself up by a hope of the still-expected great arrival--for
she knew that the hero would show himself only at a very late hour
if it were to be her good fortune that he showed himself at all--Mr.
Sowerby walked up the stairs. He had schooled himself to go through
this ordeal with all the cool effrontery which was at his command;
but it was clearly to be seen that all his effrontery did not stand
him in sufficient stead, and that the interview would have been
embarrassing had it not been for the genuine good-humour of the
lady. "Here is my brother," said Mrs. Harold Smith, showing by the
tremulousness of the whisper that she looked forward to the meeting
with some amount of apprehension.

"How do you do, Mr. Sowerby?" said Miss Dunstable, walking almost
into the doorway to welcome him. "Better late than never."

"I have only just got away from the House," said he, as he gave her
his hand.

"Oh, I know well that you are _sans reproche_ among senators--as Mr.
Harold Smith is _sans peur_;--eh, my dear?"

"I must confess that you have contrived to be uncommonly severe upon
them both," said Mrs. Harold, laughing; "and as regards poor Harold,
most undeservedly so: Nathaniel is here, and may defend himself."

"And no one is better able to do so on all occasions. But, my dear
Mr. Sowerby, I am dying of despair. Do you think he'll come?"

"He? who?"

"You stupid man--as if there were more than one he! There were two,
but the other has been."

"Upon my word, I don't understand," said Mr. Sowerby, now again at
his ease. "But can I do anything? shall I go and fetch anyone? Oh,
Tom Towers; I fear I can't help you. But here he is at the foot of
the stairs!" And then Mr. Sowerby stood back with his sister to make
way for the great representative man of the age.

"Angels and ministers of grace assist me!" said Miss Dunstable. "How
on earth am I to behave myself? Mr. Sowerby, do you think that I
ought to kneel down? My dear, will he have a reporter at his back
in the royal livery?" And then Miss Dunstable advanced two or three
steps--not into the doorway, as she had done for Mr. Sowerby--put out
her hand, and smiled her sweetest on Mr. Towers, of the _Jupiter_.

"Mr. Towers," she said, "I am delighted to have this opportunity of
seeing you in my own house."

"Miss Dunstable, I am immensely honoured by the privilege of being
here," said he.

"The honour done is all conferred on me," and she bowed and curtsied
with very stately grace. Each thoroughly understood the badinage of
the other; and then, in a few moments, they were engaged in very easy
conversation.

"By the by, Sowerby, what do you think of this threatened
dissolution?" said Tom Towers.

"We are all in the hands of Providence," said Mr. Sowerby, striving
to take the matter without any outward show of emotion. But the
question was one of terrible import to him, and up to this time he
had heard of no such threat. Nor had Mrs. Harold Smith, nor Miss
Dunstable, nor had a hundred others who now either listened to the
vaticinations of Mr. Towers, or to the immediate report made of
them. But it is given to some men to originate such tidings, and the
performance of the prophecy is often brought about by the authority
of the prophet. On the following morning the rumour that there would
be a dissolution was current in all high circles. "They have no
conscience in such matters; no conscience whatever," said a small
god, speaking of the giants--a small god, whose constituency was
expensive. Mr. Towers stood there chatting for about twenty minutes,
and then took his departure without making his way into the room. He
had answered the purpose for which he had been invited, and left Miss
Dunstable in a happy frame of mind.

"I am very glad that he came," said Mrs. Harold Smith, with an air of
triumph.

"Yes, I am glad," said Miss Dunstable, "though I am thoroughly
ashamed that I should be so. After all, what good has he done to me
or to anyone?" And having uttered this moral reflection, she made
her way into the rooms, and soon discovered Dr. Thorne standing by
himself against the wall.

"Well, doctor," she said, "where are Mary and Frank? You do not look
at all comfortable, standing here by yourself."

"I am quite as comfortable as I expected, thank you," said he. "They
are in the room somewhere, and, as I believe, equally happy."

"That's spiteful in you, doctor, to speak in that way. What would you
say if you were called on to endure all that I have gone through this
evening?"

"There is no accounting for tastes, but I presume you like it."

"I am not so sure of that. Give me your arm and let me get some
supper. One always likes the idea of having done hard work, and one
always likes to have been successful."

"We all know that virtue is its own reward," said the doctor.

"Well, that is something hard upon me," said Miss Dunstable, as she
sat down to table. "And you really think that no good of any sort can
come from my giving such a party as this?"

"Oh, yes; some people, no doubt, have been amused."

"It is all vanity in your estimation," said Miss Dunstable; "vanity
and vexation of spirit. Well; there is a good deal of the latter,
certainly. Sherry, if you please. I would give anything for a glass
of beer, but that is out of the question. Vanity and vexation of
spirit! And yet I meant to do good."

"Pray, do not suppose that I am condemning you, Miss Dunstable."

"Ah, but I do suppose it. Not only you, but another also, whose
judgement I care for, perhaps, more than yours; and that, let me tell
you, is saying a great deal. You do condemn me, Dr. Thorne, and I
also condemn myself. It is not that I have done wrong, but the game
is not worth the candle."

"Ah; that's the question."

"The game is not worth the candle. And yet it was a triumph to have
both the duke and Tom Towers. You must confess that I have not
managed badly." Soon after that the Greshams went away, and in an
hour's time or so, Miss Dunstable was allowed to drag herself to her
own bed.

That is the great question to be asked on all such occasions, "Is the
game worth the candle?"


CHAPTER XXX

The Grantly Triumph


It has been mentioned cursorily--the reader, no doubt, will have
forgotten it--that Mrs. Grantly was not specially invited by her
husband to go up to town with a view of being present at Miss
Dunstable's party. Mrs. Grantly said nothing on the subject, but she
was somewhat chagrined; not on account of the loss she sustained with
reference to that celebrated assembly, but because she felt that her
daughter's affairs required the supervision of a mother's eye. She
also doubted the final ratification of that Lufton-Grantly treaty,
and, doubting it, she did not feel quite satisfied that her daughter
should be left in Lady Lufton's hands. She had said a word or two to
the archdeacon before he went up, but only a word or two, for she
hesitated to trust him in so delicate a matter. She was, therefore,
not a little surprised at receiving, on the second morning after
her husband's departure, a letter from him desiring her immediate
presence in London. She was surprised; but her heart was filled
rather with hope than dismay, for she had full confidence in her
daughter's discretion. On the morning after the party, Lady Lufton
and Griselda had breakfasted together as usual, but each felt that
the manner of the other was altered. Lady Lufton thought that her
young friend was somewhat less attentive, and perhaps less meek in
her demeanour than usual; and Griselda felt that Lady Lufton was less
affectionate. Very little, however, was said between them, and Lady
Lufton expressed no surprise when Griselda begged to be left alone at
home, instead of accompanying her ladyship when the carriage came to
the door. Nobody called in Bruton Street that afternoon--no one, at
least, was let in--except the archdeacon. He came there late in the
day, and remained with his daughter till Lady Lufton returned. Then
he took his leave, with more abruptness than was usual with him, and
without saying anything special to account for the duration of his
visit. Neither did Griselda say anything special; and so the evening
wore away, each feeling in some unconscious manner that she was on
less intimate terms with the other than had previously been the ease.

On the next day also Griselda would not go out, but at four o'clock
a servant brought a letter to her from Mount Street. Her mother had
arrived in London and wished to see her at once. Mrs. Grantly sent
her love to Lady Lufton, and would call at half-past five, or at
any later hour at which it might be convenient for Lady Lufton to
see her. Griselda was to stay and dine in Mount Street; so said the
letter. Lady Lufton declared that she would be very happy to see
Mrs. Grantly at the hour named; and then, armed with this message,
Griselda started for her mother's lodgings. "I'll send the carriage
for you," said Lady Lufton. "I suppose about ten will do."

"Thank you," said Griselda, "that will do very nicely;" and then she
went. Exactly at half-past five Mrs. Grantly was shown into Lady
Lufton's drawing-room. Her daughter did not come with her, and Lady
Lufton could see by the expression of her friend's face that business
was to be discussed. Indeed, it was necessary that she herself should
discuss business, for Mrs. Grantly must now be told that the family
treaty could not be ratified. The gentleman declined the alliance,
and poor Lady Lufton was uneasy in her mind at the nature of the task
before her.

"Your coming up has been rather unexpected," said Lady Lufton, as
soon as her friend was seated on the sofa.

"Yes, indeed; I got a letter from the archdeacon only this morning,
which made it absolutely necessary that I should come."

"No bad news, I hope?" said Lady Lufton.

"No; I can't call it bad news. But, dear Lady Lufton, things won't
always turn out exactly as one would have them."

"No, indeed," said her ladyship, remembering that it was incumbent
on her to explain to Mrs. Grantly now at this present interview the
tidings with which her mind was fraught. She would, however, let Mrs.
Grantly first tell her own story, feeling, perhaps, that the one
might possibly bear upon the other.

"Poor dear Griselda!" said Mrs. Grantly, almost with a sigh. "I need
not tell you, Lady Lufton, what my hopes were regarding her."

"Has she told you anything--anything that--"

"She would have spoken to you at once--and it was due to you that she
should have done so--but she was timid; and not unnaturally so. And
then it was right that she should see her father and me before she
quite made up her own mind. But I may say that it is settled now."

"What is settled?" asked Lady Lufton.

"Of course it is impossible for anyone to tell beforehand how those
things will turn out," continued Mrs. Grantly, beating about the bush
rather more than was necessary. "The dearest wish of my heart was to
see her married to Lord Lufton. I should so much have wished to have
her in the same county with me, and such a match as that would have
fully satisfied my ambition."

"Well, I should rather think it might!" Lady Lufton did not say this
out loud, but she thought it. Mrs. Grantly was absolutely speaking of
a match between her daughter and Lord Lufton as though she would have
displayed some amount of Christian moderation in putting up with it!
Griselda Grantly might be a very nice girl; but even she--so thought
Lady Lufton at the moment--might possibly be priced too highly.

"Dear Mrs. Grantly," she said, "I have foreseen for the last few days
that our mutual hopes in this respect would not be gratified. Lord
Lufton, I think;--but perhaps it is not necessary to explain-- Had
you not come up to town I should have written to you,--probably
to-day. Whatever may be dear Griselda's fate in life, I sincerely
hope that she may be happy."

"I think she will," said Mrs. Grantly, in a tone that expressed much
satisfaction.

"Has--has anything--"

"Lord Dumbello proposed to Griselda the other night, at Miss
Dunstable's party," said Mrs. Grantly, with her eyes fixed upon
the floor, and assuming on the sudden much meekness in her manner;
"and his lordship was with the archdeacon yesterday, and again this
morning. I fancy he is in Mount Street at the present moment."

"Oh, indeed!" said Lady Lufton. She would have given worlds to have
possessed at the moment sufficient self-command to have enabled her
to express in her tone and manner unqualified satisfaction at the
tidings. But she had not such self-command, and was painfully aware
of her own deficiency.

"Yes," said Mrs. Grantly. "And as it is all so far settled, and as
I know you are so kindly anxious about dear Griselda, I thought
it right to let you know at once. Nothing can be more upright,
honourable, and generous, than Lord Dumbello's conduct; and, on the
whole, the match is one with which I and the archdeacon cannot but be
contented."

"It is certainly a great match," said Lady Lufton. "Have you seen
Lady Hartletop yet?"

Now Lady Hartletop could not be regarded as an agreeable connexion,
but this was the only word which escaped from Lady Lufton that could
be considered in any way disparaging, and, on the whole, I think that
she behaved well.

"Lord Dumbello is so completely his own master that that has not been
necessary," said Mrs. Grantly. "The marquess has been told, and the
archdeacon will see him either to-morrow or the day after." There was
nothing left for Lady Lufton but to congratulate her friend, and this
she did in words perhaps not very sincere, but which, on the whole,
were not badly chosen.

"I am sure I hope she will be very happy," said Lady Lufton, "and
I trust that the alliance"--the word was very agreeable to Mrs.
Grantly's ear--"will give unalloyed gratification to you and to her
father. The position which she is called to fill is a very splendid
one, but I do not think that it is above her merits." This was very
generous, and so Mrs. Grantly felt it. She had expected that her news
would be received with the coldest shade of civility, and she was
quite prepared to do battle if there were occasion. But she had
no wish for war, and was almost grateful to Lady Lufton for her
cordiality.

"Dear Lady Lufton," she said, "it is so kind of you to say so. I have
told no one else, and of course would tell no one till you knew it.
No one has known her and understood her so well as you have done. And
I can assure you of this, that there is no one to whose friendship
she looks forward in her new sphere of life with half so much
pleasure as she does to yours." Lady Lufton did not say much further.
She could not declare that she expected much gratification from an
intimacy with the future Marchioness of Hartletop. The Hartletops and
Luftons must, at any rate for her generation, live in a world apart,
and she had now said all that her old friendship with Mrs. Grantly
required. Mrs. Grantly understood all this quite as well as did Lady
Lufton; but then Mrs. Grantly was much the better woman of the world.
It was arranged that Griselda should come back to Bruton Street for
the night, and that her visit should then be brought to a close.

"The archdeacon thinks that for the present I had better remain up in
town," said Mrs. Grantly, "and under the very peculiar circumstances
Griselda will be--perhaps more comfortable with me." To this Lady
Lufton entirely agreed; and so they parted, excellent friends,
embracing each other in a most affectionate manner. That evening
Griselda did return to Bruton Street, and Lady Lufton had to go
through the further task of congratulating her. This was the more
disagreeable of the two, especially so as it had to be thought over
beforehand. But the young lady's excellent good sense and sterling
qualities made the task comparatively an easy one. She neither cried,
nor was impassioned, nor went into hysterics, nor showed any emotion.
She did not even talk of her noble Dumbello,--her generous Dumbello.
She took Lady Lufton's kisses almost in silence, thanked her gently
for her kindness, and made no allusion to her own future grandeur.

"I think I should like to go to bed early," she said, "as I must see
to my packing up."

"Richards will do all that for you, my dear."

"Oh, yes, thank you, nothing can be kinder than Richards. But I'll
just see to my own dresses." And so she went to bed early.

Lady Lufton did not see her son for the next two days, but when she
did, of course she said a word or two about Griselda. "You have heard
the news, Ludovic?" she asked.

"Oh, yes; it's at all the clubs. I have been overwhelmed with
presents of willow branches."

"You, at any rate, have got nothing to regret," she said.

"Nor you either, mother. I am sure that you do not think you have.
Say that you do not regret it. Dearest mother, say so for my sake. Do
you not know in your heart of hearts that she was not suited to be
happy as my wife,--or to make me happy?"

"Perhaps not," said Lady Lufton, sighing. And then she kissed her
son, and declared to herself that no girl in England could be good
enough for him.


CHAPTER XXXI

Salmon Fishing in Norway


Lord Dumbello's engagement with Griselda Grantly was the talk of the
town for the next ten days. It formed, at least, one of two subjects
which monopolized attention, the other being that dreadful rumour,
first put in motion by Tom Towers at Miss Dunstable's party, as to a
threatened dissolution of Parliament. "Perhaps, after all, it will be
the best thing for us," said Mr. Green Walker, who felt himself to be
tolerably safe at Crewe Junction.

"I regard it as a most wicked attempt," said Harold Smith, who was
not equally secure in his own borough, and to whom the expense of
an election was disagreeable. "It is done in order that they may
get time to tide over the autumn. They won't gain ten votes by a
dissolution, and less than forty would hardly give them a majority.
But they have no sense of public duty--none whatever. Indeed, I don't
know who has."

"No, by Jove; that's just it. That's what my aunt Lady Hartletop
says; there is no sense of duty left in the world. By the by, what an
uncommon fool Dumbello is making himself!" And then the conversation
went off to that other topic.

Lord Lufton's joke against himself about the willow branches was all
very well, and nobody dreamed that his heart was sore in that matter.
The world was laughing at Lord Dumbello for what it chose to call
a foolish match, and Lord Lufton's friends talked to him about it
as though they had never suspected that he could have made an ass
of himself in the same direction; but, nevertheless, he was not
altogether contented. He by no means wished to marry Griselda; he
had declared to himself a dozen times since he had first suspected
his mother's manoeuvres that no consideration on earth should
induce him to do so; he had pronounced her to be cold, insipid, and
unattractive in spite of her beauty: and yet he felt almost angry
that Lord Dumbello should have been successful. And this, too,
was the more inexcusable, seeing that he had never forgotten Lucy
Robarts, had never ceased to love her, and that, in holding those
various conversations within his own bosom, he was as loud in Lucy's
favour as he was in dispraise of Griselda.

"Your hero, then," I hear some well-balanced critic say, "is not
worth very much." In the first place Lord Lufton is not my hero; and
in the next place, a man may be very imperfect and yet worth a great
deal. A man may be as imperfect as Lord Lufton, and yet worthy of a
good mother and a good wife. If not, how many of us are unworthy of
the mothers and wives we have! It is my belief that few young men
settle themselves down to the work of the world, to the begetting of
children, and carving and paying and struggling and fretting for the
same, without having first been in love with four or five possible
mothers for them, and probably with two or three at the same time.
And yet these men are, as a rule, worthy of the excellent wives that
ultimately fall to their lot. In this way Lord Lufton had, to a
certain extent, been in love with Griselda. There had been one moment
in his life in which he would have offered her his hand, had not her
discretion been so excellent; and though that moment never returned,
still he suffered from some feeling akin to disappointment when he
learned that Griselda had been won and was to be worn. He was, then,
a dog in the manger, you will say. Well; and are we not all dogs in
the manger more or less actively? Is not that manger-doggishness one
of the most common phases of the human heart? But not the less was
Lord Lufton truly in love with Lucy Robarts. And must these two articles
be added henceforward in our national quarrels? It is grown a mighty
conceit among some men to melt down the phrase of a _Church
Established by law_ into that of the _Religion of the Magistrate_;
of which appellation it is easier to find the reason than the
sense: If by the magistrate they mean the prince, the expression
includes a falsehood; for when King James was prince[10], the Established
Church was the same it is now. If by the same word they mean
the Legislature, we desire no more.

Be that as it will, we of this kingdom believe the Church of Ireland
to be the National Church, and the only one established by law, and
are willing by the same law to give a toleration to dissenters: But
if once we repeal our Sacramental Test, and grant a toleration, or
suspend the execution of the penal laws, I do not see how we can
be said to have any Established Church remaining; or rather why
there will not be as many established churches, as there are sects
of dissenters.

No, say they, yours will still be the National Church, because
your bishops and clergy are maintained by the public; but, that,
I suppose, will be of no long duration, and it would be very unjust
it should, because, to speak in Tindal's phrase,[11] it is not
reasonable that revenues should be annexed to one opinion more than
another, when all are equally lawful, and 'tis the same author's
maxim, that no freeborn subject ought to pay for maintaining
speculations he does not believe.

_But why should any man, upon account of opinions he cannot help,
be deprived of the opportunity of serving his Queen and country?

_ Their zeal is commendable, and when employments go a begging
for want of hands, they shall be sure to have the refusal, only
upon condition they will not pretend to them upon maxims which
equally include atheists, Turks, Jews, infidels, and heretics, or
which is still more dangerous, even Papists themselves; the former
you allow, the other you deny, because these last own a foreign
power, and therefore must be shut out.

But there is no great weight in this; for their religion can suit
with free states, with limited or absolute monarchies, as well as
a better, and the Pope's power in France is but a shadow; so that
upon this foot there need be no great danger to the constitution
by admitting Papists to employments.

I will help you to enough of them who shall be ready to allow the
Pope as little power here as you please; and the bare opinion of
his being vicar of Christ is but a speculative point, for which no
man it seems ought to be deprived of the capacity of serving his
country.

[Footnote 10: The words from "the expression" to "was prince" are
omitted by Faulkner in his edition. [T.S.]]
[Footnote 11: See vol. iii, p. 9, note. [T.S.]]
But, if you please, I will tell you the great objection we have against
repealing this same Sacramental Test. It is, that we are verily
persuaded the consequence will be an entire alteration of religion
among us in a no great compass of years.

And, pray observe, how we reason here in Ireland upon this matter.

We observe the Scots in our northern parts, to be a brave, industrious
people, extremely devoted to their religion, and full of an undisturbed
affection towards each other.

Numbers of that noble nation, invited by the fertilities of the
soil, are glad to exchange their barren hills of Loquabar, by a
voyage of three hours, for our fruitful vales of Down and Antrim,
so productive of that grain, which, at little trouble and less
expense finds diet and lodging for themselves and their cattle.[12]
These people by their extreme parsimony, wonderful dexterity in
dealing, and firm adherence to one another, soon grow into wealth
from the smallest beginnings, never are rooted out where they once
fix, and increase daily by new supplies; besides when they are the
superior number in any tract of ground, they are not over patient
of mixture; but such, whom they cannot assimilate, soon find it
their interest to remove.

I have done all in my power on some land of my own to preserve two or
three English fellows in their neighbourhood, but found it impossible,
though one of them thought he had sufficiently made his court by
turning Presbyterian.

Add to all this, that they bring along with them from Scotland a most
formidable notion of our Church, which they look upon at least
three degrees worse than Popery; and it is natural it should be so,
since they come over full fraught with that spirit which taught
them to abolish Episcopacy at home.

[Footnote 12: From this passage, perhaps, Johnson derived the famous
definition of oats, in his Dictionary, as the food of horses in
England, and of men in Scotland.

[S.]]
Then we proceed farther, and observe, that the gentlemen of employments
here, make a very considerable number in the House of Commons, and
have no other merit but that of doing their duty in their several
stations; therefore when the Test is repealed, it will be highly
reasonable they should give place to those who have much greater
services to plead.

The commissions of the revenue are soon disposed of, and the
collectors and other officers throughout this kingdom, are generally
appointed by the commissioners, which give them a mighty influence
in every country.

As much may be said of the great officers in the law; and when this
door is open to let dissenters into the commissions of the peace,
to make them High Sheriffs, Mayors of Corporations, and officers
of the army and militia; I do not see how it can be otherwise,
considering their industry and our supineness, but that they may
in a very few years grow to a majority in the House of Commons, and
consequently make themselves the national religion, and have a fair
pretence to demand the revenues of the Church for their teachers.

I know it will be objected, that if all this should happen as I
describe, yet the Presbyterian religion could never be made the
national by act of Parliament, because our bishops are so great a
number in the House of Lords, and without a majority there, the
Church could not be abolished.

But I have two very good expedients for that, which I shall leave
you to guess, and I dare swear our Speaker here has often thought
on, especially having endeavoured at one of them so lately. That
this design is not so foreign from some people's thoughts, I must let
you know that an honest bellwether[13] of our house (you have him
now in England, I wish you could keep him there) had the impudence
some years ago, in Parliament time, to shake my Lord Bishop of Kilaloe[14]
by his lawn sleeve, and tell him in a threatening manner, "that
he hoped to live to see the day when there should not be one of his
order in the kingdom."
[Footnote 13: Supposed to be Mr. Broderick. [F.]]
[Footnote 14: Dr.

Lindsay, afterwards Lord Primate. [S.]]
These last lines perhaps you think a digression; therefore to return:
I have told you the consequences we fully reckon upon from repealing
the Sacramental Test, which although the greatest number of such
as are for doing it, are actually in no manner of pain about it,
and many of them care not threepence whether there be any Church,
or no; yet because they pretend to argue from conscience as well
as policy and interest, I thought it proper to understand and answer
them accordingly.

Now, sir, in answer to your question, whether if an attempt should
be made here for repealing the Sacramental Test, it would be likely
to succeed? The number of professed dissenters in this Parliament
was, as I remember, something under a dozen, and I cannot call to
mind above thirty others who were expected to fall in with them.
This is certain, that the Presbyterian party having with great
industry mustered up their forces, did endeavour one day upon
occasion of a hint in my Lord Pembroke's speech, to introduce a
debate about repealing the Test clause, when there appeared at least
four to one odds against them; and the ablest of those who were
reckoned the most staunch and thorough-paced Whigs upon all other
occasions, fell off with an abhorrence at the first mention of
this.

I must desire you to take notice, that the terms of Whig and Tory, do
not properly express the different interests in our parliament. I
remember when I was last in England, I told the King, that the highest
Tories we had with us would make tolerable Whigs there; this was
certainly right, and still in the general continues so, unless you
have since admitted new characteristics, which did not come within
our definition.[15] Whoever bears a true veneration for the glorious
memory of King William, as our great deliverer from Popery and
slavery; whoever is firmly loyal to our present Queen, with an utter
abhorrence and detestation of the Pretender; whoever approves the
succession to the Crown in the House of Hanover, and is for preserving
the doctrine and discipline of the Church of England, with an
indulgence for scrupulous consciences; such a man we think acts
upon right principles, and may be justly allowed a Whig: And I
believe there are not six members in our House of Commons, who may
not fairly come under this description.

So that the parties among us are made up, on one side, of moderate
Whigs, and on the other, of Presbyterians and their abettors; by which
last I mean, such who can equally go to a Church or Conventicle, or
such who are indifferent to all religion in general, or lastly such
who affect to bear a personal rancour toward the clergy: These last
are a set of men not of our own growth, their principles at least
have been imported of late years; yet this whole party put together
will not, I am confident, amount to above fifty men in Parliament,
which can hardly be worked up into a majority of three hundred.

[Footnote 15: The passage beginning with "I remember when I was
last in England," and ending with "within our definition," is omitted
by Faulkner.

[T.S.]]
As to the House of Lords, the difficulty there is conceived at least
as great as in ours. So many of our temporal peers live in England,
that the bishops are generally pretty near a par of the House, and
we reckon they will be all to a man against repealing the Test; and
yet their lordships are generally thought as good Whigs upon our
principles as any in the kingdom. There are indeed a few lay
lords who appear to have no great devotion for Episcopacy; and perhaps
one or two more with whom certain powerful motives might be used for
removing any difficulty whatsoever; but these are in no sort of a
number to carry any point against the conjunction of the rest and
the whole bench of bishops.

Besides, the whole body of our clergy is utterly against repealing
the Test, though they are entirely devoted to her Majesty, and
hardly one in a hundred who are not very good Whigs in our acceptation
of the word.

And I must let you know, that we of Ireland are not yet come up to
other folk's refinements; for we generally love and esteem our
clergy, and think they deserve it; nay, we are apt to lay some
weight upon their opinion, and would not willingly disoblige them,
at least unless it were upon some greater point of interest than
this.

And their judgment in the present affair is the more to be regarded,
because they are the last persons who will be affected by it: This
makes us think them impartial, and that their concern is only for
religion and the interest of the kingdom.

Because the act which repeals the Test, will only qualify a layman for
an employment, but not a Presbyterian or Anabaptist preacher for a
church-living. Now I must take leave to inform you, that several members
of our House, and myself among the rest, knowing some time ago what
was upon the anvil, went to all the clergy we knew of any distinction,
and desired their judgment of the matter, wherein we found a most
wonderful agreement; there being but one divine that we could hear
of in the whole kingdom, who appeared of a contrary sentiment,
wherein he afterwards stood alone in the convocation, very little
to his credit, though, as he hoped, very much to his interest.

I will now consider a little the arguments offered to shew the
advantages, or rather the necessity, of repealing the Test in
Ireland.

We are told, the Popish interest is here so formidable, that all hands
should be joined to keep it under; that the only names of distinction
among us ought to be those of Protestant and Papist, and that this
expedient is the only means to unite all Protestants upon one
common bottom.

All which is nothing but misrepresentation and mistake.

If we were under any real fear of the Papists in this kingdom, it
would be hard to think us so stupid, not to be equally apprehensive
with others, since we are likely to be the greatest, and more
immediate sufferers; but on the contrary, we look upon them to be
altogether as inconsiderable as the women and children.

Their lands are almost entirely taken from them, and they are
rendered incapable of purchasing any more; and for the little
that remains, provision is made by the late act against Popery, that
it will daily crumble away: To prevent which, some of the most
considerable among them are already turned Protestants, and so in
all probability will many more.

Then, the Popish priests are all registered, and without permission
(which I hope will not be granted) they can have no successors; so
that the Protestant Clergy will find it perhaps no difficult matter
to bring great numbers over to the Church; and in the meantime, the
common people without leaders, without discipline, or natural
courage, being little better than "hewers of wood, and drawers of
water," are out of all capacity of doing any mischief, if they were
ever so well inclined.

Neither are they at all likely to join in any considerable numbers
with an invader, having found so ill success when they were much
more numerous and powerful; when they had a prince of their own
religion to head them, had been trained for some years under a
Popish deputy, and received such mighty aids from the French king.

As to that argument used for repealing the Test, that it will unite
all Protestants against the common enemy, I wonder by what figure
those gentlemen speak who are pleased to advance it: Suppose in
order to increase the friendship between you and me, a law should
pass that I must have half your estate; do you think that would
much advance the union between us?

Or, suppose I share my fortune equally between my own children, and
a stranger whom I take into my protection; will that be a method
to unite them?

Tis an odd way of uniting parties, to deprive a majority of part of
their ancient right, by conferring it on a faction who had never
any right at all, and therefore cannot be said to suffer any loss
or injury if it be refused them.

Neither is it very clear, how far some people may stretch the term
of common enemy.

How many are there of those that call themselves Protestants, who look
upon our worship to be idolatrous as well as that of the Papists,
and with great charity put Prelacy and Popery together, as terms
convertible?

And, therefore, there is one small doubt, I would be willingly
satisfied in before I agree to the repealing of the Test; that is,
whether, these same Protestants, when they have by their dexterity
made themselves the national religion, and disposed the Church
revenues among their pastors or themselves, will be so kind to allow
us dissenters, I do not say a share in employments, but a bare
toleration by law?

The reason of my doubt is, because I have been so very idle as to
read above fifty pamphlets, written by as many Presbyterian divines,
loudly disclaiming this idol Toleration, some of them calling it
(I know not how properly) a rag of Popery, and all agreeing it was
to establish iniquity by law.

Now, I would be glad to know when and where their successors have
renounced this doctrine, and before what witnesses.

Because, methinks I should be loth to see my poor titular bishop
_in partibus_, seized on by mistake in the dark for a Jesuit, or
be forced myself to keep my chaplain disguised like my butler, and
steal to prayers in a back room, as my grandfather[l6] used in
those times when the Church of England was malignant.

[Footnote 16: This is Thomas Swift, vicar of Goodrich, in Herefordshire,
"much distinguished by his courage, as well as his loyalty to King
Charles the First, and the sufferings he underwent for that prince,
more than any person of his condition in England."

See the "Fragment of Autobiography," printed by Scott and Forster
in their Lives of Swift.

[T.S.]]

But this is ripping up old quarrels long forgot; Popery is now the
common enemy, against which we must all unite; I have been tired
in history with the perpetual folly of those states who call in
foreigners to assist them against a common enemy: But the mischief
was, those allies would never be brought to allow that the common
enemy was quite subdued.

And they had reason; for it proved at last, that one part of the
common enemy was those who called them in, and so the allies became
at length the masters.

'Tis agreed among naturalists that a lion is a larger, a stronger,
and more dangerous enemy than a cat; yet if a man were to have his
choice, either a lion at his foot, bound fast with three or four
chains, his teeth drawn out, and his claws pared to the quick, or
an angry cat in full liberty at his throat; he would take no long
time to determine.

I have been sometimes admiring the wonderful significancy of
that word persecution, and what various interpretations it hath
acquired even within my memory. When I was a boy, I often heard
the Presbyterians complain that they were not permitted to serve
God in their own way; they said they did not repine at our employments,
but thought that all men who live peaceably ought to have liberty
of conscience, and leave to assemble. That impediment being removed
at the Revolution, they soon learned to swallow the Sacramental
Test and began to take very large steps, wherein all that offered
to oppose them, were called men of a persecuting spirit.

During the time the Bill against Occasional Conformity was on foot,
persecution was every day rung in our ears, and now at last the
Sacramental Test itself has the same name. Where then is this
matter likely to end, when the obtaining of one request is only used
as a step to demand another? A lover is ever complaining of cruelty
while anything is denied him, and when the lady ceases to be cruel,
she is from the next moment at his mercy: So persecution it seems,
is everything that will not leave it in men's power to persecute
others.

There is one argument offered against a Sacramental Test, by a
sort of men who are content to be styled of the Church of
England, who perhaps attend its service in the morning, and go
with their wives to a conventicle in the afternoon, confessing they
hear very good doctrine in both. These men are much offended that
so holy an institution as that of the Lord's Supper should be made
subservient to such mercenary purposes as the getting of an employment.

Now, it seems, the law, concluding all men to be members of that
Church where they receive the Sacrament; and supposing all men to
live like Christians (especially those who are to have employments)
did imagine they received the Sacrament in course about four times
a year, and therefore only desired it might appear by certificate
to the public, that such who took an office were members of the
Church established, by doing their ordinary duty.

However, lest we should offend them, we have often desired they would
deal candidly with us; for if the matter stuck only there, we would
propose it in parliament, that every man who takes an employment
should, instead of receiving the sacrament, be obliged to swear,
that he is a member of the Church of Ireland by law established,
with Episcopacy, and so forth; and as they do now in Scotland, _to
be true to the Kirk_.

But when we drive them thus far, they always retire to the main
body of the argument, urge the hardship that men should be deprived
the liberty of serving their Queen and country, on account of their
conscience: And, in short, have recourse to the common style of
their half brethren.

said Mark--somewhat cruelly, for
Lucy had not yet been told that her lover had made any repetition of
his proposal. Fanny, however, determined that no injustice should be
done, and therefore she at last continued the story.

"We know that you did give him an answer, dearest; but gentlemen
sometimes will not put up with one answer on such a subject. Lord
Lufton has declared to Mark that he means to ask again. He has come
down here on purpose to do so."

"And Lady Lufton--" said Lucy, speaking hardly above a whisper, and
still hiding her face as she leaned against her sister's shoulder.

"Lord Lufton has not spoken to his mother about it," said Mark; and
it immediately became clear to Lucy, from the tone of her brother's
voice, that he, at least, would not be pleased, should she accept her
lover's vow.

"You must decide out of your own heart, dear," said Fanny,
generously. "Mark and I know how well you have behaved, for I have
told him everything." Lucy shuddered and leaned closer against her
sister as this was said to her. "I had no alternative, dearest, but
to tell him. It was best so; was it not? But nothing has been told
to Lord Lufton. Mark would not let him come here to-day, because it
would have flurried you, and he wished to give you time to think. But
you can see him to-morrow morning--can you not? and then answer him."

Lucy now stood perfectly silent, feeling that she dearly loved her
sister-in-law for her sisterly kindness--for that sisterly wish to
promote a sister's love; but still there was in her mind a strong
resolve not to allow Lord Lufton to come there under the idea that
he would be received as a favoured lover. Her love was powerful, but
so also was her pride; and she could not bring herself to bear the
scorn which would lay in Lady Lufton's eyes. "His mother will despise
me, and then he will despise me too," she said to herself; and with
a strong gulp of disappointed love and ambition she determined
to persist. "Shall we leave you now, dear; and speak of it again
to-morrow morning before he comes?" said Fanny.

"That will be the best," said Mark. "Turn it in your mind every way
to-night. Think of it when you have said your prayers--and, Lucy,
come here to me;"--then, taking her in his arms, he kissed her with a
tenderness that was not customary with him towards her. "It is fair,"
said he, "that I should tell you this: that I have perfect confidence
in your judgement and feeling; and that I will stand by you as your
brother in whatever decision you may come to. Fanny and I both think
that you have behaved excellently, and are both of us sure that you
will do what is best. Whatever you do I will stick to you;--and so
will Fanny."

"Dearest, dearest Mark!"

"And now we will say nothing more about it till to-morrow morning,"
said Fanny. But Lucy felt that this saying nothing more about it till
to-morrow morning would be tantamount to an acceptance on her part
of Lord Lufton's offer. Mrs. Robarts knew, and Mr. Robarts also now
knew, the secret of her heart; and if, such being the case, she
allowed Lord Lufton to come there with the acknowledged purpose of
pleading his own suit, it would be impossible for her not to yield.
If she were resolved that she would not yield, now was the time for
her to stand her ground and make her fight. "Do not go, Fanny; at
least not quite yet," she said.

"Well, dear?"

"I want you to stay while I tell Mark. He must not let Lord Lufton
come here to-morrow."

"Not let him!" said Mrs. Robarts. Mr. Robarts said nothing, but he
felt that his sister was rising in his esteem from minute to minute.

"No; Mark must bid him not come. He will not wish to pain me when it
can do no good. Look here, Mark;" and she walked over to her brother,
and put both her hands upon his arm. "I do love Lord Lufton. I had no
such meaning or thought when I first knew him. But I do love him--I
love him dearly;--almost as well as Fanny loves you, I suppose. You
may tell him so if you think proper--nay, you must tell him so, or he
will not understand me. But tell him this, as coming from me: that I
will never marry him, unless his mother asks me."

"She will not do that, I fear," said Mark, sorrowfully.

"No; I suppose not," said Lucy, now regaining all her courage.
"If I thought it probable that she should wish me to be her
daughter-in-law, it would not be necessary that I should make such a
stipulation. It is because she will not wish it; because she would
regard me as unfit to--to--to mate with her son. She would hate me,
and scorn me; and then he would begin to scorn me, and perhaps would
cease to love me. I could not bear her eye upon me, if she thought
that I had injured her son. Mark, you will go to him now; will you
not? and explain this to him;--as much of it as is necessary. Tell
him, that if his mother asks me I will--consent. But that as I know
that she never will, he is to look upon all that he has said as
forgotten. With me it shall be the same as though it were forgotten."
Such was her verdict, and so confident were they both of her
firmness--of her obstinacy Mark would have called it on any other
occasion,--that they neither of them sought to make her alter it.

"You will go to him now--this afternoon; will you not?" she said; and
Mark promised that he would. He could not but feel that he himself
was greatly relieved. Lady Lufton might, probably, hear that her son
had been fool enough to fall in love with the parson's sister; but
under existing circumstances she could not consider herself aggrieved
either by the parson or by his sister. Lucy was behaving well, and
Mark was proud of her. Lucy was behaving with fierce spirit, and
Fanny was grieving for her.

"I'd rather be by myself till dinner-time," said Lucy, as Mrs.
Robarts prepared to go with her out of the room. "Dear Fanny, don't
look unhappy; there's nothing to make us unhappy. I told you I should
want goat's milk, and that will be all." Robarts, after sitting for
an hour with his wife, did return again to Framley Court; and, after
a considerable search, found Lord Lufton returning home to a late
dinner.

"Unless my mother asks her," said he, when the story had been told
him. "That is nonsense. Surely you told her that such is not the way
of the world." Robarts endeavoured to explain to him that Lucy could
not endure to think that her husband's mother should look on her with
disfavour.

"Does she think that my mother dislikes her; her specially?" asked
Lord Lufton. No; Robarts could not suppose that that was the
case; but Lady Lufton might probably think that a marriage with a
clergyman's sister would be a mésalliance.

"That is out of the question," said Lord Lufton; "as she has
especially wanted me to marry a clergyman's daughter for some time
past. But, Mark, it is absurd talking about my mother. A man in these
days is not to marry as his mother bids him." Mark could only assure
him, in answer to all this, that Lucy was very firm in what she was
doing, that she had quite made up her mind, and that she altogether
absolved Lord Lufton from any necessity to speak to his mother, if
he did not think well of doing so. But all this was to very little
purpose. "She does love me then?" said Lord Lufton.

"Well," said Mark, "I will not say whether she does or does not. I
can only repeat her own message. She cannot accept you, unless she
does so at your mother's request." And having said that again, he
took his leave, and went back to the parsonage. Poor Lucy, having
finished her interview with so much dignity, having fully satisfied
her brother, and declined any immediate consolation from her
sister-in-law, betook herself to her own bedroom. She had to think
over what she had said and done, and it was necessary that she should
be alone to do so. It might be that, when she came to reconsider the
matter, she would not be quite so well satisfied as was her brother.
Her grandeur of demeanour and slow propriety of carriage lasted her
till she was well into her own room. There are animals who, when
they are ailing in any way, contrive to hide themselves, ashamed, as
it were, that the weakness of their suffering should be witnessed.
Indeed, I am not sure whether all dumb animals do not do so more or
less; and in this respect Lucy was like a dumb animal. Even in her
confidences with Fanny she made a joke of her own misfortunes, and
spoke of her heart ailments with self-ridicule. But now, having
walked up the staircase with no hurried step, and having deliberately
locked the door, she turned herself round to suffer in silence and
solitude--as do the beasts and birds. She sat herself down on a low
chair, which stood at the foot of her bed, and, throwing back her
head, held her handkerchief across her eyes and forehead, holding it
tight in both her hands; and then she began to think. She began to
think and also to cry, for the tears came running down from beneath
the handkerchief; and low sobs were to be heard--only that the animal
had taken itself off, to suffer in solitude. Had she not thrown from
her all her chances of happiness? Was it possible that he should
come to her yet again--a third time? No; it was not possible. The
very mode and pride of this, her second rejection of him, made it
impossible. In coming to her determination, and making her avowal,
she had been actuated by the knowledge that Lady Lufton would regard
such a marriage with abhorrence. Lady Lufton would not and could not
ask her to condescend to be her son's bride. Her chance of happiness,
of glory, of ambition, of love, was all gone. She had sacrificed
everything, not to virtue, but to pride; and she had sacrificed
not only herself, but him. When first he came there--when she had
meditated over his first visit--she had hardly given him credit for
deep love; but now--there could be no doubt that he loved her now.
After his season in London, his days and nights passed with all
that was beautiful, he had returned there, to that little country
parsonage, that he might again throw himself at her feet. And
she--she had refused to see him, though she loved him with all her
heart, she had refused to see him because she was so vile a coward
that she could not bear the sour looks of an old woman! "I will come
down directly," she said, when Fanny at last knocked at the door,
begging to be admitted. "I won't open it, love, but I will be with
you in ten minutes; I will, indeed." And so she was; not, perhaps,
without traces of tears, discernible by the experienced eye of Mrs.
Robarts, but yet with a smooth brow, and voice under her own command.

"I wonder whether she really loves him," Mark said to his wife that
night.

"Love him!" his wife had answered: "indeed she does; and, Mark, do
not be led away by the stern quiet of her demeanour. To my thinking
she is a girl who might almost die for love."

On the next day Lord Lufton left Framley; and started, according to
his arrangements, for the Norway salmon fishing.


CHAPTER XXXII

The Goat and Compasses


Harold Smith had been made unhappy by that rumour of a dissolution;
but the misfortune to him would be as nothing compared to the
severity with which it would fall on Mr. Sowerby. Harold Smith might
or might not lose his borough, but Mr. Sowerby would undoubtedly lose
his county; and, in losing that, he would lose everything. He felt
very certain now that the duke would not support him again, let who
would be master of Chaldicotes; and as he reflected on these things
he found it very hard to keep up his spirits. Tom Towers, it seems,
had known all about it, as he always does. The little remark which
had dropped from him at Miss Dunstable's, made, no doubt, after
mature deliberation, and with profound political motives, was the
forerunner, only by twelve hours, of a very general report that the
giants were going to the country. It was manifest that the giants had
not a majority in Parliament, generous as had been the promises of
support disinterestedly made to them by the gods. This indeed was
manifest, and therefore they were going to the country, although they
had been deliberately warned by a very prominent scion of Olympus
that if they did do so that disinterested support must be withdrawn.
This threat did not seem to weigh much, and by two o'clock on the day
following Miss Dunstable's party, the fiat was presumed to have gone
forth. The rumour had begun with Tom Towers, but by that time it had
reached Buggins at the Petty Bag Office. "It won't make no difference
to hus, sir; will it, Mr. Robarts?" said Buggins, as he leaned
respectfully against the wall near the door, in the room of the
private secretary at that establishment.

A good deal of conversation, miscellaneous, special, and political,
went on between young Robarts and Buggins in the course of the day;
as was natural, seeing that they were thrown in these evil times very
much upon each other. The Lord Petty Bag of the present ministry was
not such a one as Harold Smith. He was a giant indifferent to his
private notes, and careless as to the duties even of patronage; he
rarely visited the office, and as there were no other clerks in the
establishment--owing to a root and branch reform carried out in the
short reign of Harold Smith--to whom could young Robarts talk, if not
to Buggins? "No; I suppose not," said Robarts, as he completed on his
blotting-paper an elaborate picture of a Turk seated on his divan.

"'Cause, you see, sir, we're in the Upper 'Ouse, now--as I always
thinks we hought to be. I don't think it ain't constitutional for
the Petty Bag to be in the Commons, Mr. Robarts. Hany ways, it never
usen't."

"They're changing all those sort of things nowadays, Buggins," said
Robarts, giving the final touch to the Turk's smoke.

"Well; I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Robarts: I think I'll go. I
can't stand all these changes. I'm turned of sixty now, and don't
want any 'stifflicates. I think I'll take my pension and walk. The
hoffice ain't the same place at all since it come down among the
Commons." And then Buggins retired sighing, to console himself with a
pot of porter behind a large open office ledger, set up on end on a
small table in the little lobby outside the private secretary's room.
Buggins sighed again as he saw that the date made visible in the open
book was almost as old as his own appointment; for such a book as
this lasted long in the Petty Bag Office. A peer of high degree had
been Lord Petty Bag in those days; one whom a messenger's heart could
respect with infinite veneration, as he made his unaccustomed visits
to the office with much solemnity--perhaps four times during the
session. The Lord Petty Bag then was highly regarded by his staff,
and his coming among them was talked about for some hours previously
and for some days afterwards; but Harold Smith had bustled in and out
like the managing clerk in a Manchester house. "The service is going
to the dogs," said Buggins to himself, as he put down the porter pot,
and looked up over the book at a gentleman who presented himself at
the door. "Mr. Robarts in his room?" said Buggins, repeating the
gentleman's words. "Yes, Mr. Sowerby; you'll find him there--first
door to the left." And then, remembering that the visitor was a
county member--a position which Buggins regarded as next to that of a
peer--he got up, and, opening the private secretary's door, ushered
in the visitor.

Young Robarts and Mr. Sowerby had, of course, become acquainted in
the days of Harold Smith's reign. During that short time the member
for East Barset had on most days dropped in at the Petty Bag Office
for a minute or two, finding out what the energetic Cabinet minister
was doing, chatting on semi-official subjects, and teaching the
private secretary to laugh at his master. There was nothing,
therefore, in his present visit which need appear to be singular, or
which required any immediate special explanation. He sat himself down
in his ordinary way, and began to speak of the subject of the day.
"We're all to go," said Sowerby.

"So I hear," said the private secretary. "It will give me no trouble,
for, as the respectable Buggins says, we're in the Upper House now."

"What a delightful time those lucky dogs of lords do have!" said
Sowerby. "No constituents, no turning out, no fighting, no necessity
for political opinions; and, as a rule, no such opinions at all!"

"I suppose you're tolerably safe in East Barsetshire?" said Robarts.
"The duke has it pretty much his own way there."

"Yes; the duke does have it pretty much his own way. By the by, where
is your brother?"

"At home," said Robarts; "at least I presume so."

"At Framley or at Barchester? I believe he was in residence at
Barchester not long since."

"He's at Framley now, I know. I got a letter only yesterday from
his wife, with a commission. He was there, and Lord Lufton had just
left."

"Yes; Lufton was down. He started for Norway this morning. I want to
see your brother. You have not heard from him yourself, have you?"

"No; not lately. Mark is a bad correspondent. He would not do at all
for a private secretary."

"At any rate, not to Harold Smith. But you are sure I should not
catch him at Barchester?"

"Send down by telegraph, and he would meet you."

"I don't want to do that. A telegraph message makes such a fuss in
the country, frightening people's wives, and setting all the horses
about the place galloping."

"What is it about?"

"Nothing of any great consequence. I didn't know whether he might
have told you. I'll write down by to-night's post, and then he can
meet me at Barchester to-morrow. Or do you write. There's nothing
I hate so much as letter-writing; just tell him that I called, and
that I shall be much obliged if he can meet me at the Dragon of
Wantly--say at two to-morrow. I will go down by the express."

Mark Robarts, in talking over this coming money trouble with Sowerby,
had once mentioned that if it were necessary to take up the bill for
a short time he might be able to borrow the money from his brother.
So much of the father's legacy still remained in the hands of the
private secretary as would enable him to produce the amount of the
latter bill, and there could be no doubt that he would lend it if
asked. Mr. Sowerby's visit to the Petty Bag Office had been caused by
a desire to learn whether any such request had been made--and also
by a half-formed resolution to make the request himself if he should
find that the clergyman had not done so. It seemed to him to be
a pity that such a sum should be lying about, as it were, within
reach, and that he should not stoop to put his hands upon it. Such
abstinence would be so contrary to all the practice of his life that
it was as difficult to him as it is for a sportsman to let pass a
cock-pheasant. But yet something like remorse touched his heart as he
sat there balancing himself on his chair in the private secretary's
room, and looking at the young man's open face.

"Yes; I'll write to him," said John Robarts; "but he hasn't said
anything to me about anything particular."

"Hasn't he? It does not much signify. I only mentioned it because I
thought I understood him to say that he would." And then Mr. Sowerby
went on swinging himself. How was it that he felt so averse to
mention that little sum of £500 to a young man like John Robarts,
a fellow without wife or children or calls on him of any sort, who
would not even be injured by the loss of the money, seeing that
he had an ample salary on which to live? He wondered at his own
weakness. The want of the money was urgent on him in the extreme. He
had reasons for supposing that Mark would find it very difficult to
renew the bills, but he, Sowerby, could stop their presentation if he
could get this money at once into his own hands.

"Can I do anything for you?" said the innocent lamb, offering his
throat to the butcher. But some unwonted feeling numbed the butcher's
fingers, and blunted his knife. He sat still for half a minute after
the question, and then jumping from his seat, declined the offer.
"No, no; nothing, thank you. Only write to Mark, and say that I shall
be there to-morrow," and then, taking his hat, he hurried out of the
office. "What an ass I am," he said to himself as he went: "as if it
were of any use now to be particular!"

He then got into a cab and had himself driven half-way up Portman
Street towards the New Road, and walking from thence a few hundred
yards down a cross-street he came to a public-house. It was called
the "Goat and Compasses,"--a very meaningless name, one would say;
but the house boasted of being a place of public entertainment very
long established on that site, having been a tavern out in the
country in the days of Cromwell. At that time the pious landlord,
putting up a pious legend for the benefit of his pious customers, had
declared that--"God encompasseth us." The "Goat and Compasses" in
these days does quite as well; and, considering the present character
of the house, was perhaps less unsuitable than the old legend. "Is
Mr. Austen here?" asked Mr. Sowerby of the man at the bar.

"Which on 'em? Not Mr. John; he ain't here. Mr. Tom is in--the little
room on the left-hand side." The man whom Mr. Sowerby would have
preferred to see was the elder brother, John; but as he was not to
be found, he did go into the little room. In that room he found--Mr.
Austen, junior, according to one arrangement of nomenclature, and Mr.
Tom Tozer according to another. To gentlemen of the legal profession
he generally chose to introduce himself as belonging to the
respectable family of the Austens; but among his intimates he had
always been--Tozer. Mr. Sowerby, though he was intimate with the
family, did not love the Tozers: but he especially hated Tom Tozer.
Tom Tozer was a bull-necked, beetle-browed fellow, the expression of
whose face was eloquent with acknowledged roguery. "I am a rogue,"
it seemed to say. "I know it; all the world knows it: but you're
another. All the world don't know that, but I do. Men are all rogues,
pretty nigh. Some are soft rogues, and some are 'cute rogues. I am a
'cute one; so mind your eye." It was with such words that Tom Tozer's
face spoke out; and though a thorough liar in his heart, he was not a
liar in his face. "Well, Tozer," said Mr. Sowerby, absolutely shaking
hands with the dirty miscreant, "I wanted to see your brother."

"John ain't here, and ain't like; but it's all as one."

"Yes, yes; I suppose it is. I know you two hunt in couples."

"I don't know what you mean about hunting, Mr. Sowerby. You gents 'as
all the hunting, and we poor folk 'as all the work. I hope you're
going to make up this trifle of money we're out of so long."

"It's about that I've called. I don't know what you call long, Tozer;
but the last bill was only dated in February."

"It's overdue; ain't it?"

"Oh, yes; it's overdue. There's no doubt about that."

"Well; when a bit of paper is come round, the next thing is to take
it up. Them's my ideas. And to tell you the truth, Mr. Sowerby, we
don't think as 'ow you've been treating us just on the square lately.
In that matter of Lord Lufton's you was down on us uncommon."

"You know I couldn't help myself."

"Well; and we can't help ourselves now. That's where it is, Mr.
Sowerby. Lord love you; we know what's what, we do. And so, the fact
is we're uncommon low as to the ready just at present, and we must
have them few hundred pounds. We must have them at once, or we must
sell up that clerical gent. I'm dashed if it ain't as hard to get
money from a parson as it is to take a bone from a dog. 'E's 'ad 'is
account, no doubt, and why don't 'e pay?" Mr. Sowerby had called
with the intention of explaining that he was about to proceed to
Barchester on the following day with the express view of "making
arrangements" about this bill; and had he seen John Tozer, John would
have been compelled to accord to him some little extension of time.
Both Tom and John knew this; and, therefore, John--the soft-hearted
one--kept out of the way. There was no danger that Tom would be
weak; and, after some half-hour of parley, he was again left by Mr.
Sowerby, without having evinced any symptom of weakness.

"It's the dibs as we want, Mr. Sowerby; that's all," were the last
words which he spoke as the member of Parliament left the room. Mr.
Sowerby then got into another cab, and had himself driven to his
sister's house. It is a remarkable thing with reference to men who
are distressed for money--distressed as was now the case with Mr.
Sowerby--that they never seem at a loss for small sums, or deny
themselves those luxuries which small sums purchase. Cabs, dinners,
wine, theatres, and new gloves are always at the command of men who
are drowned in pecuniary embarrassments, whereas those who don't owe
a shilling are so frequently obliged to go without them! It would
seem that there is no gratification so costly as that of keeping out
of debt. But then it is only fair that, if a man has a hobby, he
should pay for it. Any one else would have saved his shilling, as
Mrs. Harold Smith's house was only just across Oxford Street, in the
neighbourhood of Hanover Square; but Mr. Sowerby never thought of
this. He had never saved a shilling in his life, and it did not occur
to him to begin now. He had sent word to her to remain at home for
him, and he now found her waiting. "Harriet," said he, throwing
himself back into an easy chair, "the game is pretty well up at
last."

"Nonsense," said she. "The game is not up at all if you have the
spirit to carry it on."

"I can only say that I got a formal notice this morning from the
duke's lawyer, saying that he meant to foreclose at once;--not from
Fothergill, but from those people in South Audley Street."

"You expected that," said his sister.

"I don't see how that makes it any better; besides, I am not quite
sure that I did expect it; at any rate I did not feel certain. There
is no doubt now."

"It is better that there should be no doubt. It is much better that
you should know on what ground you have to stand."

"I shall soon have no ground to stand on, none at least of my
own--not an acre," said the unhappy man, with great bitterness in his
tone.

"You can't in reality be poorer now than you were last year. You
have not spent anything to speak of. There can be no doubt that
Chaldicotes will be ample to pay all you owe the duke."

"It's as much as it will; and what am I to do then? I almost think
more of the seat than I do of Chaldicotes."

"You know what I advise," said Mrs. Smith. "Ask Miss Dunstable to
advance the money on the same security which the duke holds. She will
be as safe then as he is now. And if you can arrange that, stand for
the county against him; perhaps you may be beaten."

"I shouldn't have a chance."

"But it would show that you are not a creature in the duke's hands.
That's my advice," said Mrs. Smith, with much spirit; "and if you
wish, I'll broach it to Miss Dunstable, and ask her to get her lawyer
to look into it."

"If I had done this before I had run my head into that other
absurdity!"

"Don't fret yourself about that; she will lose nothing by such an
investment, and therefore you are not asking any favour of her.
Besides, did she not make the offer? and she is just the woman to do
this for you now, because she refused to do that other thing for you
yesterday. You understand most things, Nathaniel; but I am not sure
that you understand women; not, at any rate, such a woman as her." It
went against the grain with Mr. Sowerby, this seeking of pecuniary
assistance from the very woman whose hand he had attempted to gain
about a fortnight since; but he allowed his sister to prevail. What
could any man do in such straits that would not go against the grain?
At the present moment he felt in his mind an infinite hatred against
the duke, Mr. Fothergill, Gumption & Gazebee, and all the tribes of
Gatherum Castle and South Audley Street; they wanted to rob him of
that which had belonged to the Sowerbys before the name of Omnium
had been heard of in the county, or in England! The great leviathan
of the deep was anxious to swallow him up as a prey! He was to be
swallowed up, and made away with, and put out of sight, without a
pang of remorse. Any measure which could now present itself as the
means of staving off so evil a day would be acceptable; and therefore
he gave his sister the commission of making this second proposal
to Miss Dunstable. In cursing the duke--for he did curse the duke
lustily--it hardly occurred to him to think that, after all, the duke
only asked for his own. As for Mrs. Harold Smith, whatever may be
the view taken of her general character as a wife and a member of
society, it must be admitted that as a sister she had virtues.


CHAPTER XXXIII

Consolation


On the next day at two o'clock punctually, Mark Robarts was at the
"Dragon of Wantly," walking up and down the very room in which the
party had breakfasted after Harold Smith's lecture, and waiting for
the arrival of Mr. Sowerby. He had been very well able to divine what
was the business on which his friend wished to see him, and he had
been rather glad than otherwise to receive the summons. Judging of
his friend's character by what he had hitherto seen, he thought that
Mr. Sowerby would have kept out of the way, unless he had it in his
power to make some provision for these terrible bills. So he walked
up and down the dingy room, impatient for the expected arrival, and
thought himself wickedly ill-used in that Mr. Sowerby was not there
when the clock struck a quarter to three. But when the clock struck
three, Mr. Sowerby was there, and Mark Robarts's hopes were nearly at
an end.

"Do you mean that they will demand nine hundred pounds?" said
Robarts, standing up and glaring angrily at the member of Parliament.

"I fear that they will," said Sowerby. "I think it is best to tell
you the worst, in order that we may see what can be done."

"I can do nothing, and will do nothing," said Robarts. "They may do
what they choose--what the law allows them." And then he thought of
Fanny and his nursery, and Lucy refusing in her pride Lord Lufton's
offer, and he turned away his face that the hard man of the world
before him might not see the tear gathering in his eye.

"But, Mark, my dear fellow--" said Sowerby, trying to have recourse
to the power of his cajoling voice. Robarts, however, would not
listen.

"Mr. Sowerby," said he, with an attempt at calmness which betrayed
itself at every syllable, "it seems to me that you have robbed
me. That I have been a fool, and worse than a fool, I know well;
but--but--but I thought that your position in the world would
guarantee me from such treatment as this." Mr. Sowerby was by no
means without feeling, and the words which he now heard cut him very
deeply--the more so because it was impossible that he should answer
them with an attempt at indignation. He had robbed his friend, and,
with all his wit, knew no words at the present moment sufficiently
witty to make it seem that he had not done so. "Robarts," said he,
"you may say what you like to me now; I shall not resent it."

"Who would care for your resentment?" said the clergyman, turning on
him with ferocity. "The resentment of a gentleman is terrible to a
gentleman; and the resentment of one just man is terrible to another.
Your resentment!"--and then he walked twice the length of the room,
leaving Sowerby dumb in his seat. "I wonder whether you ever thought
of my wife and children when you were plotting this ruin for me!" And
then again he walked the room.

"I suppose you will be calm enough presently to speak of this with
some attempt to make a settlement?"

"No; I will make no such attempt. These friends of yours, you tell
me, have a claim on me for nine hundred pounds, of which they demand
immediate payment. You shall be asked in a court of law how much of
that money I have handled. You know that I have never touched--have
never wanted to touch--one shilling. I will make no attempt at any
settlement. My person is here, and there is my house. Let them do
their worst."

"But, Mark--"

"Call me by my name, sir, and drop that affectation of regard. What
an ass I have been to be so cozened by a sharper!" Sowerby had by no
means expected this. He had always known that Robarts possessed what
he, Sowerby, would have called the spirit of a gentleman. He had
regarded him as a bold, open, generous fellow, able to take his own
part when called on to do so, and by no means disinclined to speak
his own mind; but he had not expected from him such a torrent of
indignation, or thought that he was capable of such a depth of anger.
"If you use such language as that, Robarts, I can only leave you."

"You are welcome. Go. You tell me that you are the messenger of these
men who intend to work nine hundred pounds out of me. You have done
your part in the plot, and have now brought their message. It seems
to me that you had better go back to them. As for me, I want my time
to prepare my wife for the destiny before her."

"Robarts, you will be sorry some day for the cruelty of your words."

"I wonder whether you will ever be sorry for the cruelty of your
doings, or whether these things are really a joke to you."

"I am at this moment a ruined man," said Sowerby. "Everything is
going from me,--my place in the world, the estate of my family, my
father's house, my seat in Parliament, the power of living among my
countrymen, or, indeed, of living anywhere;--but all this does not
oppress me now so much as the misery which I have brought upon you."
And then Sowerby also turned away his face, and wiped from his eyes
tears which were not artificial. Robarts was still walking up and
down the room, but it was not possible for him to continue his
reproaches after this. This is always the case. Let a man endure to
heap contumely on his own head, and he will silence the contumely of
others--for the moment. Sowerby, without meditating on the matter,
had had some inkling of this, and immediately saw that there was at
last an opening for conversation. "You are unjust to me," said he,
"in supposing that I have now no wish to save you. It is solely in
the hope of doing so that I have come here."

"And what is your hope? That I should accept another brace of bills,
I suppose."

"Not a brace; but one renewed bill for--"

"Look here, Mr. Sowerby. On no earthly consideration that can be put
before me will I again sign my name to any bill in the guise of an
acceptance. I have been very weak, and am ashamed of my weakness; but
so much strength as that, I hope, is left to me. I have been very
wicked, and am ashamed of my wickedness; but so much right principle
as that, I hope, remains. I will put my name to no other bill; not
for you, not even for myself."

"But, Robarts, under your present circumstances that will be
madness."

"Then I will be mad."

"Have you seen Forrest? If you will speak to him I think you will
find that everything can be accommodated."

"I already owe Mr. Forrest a hundred and fifty pounds, which I
obtained from him when you pressed me for the price of that horse,
and I will not increase the debt. What a fool I was again there!
Perhaps you do not remember that, when I agreed to buy the horse, the
price was to be my contribution to the liquidation of these bills."

"I do remember it; but I will tell you how that was."

"It does not signify. It has been all of a piece."

"But listen to me. I think you would feel for me if you knew all
that I have gone through. I pledge you my solemn word that I
had no intention of asking you for the money when you took the
horse;--indeed I had not. But you remember that affair of Lufton's,
when he came to you at your hotel in London and was so angry about an
outstanding bill."

"I know that he was very unreasonable as far as I was concerned."

"He was so; but that makes no difference. He was resolved, in his
rage, to expose the whole affair; and I saw that, if he did so, it
would be most injurious to you, seeing that you had just accepted
your stall at Barchester." Here the poor prebendary winced terribly.
"I moved heaven and earth to get up that bill. Those vultures stuck
to their prey when they found the value which I attached to it, and I
was forced to raise above a hundred pounds at the moment to obtain
possession of it, although every shilling absolutely due on it had
long since been paid. Never in my life did I wish to get money as I
did to raise that hundred and twenty pounds: and as I hope for mercy
in my last moments, I did that for your sake. Lufton could not have
injured me in that matter."

"But you told him that you got it for twenty-five pounds."

"Yes, I told him so. I was obliged to tell him that, or I should have
apparently condemned myself by showing how anxious I was to get it.
And you know I could not have explained all this before him and you.
You would have thrown up the stall in disgust." Would that he had!
That was Mark's wish now,--his futile wish. In what a slough of
despond had he come to wallow in consequence of his folly on that
night at Gatherum Castle! He had then done a silly thing, and was he
now to rue it by almost total ruin? He was sickened also with all
these lies. His very soul was dismayed by the dirt through which he
was forced to wade. He had become unconsciously connected with the
lowest dregs of mankind, and would have to see his name mingled with
theirs in the daily newspapers. And for what had he done this? Why
had he thus filed his mind and made himself a disgrace to his cloth?
In order that he might befriend such a one as Mr. Sowerby!

"Well," continued Sowerby, "I did get the money, but you would
hardly believe the rigour of the pledge which was exacted from me
for repayment. I got it from Harold Smith, and never, in my worst
straits, will I again look to him for assistance. I borrowed it only
for a fortnight; and in order that I might repay it, I was obliged to
ask you for the price of the horse. Mark, it was on your behalf that
I did all this,--indeed it was."

"And now I am to repay you for your kindness by the loss of all that
I have in the world."

"If you will put the affair into the hands of Mr. Forrest, nothing
need be touched,--not a hair of a horse's back; no, not though you
should be obliged to pay the whole amount yourself gradually out
of your income. You must execute a series of bills, falling due
quarterly, and then--"

"I will execute no bill, I will put my name to no paper in the
matter; as to that my mind is fully made up. They may come and do
their worst." Mr. Sowerby persevered for a long time, but he was
quite unable to move the parson from this position. He would do
nothing towards making what Mr. Sowerby called an arrangement, but
persisted that he would remain at home at Framley, and that any one
who had a claim upon him might take legal steps. "I shall do nothing
myself," he said; "but if proceedings against me be taken, I shall
prove that I have never had a shilling of the money." And in this
resolution he quitted the Dragon of Wantly. Mr. Sowerby at one time
said a word as to the expediency of borrowing that sum of money from
John Robarts; but as to this Mark would say nothing. Mr. Sowerby was
not the friend with whom he now intended to hold consultation in such
matters. "I am not at present prepared," he said, "to declare what
I may do; I must first see what steps others take." And then he
took his hat and went off; and mounting his horse in the yard of the
Dragon of Wantly--that horse which he had now so many reasons to
dislike--he slowly rode back home.

Many thoughts passed through his mind during that ride, but only one
resolution obtained for itself a fixture there. He must now tell his
wife everything. He would not be so cruel as to let it remain untold
until a bailiff were at the door, ready to walk him off to the county
jail, or until the bed on which they slept was to be sold from under
them. Yes, he would tell her everything,--immediately, before his
resolution could again have faded away. He got off his horse in the
yard, and seeing his wife's maid at the kitchen door, desired her to
beg her mistress to come to him in the book-room. He would not allow
one half-hour to pass towards the waning of his purpose. If it be
ordained that a man shall drown, had he not better drown and have
done with it? Mrs. Robarts came to him in his room, reaching him in
time to touch his arm as he entered it. "Mary says you want me. I
have been gardening, and she caught me just as I came in."

"Yes, Fanny, I do want you. Sit down for a moment." And walking
across the room, he placed his whip in its proper place.

"Oh, Mark, is there anything the matter?"

"Yes, dearest; yes. Sit down, Fanny: I can talk to you better if you
will sit." But she, poor lady, did not wish to sit. He had hinted at
some misfortune, and therefore she felt a longing to stand by him and
cling to him.

"Well, there; I will if I must; but, Mark, do not frighten me. Why is
your face so very wretched?"

"Fanny, I have done very wrong," he said. "I have been very foolish.
I fear that I have brought upon you great sorrow and trouble." And
then he leaned his head upon his hand and turned his face away from
her.

"Oh, Mark, dearest Mark, my own Mark! what is it?" and then she was
quickly up from her chair, and went down on her knees before him. "Do
not turn from me. Tell me, Mark! tell me, that we may share it."

"Yes, Fanny, I must tell you now; but I hardly know what you will
think of me when you have heard it."

"I will think that you are my own husband, Mark; I will think
that--that chiefly, whatever it may be." And then she caressed his
knees, and looked up in his face, and, getting hold of one of his
hands, pressed it between her own. "Even if you have been foolish,
who should forgive you if I cannot?" And then he told it her all,
beginning from that evening when Mr. Sowerby had got him into his
bedroom, and going on gradually, now about the bills, and now about
the horses, till his poor wife was utterly lost in the complexity of
the accounts. She could by no means follow him in the details of his
story; nor could she quite sympathize with him in his indignation
against Mr. Sowerby, seeing that she did not comprehend at all the
nature of the renewing of a bill. The only part to her of importance
in the matter was the amount of money which her husband would be
called upon to pay; that, and her strong hope, which was already a
conviction, that he would never again incur such debts.

"And how much is it, dearest, altogether?"

"These men claim nine hundred pounds of me."

"Oh, dear! that is a terrible sum."

"And then there is the hundred and fifty which I have borrowed from
the bank--the price of the horse, you know; and there are some other
debts,--not a great deal, I think; but people will now look for every
shilling that is due to them. If I have to pay it all, it will be
twelve or thirteen hundred pounds."

"That will be as much as a year's income, Mark; even with the stall."
That was the only word of reproach she said--if that could be called
a reproach.

"Yes," he said; "and it is claimed by men who will have no pity in
exacting it at any sacrifice, if they have the power. And to think
that I should have incurred all this debt without having received
anything for it. Oh, Fanny, what will you think of me!" But she swore
to him that she would think nothing of it--that she would never bear
it in her mind against him--that it could have no effect in lessening
her trust in him. Was he not her husband? She was so glad she knew
it, that she might comfort him. And she did comfort him, making the
weight seem lighter and lighter on his shoulders as he talked of it.
And such weights do thus become lighter. A burden that will crush a
single pair of shoulders will, when equally divided--when shared by
two, each of whom is willing to take the heavier part--become light
as a feather. Is not that sharing of the mind's burdens one of the
chief purposes for which a man wants a wife? For there is no folly
so great as keeping one's sorrows hidden. And this wife cheerfully,
gladly, thankfully took her share. To endure with her lord all her
lord's troubles was easy to her; it was the work to which she had
pledged herself. But to have thought that her lord had troubles not
communicated to her,--that would have been to her the one thing not
to be borne. And then they discussed their plans; what mode of escape
they might have out of this terrible money difficulty. Like a true
woman, Mrs. Robarts proposed at once to abandon all superfluities.
They would sell all their horses; they would not sell their cows,
but would sell the butter that came from them; they would sell the
pony-carriage, and get rid of the groom. That the footman must go was
so much a matter of course, that it was hardly mentioned. But then,
as to that house at Barchester, the dignified prebendal mansion in
the close--might they not be allowed to leave it unoccupied for one
year longer--perhaps to let it? The world of course must know of
their misfortune; but if that misfortune was faced bravely, the world
would be less bitter in its condemnation. And then, above all things,
everything must be told to Lady Lufton.

"You may, at any rate, believe this, Fanny," said he, "that for no
consideration which can be offered to me will I ever put my name to
another bill." The kiss with which she thanked him for this was as
warm and generous as though he had brought to her that day news of
the brightest; and when he sat, as he did that evening, discussing it
all, not only with his wife, but with Lucy, he wondered how it was
that his troubles were now so light. Whether or no a man should have
his own private pleasures, I will not now say; but it never can be
worth his while to keep his sorrows private.


CHAPTER XXXIV

Lady Lufton Is Taken by Surprise


Lord Lufton, as he returned to town, found some difficulty in
resolving what step he would next take. Sometimes, for a minute or
two, he was half inclined to think--or rather to say to himself--that
Lucy was perhaps not worth the trouble which she threw in his way.
He loved her very dearly, and would willingly make her his wife, he
thought or said at such moments; but-- Such moments, however, were
only moments. A man in love seldom loves less because his love
becomes difficult. And thus, when those moments were over, he would
determine to tell his mother at once, and urge her to signify her
consent to Miss Robarts. That she would not be quite pleased he knew;
but if he were firm enough to show that he had a will of his own in
this matter, she would probably not gainsay him. He would not ask
this humbly, as a favour, but request her ladyship to go through the
ceremony as though it were one of those motherly duties which she as
a good mother could not hesitate to perform on behalf of her son.
Such was the final resolve with which he reached his chambers in the
Albany. On the next day he did not see his mother. It would be well,
he thought, to have his interview with her immediately before he
started for Norway, so that there might be no repetition of it; and
it was on the day before he did start that he made his communication,
having invited himself to breakfast in Brook Street on the occasion.

"Mother," he said, quite abruptly, throwing himself into one of the
dining-room arm-chairs, "I have a thing to tell you." His mother at
once knew that the thing was important, and with her own peculiar
motherly instinct imagined that the question to be discussed had
reference to matrimony. Had her son desired to speak to her about
money, his tone and look would have been different; as would also
have been the case--in a different way--had he entertained any
thought of a pilgrimage to Pekin, or a prolonged fishing excursion
to the Hudson Bay Territories.

"A thing, Ludovic! well, I am quite at liberty."

"I want to know what you think of Lucy Robarts?" Lady Lufton became
pale and frightened, and the blood ran cold to her heart. She had
feared more than rejoiced in conceiving that her son was about to
talk of love, but she had feared nothing so bad as this.

"What do I think of Lucy Robarts?" she said, repeating her son's
words in a tone of evident dismay.

"Yes, mother; you have said once or twice lately that you thought I
ought to marry, and I am beginning to think so too. You selected one
clergyman's daughter for me, but that lady is going to do much better
with herself--"

"Indeed she is not," said Lady Lufton sharply.

Rogers.

The two reports were ordered printed and laid on the table.

This session of the House, and with it the Thirty-Ninth Congress,
ended a few hours later, the legislative day continuing till twelve
o'clock, noon, on Sunday, March 3rd.

The House adjourned sine die at that hour, when all unfinished business
lapsed.

RENEWAL OF THE IMPEACHMENT.

The first session of the Fortieth Congress began on Monday, March 4th,
1867, and on the 7th, in the House of Representatives, Mr.
Ashley (Rep.) offered the following Preamble and Resolutions:

Whereas the House of Representatives of the Thirty-Ninth Congress
adopted, on the 7th of January, 1867, a Resolution authorizing an
inquiry into certain charges preferred against the President of
the United States; and whereas the Judiciary Committee, to whom said
Resolution and charges were referred, with authority to investigate
the same, were unable for want of time, to complete said investigation
before the expiration of the Thirty-Ninth Congress; and whereas in
the report submitted by said Judiciary Committee on the 2nd of March
they declare that the evidence taken is of such a character as to
justify and demand a continuation of the investigation by this Congress;
therefore:

Be it Resolved by the House of Representatives, That the Judiciary
Committee, when appointed, be, and they are hereby, instructed to
continue the investigation authorized in said Resolution of Jan.
7th, 1867, and that they have power to send for persons and
papers, and to administer the customary oath to witnesses;
and that the committee have authority to sit during the sessions of
the House and during any recess which Congress or this House
may take.

Resolved, That the Speaker be requested to appoint the Committee on
the Judiciary forthwith, and that the Committee so appointed be
directed to take charge of the testimony taken by the Committee
of the last Congress; and that said Committee have power to appoint
a clerk at a compensation not to exceed six dollars per day, and
employ the necessary stenographers.

At the close of the debate on Mr. Ashley's Resolution, it was adopted
without a division, its form being changed to the following:
Resolved, That the Committee on Judiciary be requested to report
on the charges against the President as aforesaid, on the first day
of the meeting of the House after the recess hereafter to be
determined.

Congress adjourned a few days later.

It re-assembled on the 3rd of July, and on the 11th the following
resolutions was offered by Mr.

Stevens, (Rep.) of Pennsylvania:

Resolved, That the Committee on the Judiciary, to whom was referred
the Resolution and Documents relative to the Impeachment of the
President, be directed to report the evidence at this session, with
leave to make further report if they shall deem proper.

That the impeachment enterprise was waning, and that its forces had
received little encouragement during the recess of the Congress that
had just closed, was evidenced by the fact that there could not be
mustered ayes enough to put the resolution to a vote, and Mr.

Wilson, of Iowa, moved the following substitute:
Resolved, That the Committee on Judiciary be, and they are hereby,
authorized and directed to have the usual number of copies of the
evidence taken by said committee relative to the Impeachment of the
President, printed and laid on the desks of Members of the House
on the first day of the next Congress, whether adjourned or regular.

The Resolution was adopted by a vote of 85 to 48, whereupon Mr.

Stevens dejectedly remarked that, "after the vote which had been
taken on this resolution, indicating the views of a majority of the
House in regard to it, I am willing to abandon it.

I therefore move that the Resolution as amended be laid on the table,"
which motion was agreed to.

On the 15th of July, 1867, Mr.

Farnsworth, (Rep.) of Illinois, offered the following resolution
and demanded the previous question thereon:
Resolved, That the Committee on the Judiciary be discharged from
the further consideration of the question of the Impeachment of the
President of the United States, and that the testimony already taken
by said committee be printed for the use of the House.

The resolution was not seconded, and went over under the rules.

On the 25th of Nov. 1867, Mr. Boutwell (Rep.), on behalf of the
Judiciary Committee, submitted the report of the majority of
that committee, of the testimony taken in behalf of the proposed
impeachment of the President. The report recommended his impeachment.

Mr.

Wilson, submitted the report of the minority of the Committee
(himself and Mr.

Woodbridge), and moved the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Committee on the Judiciary be discharged from the
further consideration of the proposed impeachment of the President
of the United States, and that the subject be laid upon the table.

Mr. Marshall, on behalf of himself and Mr. Eldridge, the two Democratic
members of the committee, stated that though they had not signed
the minority report submitted by Mr. Wilson, they joined in
support of the resolution submitted by him, and asked leave to
introduce and have printed separate views.

This, the first session of the Fortieth Congress, then adjourned,
Dec. 2nd, 1867.

The second session of the Fortieth Congress was begun on the same
day, and on the 5th, the impeachment question came up in its order
in the House, on the resolution reported from the Judiciary
Committee:

That Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, be impeached of
high crimes and misdemeanors.

After a brief discussion of the order of business, the House adjourned
for that day.

The debate was closed on the 6th, by Messrs. Boutwell and Wilson,
the members of the Committee on the Judiciary having Charge of the
impeachment measure. The closing passages of Mr. Boutwell's speech
were as follows:

What is our position to-day?

Can this House and the Senate, with the knowledge they have of the
Presidents purposes and of the character of the men who surround
him, give him the necessary power? (to remove alleged dishonest
officials.) Do they not feel that if he be alloyed such power these
places will be given to worse men? Hence, I say that with Mr. Johnson
in office from this time until the 4th of March, 1869, there
is no remedy for these grievances. These are considerations why we
should not hesitate to do that which justice authorizes us to do
if we believe that the President has been guilty of impeachable
offenses.

Mr. Speaker, all rests here. To this House is given by the Constitution
the sole power of impeachment; and this power of impeachment furnishes
the only means by which we can secure the execution of the laws, and
those of our fellow citizens who desire the administration of the
law ought to sustain this House while it executes that great law
which is in its hands and which is nowhere else, while it performs
a high and solemn duty resting on it by which that man who has been
the chief violator of law shall be removed, and without which there
can be no execution of the law any where.

Therefore the whole responsibility, whatever it may be, for the
non-execution of the laws of the country, is, (in the presence of
these great facts) upon this House. * * * I think that we can not
do otherwise than believe, that he has disregarded that great
injunction of the Constitution to take care that the laws be
faithfully executed, that there is but one remedy.

The remedy is with this House, and it is nowhere else. If we neglect
or refuse to use our powers when the case arises demanding decisive
action, the Government ceases to be a Government of law and becomes
a Government of men.

Mr.

Wilson, Chairman of the Committee, closed the debate in the following
remarks:

The gentleman from Massachusetts has remarked that the President may
interfere with the next Presidential election in the Southern
States; that he may station soldiers at the voting places and
overawe the loyal people of those States, especially the colored
vote: and we must, I suppose, guard against the possibility of this
by his impeachment and removal from office.

This position, if I state it correctly, is startling.

Are we to impeach the President for what he may do in the future?
Do our fears constitute in the President high crimes and misdemeanors?
Are we to wander beyond the record of this case and found our
judgment on the possibilities of the future? This would lead us
beyond the conscience of this House.

Sir, we must be guided by some rule in this grave proceeding--something
more certain than an impossibility to arraign the President for a
specific crime--and when the gentleman from Massachusetts, in
commenting on one of the alleged offenses of the President, that we
could not arraign him for the specific crime, he disclosed the
weakness of the case we are now considering. If we cannot arraign
the President for a specific crime, for what are we to proceed against
him? For a bundle of generalities such as we have in the volume of
testimony reported by the committee to the House in this case? If we
cannot state upon paper a specific crime, how are we to carry this
case to the Senate for trial?

At the close of his speech, Mr. Wilson moved to lay the subject of
impeachment on the table, and the yeas and nays were ordered.

Several motions were then made--to adjourn, to adjourn to a day
certain, etc.--which with roll calls practically consumed the day,
and the motion of Mr. Wilson went over.

The next day, Dec. 7th, the question again came up in its order, and
after several unsuccessful attempts to procure a vote on Mr.
Wilson's motion to lay the Impeachment Resolution on the table, Mr.
Wilson, by agreement, withdrew his motion, and called for the yeas and
nays on the adoption of the resolution:

That Andrew Johnson, President of the United States, be impeached
for high crimes and misdemeanors.

The yeas and nays were ordered, and the vote was yeas 57, nays 108.

So the resolution to impeach the President was rejected by the very
emphatic vote of 67 to 108--nearly two to one--and by a House
two-thirds Republican.

So ended the first effort to impeach the President--the first
formal action to that end having been taken on January 7, 1867, and
the final vote at the close, and its abandonment, December 7,
1867.

For eleven months the overwhelming Republican majority of the House
had been vigorously active in its search for evidence of criminality
on the part of the President that would warrant the basing of an
impeachment. No effort was left untried--no resource that promised
a possible hope of successful exploitation was neglected. Republican
partisans were set to the work of sleuth-hounds in the search for
testimony in maintenance of the charges preferred, and an ever
ready partisan press teemed from the beginning to the end of that
time with animadversions upon Mr. Johnson's administration and
denunciation of his alleged desertion of Mr. Lincoln's plan of
restoration, of treachery to the party that had elected him, and
a demand for his impeachment.

To be lukewarm in that controversy, or even to fail to join in
the popular denunciation of Mr. Johnson was to put one's self
at once under suspicion with the great mass of the dominant party, and
without the pale of its consideration.

For eleven months the country was kept in the throes of partisan
turmoil--and for what? Simply to depose a President who had
disappointed the partisan and personal expectations and schemes of
a rule or ruin faction which was able, under the peculiar conditions
of the time, to subordinate to its purposes a large proportion of
the dominant party of that day.

The following are the material portions of the testimony taken by
the House Committee on the Judiciary under authority of the
resolutions passed by the House of Representatives on March 7, 1867,
for the impeachment of Andrew Johnson.

Eighty-nine witnesses were summoned before the committee. All of
them were rigidly examined, and several of them were called and
examined the second and third times. Their testimony fills more than
twelve hundred octavo pages of print.

The first witness was Gen. L. C. Baker, of the War Department.
His testimony related principally to a certain letter alleged to have
been written by Mr. Johnson, in 1864.

The first question propounded to him by Mr. Ashley, was as follows:

I wish you to state to the committee the contents, as nearly as you
can, of a letter which you have in your possession, written by
Andrew Johnson, some time in the early part of 1864, to a Southern
man, giving information as to the troops about the Capitol and
elsewhere, and advice to Jefferson Davis.

State where that letter is, and give the contents as nearly as you
can, the history of it.

Mr. Baker answered that he knew there was a letter of that kind,
purporting to have been written by Andrew Johnson, when he was
acting Governor of Tennessee.

That the letter was dated at Nashville and directed to Jefferson
Davis, and related to some declared policy that had been adopted by
the Confederacy--that the letter was being used to secure an
appointment--that reference was made to troops, but nothing about
localities where stationed, or numbers, and nothing about shipment
of armor, and that the letter was stolen from Andrew Johnson's table
and never sent.

The question was then asked of the witness by Mr. Ashley:

State whether the whole import of the letter written by Mr.
Johnson, was not to turn the whole power which he possessed in
Tennessee, in a certain contingency, over to the rebel cause?

Answer--No. I did not have that opinion of the letter exactly.
From what I recollect of it, the thing was that he was making a
proposition making suggestions as to what their policy should be.

Ques.--And if they accepted it?

Ans.--If they accepted it, my impression was that he was going with
them.

Ques.--With the rebels?

Ans.--Yes sir.

Question by the Chairman.--If there are any other letters that you have
seen of Mr. Johnson's written by him to any person connected with
the Confederate Government, or proposing to change the Administration
of the Government in their favor after he became President, or anything
of a public nature affecting the interests of the United States, please
state it and state all you know about such letters.

Ans.--I do not know of any letters of that character--or of any other
letters.

This constituted the substance of Gen. Baker's testimony. His examination
was very lengthy, embracing more of this character of testimony,
and about pardon brokerage, and other alleged corrupt practices--all
evidencing a determination and expectation to fix upon Mr.

Johnson a disposition to disloyalty and corruption, both before
and after his succession to the Presidency, but no such testimony
was obtained.

A considerable portion of the investigation was devoted to Mr.
Johnson's business and personal affairs, such as could have no
possible connection with or indicate implication in corrupt or disloyal
practices of any sort.

A strenuous effort appears to have been made by the Committee throughout
a long and searching examination of witnesses, and constitutes a
conspicuous feature of that investigation, to establish the charges
of corruption and disloyalty in the sale of public property, railways,
etc., that had been constructed and equipped, or seized and operated,
by the Government in connection with its military operations in
the South. Such an accusation had been made with great pertinacity
by Mr. Johnson's opponents, and was also then believed by a great
many people to be true.

Among the parties examined by the committee, were Mr.

James and Mr. Burns, of Nashville, Tenn., and Senator Fowler, of
that State, and also the Secretary of war, Mr.

Stanton. No facts whatever were elicited showing a privity to
corruption in these matters on the part of Mr. Johnson.

The information obtained from Mr. Stanton, however, put an effectual
estoppel to further investigation of the charge of corrupt or
disloyal disposal of public property by the President.

The following are extracts from Mr. Stanton's testimony, as given on
February 11, 1867:

Shortly after the surrender of the rebel armies, the attention
of the War Department was directed to the proper disposition to be
made of the railroads and railroad stock throughout the rebel States
which came into our possession, either by capture or construction.
It was the subject of a good deal of consultation and conference
between the Secretary of War and the Quartermaster General. It was
the opinion of the Secretary of War that it was wholly impracticable
for the General Government to operate these roads under any system,
and that it would be greatly to the advantage of the country to
make such disposition as would allow them, its speedily as possible,
to become what they were designed for channels of commerce and
trade between the States, and that any terms on which that could
be done would be advantageous. This was especially the case in
regard to the Western and Southwestern roads, where it was said there
were large amounts of cotton that would be available to remove North,
in exchange for supplies to go South, of which it was said they were
greatly in want.

Ques.--In case of the construction of a railroad by the Government,
the Government furnishing the material and the labor, what has
been the custom of the Department in surrendering such roads to
the companies claiming them?

Ans.--In all instances, I think such roads have been surrendered in
the same manner as if they had been constructed by the companies.
That subject was talked of a good deal in conference between
myself and the Quartermaster General. My own views, that the great
object on the part of the Government, was to get these roads operated;
and that to go into an inquiry as to the cost of construction,
would be impracticable, either as to the cost of construction or
as to any certain rule of compensation, because many of them were
constructed under the pressure of war, and for temporary Purposes.

The object of arriving at the cash value or equivalent for the roads
was not only impracticable, but really of very little practical
interest in comparison with the great end of having the channels
of commerce in the rebel states opened and carried on, with a view
of getting out their produce, furnishing supplies, and getting
commerce in its regular channels.

In my own view, that appeared to be the most, certain and most
speedy system of reconstruction we could adopt, and that it would
tend more to establish harmony than any other thing that could be
done by the Government.

In view of all this, and after the most deliberate consideration we
could give it, it was the opinion of the Quartermaster General and
myself--certainly my own--that it would be impracticable to make
any distinction: and so far as I know, no distinction was made in
any part of the country in reference to roads built by the Government
and roads that had been constructed by Companies before the war
commenced.

Mr. Stanton was asked this question:
Suppose the Government, at his own expense, had constructed seventy
miles of railroad in one of the rebel States, and that, at the close
of the war, a company should apply to the Executive Department of
the Government for a transfer of the road so constructed to it; by
what authority or provision of law would Executive Department be
authorized to transfer the road so constructed to the company making
the application?She was free agent
enough to take so much on herself, and to feel sure that she could
carry it through. But how was she to redeem her promise about the
children? Twenty plans ran through her mind, as to farm-houses in
which they might be placed, or cottages which might be hired for
them; but all these entailed the want of money; and at the present
moment, were not all the inhabitants of the parsonage pledged to a
dire economy? This use of the pony-carriage would have been illicit
under any circumstances less pressing than the present, for it had
been decided that the carriage, and even poor Puck himself, should
be sold. She had, however, given her promise about the children, and
though her own stock of money was very low, that promise should be
redeemed.

When she reached the parsonage she was of course full of her schemes,
but she found that another subject of interest had come up in her
absence, which prevented her from obtaining the undivided attention
of her sister-in-law to her present plans. Lady Lufton had returned
that day, and immediately on her return had sent up a note addressed
to Miss Lucy Robarts, which note was in Fanny's hands when Lucy
stepped out of the pony-carriage. The servant who brought it had
asked for an answer, and a verbal answer had been sent, saying that
Miss Robarts was away from home, and would herself send a reply when
she returned. It cannot be denied that the colour came to Lucy's
face, and that her hand trembled when she took the note from Fanny in
the drawing-room. Everything in the world to her might depend on what
that note contained; and yet she did not open it at once, but stood
with it in her hand, and when Fanny pressed her on the subject, still
endeavoured to bring back the conversation to the subject of Mrs.
Crawley. But yet her mind was intent on the letter, and she had
already augured ill from the handwriting and even from the words of
the address. Had Lady Lufton intended to be propitious, she would
have directed her letter to Miss Robarts, without the Christian name;
so at least argued Lucy--quite unconsciously, as one does argue in
such matters. One forms half the conclusions of one's life without
any distinct knowledge that the premises have even passed through
one's mind. They were now alone together, as Mark was out. "Won't you
open her letter?" said Mrs. Robarts.

"Yes, immediately; but, Fanny, I must speak to you about Mrs. Crawley
first. I must go back there this evening, and stay there; I have
promised to do so, and shall certainly keep my promise. I have
promised also that the children shall be taken away, and we must
arrange about that. It is dreadful, the state she is in. There is no
one to see to her but Mr. Crawley, and the children are altogether
left to themselves."

"Do you mean that you are going back to stay?"

"Yes, certainly; I have made a distinct promise that I would do
so. And about the children; could not you manage for the children,
Fanny--not perhaps in the house; at least not at first, perhaps?"
And yet during all the time that she was thus speaking and pleading
for the Crawleys, she was endeavouring to imagine what might be the
contents of that letter which she held between her fingers.

"And is she so very ill?" asked Mrs. Robarts.

"I cannot say how ill she may be, except this, that she certainly has
typhus fever. They have had some doctor or doctor's assistant from
Silverbridge; but it seems to me that they are greatly in want of
better advice."

"But, Lucy, will you not read your letter? It is astonishing to me
that you should be so indifferent about it." Lucy was anything but
indifferent, and now did proceed to tear the envelope. The note was
very short, and ran in these words--


   MY DEAR MISS ROBARTS,

   I am particularly anxious to see you, and shall feel much
   obliged to you if you can step over to me here, at Framley
   Court. I must apologize for taking this liberty with you,
   but you will probably feel that an interview here would
   suit us both better than one at the parsonage.

   Truly yours,

   M. LUFTON.


"There: I am in for it now," said Lucy, handing the note over to Mrs.
Robarts. "I shall have to be talked to as never poor girl was talked
to before: and when one thinks of what I have done, it is hard."

"Yes; and of what you have not done."

"Exactly; and of what I have not done. But I suppose I must go," and
she proceeded to re-tie the strings of her bonnet, which she had
loosened.

"Do you mean that you are going over at once?"

"Yes; immediately. Why not? it will be better to have it over, and
then I can go to the Crawleys. But, Fanny, the pity of it is that I
know it all as well as though it had been already spoken; and what
good can there be in my having to endure it? Can't you fancy the
tone in which she will explain to me the conventional inconveniences
which arose when King Cophetua would marry the beggar's daughter? how
she will explain what Griselda went through;--not the archdeacon's
daughter, but the other Griselda?"

"But it all came right with her."

"Yes; but then I am not Griselda, and she will explain how it would
certainly all go wrong with me. But what's the good when I know it
all beforehand? Have I not desired King Cophetua to take himself and
sceptre elsewhere?" And then she started, having first said another
word or two about the Crawley children, and obtained a promise of
Puck and the pony-carriage for the afternoon. It was also almost
agreed that Puck on his return to Framley should bring back the four
children with him; but on this subject it was necessary that Mark
should be consulted. The present scheme was to prepare for them a
room outside the house, once the dairy, at present occupied by the
groom and his wife; and to bring them into the house as soon as it
was manifest that there was no danger from infection. But all this
was to be matter for deliberation. Fanny wanted her to send over a
note, in reply to Lady Lufton's, as harbinger of her coming; but Lucy
marched off, hardly answering this proposition.

"What's the use of such a deal of ceremony?" she said. "I know she's
at home; and if she is not, I shall only lose ten minutes in going."
And so she went, and on reaching the door of Framley Court house
found that her ladyship was at home. Her heart almost came to her
mouth as she was told so, and then, in two minutes' time, she found
herself in the little room upstairs. In that little room we found
ourselves once before--you and I, O my reader;--but Lucy had never
before visited that hallowed precinct. There was something in its air
calculated to inspire awe in those who first saw Lady Lufton sitting
bolt upright in the cane-bottomed arm-chair, which she always
occupied when at work at her books and papers; and this she knew when
she determined to receive Lucy in that apartment. But there was there
another arm-chair, an easy, cosy chair, which stood by the fireside;
and for those who had caught Lady Lufton napping in that chair of
an afternoon, some of this awe had perhaps been dissipated. "Miss
Robarts," she said, not rising from her chair, but holding out her
hand to her visitor, "I am much obliged to you for having come over
to me here. You, no doubt, are aware of the subject on which I wish
to speak to you, and will agree with me that it is better that we
should meet here than over at the parsonage." In answer to which Lucy
merely bowed her head, and took her seat on the chair which had been
prepared for her. "My son," continued her ladyship, "has spoken to me
on the subject of-- I think I understand, Miss Robarts, that there
has been no engagement between you and him?"

"None whatever," said Lucy. "He made me an offer and I refused
him." This she said very sharply;--more so undoubtedly than the
circumstances required; and with a brusqueness that was injudicious
as well as uncourteous. Rut at the moment, she was thinking of her
own position with reference to Lady Lufton--not to Lord Lufton; and
of her feelings with reference to the lady--not to the gentleman.

"Oh," said Lady Lufton, a little startled by the manner of the
communication. "Then I am to understand that there is nothing now
going on between you and my son; that the whole affair is over?"

"That depends entirely upon you."

"On me; does it?"

"I do not know what your son may have told you, Lady Lufton. For
myself, I do not care to have any secrets from you in this matter;
and as he has spoken to you about it, I suppose that such is his
wish also. Am I right in presuming that he has spoken to you on the
subject?"

"Yes, he has; and it is for that reason that I have taken the liberty
of sending for you."

"And may I ask what he has told you? I mean, of course, as regards
myself," said Lucy. Lady Lufton, before she answered this question,
began to reflect that the young lady was taking too much of the
initiative in this conversation, and was, in fact, playing the game
in her own fashion, which was not at all in accordance with those
motives which had induced Lady Lufton to send for her. "He has told
me that he made you an offer of marriage," replied Lady Lufton: "a
matter which, of course, is very serious to me, as his mother; and
I have thought, therefore, that I had better see you, and appeal to
your own good sense and judgement and high feeling. Of course you are
aware--"

Now was coming the lecture to be illustrated by King Cophetua and
Griselda, as Lucy had suggested to Mrs. Robarts; but she succeeded
in stopping it for awhile. "And did Lord Lufton tell you what was my
answer?"

"Not in words. But you yourself now say that you refused him; and I
must express my admiration for your good--"

"Wait half a moment, Lady Lufton. Your son did make me an offer. He
made it to me in person, up at the parsonage, and I then refused
him;--foolishly, as I now believe, for I dearly love him. But I did
so from a mixture of feelings which I need not, perhaps, explain;
that most prominent, no doubt, was a fear of your displeasure. And
then he came again, not to me, but to my brother, and urged his suit
to him. Nothing can have been kinder to me, more noble, more loving,
more generous, than his conduct. At first I thought, when he was
speaking to myself, that he was led on thoughtlessly to say all that
he did say. I did not trust his love, though I saw that he did trust
it himself. But I could not but trust it when he came again--to my
brother, and made his proposal to him. I don't know whether you will
understand me, Lady Lufton; but a girl placed as I am feels ten times
more assurance in such a tender of affection as that, than in one
made to herself, at the spur of the moment, perhaps. And then you
must remember that I--I myself--I loved him from the first. I was
foolish enough to think that I could know him and not love him."

"I saw all that going on," said Lady Lufton, with a certain
assumption of wisdom about her; "and took steps which I hoped would
have put a stop to it in time."

"Everybody saw it. It was a matter of course," said Lucy, destroying
her ladyship's wisdom at a blow. "Well; I did learn to love him, not
meaning to do so; and I do love him with all my heart. It is no use
my striving to think that I do not; and I could stand with him at
the altar to-morrow and give him my hand, feeling that I was doing
my duty by him, as a woman should do. And now he has told you of
his love, and I believe in that as I do in my own--" And then for a
moment she paused.

"But, my dear Miss Robarts--" began Lady Lufton. Lucy, however, had
now worked herself up into a condition of power, and would not allow
her ladyship to interrupt her in her speech. "I beg your pardon, Lady
Lufton; I shall have done directly, and then I will hear you. And so
my brother came to me, not urging this suit, expressing no wish for
such a marriage, but allowing me to judge for myself, and proposing
that I should see your son again on the following morning. Had I done
so, I could not but have accepted him. Think of it, Lady Lufton. How
could I have done other than accept him, seeing that in my heart I
had accepted his love already?"

"Well?" said Lady Lufton, not wishing now to put in any speech of her
own.

"I did not see him--I refused to do so--because I was a coward. I
could not endure to come into this house as your son's wife, and be
coldly looked on by your son's mother. Much as I loved him, much as I
do love him, dearly as I prize the generous offer which he came down
here to repeat to me, I could not live with him to be made the object
of your scorn. I sent him word, therefore, that I would have him when
you would ask me, and not before." And, then, having thus pleaded her
cause--and pleaded, as she believed, the cause of her lover also--she
ceased from speaking, and prepared herself to listen to the story
of King Cophetua. But Lady Lufton felt considerable difficulty in
commencing her speech. In the first place she was by no means a
hard-hearted or a selfish woman; and were it not that her own son was
concerned, and all the glory which was reflected upon her from her
son, her sympathies would have been given to Lucy Robarts. As it was,
she did sympathize with her, and admire her, and to a certain extent
like her. She began also to understand what it was that had brought
about her son's love, and to feel that but for certain unfortunate
concomitant circumstances the girl before her might have made
a fitting Lady Lufton. Lucy had grown bigger in her eyes while
sitting there and talking, and had lost much of that missish want
of importance--that lack of social weight--which Lady Lufton in her
own opinion had always imputed to her. A girl that could thus speak
up and explain her own position now, would be able to speak up and
explain her own, and perhaps some other positions at any future time.
But not for all or any of these reasons did Lady Lufton think of
giving way. The power of making or marring this marriage was placed
in her hands, as was very fitting, and that power it behoved her
to use, as best she might use it, to her son's advantage. Much as
she might admire Lucy, she could not sacrifice her son to that
admiration. The unfortunate concomitant circumstances still remained,
and were of sufficient force, as she thought, to make such a marriage
inexpedient. Lucy was the sister of a gentleman who by his peculiar
position as parish clergyman of Framley was unfitted to be the
brother-in-law of the owner of Framley. Nobody liked clergymen better
than Lady Lufton or was more willing to live with them on terms of
affectionate intimacy, but she could not get over the feeling that
the clergyman of her own parish,--or of her son's,--was a part of
her own establishment, of her own appanage,--or of his,--and that
it could not be well that Lord Lufton should marry among his own
dependants. Lady Lufton would not have used the word, but she did
think it. And then, too, Lucy's education had been so deficient. She
had had no one about her in early life accustomed to the ways of,--of
what shall I say without making Lady Lufton appear more worldly than
she was? Lucy's wants in this respect, not to be defined in words,
had been exemplified by the very way in which she had just now stated
her case. She had shown talent, good temper, and sound judgement; but
there had been no quiet, no repose about her. The species of power
in young ladies which Lady Lufton most admired was the _vis inertiæ_
belonging to beautiful and dignified reticence; of this poor Lucy had
none. Then, too, she had no fortune, which, though a minor evil, was
an evil; and she had no birth, in the high-life sense of the word,
which was a greater evil. And then, though her eyes had sparkled
when she confessed her love, Lady Lufton was not prepared to admit
that she was possessed of positive beauty. Such were the unfortunate
concomitant circumstances which still induced Lady Lufton to resolve
that the match must be marred.

But the performance of her part in this play was much more difficult
than she had imagined, and she found herself obliged to sit silent
for a minute or two, during which, however, Miss Robarts made no
attempt at further speech. "I am greatly struck," Lady Lufton said at
last, "by the excellent sense you have displayed in the whole of this
affair; and you must allow me to say, Miss Robarts, that I now regard
you with very different feelings from those which I entertained when
I left London." Upon this Lucy bowed her head, slightly but very
stiffly; acknowledging rather the former censure implied than the
present eulogium expressed.

"But my feelings," continued Lady Lufton, "my strongest feelings in
this matter, must be those of a mother. What might be my conduct if
such a marriage did take place, I need not now consider. But I must
confess that I should think such a marriage very--very ill-judged.
A better-hearted young man than Lord Lufton does not exist, nor one
with better principles, or a deeper regard for his word; but he is
exactly the man to be mistaken in any hurried outlook as to his
future life. Were you and he to become man and wife, such a marriage
would tend to the happiness neither of him nor of you." It was
clear that the whole lecture was now coming; and as Lucy had openly
declared her own weakness, and thrown all the power of decision into
the hands of Lady Lufton, she did not see why she should endure this.

"We need not argue about that, Lady Lufton," she said. "I have told
you the only circumstances under which I would marry your son; and
you, at any rate, are safe."

"No; I was not wishing to argue," answered Lady Lufton, almost
humbly; "but I was desirous of excusing myself to you, so that you
should not think me cruel in withholding my consent. I wished to make
you believe that I was doing the best for my son."

"I am sure that you think you are, and therefore no excuse is
necessary."

"No, exactly; of course it is a matter of opinion, and I do think so.
I cannot believe that this marriage would make either of you happy,
and therefore I should be very wrong to express my consent."

"Then, Lady Lufton," said Lucy, rising from her chair, "I suppose we
have both now said what is necessary, and I will therefore wish you
good-bye."

"Good-bye, Miss Robarts. I wish I could make you understand how very
highly I regard your conduct in this matter. It has been above all
praise, and so I shall not hesitate to say when speaking of it to
your relatives." This was disagreeable enough to Lucy, who cared
but little for any praise which Lady Lufton might express to her
relatives in this matter. "And pray," continued Lady Lufton, "give
my best love to Mrs. Robarts, and tell her that I shall hope to see
her over here very soon, and Mr. Robarts also. I would name a day for
you all to dine; but perhaps it will be better that I should have a
little talk with Fanny first."

Lucy muttered something, which was intended to signify that any
such dinner party had better not be made up with the intention of
including her, and then took her leave. She had decidedly had the
best of the interview, and there was a consciousness of this in her
heart as she allowed Lady Lufton to shake hands with her. She had
stopped her antagonist short on each occasion on which an attempt had
been made to produce the homily which had been prepared, and during
the interview had spoken probably three words for every one which
her ladyship had been able to utter. But, nevertheless, there was
a bitter feeling of disappointment about her heart as she walked
back home; and a feeling, also, that she herself had caused her own
unhappiness. Why should she have been so romantic and chivalrous and
self-sacrificing, seeing that her romance and chivalry had all been
to his detriment as well as to hers,--seeing that she sacrificed
him as well as herself? Why should she have been so anxious to play
into Lady Lufton's hands? It was not because she thought it right,
as a general social rule, that a lady should refuse a gentleman's
hand, unless the gentleman's mother were a consenting party to the
marriage. She would have held any such doctrine as absurd. The lady,
she would have said, would have had to look to her own family and no
further. It was not virtue but cowardice which had influenced her,
and she had none of that solace which may come to us in misfortune
from a consciousness that our own conduct has been blameless. Lady
Lufton had inspired her with awe, and any such feeling on her part
was mean, ignoble, and unbecoming the spirit with which she wished to
think that she was endowed. That was the accusation which she brought
against herself, and it forbade her to feel any triumph as to the
result of her interview. When she reached the parsonage, Mark was
there, and they were of course expecting her. "Well," said she, in
her short, hurried manner, "is Puck ready again? I have no time to
lose, and I must go and pack up a few things. Have you settled about
the children, Fanny?"

"Yes; I will tell you directly; but you have seen Lady Lufton?"

"Seen her! Oh, yes, of course I have seen her. Did she not send for
me? and in that case it was not on the cards that I should disobey
her."

"And what did she say?"

"How green you are, Mark; and not only green, but impolite also, to
make me repeat the story of my own disgrace. Of course she told me
that she did not intend that I should marry my lord, her son; and of
course I said that under those circumstances I should not think of
doing such a thing."

"Lucy, I cannot understand you," said Fanny, very gravely. "I am
sometimes inclined to doubt whether you have any deep feeling in the
matter or not. If you have, how can you bring yourself to joke about
it?"

"Well, it is singular; and sometimes I doubt myself whether I have.
I ought to be pale, ought I not? and very thin, and to go mad by
degrees? I have not the least intention of doing anything of the
kind, and, therefore, the matter is not worth any further notice."

"But was she civil to you, Lucy?" asked Mark: "civil In her manner,
you know?"

"Oh, uncommonly so. You will hardly believe it, but she actually
asked me to dine. She always does, you know, when she wants to
show her good humour. If you'd broken your leg, and she wished to
commiserate you, she'd ask you to dinner."

"I suppose she meant to be kind," said Fanny, who was not disposed to
give up her old friend, though she was quite ready to fight Lucy's
battle, if there were any occasion for a battle to be fought.

"Lucy is so perverse," said Mark, "that it is impossible to learn
from her what really has taken place."

"Upon my word, then, you know it all as well as I can tell you. She
asked me if Lord Lufton had made me an offer. I said, yes. She asked
next, if I meant to accept it. Not without her approval, I said. And
then she asked us all to dinner. That is exactly what took place, and
I cannot see that I have been perverse at all." After that she threw
herself into a chair, and Mark and Fanny stood looking at each other.

"Mark," she said, after a while, "don't be unkind to me. I make as
little of it as I can, for all our sakes. It is better so, Fanny,
than that I should go about moaning, like a sick cow;" and then they
looked at her, and saw that the tears were already brimming over from
her eyes.

"Dearest, dearest Lucy," said Fanny, immediately going down on her
knees before her, "I won't be unkind to you again." And then they had
a great cry together.


CHAPTER XXXVI

Kidnapping at Hogglestock


The great cry, however, did not take long, and Lucy was soon in the
pony-carriage again. On this occasion her brother volunteered to
drive her, and it was now understood that he was to bring back with
him all the Crawley children. Oh, yes, we'll rally round the
standard, Or we'll perish nobly there.--CHORUS.

[Illustration: 6TH CORPS.]

WE'VE DRUNK FROM THE SAME CANTEEN.

By Maj. Charles G. Halpine (Private Miles O'Riley), 47th N.Y.
Vol.
Inf.

KEY OF C.

[Illustration: ENGINEERS AND MECHANICS.]

There are bonds of all sorts in this world of ours, Fetters of
friendship and ties of flowers, And true lovers' knots, I ween.

The boys and the girls are bound by a kiss, But there's never a bond,
old friend, like this:
We have drunk from the same canteen!

The same canteen, my soldier friend, The same canteen; There's never
a bond like this:
We have drunk from the same canteen!

It was sometimes water and sometimes milk, Sometimes apple-jack as fine
as silk; But, whatever the tipple has been, We shared it together in
bane or in bliss, And I warn you, friend, when I think of this:
We have drunk from the same canteen.

We've shared our blankets and tents together, And marched and fought
in all kinds of weather, And hungry and full we've been; Had days
of battle and days of rest, But this memory I cling to and love the
best:
We've drunk from the same canteen.

For when wounded I lay on the outer slope, With my blood flowing
fast and but little hope On which my faint spirit might lean, Oh!
then, I remember, you crawled to my side, And bleeding so fast it
seemed both must have died, We have drunk from the same
canteen!

THE STAR SPANGLED BANNER.

KEY OF C.

[Illustration]
Oh! say, can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we
hailed at the twilight's last gleaming-- Whose broad stripes and
bright stars through the perilous flight, O'er the ramparts we watched,
were so gallantly streaming!
And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof
through the night that our flag was still there; Oh! say, does that
Star Spangled Banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home
of the brave!

On that shore dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe's
haughty host in dread silence reposes, What is that which the breeze,
o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now
discloses!
Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam, In full
glory reflected, now shines on the stream; 'Tis the Star Spangled
Banner, oh! long may it wave O'er the land of the free and the home
of the brave!

And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war
and the battle's confusion A home and a country should leave us no
more?

Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution.
No refuge could save the hireling and slave From the terror of
flight or the gloom of the grave; And the Star Spangled Banner in
triumph doth wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the
brave.

Oh! thus be it ever when freemen shall stand Between their loved homes
and the war's desolation, Blest with victory and peace, may the
heaven-rescued land Praise the power that hath made and preserved us
a nation.
Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just, And this be our
motto--"In God is our trust"-- And the Star Spangled Banner in triumph
shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave!

[Illustration: FOURTEENTH CORPS.]

OLD SHADY.

KEY OF B.

[Illustration: SHELTER TENT.]

Oh, yah! yah!

darkies laugh wid me, For the white folks say Old Shady's free, So
don't you see that the Jubilee Is coming, coming, hail, mighty day!

CHORUS.

Den away, away, for I can't wait any longer!

Hooray! hooray! I'm going home.

Oh!

massa got scared, and so did his lady, Dis chile breaks for Uncle
Aby, Open the gates, out here's Old Shady A coming, coming, hail,
mighty day.

--CHORUS.

Good-bye, Massa Jeff; good-bye, Miss'r Stephens, 'Scuse dis nigger for
takin' his leavens; 'Spect pretty soon you'll hear Uncle Abram's
Coming, coming, hail, mighty day.--CHORUS.

Good-bye, hard work, wid neber any pay, I's gwine up North where de
good folks say Dat white wheat bread an' a dollar a day Are a
coming, coming, hail, mighty day.

--CHORUS.

Oh! I've got a wife, and I've got a baby, Living up yonder in upper
Canaday; Won't dey laugh when dey see Old Shady Coming, coming,
hail, mighty day.--CHORUS.

[Illustration: SEVENTH CORPS.]

COLUMBIA, THE GEM OF THE OCEAN, 
OR 
RED, WHITE, AND BLUE.

(Used by permission of S.

Brainard's Sons.)
KEY OF G.

[Illustration: MAJ. GEN'L JAMES B. M'PHERSON.]
[Illustration: SEVENTEENTH CORPS.]
Oh!

Columbia, the gem of the ocean, The home of the brave and the free,
The shrine of each patriot's devotion, The world offers homage to
thee.
Thy mandates make heroes assemble, When Liberty's form stands in
view; Thy banners make tyranny tremble When borne by the Red, White,
and Blue.

CHORUS.

When borne by the Red, White, and Blue, When borne by the Red,
White, and Blue, Thy banners make tyranny tremble, When borne by
the Red, White, and Blue.

When war waged its wide desolation, And threatened the land to
deform, The ark then of Freedom's foundation, Columbia, rode safe
through the storm, With her garlands of vict'ry around her, When
so proudly she bore her brave crew, With her flag proudly floating
before her, The boast of the Red, White, and Blue.

--CHORUS.

That banner, that banner bring hither, Tho' rebels and traitors look
grim; May the wreaths it has won never wither, Nor the stars of its
glory grow dim!
May the service united ne'er sever, But they to their colors prove
true!
The Army and Navy forever, Three cheers for the Red, White, and
Blue.--CHORUS.

THE ARMY BEAN.

Air--"SWEET BYE AND BYE."

[Illustration: ELEVENTH CORPS.]
There's a spot that the soldiers all love, The mess-tent is the place
that we mean, And the dish that we like to see there Is the
old-fashioned, white Army bean.

CHORUS.

'Tis the bean that we mean, And we'll eat as we ne'er ate before The
Army bean, nice and clean; We will stick to our beans evermore.

Now, the bean in its primitive state Is a plant we have all often
met, And, when cooked in the old army style, It has charms we can
never forget.

[Illustration: FOURTH CORPS.]

CHORUS.

The German is fond of sauer kraut, The potato is loved by the Mick,
But the soldiers have long since found out That thro' life to our
beans we should stick.

--CHORUS.

REFRAIN.

Air--"TELL AUNT RHODA."
Beans for breakfast, Beans for dinner, Beans for supper, Beans! Beans!!
Beans!!!

[Illustration: 23D CORPS.]

BRAVE BOYS ARE THEY.

(Used by permission of S. Brainard's Sons, owners of the copyright.)

KEY OF A FLAT.

[Illustration: 18TH CORPS.]
Heavily falls the rain, Wild are the breezes tonight; But 'neath the
roof the hours as they fly Are happy, and calm, and bright.
Gathering round our firesides, Tho' it be summer time, We sit and
talk of brothers abroad, Forgetting the midnight chime.

CHORUS.

Brave boys are they!
Gone at their country's call; And yet, and yet we cannot forget
That many brave boys must fall.

[Illustration: MINIE BALL.]
Under the homestead roof, Nestled so cozy and warm, While soldiers
sleep with little or naught To shelter them from the storm.
Resting on grassy couches, Pillow'd on hillocks damp, Of martial fare
how little we know Till brothers are in camp.--CHORUS.

Thinking no less of them, Loving our country the more, We sent them
forth to fight for the flag Their fathers before them bore.

Though the great teardrops started, This was our parting trust:

"God bless you, boys! we'll welcome you home When rebels are in the
dust."--CHO.

May the bright wings of love Guard them wherever they roam; The time
has come when brothers must fight And sisters must pray at home.
Oh! the dread field of battle!
Soon to be strewn with graves!

If brothers fall, then bury them where Our banner in triumph
waves.

--CHORUS.

[Illustration: 22D CORPS.]

BATTLE HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC.

(By Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.)
Air--"JOHN BROWN."

As sung by Chaplain C.C. McCabe while a prisoner in Libby, after
hearing Old Ben (the colored paper-seller in Richmond) cry out, "_Great
news by the telegraph!

Great battles at Gettysburg! Union soldiers gain the day!

_" Upon hearing such glorious news Chaplain McCabe sung this soul-stirring
hymn, all the prisoners joining heartily in the chorus, making the old
prison walls ring--"Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!"
[Illustration: SIXTEENTH CORPS.]

Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord; He is
tramping out the vintage where the grapes of wrath are stored; He
has loosed the fateful lightning of His terrible quick sword; His
truth is marching on.

CHORUS.--Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!

I have seen Him in the watch-fires of a hundred circling camps; They
have builded Him an altar in the evening dews and damps; I have read
His righteous sentence by the dim and flaring lamps; His day is
marching on.

CHORUS.--Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!

I have read a fiery gospel, writ in burnished rows of steel, "As ye
deal with my contemners, so with my grace shall deal; Let the hero
born of woman crush the serpent with his heel, Since God is marching
on."

CHORUS.--Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!

He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call retreat; He
is sifting out the hearts of men before His judgment seat; Oh!

be swift, my soul, to answer Him! be jubilant, my feet; Our God
is marching on.

CHORUS.--Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!

In the beauties of the lillies Christ was born across the sea With
a glory in His bosom that transfigures you and me; As He died to
make men holy, _let us die to make men free_, While God is marching
on.

CHORUS.--Glory, Glory, Hallelujah!

HOME, SWEET HOME.

(By John Howard Payne.)
KEY OF E FLAT.

[Illustration]
'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, Be it ever so humble,
there's no place like home; A charm from the skies seems to hallow
us there, Which, seek thro' the world, is ne'er met with elsewhere.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home; there's no place like home Oh, there's
no place like home.
I gaze on the moon as I tread the drear wild, And feel that my
mother now thinks of her child As she looks on that moon from our
own cottage door Thro' the woodbine whose fragrance shall cheer me
no more.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home, etc.
An exile from home, splendor dazzles in vain; Oh, give me my lowly
thatched cottage again; The birds, singing gaily, that came at my
call; Give me them, and that peace of mind, dearer than all.
Home, home, sweet, sweet home, etc.

[Illustration]
WHO WILL CARE FOR MOTHER NOW.

KEY OF B FLAT.
[Illustration: BRIG. GEN'L JOS. A. MOWER.]
Why am I so weak and weary?
See how faint my heated breath; All around to me seems darkness;
Tell me, comrades, is this death?
Ah! how well I know your answer; To my fate I meekly bow, If you'll
only tell me truly Who will care for mother now?

CHORUS.
Soon with angels I'll be marching, With bright laurels on my brow;
I have for my country fallen; Who will care for mother now?
Who will comfort her in sorrow?
Who will dry the falling tear, Gently smooth her wrinkled forehead?
Who will whisper words of cheer?
Even now I think I see her Kneeling, praying for me! how Can I leave
her in anguish?
Who will care for mother now?--CHORUS.
Let this knapsack be my pillow, And my mantle be the sky; Hasten,
comrades, to the battle!
I will like a soldier die.
Soon with angels I'll be marching, With bright laurels on my brow;
I have for my country fallen; Who will care for mother
now?--CHORUS.

[Illustration: 25TH CORPS.]
WHEN THIS CRUEL WAR IS OVER.

(Used by permission.)
KEY OF C.

[Illustration: MAJ. GEN'L FRANK P. BLAIR.]
Dearest love, do you remember!
When we last did meet, How you told me that you loved me, Kneeling
at my feet?
Oh! how proud you stood before me, In your suit of blue, When you
vowed to me and country Ever to be true.

CHORUS.
Weeping, sad and lonely, Hopes and fears how vain; When this cruel
war is over, Praying that we meet again.
When the summer breeze is sighing, Mournfully along!
Or when autumn leaves are falling, Sadly breathes the song.
Oft in dreams I see thee lying On the battle plain, Lonely, wounded,
even dying; Calling, but in vain.--CHORUS.
If amid the din of battle Nobly you should fall, Far away from those
who love you, None to hear you call, Who would whisper words of
comfort, Who would soothe your pain?
Ah! the many cruel fancies Ever in my brain.--CHORUS.
But our country called you, darling, Angels cheer your way, While
our nation's sons are fighting We can only pray.
Nobly strike for God and liberty, Let all nations see How we love
our starry banner, Emblem of the free.--CHORUS.
[Illustration: SIGNAL CORPS.] 
[Illustration: CANISTER.]
WE ARE COMING, FATHER ABRAHAM.
(Used by permission of S. Brainard's Sons, owners of the copyright.)
[Illustration: LINCOLN.]
We are coming, Father Abraham--three hundred thousand more, From
Mississippi's winding stream and from New England's shore; We leave
our plows and workshops, our wives and children dear, With hearts
too full for utterance, with but a silent tear; We dare not look
behind us, but steadfastly before-- We are coming, Father Abraham--three
hundred thousand more!
If you look across the hill-tops that meet the northern sky, Long
moving lines of rising dust your vision may descry; And now the
wind, an instant, tears the cloud veil aside, And floats aloft our
spangled flag in glory and in pride; And bayonets in the sunlight
gleam, and bands brave music pour-- We are coming, Father Abraham--three
hundred thousand more!
If you look all up our valleys, where the growing harvests shine,
You may see our sturdy farmer-boys fast forming into line, And
children from their mothers' knees are pulling at the weeds, And
learning how to reap and sow, against their country's needs; And a
farewell group stands weeping at every cottage door-- We are coming,
Father Abraham--three hundred thousand more!
You have called us, and we're coming, by Richmond's bloody tide,
To lay us down for freedom's sake, our brothers' bones beside.
Or from foul treason's savage grasp to wrench the murderous blade,
And in the face of foreign foes its fragments to parade.
Six hundred thousand loyal men and true have gone before-- We are
coming, Father Abraham--three hundred thousand more!
[Illustration] 

TENTING ON THE OLD CAMP GROUND.
(Used by permission of S. Brainard's Sons, owners of the copyright.)
KEY OF A.

[Illustration: 20TH CORPS.]
We're tenting tonight on the old camp ground; Give us a song to
cheer Our weary hearts; a song of home And friends we love so
dear.

CHORUS.
Many are the hearts that are weary tonight, Wishing for the war to
cease; Many are the hearts looking for the right, To see the dawn
of peace; Tenting tonight, tenting tonight, Tenting on the old camp
ground.
We've been tenting tonight on the old camp ground, Thinking of days
gone by, Of loved ones at home who gave us the hand And the tear
that said good-bye.--CHORUS.
We're tired of the war on the old camp ground; Many are dead and
gone Of the brave and true who have left their homes; Others been
wounded long.The foliage of the oaks was complete, so that every
bough and twig was clothed; but the leaves did not yet hang heavy in
masses, and the bend of every bough and the tapering curve of every
twig were visible through their light green covering. There is no
time of the year equal in beauty to the first week in summer: and
no colour which nature gives, not even the gorgeous hues of autumn,
which can equal the verdure produced by the first warm suns of May.

Hogglestock, as has been explained, has little to offer in the way
of landskip beauty, and the clergyman's house at Hogglestock was not
placed on a green slopy bank of land, retired from the road, with its
windows opening on to a lawn, surrounded by shrubs, with a view of
the small church tower seen through them; it had none of that beauty
which is so common to the cosy houses of our spiritual pastors in
the agricultural parts of England. Hogglestock parsonage stood bleak
beside the road, with no pretty paling lined inside by hollies and
laburnum, Portugal laurels and rose-trees. But, nevertheless, even
Hogglestock was pretty now. There were apple-trees there covered with
blossom, and the hedgerows were in full flower. There were thrushes
singing, and here and there an oak-tree stood in the roadside,
perfect in its solitary beauty.

"Let us walk on a little," said the dean. "Miss Robarts is with her
now, and you will be better for leaving the room for a few minutes."

"No," said he; "I must go back; I cannot leave that young lady to do
my work."

"Stop, Crawley!" And the dean, putting his hand upon him, stayed him
in the road. "She is doing her own work, and if you were speaking of
her with reference to any other household than your own, you would
say so. Is it not a comfort to you to know that your wife has a woman
near her at such a time as this; and a woman, too, who can speak to
her as one lady does to another?"

"These are comforts which we have no right to expect. I could not
have done much for poor Mary; but what a man could have done should
not have been wanting."

"I am sure of it; I know it well. What any man could do by himself
you would do--excepting one thing." And the dean as he spoke looked
full into the other's face.

"And what is there I would not do?" said Crawley.

"Sacrifice your own pride."

"My pride?"

"Yes; your own pride."

"I have had but little pride this many a day. Arabin, you do not know
what my life has been. How is a man to be proud who--" And then he
stopped himself, not wishing to go through the catalogue of those
grievances, which, as he thought, had killed the very germs of pride
within him, or to insist by spoken words on his poverty, his wants,
and the injustice of his position. "No; I wish I could be proud; but
the world has been too heavy to me, and I have forgotten all that."

"How long have I known you, Crawley?"

"How long? Ah dear! a lifetime nearly, now."

"And we were like brothers once."

"Yes; we were equal as brothers then--in our fortunes, our tastes,
and our modes of life."

"And yet you would begrudge me the pleasure of putting my hand in my
pocket, and relieving the inconveniences which have been thrown on
you, and those you love better than yourself, by the chances of your
fate in life."

"I will live on no man's charity," said Crawley, with an abruptness
which amounted almost to an expression of anger.

"And is not that pride?"

"No--yes;--it is a species of pride, but not that pride of which
you spoke. A man cannot be honest if he have not some pride. You
yourself; would you not rather starve than become a beggar?"

"I would rather beg than see my wife starve," said Arabin.

Crawley when he heard these words turned sharply round, and stood
with his back to the dean, with his hands still behind him, and with
his eyes fixed upon the ground.

"But in this case there is no question of begging," continued the
dean. "I, out of those superfluities which it has pleased God to put
at my disposal, am anxious to assist the needs of those whom I love."

"She is not starving," said Crawley, in a voice very bitter, but
still intended to be exculpatory of himself.

"No, my dear friend; I know she is not, and do not you be angry
with me because I have endeavoured to put the matter to you in the
strongest language I could use."

"You look at it, Arabin, from one side only; I can only look at it
from the other. It is very sweet to give; I do not doubt that. But
the taking of what is given is very bitter. Gift bread chokes in a
man's throat and poisons his blood, and sits like lead upon the
heart. You have never tried it."

"But that is the very fault for which I blame you. That is the pride
which I say you ought to sacrifice."

"And why should I be called on to do so? Is not the labourer worthy
of his hire? Am I not able to work, and willing? Have I not always
had my shoulder to the collar, and is it right that I should now be
contented with the scraps from a rich man's kitchen? Arabin, you
and I were equal once and we were then friends, understanding each
other's thoughts and sympathizing with each other's sorrows. But it
cannot be so now."

"If there be such inability, it is all with you."

"It is all with me,--because in our connexion the pain would all be
on my side. It would not hurt you to see me at your table with worn
shoes and a ragged shirt. I do not think so meanly of you as that.
You would give me your feast to eat though I were not clad a tithe as
well as the menial behind your chair. But it would hurt me to know
that there were those looking at me who thought me unfit to sit in
your rooms."

"That is the pride of which I speak;--false pride."

"Call it so if you will; but, Arabin, no preaching of yours can alter
it. It is all that is left to me of my manliness. That poor broken
reed who is lying there sick,--who has sacrificed all the world to
her love for me,--who is the mother of my children, and the partner
of my sorrows and the wife of my bosom,--even she cannot change me in
this, though she pleads with the eloquence of all her wants. Not even
for her can I hold out my hand for a dole." They had now come back to
the door of the house, and Mr. Crawley, hardly conscious of what he
was doing, was preparing to enter.

"Will Mrs. Crawley be able to see me if I come in?" said the dean.

"Oh, stop; no; you had better not do so," said Mr. Crawley. "You, no
doubt, might be subject to infection, and then Mrs. Arabin would be
frightened."

"I do not care about it in the least," said the dean.

"But it is of no use; you had better not. Her room, I fear, is
quite unfit for you to see; and the whole house, you know, may be
infected." Dr. Arabin by this time was in the sitting-room; but
seeing that his friend was really anxious that he should not go
farther, he did not persist.

"It will be a comfort to us, at any rate, to know that Miss Robarts
is with her."

"The young lady is very good--very good indeed," said Crawley; "but
I trust she will return to her home to-morrow. It is impossible that
she should remain in so poor a house as mine. There will be nothing
here of all the things that she will want." The dean thought that
Lucy Robarts's wants during her present occupation of nursing would
not be so numerous as to make her continued sojourn in Mrs. Crawley's
sick room impossible, and therefore took his leave with a satisfied
conviction that the poor lady would not be left wholly to the
somewhat unskilful nursing of her husband.


CHAPTER XXXVII

Mr. Sowerby without Company


And now there were going to be wondrous doings in West Barsetshire,
and men's minds were much disturbed. The fiat had gone forth from the
high places, and the Queen had dissolved her faithful Commons. The
giants, finding that they could effect little or nothing with the old
House, had resolved to try what a new venture would do for them, and
the hubbub of a general election was to pervade the country. This
produced no inconsiderable irritation and annoyance, for the House
was not as yet quite three years old; and members of Parliament,
though they naturally feel a constitutional pleasure in meeting
their friends and in pressing the hands of their constituents, are,
nevertheless, so far akin to the lower order of humanity that they
appreciate the danger of losing their seats; and the certainty of
a considerable outlay in their endeavours to retain them is not
agreeable to the legislative mind. Never did the old family fury
between the gods and giants rage higher than at the present moment.
The giants declared that every turn which they attempted to take in
their country's service had been thwarted by faction, in spite of
those benign promises of assistance made to them only a few weeks
since by their opponents; and the gods answered by asserting that
they were driven to this opposition by the Boeotian fatuity of the
giants. They had no doubt promised their aid, and were ready to give
it to measures that were decently prudent; but not to a bill enabling
Government at its will to pension aged bishops! No; there must be
some limit to their tolerance, and when such attempts as these were
made that limit had been clearly passed. All this had taken place
openly only a day or two after that casual whisper dropped by Tom
Towers at Miss Dunstable's party--by Tom Towers, that most pleasant
of all pleasant fellows. And how should he have known it,--he who
flutters from one sweetest flower of the garden to another,


   "Adding sugar to the pink, and honey to the rose,
    So loved for what he gives, but taking nothing as he goes"?


But the whisper had grown into a rumour, and the rumour into a
fact, and the political world was in a ferment. The giants, furious
about their bishops' pension bill, threatened the House--most
injudiciously; and then it was beautiful to see how indignant members
got up, glowing with honesty, and declared that it was base to
conceive that any gentleman in that House could be actuated in his
vote by any hopes or fears with reference to his seat. And so matters
grew from bad to worse, and these contending parties never hit at
each other with such envenomed wrath as they did now;--having entered
the ring together so lately with such manifold promises of good-will,
respect, and forbearance!

But going from the general to the particular, we may say that nowhere
was a deeper consternation spread than in the electoral division
of West Barsetshire. No sooner had the tidings of the dissolution
reached the county than it was known that the duke intended to change
his nominee. Mr. Sowerby had now sat for the division since the
Reform Bill! He had become one of the county institutions, and by the
dint of custom and long establishment had been borne with and even
liked by the county gentlemen, in spite of his well-known pecuniary
irregularities. Now all this was to be changed. No reason had as yet
been publicly given, but it was understood that Lord Dumbello was to
be returned, although he did not own an acre of land in the county.
It is true that rumour went on to say that Lord Dumbello was about to
form close connexions with Barsetshire. He was on the eve of marrying
a young lady, from the other division indeed, and was now engaged,
so it was said, in completing arrangements with the Government for
the purchase of that noble Crown property usually known as the
Chace of Chaldicotes. It was also stated--this statement, however,
had hitherto been only announced in confidential whispers--that
Chaldicotes House itself would soon become the residence of the
marquis. The duke was claiming it as his own--would very shortly
have completed his claims and taken possession:--and then, by some
arrangement between them, it was to be made over to Lord Dumbello.
But very contrary rumours to these got abroad also. Men said--such
as dared to oppose the duke, and some few also who did not dare
to oppose him when the day of battle came--that it was beyond his
grace's power to turn Lord Dumbello into a Barsetshire magnate. He
entered heartily into Philip's designs for recovering Spain's lost
territory, and showed even more boldness than his royal master
in their execution. His reduction of Sardinia precipitated the
alliance between England, France, Holland, and afterwards, Austria.
Spain, with Alberoni as its guiding spirit, supported the Jacobite
cause to harass England, and conquered Sicily. But at Messina the
Spanish fleet was destroyed by the English, and in the north of Spain
the forces of Philip were repulsed by the French. In the end, Spain
gave way, and Alberoni was dismissed to retire to Rome, and to be
safely lodged in the Jesuits' College there. On his release he returned
to his native town, but died at Rome. [T.S.]]
5. The test clause should be repealed, because it is a defence against
the reformation the Presbyterians long since promised the churches
of England and Ireland, viz.

"We, noblemen, barons, knights, gentlemen, citizens, burgesses, ministers
of the Gospel, commons of all sorts in the kingdoms of Scotland,
England, and Ireland, &c.[4] each one of us for himself, with our
hands lifted up to the most high God, do swear, first, That we
shall sincerely, really, and constantly, through the grace of God,
endeavour, in our several places and callings, the preservation of
the reformed religion in the Church of Scotland, in doctrine,
worship, discipline, and government. Secondly, That we shall in like
manner, without respect of persons, endeavour the extirpation of
Popery, Prelacy; that is, church-government by archbishops, their
chancellors, and commissaries, deans, deacons, and chapters,
archdeacons, and all other ecclesiastical officers depending on
that hierarchy."
[Footnote 4: _Vide_ "Confession of Faith," pp. 304, 305.]
6. Because the Presbyterian Church-Government may be independent of
the state. The Lord Jesus is King and Head of his Church;[5] hath
therein appointed a government in the hands of church-officers,
distinct from the civil magistrate. As magistrates may lawfully
call a synod of ministers to consult and advise with about matters
of religion; so, if magistrates be open enemies to the Church, the
ministers of Christ of themselves, by virtue of their office, or
they with other fit persons, upon delegation from their churches,
may meet together in such assemblies.[6]
[Footnote 5: "Confession of Faith," p. 87.]
[Footnote 6: _Ibid_., pp. 88, 89.]
7. Because they have not the free use of their religion, when they
disdain a toleration.

8. Because they have so much charity for Episcopacy, as to account
it iniquitous. The address of the General Assembly to the Duke
of Queensbury in the late reign says, that to tolerate the Episcopal
clergy in Scotland would be to establish iniquity by a law.

9. Because repealing the test clause will probably disoblige ten of
his Majesty's good subjects, for one it can oblige.

10. Because, if the test clause be repealed, the Presbyterians
may with the better grace get into employments, and the easier worm
out those of the Established Church.

***** ***** ***** ***** *****

SERMONS.

The following Form of Prayer, which Dr. Swift constantly used in
the pulpit before his sermon, is copied from his own handwriting:

"Almighty and most merciful God! forgive us all our sins. Give us grace
heartily to repent them, and to lead new lives. Graft in our hearts a
true love and veneration for thy holy name and word. Make thy pastors
burning and shining lights, able to convince gainsayers, and to save
others and themselves. Bless this congregation here met together in
thy name; grant them to hear and receive thy holy word, to the
salvation of their own souls. Lastly, we desire to return thee
praise and thanksgiving for all thy mercies bestowed upon us; but
chiefly for the Fountain of them all, Jesus Christ our Lord, in
whose name and words we further call upon thee, saying, 'Our Father,'
&c."

NOTE.

These twelve sermons are what have been handed down to us of a bundle
of thirty-five which Swift, some years before his death, gave to
Dr.
Sheridan. Swift had no great opinion of them himself, if we may judge
from what he said to his friend when he offered him the bundle. "You
may have them if you please; they may be of use to you, they never
were of any to me." There is not much in any of them of that
quality which characterizes the average sermon. For the artifices
of rhetoric which are usually employed to move hearers Swift had no
small contempt. He aimed to convince the mind by plain statements
of common-sense views. He had no faith in a conviction brought about
under the stress of emotional excitement. His sermons exactly
answer to the advice he gave a young clergyman--"First tell the
people what is their duty, and then convince them that it is so."

In the note to his reprint of these sermons Sir Walter Scott has very
admirably summed up their qualities.

"The Sermons of Swift," says Scott, "have none of that thunder
which appals, or that resistless and winning softness which melts,
the hearts of an audience. He can never have enjoyed the triumph of
uniting hundreds in one ardent sentiment of love, of terror, or of
devotion. His reasoning, however powerful, and indeed unanswerable,
convinces the understanding, but is never addressed to the heart;
and, indeed, from his instructions to a young clergyman, he seems
hardly to have considered pathos as a legitimate ingredient in an
English sermon. Occasionally, too, Swift's misanthropic habits break
out even from the pulpit; nor is he altogether able to suppress his
disdain of those fellow mortals, on whose behalf was accomplished
the great work of redemption. With such unamiable feelings towards
his hearers, the preacher might indeed command their respect, but could
never excite their sympathy. It may be feared that his Sermons
were less popular from another cause, imputable more to the congregation
than to the pastor. Swift spared not the vices of rich or poor;
and, disdaining to amuse the imaginations of his audience with
discussion of dark points of divinity, or warm them by a flow
of sentimental devotion, he rushes at once to the point of moral
depravity, and upbraids them with their favourite and predominant
vices in a tone of stern reproof, bordering upon reproach.

In short, he tears the bandages from their wounds, like the hasty surgeon
of a crowded hospital, and applies the incision knife and caustic with
salutary, but rough and untamed severity. But, alas! the mind must
be already victorious over the worst of its evil propensities,
that can profit by this harsh medicine. There is a principle of
opposition in our nature, which mans itself with obstinacy even against
avowed truth, when it approaches our feelings in a harsh and insulting
manner. And Swift was probably sensible, that his discourses,
owing to these various causes, did not produce the powerful effects
most grateful to the feelings of the preacher, because they reflect
back to him those of the audience.

"But although the Sermons of Swift are deficient in eloquence, and
were lightly esteemed by their author, they must not be undervalued
by the modern reader. They exhibit, in an eminent degree, that powerful
grasp of intellect which distinguished the author above all his
contemporaries. In no religious discourses can be found more sound
good sense, more happy and forcible views of the immediate subject.
The reasoning is not only irresistible, but managed in a mode so
simple and clear, that its force is obvious to the most ordinary
capacity. Upon all subjects of morality, the preacher maintains the
character of a rigid and inflexible monitor; neither admitting
apology for that which is wrong, nor softening the difficulty of
adhering to that which is right; a stern stoicism of doctrine, that
may fail in finding many converts, but leads to excellence in the
few manly minds who dare to embrace it. In treating the doctrinal
points of belief, (as in his Sermon upon the Trinity,) Swift
systematically refuses to quit the high and pre-eminent ground
which the defender of Christianity is entitled to occupy, or to
submit to the test of human reason, mysteries which are placed,
by their very nature, far beyond our finite capacities. Swift
considered, that, in religion, as in profane science, there must
be certain ultimate laws which are to be received as fundamental
truths, although we are incapable of defining or analysing their
nature; and he censures those divines, who, in presumptuous
confidence of their own logical powers, enter into controversy upon
such mysteries of faith, without considering that they give thereby
the most undue advantage to the infidel.

Our author wisely and consistently declared reason an incompetent judge
of doctrines, of which God had declared the fact, concealing from
man the manner. He contended, that he who, upon the whole, receives
the Christian religion as of divine inspiration, must be contented
to depend upon God's truth, and his holy word, and receive with humble
faith the mysteries which are too high for comprehension.
Above all, Swift points out, with his usual forcible precision, the
mischievous tendency of those investigations which, while they assail
one fundamental doctrine of the Christian religion, shake and endanger
the whole fabric, destroy the settled faith of thousands, pervert
and mislead the genius of the learned and acute, destroy and confound
the religious principles of the simple and ignorant."
In 1744, Faulkner printed three sermons as a single volume; these were
"On Mutual Subjection," "On Conscience," and "On the Trinity." The
other sermons appeared in the various editions issued by Nichols
and others.
The text here given is that of the volume of 1744, of Hawkesworth
and Scott.

[T.S.]

ON MUTUAL SUBJECTION.

I PETER, V. 5.

"--Yea, all of you be subject one to another."

The Apostle having in many parts of this epistle given directions
to Christians concerning the duty of subjection or obedience to
superiors; in the several instances of the subject to his prince,
the child to his parent, the servant to his master, the wife to her
husband, and the younger to the elder; doth here, in the words of
my text, sum up the whole, by advancing a point of doctrine, which
at first may appear a little extraordinary: "Yea, all of you," saith
he, "be subject one to another." For it should seem, that two
persons cannot properly be said to be subject to each other, and that
subjection is only due from inferiors to those above them: yet
St Paul hath several passages to the same purpose. For he exhorts the
Romans, "in honour to prefer one another:"[1] and the Philippians,
"that in lowliness of mind they should each esteem other better
than themselves;"[2] and the Ephesians, "that they should submit
themselves one to another in the fear of the Lord."[3] Here we
find these two great apostles recommending to all Christians this
duty of mutual subjection. For we may observe by St Peter, that
having mentioned the several relations which men bear to each other,
as governor and subject, master and servant, and the rest which I
have already repeated, he maketh no exception, but sums up the whole
with commanding "all to be subject one to another." From whence
we may conclude, that this subjection due from all men to all
men, is something more than the compliment of course, when our
betters are pleased to tell us they are our humble servants, but
understand us to be their slaves.

[Footnote 1: Rom. xii. 10.]
[Footnote 2: Philip. ii. 3.]
[Footnote 3: Ephes. v. 21.]
I know very well, that some of those who explain this text, apply
it to humility, to the duties of charity, to private exhortations,
and to bearing with each other's infirmities: And it is probable, the
apostle may have had a regard to all these: But however, many learned
men agree, that there is something more understood, and so the words
in their plain natural meaning must import; as you will observe
yourselves, if you read them with the beginning of the verse, which
is thus: "Likewise ye younger submit yourselves unto the elder; yea,
all of you be subject one to another." So, that upon the whole, there
must be some kind of subjection due from every man to every man,
which cannot be made void by any power, pre-eminence, or authority
whatsoever. Now, what sort of subjection this is, and how it ought to
be paid, shall be the subject of my present discourse.

As God hath contrived all the works of nature to be useful, and in
some manner a support to each other, by which the whole frame of the
world under his providence is preserved and kept up; so, among
mankind, our particular stations are appointed to each of us by God
Almighty, wherein we are obliged to act, as far as our power
reacheth, toward the good of the whole community. And he who doth not
perform that part assigned him, toward advancing the benefit of the
whole, in proportion to his opportunities and abilities, is not only
a useless, but a very mischievous member of the public: Because he
taketh his share of the profit, and yet leaves his share of the
burden to be borne by others, which is the true principal cause of
most miseries and misfortunes in life.

For, a wise man who doth not assist with his counsels, a great man
with his protection, a rich man with his bounty and charity, and a
poor man with his labour, are perfect nuisances in a commonwealth.

Neither is any condition of life more honourable in the sight of
God than another; otherwise he would be a respecter of persons, which
he assureth us he is not: For he hath proposed the same salvation
to all men, and hath only placed them in different ways or stations
to work it out.

Princes are born with no more advantages of strength or wisdom than
other men; and, by an unhappy education, are usually more defective
in both than thousands of their subjects.

They depend for every necessary of life upon the meanest of their
people: Besides, obedience and subjection were never enjoined by God
to humour the passions, lusts, and vanities of those who demand them
from us; but we are commanded to obey our governors, because
disobedience would breed seditions in the state.

Thus servants are directed to obey their masters, children their
parents, and wives their husbands; not from any respect of persons
in God, but because otherwise there would be nothing but confusion
in private families.

This matter will be clearly explained, by considering the comparison
which St Paul maketh between the Church of Christ and the body of
man: For the same resemblance will hold, not only to families and
kingdoms, but to the whole corporation of mankind.

"The eye," saith he,[4] "cannot say unto the hand, I have no
need of thee; nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of
thee.

Nay, much more, those members of the body which seem to be more feeble,
are necessary. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer
with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with
it." The case is directly the same among mankind. The prince cannot
say to the merchant, I have no need of thee; nor the merchant to
the labourer, I have no need of thee.

Nay, much more those members, &c.

For the poor are generally more necessary members of the
commonwealth than the rich: Which clearly shews, that God never
intented such possessions for the sake and service of those to whom
he lends them: but because he hath assigned every man his particular
station to be useful in life; and this for the reason given by the
apostle, "that there should be no schism in the body."[5]
[Footnote 4: 1 Corin. xii. 21, 23, 26.]
[Footnote 5: 1 Corin. xii. 25.]
From hence may partly be gathered the nature of that subjection
which we all owe to one another.

God Almighty hath been pleased to put us into an imperfect state,
where we have perpetual occasion of each other's assistance.
There is none so low, as not to be in a capacity of assisting
the highest; nor so high, as not to want the assistance of the
lowest.

It plainly appears from what hath been said, that no one human
creature is more worthy than another in the sight of God; farther,
than according to the goodness or holiness of their lives; and,
that power, wealth, and the like outward advantages, are so far
from being the marks of God's approving or preferring those on whom
they are bestowed, that, on the contrary, he is pleased to suffer
them to be almost engrossed by those who have least title to his
favour.

Now, according to this equality wherein God hath placed all mankind,
with relation himself, you will observe, that in all the relations
between man and man, there is a mutual dependence, whereby the
one cannot subsist without the other.
Thus, no man can be a prince without subjects, nor a master without
servants, nor a father without children. And this both explains and
confirms the doctrine of the text: For, where there is a mutual
dependence, there must be a mutual duty, and consequently a mutual
subjection. For instance, the subject must only obey his prince,
because God commands it, human laws require it, and the safety of
the public maketh it necessary: (For the same reasons we must obey
all that are in authority, and submit ourselves, not only to the
good and gentle, but also to the froward, whether they rule according
to our liking or no.)

On the other side, in those countries that pretend to freedom,
princes are subject to those laws which their people have chosen;
they are bound to protect their subjects in liberty, property, and
religion; to receive their petitions, and redress their
grievances: So, that the best prince is, in the opinion of
wisemen, only the greatest servant of the nation; not only a
servant to the public in general, but in some sort to every man
in it. In the like manner, a servant owes obedience, and diligence
and faithfulness to his master, from whom, at the same time, he hath
a just demand for protection, and maintenance, and gentle treatment.
Nay, even the poor beggar hath a just demand of an alms from the
rich man, who is guilty of fraud, injustice, and oppression, if
he doth not afford relief according to his abilities.

But this subjection we all owe one another is nowhere more necessary
than in the common conversations of life; for without it there could
be no society among men. If the learned would not sometimes submit
to the ignorant, the wise to the simple, the gentle to the froward,
the old to the weaknesses of the young, there would be nothing but
everlasting variance in the world. This our Saviour himself confirmed
by his own example; for he appeared in the form of a servant,
and washed his disciples' feet, adding those memorable words:
"Ye call me Lord and Master, and ye say well, for so I am. If I
then your Lord and Master wash your feet, how much more ought ye
to wash one another's feet?" Under which expression of washing the
feet, is included all that subjection, assistance, love, and duty,
which every good Christian ought to pay his brother, in whatever
station God hath placed him.

For the greatest prince and the meanest slave, are not, by
infinite degrees so distant, as our Saviour and those disciples
whose feet he vouchsafed to wash.
And, although this doctrine of subjecting ourselves to one another
may seem to grate upon the pride and vanity of mankind, and may
therefore be hard to be digested by those who value themselves upon
their greatness or their wealth; yet, it is really no more than
what most men practise upon other occasions. For, if our neighbour
who is our inferior comes to see us, we rise to receive him, we
place him above us, and respect him as if he were better than
ourselves; and this is thought both decent and necessary, and is
usually called good manners. Now the duty required by the apostle,
is only that we should enlarge our minds, and that what we thus
practice in the common course of life, we should imitate in all our
actions and proceedings whatsoever; since our Saviour tells us,
that every man is our neighbour, and since we are so ready in the
point of civility, to yield to others in our own houses, where only
we have any title to govern.Gresham; not that her friend
omitted to bring with her into the country her London wit and
aptitude for fun, but that she did not take with her up to town the
genuine goodness and love of honesty which made her lovable in the
country. She was, as it were, two persons, and Mrs. Gresham could not
understand that any lady should permit herself to be more worldly at
one time of the year than at another--or in one place than in any
other. "Well, my dear, I am heartily glad we've done with that," Miss
Dunstable said to her, as she sat herself down to her desk in the
drawing-room on the first morning after her arrival at Boxall Hill.

"What does 'that' mean?" said Mrs. Gresham.

"Why, London and smoke and late hours, and standing on one's legs
for four hours at a stretch on the top of one's own staircase, to be
bowed at by any one who chooses to come. That's all done--for one
year, at any rate."

"You know you like it."

"No, Mary; that's just what I don't know. I don't know whether I like
it or not. Sometimes, when the spirit of that dearest of all women,
Mrs. Harold Smith, is upon me, I think that I do like it; but then,
again, when other spirits are on me, I think that I don't."

"And who are the owners of the other spirits?"

"Oh, you are one, of course. But you are a weak little thing, by no
means able to contend with such a Samson as Mrs. Harold. And then you
are a little given to wickedness yourself, you know. You've learned
to like London well enough since you sat down to the table of Dives.
Your uncle--he's the real, impracticable, unapproachable Lazarus who
declares that he can't come down because of the big gulf. I wonder
how he'd behave, if somebody left him ten thousand a year?"

"Uncommonly well, I am sure."

"Oh, yes; he is a Lazarus now, so of course we are bound to speak
well of him; but I should like to see him tried. I don't doubt but
what he'd have a house in Belgrave Square, and become noted for his
little dinners before the first year of his trial was over."

"Well, and why not? You would not wish him to be an anchorite?"

"I am told that he is going to try his luck--not with ten thousand a
year, but with one or two."

"What do you mean?"

"Jane tells me that they all say at Greshamsbury that he is going to
marry Lady Scatcherd." Now Lady Scatcherd was a widow living in those
parts; an excellent woman, but one not formed by nature to grace
society of the highest order.

"What!" exclaimed Mrs. Gresham, rising up from her chair, while her
eyes flashed with anger at such a rumour.

"Well, my dear, don't eat me. I don't say it is so; I only say that
Jane said so."

"Then you ought to send Jane out of the house."

"You may be sure of this, my dear: Jane would not have told me if
somebody had not told her."

"And you believed it?"

"I have said nothing about that."

"But you look as if you had believed it."

"Do I? Let us see what sort of a look it is, this look of faith."
And Miss Dunstable got up and went to the glass over the fireplace.
"But, Mary, my dear, ain't you old enough to know that you should not
credit people's looks? You should believe nothing nowadays; and I did
not believe the story about poor Lady Scatcherd. I know the doctor
well enough to be sure that he is not a marrying man."

"What a nasty, hackneyed, false phrase that is--that of a marrying
man! It sounds as though some men were in the habit of getting
married three or four times a month."

"It means a great deal all the same. One can tell very soon whether a
man is likely to marry or no."

"And can one tell the same of a woman?"

"The thing is so different. All unmarried women are necessarily in
the market; but if they behave themselves properly they make no
signs. Now there was Griselda Grantly; of course she intended to get
herself a husband, and a very grand one she has got: but she always
looked as though butter would not melt in her mouth. It would have
been very wrong to call her a marrying girl."

"Oh, of course she was," says Mrs. Gresham, with that sort of
acrimony which one pretty young woman so frequently expresses with
reference to another. "But if one could always tell of a woman, as
you say you can of a man, I should be able to tell of you. Now, I
wonder whether you are a marrying woman? I have never been able to
make up my mind yet."

Miss Dunstable remained silent for a few moments, as though she were
at first minded to take the question as being, in some sort, one made
in earnest; but then she attempted to laugh it off. "Well, I wonder
at that," said she, "as it was only the other day I told you how many
offers I had refused."

"Yes; but you did not tell me whether any had been made that you
meant to accept."

"None such was ever made to me. Talking of that, I shall never forget
your cousin, the Honourable George."

"He is not my cousin."

"Well, your husband's. It would not be fair to show a man's letters;
but I should like to show you his."

"You are determined, then, to remain single?"

"I didn't say that. But why do you cross-question me so?"

"Because I think so much about you. I am afraid that you will become
so afraid of men's motives as to doubt that any one can be honest.
And yet sometimes I think you would be a happier woman and a better
woman, if you were married."

"To such an one as the Honourable George, for instance?"

"No, not to such an one as him; you have probably picked out the
worst."

"Or to Mr. Sowerby?"

"Well, no; not to Mr. Sowerby, either. I would not have you marry any
man that looked to you for your money principally."

"And how is it possible that I should expect any one to look to me
principally for anything else? You don't see my difficulty, my dear?
If I had only five hundred a year, I might come across some decent
middle-aged personage, like myself, who would like me, myself, pretty
well, and would like my little income--pretty well also. He would not
tell me any violent lie, and perhaps no lie at all. I should take to
him in the same sort of way, and we might do very well. But, as it
is, how is it possible that any disinterested person should learn
to like me? How could such a man set about it? If a sheep have two
heads, is not the fact of the two heads the first and, indeed, only
thing which the world regards in that sheep? Must it not be so as a
matter of course? I am a sheep with two heads. All this money which
my father put together, and which has been growing since like grass
under May showers, has turned me into an abortion. I am not the
giantess eight feet high, or the dwarf that stands in the man's
hand--"

"Or the two-headed sheep--"

"But I am the unmarried woman with--half a dozen millions of
money--as I believe some people think. Under such circumstances have
I a fair chance of getting my own sweet bit of grass to nibble, like
any ordinary animal with one head? I never was very beautiful, and I
am not more so now than I was fifteen years ago."

"I am quite sure it is not that which hinders it. You would not call
yourself plain; and even plain women are married every day, and are
loved too, as well as pretty women."

"Are they? Well, we won't say more about that; but I don't expect a
great many lovers on account of my beauty. If ever you hear of such
an one, mind you tell me." It was almost on Mrs. Gresham's tongue to
say that she did know of one such--meaning her uncle. But in truth,
she did not know any such thing; nor could she boast to herself that
she had good grounds for feeling that it was so--certainly none
sufficient to justify her in speaking of it. Her uncle had said no
word to her on the matter, and had been confused and embarrassed when
the idea of such a marriage was hinted to him. But, nevertheless,
Mrs. Gresham did think that each of these two was well inclined to
love the other, and that they would be happier together than they
would be single. The difficulty, however, was very great, for the
doctor would be terribly afraid of being thought covetous in regard
to Miss Dunstable's money; and it would hardly be expected that she
should be induced to make the first overture to the doctor.

"My uncle would be the only man that I can think of that would be at
all fit for you," said Mrs. Gresham, boldly.

"What, and rob poor Lady Scatcherd!" said Miss Dunstable.

"Oh, very well. If you choose to make a joke of his name in that way
I have done."

"Why, God bless the girl, what does she want me to say? And as for
joking, surely that is innocent enough. You're as tender about the
doctor as though he were a girl of seventeen."

"It's not about him; but it's such a shame to laugh at poor dear Lady
Scatcherd. If she were to hear it she'd lose all comfort in having my
uncle near her."

"And I'm to marry him, so that she may be safe with her friend!"

"Very well; I have done." And Mrs. Gresham, who had already got
up from her seat, employed herself very sedulously in arranging
flowers which had been brought in for the drawing-room tables. Thus
they remained silent for a minute or two, during which she began to
reflect that, after all, it might probably be thought that she also
was endeavouring to catch the great heiress for her uncle.

"And now you are angry with me," said Miss Dunstable.

"No, I am not."

"Oh, but you are. Do you think I'm such a fool as not to see when a
person's vexed? You wouldn't have twitched that geranium's head off
if you'd been in a proper frame of mind."

"I don't like that joke about Lady Scatcherd."

"And is that all, Mary? Now do try and be true, it you can. You
remember the bishop? _Magna est veritas._"

"The fact is you've got into such a way of being sharp, and saying
sharp things among your friends up in London, that you can hardly
answer a person without it."

"Can't I! Dear, dear, what a Mentor you are, Mary! No poor lad that
ever ran up from Oxford for a spree in town got so lectured for his
dissipation and iniquities as I do. Well, I beg Dr. Thorne's pardon,
and Lady Scatcherd's, and I won't be sharp any more; and I will--let
me see, what was it I was to do? Marry him myself, I believe; was not
that it?"

"No; you're not half good enough for him."

"I know that. I'm quite sure of that. Though I am so sharp, I'm very
humble. You can't accuse me of putting any very great value on
myself."

"Perhaps not as much as you ought to do--on yourself."

"Now what do you mean, Mary? I won't be bullied and teased, and have
innuendoes thrown out at me, because you've got something on your
mind, and don't quite dare to speak it out. If you have got anything
to say, say it." But Mrs. Gresham did not choose to say it at that
moment. She held her peace, and went on arranging her flowers--now
with a more satisfied air, and without destruction to the geraniums.
And when she had grouped her bunches properly she carried the jar
from one part of the room to another, backwards and forwards, trying
the effect of the colours, as though her mind was quite intent upon
her flowers, and was for the moment wholly unoccupied with any other
subject. But Miss Dunstable was not the woman to put up with this.
She sat silent in her place, while her friend made one or two turns
about the room; and then she got up from her seat also.

"Mary," she said, "give over about those wretched bits of green
branches, and leave the jars where they are. You're trying to fidget
me into a passion."

"Am I?" said Mrs. Gresham, standing opposite to a big bowl, and
putting her head a little on one side, as though she could better
look at her handiwork in that position.

"You know you are; and it's all because you lack courage to speak
out. You didn't begin at me in this way for nothing."

"I do lack courage. That's just it," said Mrs. Gresham, still giving
a twist here and a set there to some of the small sprigs which
constituted the background of her bouquet. "I do lack courage--to
have ill motives imputed to me. I was thinking of saying something,
and I am afraid, and therefore I will not say it. And now, if you
like, I will be ready to take you out in ten minutes." But Miss
Dunstable was not going to be put off in this way. And to tell the
truth, I must admit that her friend Mrs. Gresham was not using her
altogether well. She should either have held her peace on the matter
altogether--which would probably have been her wiser course--or she
should have declared her own ideas boldly, feeling secure in her own
conscience as to her own motives. "I shall not stir from this room,"
said Miss Dunstable, "till I have had this matter out with you. And
as for imputations--my imputing bad motives to you--I don't know how
far you may be joking, and saying what you call sharp things to me;
but you have no right to think that I should think evil of you. If
you really do think so, it is treason to the love I have for you. If
I thought that you thought so, I could not remain in the house with
you. What, you are not able to know the difference which one makes
between one's real friends and one's mock friends! I don't believe
it of you, and I know you are only striving to bully me." And Miss
Dunstable now took her turn of walking up and down the room.

"Well, she shan't be bullied," said Mis. Gresham, leaving her
flowers, and putting her arm round her friend's waist;--"at least,
not here, in this house, although she is sometimes such a bully
herself."

"Mary, you have gone too far about this to go back. Tell me what
it was that was on your mind, and as far as it concerns me, I will
answer you honestly." Mrs. Gresham now began to repent that she had
made her little attempt. That uttering of hints in a half-joking
way was all very well, and might possibly bring about the desired
results, without the necessity of any formal suggestion on her part;
but now she was so brought to book that she must say something
formal. She must commit herself to the expression of her own wishes,
and to an expression also of an opinion as to what had been the
wishes of her friend; and this she must do without being able to say
anything as to the wishes of that third person. "Well," she said, "I
suppose you know what I meant."

"I suppose I did," said Miss Dunstable; "but it is not at all the
less necessary that you should say it out. I am not to commit myself
by my interpretation of your thoughts, while you remain perfectly
secure in having only hinted your own. I hate hints, as I do--the
mischief. I go in for the bishop's doctrine. _Magna est veritas._"

"Well, I don't know," said Mrs. Gresham.

"Ah! but I do," said Miss Dunstable. "And therefore go on, or for
ever hold your peace."

"That's just it," said Mrs. Gresham.

"What's just it?" said Miss Dunstable.

"The quotation out of the Prayer Book which you finished just now.
'If any of you know cause or just impediment why these two persons
should not be joined together in holy matrimony, ye are to declare
it. This is the first time of asking.' Do you know any cause, Miss
Dunstable?"

"Do you know any, Mrs. Gresham?"

"None, on my honour!" said the younger lady, putting her hand upon
her breast.

"Ah! but do you not?" and Miss Dunstable caught hold of her arm, and
spoke almost abruptly in her energy.

"No, certainly not. What impediment? If I did, I should not have
broached the subject. I declare I think you would both be very happy
together. Of course, there is one impediment; we all know that. That
must be your look out."

"What do you mean? What impediment?"

"Your own money."

"Psha! Did you find that an impediment in marrying Frank Gresham?"

"Ah! the matter was so different there. He had much more to give than
I had, when all was counted. And I had no money when we--when we were
first engaged." And the tears came into her eyes as she thought of
the circumstances of her early love;--all of which have been narrated
in the county chronicles of Barsetshire, and may now be read by men
and women interested therein.

"Yes; yours was a love match. I declare, Mary, I often think that you
are the happiest woman of whom I ever heard; to have it all to give,
when you were so sure that you were loved while you yet had nothing."

"Yes; I was sure," and she wiped the sweet tears from her eyes, as
she remembered a certain day when a certain youth had come to her,
claiming all kinds of privileges in a very determined manner. She had
been no heiress then. "Yes; I was sure. But now with you, dear, you
can't make yourself poor again. If you can trust no one--"

"I can. I can trust him. As regards that I do trust him altogether.
But how can I tell that he would care for me?"

"Do you not know that he likes you?"

"Ah, yes; and so he does Lady Scatcherd."

"Miss Dunstable!"

"And why not Lady Scatcherd, as well as me? We are of the same
kind--come from the same class."

"Not quite that, I think."

"Yes, from the same class; only I have managed to poke myself up
among dukes and duchesses, whereas she has been content to remain
where God placed her. Where I beat her in art, she beats me in
nature."

"You know you are talking nonsense."

"I think that we are both doing that--absolute nonsense; such as
schoolgirls of eighteen talk to each other. But there is a relief in
it; is there not? It would be a terrible curse to have to talk sense
always. Well, that's done; and now let us go out." Mrs. Gresham was
sure after this that Miss Dunstable would be a consenting party to
the little arrangement which she contemplated. But of that she had
felt but little doubt for some considerable time past. The difficulty
lay on the other side, and all that she had as yet done was to
convince herself that she would be safe in assuring her uncle of
success if he could be induced to take the enterprise in hand. He was
to come to Boxall Hill that evening, and to remain there for a day or
two. If anything could be done in the matter, now would be the time
for doing it. So at least thought Mrs. Gresham.

The doctor did come, and did remain for the allotted time at Boxall
Hill; but when he left, Mrs. Gresham had not been successful. Indeed,
he did not seem to enjoy his visit as was usual with him; and there
was very little of that pleasant friendly intercourse which for some
time past had been customary between him and Miss Dunstable. There
were no passages of arms between them; no abuse from the doctor
against the lady's London gaiety; no raillery from the lady as to the
doctor's country habits. They were very courteous to each other, and,
as Mrs. Gresham thought, too civil by half; nor, as far as she could
see, did they ever remain alone in each other's company for five
minutes at a time during the whole period of the doctor's visit.
What, thought Mrs. Gresham to herself,--what if she had set these two
friends at variance with each other, instead of binding them together
in the closest and most durable friendship! But still she had an idea
that, as she had begun to play this game, she must play it out. She
felt conscious that what she had done must do evil, unless she could
so carry it on as to make it result in good. Indeed, unless she could
so manage, she would have done a manifest injury to Miss Dunstable
in forcing her to declare her thoughts and feelings. She had already
spoken to her uncle in London, and though he had said nothing to show
that he approved of her plan, neither had he said anything to show
that he disapproved it. Therefore she had hoped through the whole of
those three days that he would make some sign,--at any rate to her;
that he would in some way declare what were his own thoughts on this
matter. But the morning of his departure came, and he had declared
nothing. "Uncle," she said, in the last five minutes of his sojourn
there, after he had already taken leave of Miss Dunstable and shaken
hands with Mrs. Gresham, "have you ever thought of what I said to you
up in London?"

"Yes, Mary; of course I have thought about it. Such an idea as that,
when put into a man's head, will make itself thought about."

"Well; and what next? Do talk to me about it. Do not be so hard and
unlike yourself."

"I have very little to say about it."

"I can tell you this for certain, you may if you like."

"Mary! Mary!"

"I would not say so if I were not sure that I should not lead you
into trouble."

"You are foolish in wishing this, my dear; foolish in trying to tempt
an old man into a folly."

"Not foolish if I know that it will make you both happier." He made
her no further reply, but stooping down that she might kiss him,
as was his wont, went his way, leaving her almost miserable in
the thought that she had troubled all these waters to no purpose.
What would Miss Dunstable think of her? But on that afternoon Miss
Dunstable seemed to be as happy and even-tempered as ever.


CHAPTER XXXIX

How to Write a Love Letter


Dr. Thorne, in the few words which he spoke to his niece before he
left Boxall Hill, had called himself an old man; but he was as yet on
the right side of sixty by five good years, and bore about with him
less of the marks of age than most men of fifty-five do bear. One
would have said, in looking at him, that there was no reason why he
should not marry if he found that such a step seemed good to him;
and, looking at the age of the proposed bride, there was nothing
unsuitable in that respect. But nevertheless he felt almost ashamed
of himself, in that he allowed himself even to think of the
proposition which his niece had made. He mounted his horse that day
at Boxall Hill--for he made all his journeys about the county on
horseback--and rode slowly home to Greshamsbury, thinking not so much
of the suggested marriage as of his own folly in thinking of it. How
could he be such an ass at his time of life as to allow the even
course of his way to be disturbed by any such idea? Of course he
could not propose to himself such a wife as Miss Dunstable without
having some thoughts as to her wealth; and it had been the pride of
his life so to live that the world might know that he was indifferent
about money. His profession was all in all to him; the air which he
breathed as well as the bread which he ate; and how could he follow
his profession if he made such a marriage as this? She would expect
him to go to London with her; and what would he become, dangling
at her heels there, known only to the world as the husband of the
richest woman in the town? The kind of life was one which would be
unsuitable to him; and yet, as he rode home, he could not resolve to
rid himself of the idea. He went on thinking of it, though he still
continued to condemn himself for keeping it in his thoughts. That
night at home he would make up his mind, so he declared to himself;
and would then write to his niece begging her to drop the subject.
Having so far come to a resolution he went on meditating what course
of life it might be well for him to pursue if he and Miss Dunstable
should after all become man and wife.

There were two ladies whom it behoved him to see on the day of
his arrival--whom, indeed, he generally saw every day except when
absent from Greshamsbury. The first of these--first in the general
consideration of the people of the place--was the wife of the squire,
Lady Arabella Gresham, a very old patient of the doctor's. Her it was
his custom to visit early in the afternoon; and then, if he were able
to escape the squire's daily invitation to dinner, he customarily
went to the other, Lady Scatcherd, when the rapid meal in his own
house was over. Such, at least, was his summer practice. "Well,
doctor, how are they at Boxall Hill?" said the squire, way-laying him
on the gravel sweep before the door. The squire was very hard set for
occupation in these summer months.

"Quite well, I believe."

"I don't know what's come to Frank. I think he hates this place now.
He's full of the election, I suppose."

"Oh, yes; he told me to say he should be over here soon. Of course
there'll be no contest, so he need not trouble himself."

"Happy dog, isn't he, doctor? to have it all before him instead of
behind him. Well, well; he's as good a lad as ever lived--as ever
lived. And let me see; Mary's time--" And then there were a few very
important words spoken on that subject.

"I'll just step up to Lady Arabella now," said the doctor.

"She's as fretful as possible," said the squire. "I've just left
her."

"Nothing special the matter, I hope?"

"No, I think not; nothing in your way, that is; only specially
cross, which always comes in my way. You'll stop and dine to-day,
of course?"

"Not to-day, squire."

"Nonsense; you will. I have been quite counting on you. I have a
particular reason for wanting to have you to-day--a most particular
reason." But the squire always had his particular reasons.

"I'm very sorry, but it is impossible to-day. I shall have a letter
to write that I must sit down to seriously. Shall I see you when I
come down from her ladyship?" The squire turned away sulkily, almost
without answering him, for he now had no prospect of any alleviation
to the tedium of the evening; and the doctor went upstairs to his
patient. For Lady Arabella, though it cannot be said that she was
ill, was always a patient. It must not be supposed that she kept her
bed and swallowed daily doses, or was prevented from taking her share
in such prosy gaieties as came from time to time in the way of her
prosy life; but it suited her turn of mind to be an invalid and to
have a doctor; and as the doctor whom her good fates had placed at
her elbow thoroughly understood her case, no great harm was done.

"It frets me dreadfully that I cannot get to see Mary," Lady Arabella
said, as soon as the first ordinary question as to her ailments had
been asked and answered.

"She's quite well, and will be over to see you before long."

"Now I beg that she won't. She never thinks of coming when there can
be no possible objection, and travelling, at the present moment,
would be--" Whereupon the Lady Arabella shook her head very gravely.
"Only think of the importance of it, doctor," she said. "Remember the
enormous stake there is to be considered."

"It would not do her a ha'porth of harm if the stake were twice as
large."

"Nonsense, doctor, don't tell me; as if I didn't know myself. I was
very much against her going to London this spring, but of course what
I said was overruled. It always is. I do believe Mr. Gresham went
over to Boxall Hill, on purpose to induce her to go. But what does he
care? He's fond of Frank; but he never thinks of looking beyond the
present day. He never did, as you know well enough, doctor."

"The trip did her all the good in the world," said Dr. Thorne,
preferring anything to a conversation respecting the squire's sins.

"I very well remember that when I was in that way it wasn't thought
that such trips would do me any good. But, perhaps, things are
altered since then."

"Yes, they are," said the doctor. "We don't interfere so much
nowadays."

"I know I never asked for such amusements when so much depended on
quietness. I remember before Frank was born--and, indeed, when all of
them were born-- But, as you say, things were different then; and I
can easily believe that Mary is a person quite determined to have her
own way."

"Why, Lady Arabella, she would have stayed at home without wishing to
stir if Frank had done so much as hold up his little finger."

"So did I always. If Mr. Gresham made the slightest hint I gave way.
But I really don't see what one gets in return for such implicit
obedience. Now this year, doctor, of course I should have liked
to have been up in London for a week or two. You seemed to think
yourself that I might as well see Sir Omicron."

"There could be no possible objection, I said."

"Well; no; exactly; and as Mr. Gresham knew I wished it, I think he
might as well have offered it. I suppose there can be no reason now
about money."

"But I understood that Mary specially asked you and Augusta?"


"Yes; Mary was very good. She did ask me. But I know very well that
Mary wants all the room she has got in London. The house is not at
all too large for herself, And, for the matter of that, my sister,
the countess, was very anxious that I should be with her. But one
does like to be independent if one can, and for one fortnight I do
think that Mr. Gresham might have managed it. When I knew that he was
so dreadfully out at elbows I never troubled him about it,--though,
goodness knows, all that was never my fault."

"The squire hates London. A fortnight there in warm weather would
nearly be the death of him."

"He might at any rate have paid me the compliment of asking me.
The chances are ten to one I should not have gone. It is that
indifference that cuts me so. He was here just now, and would you
believe it?--"

But the doctor was determined to avoid further complaint for the
present day. "I wonder what you would feel, Lady Arabella, if the
squire were to take it into his head to go away and amuse himself,
leaving you at home. There are worse men than Mr. Gresham, if you
will believe me." All this was an allusion to Earl de Courcy, her
ladyship's brother, as Lady Arabella very well understood; and the
argument was one which was very often used to silence her.

"Upon my word, then, I should like it better than his hanging about
here doing nothing but attend to those nasty dogs. I really sometimes
think that he has no spirit left."

"You are mistaken there, Lady Arabella," said the doctor, rising with
his hat in his hand, and making his escape without further parley. As
he went home he could not but think that that phase of married life
was not a very pleasant one. Mr. Gresham and his wife were supposed
by the world to live on the best of terms. They always inhabited the
same house, went out together when they did go out, always sat in
their respective corners in the family pew, and in their wildest
dreams after the happiness of novelty never thought of Sir Cresswell
Cresswell. In some respects--with regard, for instance, to the
continued duration of their joint domesticity at the family mansion
of Greshamsbury--they might have been taken for a pattern couple. But
yet, as far as the doctor could see, they did not seem to add much to
the happiness of each other. They loved each other, doubtless, and
had either of them been in real danger, that danger would have made
the other miserable; but yet it might well be a question whether
either would not be more comfortable without the other.

The doctor, as was his custom, dined at five, and at seven he went
up to the cottage of his old friend Lady Scatcherd. Lady Scatcherd
was not a refined woman, having in her early days been a labourer's
daughter, and having then married a labourer. But her husband had
risen in the world--as has been told in those chronicles before
mentioned,--and his widow was now Lady Scatcherd with a pretty
cottage and a good jointure. She was in all things the very opposite
to Lady Arabella Gresham; nevertheless, under the doctor's auspices,
the two ladies were in some measure acquainted with each other. Of
her married life, also, Dr. Thorne had seen something, and it may
be questioned whether the memory of that was more alluring than the
reality now existing at Greshamsbury. Of the two women Dr. Thorne
much preferred his humbler friend, and to her he made his visits not
in the guise of a doctor, but as a neighbour. "Well, my lady," he
said, as he sat down by her on a broad garden seat--all the world
called Lady Scatcherd "my lady,"--"and how do these long summer days
agree with you? Your roses are twice better out than any I see up at
the big house."

"You may well call them long, doctor. They're long enough surely."

"But not too long. Come, now, I won't have you complaining. You don't
mean to tell me that you have anything to make you wretched? You had
better not, for I won't believe you."

"Eh; well; wretched! I don't know as I'm wretched. It'd be wicked to
say that, and I with such comforts about me."

"I think it would, almost." The doctor did not say this harshly, but
in a soft, friendly tone, and pressing her hand gently as he spoke.

"And I didn't mean to be wicked. I'm very thankful for
everything--leastways, I always try to be. But, doctor, it is so
lonely like."

"Lonely! not more lonely than I am."

"Oh, yes; you're different. You can go everywheres. But what can a
lone woman do? I'll tell you what, doctor; I'd give it all up to have
Roger back with his apron on and his pick in his hand. How well I
mind his look when he'd come home o' nights!"

"And yet it was a hard life you had then, eh, old woman? It would be
better for you to be thankful for what you've got."

"I am thankful. Didn't I tell you so before?" said she, somewhat
crossly. "But it's a sad life, this living alone. I declares I envy
Hannah, 'cause she's got Jemima to sit in the kitchen with her. I
want her to sit with me sometimes, but she won't."

"Ah! but you shouldn't ask her. It's letting yourself down."

"What do I care about down or up? It makes no difference, as he's
gone. If he had lived one might have cared about being up, as you
call it. Eh, deary; I'll be going after him before long, and it will
be no matter then."

"We shall all be going after him, sooner or later; that's sure
enough."

"Eh, dear, that's true surely. It's only a span long, as Parson Oriel
tells us, when he gets romantic in his sermons. But it's a hard
thing, doctor, when two is married, as they can't have their span,
as he calls it, out together. Well I must only put up with it, I
suppose, as others does. Now, you're not going, doctor? You'll stop
and have a dish of tea with me. You never see such cream as Hannah
has from the Alderney cow. Do'ey now, doctor." But the doctor had
his letter to write, and would not allow himself to be tempted even
by the promise of Hannah's cream. So he went his way, angering Lady
Scatcherd by his departure as he had before angered the squire, and
thinking as he went which was most unreasonable in her wretchedness,
his friend Lady Arabella or his friend Lady Scatcherd. The former
was always complaining of an existing husband who never refused her
any moderate request; and the other passed her days in murmuring at
the loss of a dead husband, who in his life had ever been to her
imperious and harsh, and had sometimes been cruel and unjust.

The doctor had his letter to write, but even yet he had not quite
made up his mind what he would put into it; indeed, he had not
hitherto resolved to whom it should be written. Looking at the matter
as he had endeavoured to look at it, his niece, Mrs. Gresham, would
be his correspondent; but if he brought himself to take this jump
in the dark, in that case he would address himself direct to Miss
Dunstable. He walked home, not by the straightest road, but taking
a considerable curve, round by narrow lanes, and through thick
flower-laden hedges,--very thoughtful. He was told that she wished to
marry him; and was he to think only of himself? And as to that pride
of his about money, was it in truth a hearty, manly feeling; or was
it a false pride, of which it behoved him to be ashamed as it did of
many cognate feelings? If he acted rightly in this matter, why should
he be afraid of the thoughts of any one? A life of solitude was
bitter enough, as poor Lady Scatcherd had complained. But then,
looking at Lady Scatcherd, and looking also at his other near
neighbour, his friend the squire, there was little thereabouts to
lead him on to matrimony. So he walked home slowly through the lanes,
very meditative, with his hands behind his back. Nor when he got home
was he much more inclined to any resolute line of action. He might
have drunk his tea with Lady Scatcherd, as well as have sat there in
his own drawing-room, drinking it alone; for he got no pen and paper,
and he dawdled over his teacup with the utmost dilatoriness, putting
off, as it were, the evil day. To only one thing was he fixed--to
this, namely, that that letter should be written before he went to
bed.

Having finished his tea, which did not take place till near eleven,
he went downstairs to an untidy little room which lay behind his
dépôt of medicines, and in which he was wont to do his writing; and
herein he did at last set himself down to his work. Even at that
moment he was in doubt. But he would write his letter to Miss
Dunstable and see how it looked. He was almost determined not to send
it; so, at least, he said to himself: but he could do no harm by
writing it. So he did write it, as follows:--"Greshamsbury, June,
185--. My dear Miss Dunstable--" When he had got so far, he leaned
back in his chair and looked at the paper. How on earth was he to
find words to say that which he now wished to have said? He had never
written such a letter in his life, or anything approaching to it, and
now found himself overwhelmed with a difficulty of which he had not
previously thought. He spent another half-hour in looking at the
paper, and was at last nearly deterred by this new difficulty. He
would use the simplest, plainest language, he said to himself over
and over again; but it is not always easy to use simple, plain
language,--by no means so easy as to mount on stilts, and to march
along with sesquipodalian words, with pathos, spasms, and notes of
interjection. He gave great offence to James II.
by his preaching against Roman Catholicism.

   This is the same Archbishop Sharp who prevented Swift's appointment
to a bishopric, by urging that the author of "A Tale of a Tub" was
not a proper person to hold such an office.

   See note prefixed to "A Tale of a Tub," vol. i., p.
   xcvi, of this edition of Swift's Works. [T.S.]]
   It is indeed very true, that after King William was settled
   on the English throne, the Presbyterians began to appear,
   and offer their credentials, and demand favour; and the
   new King having been originally bred a Calvinist, was
   desirous enough to make them easy (if that would do it) by
   a legal toleration; although in his heart he never bore
   much affection to that sect; nor designed to favour them farther
than it stood with the present scheme of politics: as I have long
since been assured by the greatest men of Whig principles at that
time in England.

   It is likewise true, nor will it be denied; that when the
   King was possessed of the English crown; and the remainder
   of the quarrel was left to be decided in this kingdom;
   the Presbyterians wisely chose to join with the Protestant
   army, rather than with that of King James their old friend,
   whose affairs were then in a manner desperate. They were
   wise enough to know, that this kingdom, divided against
   itself, could never prevail against the united power of
   England. They fought _pro aris et focis_; for their estates
   and religion; which latter will never suffer so much by
   the Church of England as by that of Rome, where they
   are counted heretics as well as we: and consequently they
   have no other game to play. But, what merit they can
   build upon having joined with a Protestant army, under a
   King they acknowledged, to defend their own liberties
   and properties against a Popish enemy under an abdicated
   King; is, I confess to me absolutely inconceivable; and I believe
will equally be so for ever, to any reasonable man.

   When these sectaries were several years ago making the
   same attempt for abolishing the Test, many groundless
   reports were industriously and seasonably spread, of an
   invasion threatened by the Pretender on the north of Ireland.
   At which time the Presbyterians in their pamphlets, argued in a
menacing manner, that if the Pretender should invade those parts
of the kingdom, where the numbers and estates of dissenters chiefly
lay; they would sit still, and let us fight our own battles;[12]
since they were to reap no advantage, whichever side should be
victors.

   If this were the course they intended to take in
   such a case; I should desire to know, how they could contrive
safely to stand neuters, otherwise than by a compact with the
Pretender and his army, to support their neutrality, and protect
them against the forces of the Crown?

   This is a necessary supposition; because they must otherwise have
inevitably been a prey to both.

   However, by this frank declaration, they sufficiently shewed their
good-will; and confirmed the common charge laid at their door; that
a Scottish or northern Presbyterian hates our Episcopal Established
Church more than Popery itself.

And, the reason for this hatred, is natural enough; because it is the
Church alone, that stands in the way between them and power, which
Popery doth not.

[Footnote 12: See the poem, reprinted by Monck Mason ("History of
St.
Patrick's," p. 388 note), entitled:

"The Grunters' request To take off the Test,"
in which the poet advises his "lauds" to "faight y'er ain battel."
[T.S.]]
The breakfast hour was not very early at Boxall Hill in these summer
months. Frank Gresham, no doubt, went round his farm before he came
in for prayers, and his wife was probably looking to the butter
in the dairy. At any rate, they did not meet till near ten, and
therefore, though the ride from Greshamsbury to Boxall Hill was
nearly two hours' work, Miss Dunstable had her letter in her own room
before she came down. She read it in silence as she was dressing,
while the maid was with her in the room; but she made no sign which
could induce her Abigail to think that the epistle was more than
ordinarily important. She read it, and then quietly refolding it and
placing it in the envelope, she put it down on the table at which she
was sitting. It was full fifteen minutes afterwards that she begged
her servant to see if Mrs. Gresham were still in her own room.
"Because I want to see her for five minutes, alone, before
breakfast," said Miss Dunstable.

"You traitor; you false, black traitor!" were the first words which
Miss Dunstable spoke when she found herself alone with her friend.

"Why, what's the matter?"

"I did not think there was so much mischief in you, nor so keen and
commonplace a desire for match-making. Look here. Read the first four
lines; not more, if you please; the rest is private. Whose is the
other judgement of whom your uncle speaks in his letter?"

"Oh, Miss Dunstable! I must read it all."

"Indeed you'll do no such thing. You think it's a love-letter, I dare
say; but indeed there's not a word about love in it."

"I know he has offered. I shall be so glad, for I know you like him."

"He tells me that I am an old woman, and insinuates that I may
probably be an old fool."

"I am sure he does not say that."

"Ah! but I'm sure that he does. The former is true enough, and I
never complain of the truth. But as to the latter, I am by no means
so certain that it is true--not in the sense that he means it."

"Dear, dearest woman, don't go on in that way now. Do speak out to
me, and speak without jesting."

"Whose was the other judgement to whom he trusts so implicitly? Tell
me that."

"Mine, mine, of course. No one else can have spoken to him about it.
Of course I talked to him."

"And what did you tell him?"

"I told him--"

"Well, out with it. Let me have the real facts. Mind, I tell you
fairly that you had no right to tell him anything. What passed
between us, passed in confidence. But let us hear what you did say."

"I told him that you would have him if he offered." And Mrs. Gresham,
as she spoke, looked into her friend's face doubtingly, not knowing
whether in very truth Miss Dunstable were pleased with her or
displeased. If she were displeased, then how had her uncle been
deceived!

"You told him that as a fact?"

"I told him that I thought so."

"Then I suppose I am bound to have him," said Miss Dunstable,
dropping the letter on to the floor in mock despair.

"My dear, dear, dearest woman!" said Mrs. Gresham, bursting into
tears, and throwing herself on to her friend's neck.

"Mind you are a dutiful niece," said Miss Dunstable. "And now let me
go and finish dressing." In the course of the afternoon, an answer
was sent back to Greshamsbury, in these words:--


   DEAR DR. THORNE,

   I do and will trust you in everything; and it shall be as
   you would have it. Mary writes to you; but do not believe
   a word she says. I never will again, for she has behaved
   so bad in this matter.

   Yours affectionately and very truly,

   MARTHA DUNSTABLE.


"And so I am going to marry the richest woman in England," said Dr.
Thorne to himself, as he sat down that day to his mutton-chop.


CHAPTER XL

Internecine


It must be conceived that there was some feeling of triumph at
Plumstead Episcopi, when the wife of the rector returned home with
her daughter, the bride elect of the Lord Dumbello. The heir of the
Marquess of Hartletop was, in wealth, the most considerable unmarried
young nobleman of the day; he was noted, too, as a man difficult to
be pleased, as one who was very fine and who gave himself airs; and
to have been selected as the wife of such a man as this was a great
thing for the daughter of a parish clergyman. We have seen in what
manner the happy girl's mother communicated the fact to Lady Lufton,
hiding, as it were, her pride under a veil; and we have seen also how
meekly the happy girl bore her own great fortune, applying herself
humbly to the packing of her clothes, as though she ignored her own
glory. But nevertheless there was triumph at Plumstead Episcopi.
The mother, when she returned home, began to feel that she had been
thoroughly successful in the great object of her life. While she was
yet in London she had hardly realized her satisfaction, and there
were doubts then whether the cup might not be dashed from her lips
before it was tasted. It might be that even the son of the Marquess
of Hartletop was subject to parental authority, and that barriers
should spring up between Griselda and her coronet; but there had
been nothing of the kind. The archdeacon had been closeted with the
marquess, and Mrs. Grantly had been closeted with the marchioness;
and though neither of those noble persons had expressed themselves
gratified by their son's proposed marriage, so also neither of them
had made any attempt to prevent it. Lord Dumbello was a man who had
a will of his own--as the Grantlys boasted amongst themselves. Poor
Griselda! the day may perhaps come when this fact of her lord's
masterful will may not to her be matter of much boasting. But in
London, as I was saying, there had been no time for an appreciation
of the family joy. The work to be done was nervous in its nature,
and self-glorification might have been fatal; but now, when they were
safe at Plumstead, the great truth, burst upon them in all its
splendour.

Mrs. Grantly had but one daughter, and the formation of that child's
character and her establishment in the world had been the one main
object of the mother's life. Of Griselda's great beauty the Plumstead
household had long been conscious; of her discretion also, of her
conduct, and of her demeanour there had been no doubt. But the father
had sometimes hinted to the mother that he did not think that Grizzy
was quite so clever as her brothers. "I don't agree with you at all,"
Mrs. Grantly had answered. "Besides, what you call cleverness is not
at all necessary in a girl; she is perfectly lady-like; even you
won't deny that." The archdeacon had never wished to deny it, and
was now fain to admit that what he had called cleverness was not
necessary in a young lady. At this period of the family glory the
archdeacon himself was kept a little in abeyance, and was hardly
allowed free intercourse with his own magnificent child. Indeed, to
give him his due, it must be said of him that he would not consent
to walk in the triumphal procession which moved with stately step,
to and fro, through the Barchester regions. He kissed his daughter
and blessed her, and bade her love her husband and be a good wife;
but such injunctions as these, seeing how splendidly she had done
her duty in securing to herself a marquess, seemed out of place and
almost vulgar. Girls about to marry curates or sucking barristers
should be told to do their duty in that station of life to which God
might be calling them; but it seemed to be almost an impertinence in
a father to give such an injunction to a future marchioness.

"I do not think that you have any ground for fear on her behalf,"
said Mrs. Grantly, "seeing in what way she has hitherto conducted
herself."

"She has been a good girl," said the archdeacon, "but she is about
to be placed in a position of great temptation."

"She has a strength of mind suited for any position," replied Mrs.
Grantly, vaingloriously. But nevertheless even the archdeacon moved
about through the close at Barchester with a somewhat prouder step
since the tidings of this alliance had become known there. The time
had been--in the latter days of his father's lifetime--when he was
the greatest man of the close. The dean had been old and infirm, and
Dr. Grantly had wielded the bishop's authority. But since that things
had altered. A new bishop had come there, absolutely hostile to
him. A new dean had also come, who was not only his friend, but the
brother-in-law of his wife; but even this advent had lessened the
authority of the archdeacon. The vicars choral did not hang upon
his words as they had been wont to do, and the minor canons smiled
in return to his smile less obsequiously when they met him in
the clerical circles of Barchester. But now it seemed that his
old supremacy was restored to him. In the minds of many men an
archdeacon, who was the father-in-law of a marquess, was himself
as good as any bishop. He did not say much of his new connexion
to others beside the dean, but he was conscious of the fact, and
conscious also of the reflected glory which shone around his own
head.

But as regards Mrs. Grantly it may be said that she moved in an
unending procession of stately ovation. It must not be supposed that
she continually talked to her friends and neighbours of Lord Dumbello
and the marchioness. She was by far too wise for such folly as that.
The coming alliance having been once announced, the name of Hartletop
was hardly mentioned by her out of her own domestic circle. But she
assumed, with an ease that was surprising even to herself, the airs
and graces of a mighty woman. She went through her work of morning
calls as though it were her business to be affable to the country
gentry. She astonished her sister, the dean's wife, by the simplicity
of her grandeur; and condescended to Mrs. Proudie in a manner which
nearly broke that lady's heart. "I shall be even with her yet," said
Mrs. Proudie to herself, who had contrived to learn various very
deleterious circumstances respecting the Hartletop family since
the news about Lord Dumbello and Griselda had become known to her.
I shall therefore go on to relate some other causes of this nation's
poverty, by which, if they continue much longer, it must infallibly
sink to utter ruin.

The first is, that monstrous pride and vanity in both sexes,
especially the weaker sex, who, in the midst of poverty, are suffered
to run into all kind of expense and extravagance in dress, and
particularly priding themselves to wear nothing but what cometh from
abroad, disdaining the growth or manufacture of their own country,
in those articles where they can be better served at home with
half the expense; and this is grown to such a height, that they will
carry the whole yearly rent of a good estate at once on their body.
And, as there is in that sex a spirit of envy, by which they cannot
endure to see others in a better habit than themselves, so those,
whose fortunes can hardly support their families in the necessaries
of life, will needs vie with the richest and greatest amongst us,
to the ruin of themselves and their posterity.

Neither are the men less guilty of this pernicious folly,
who, in imitation of a gaudiness and foppery of dress, introduced
of late years into our neighbouring kingdom, (as fools are apt
to imitate only the defects of their betters,) cannot find materials
in their own country worthy to adorn their bodies of clay, while
their minds are naked of every valuable quality.

Thus our tradesmen and shopkeepers, who deal in home goods,
are left in a starving condition, and only those encouraged who ruin
the kingdom by importing among us foreign vanities.

Another cause of our low condition is our great luxury, the chief
support of which is the materials of it brought to the nation in
exchange for the few valuable things left us, whereby so many
thousand families want the very necessaries of life.

_Thirdly_, In most parts of this kingdom the natives are from their
infancy so given up to idleness and sloth, that they often choose
to beg or steal, rather than support themselves with their own labour;
they marry without the least view or thought of being able to make
any provision for their families; and whereas, in all industrious
nations, children are looked on as a help to their parents; with us,
for want of being early trained to work, they are an intolerable
burthen at home, and a grievous charge upon the public, as appeareth
from the vast number of ragged and naked children in town and
country, led about by strolling women, trained up in ignorance and
all manner of vice.

_Lastly_, A great cause of this nation's misery, is that Egyptian
bondage of cruel, oppressing, covetous landlords, expecting that
all who live under them should make bricks without straw, who
grieve and envy when they see a tenant of their own in a whole
coat, or able to afford one comfortable meal in a month, by
which the spirits of the people are broken, and made for slavery;
the farmers and cottagers, almost through the whole kingdom, being
to all intents and purposes as real beggars as any of those to whom
we give our charity in the streets. And these cruel landlords are
every day unpeopling their kingdom, by forbidding their miserable
tenants to till the earth, against common reason and justice, and
contrary to the practice and prudence of all other nations, by which
numberless families have been forced either to leave the kingdom,
or stroll about, and increase the number of our thieves and
beggars.

Such, and much worse, is our condition at present, if I had leisure
or liberty to lay it before you; and, therefore, the next thing
which might be considered is, whether there may be any probable
remedy found, at the least against some part of these evils;
for most of them are wholly desperate.

But this being too large a subject to be now handled, and the intent
of my discourse confining me to give some directions concerning the
poor of this city, I shall keep myself within those limits. It is
indeed in the power of the lawgivers to found a school in every
parish of the kingdom, for teaching the meaner and poorer sort of
children to speak and read the English tongue, and to provide a
reasonable maintenance for the teachers.

This would, in time, abolish that part of barbarity and ignorance,
for which our natives are so despised by all foreigners: this would
bring them to think and act according to the rules of reason, by
which a spirit of industry, and thrift, and honesty would be
introduced among them.

And, indeed, considering how small a tax would suffice for such a
work, it is a public scandal that such a thing should never have been
endeavoured, or, perhaps, so much as thought on.

To supply the want of such a law, several pious persons, in many
parts of this kingdom, have been prevailed on, by the great endeavours
and good example set them by the clergy, to erect charity-schools in
several parishes, to which very often the richest parishioners
contribute the least. In those schools, children are, or ought to
be, trained up to read and write, and cast accounts; and these
children should, if possible, be of honest parents, gone to decay
through age, sickness, or other unavoidable calamity, by the hand
of God; not the brood of wicked strollers; for it is by no means
reasonable, that the charity of well-inclined people should be
applied to encourage the lewdness of those profligate, abandoned
women, who crowd our streets with their borrowed or spurious issue.

In those hospitals which have good foundations and rents to support
them, whereof, to the scandal of Christianity, there are very few
in this kingdom; I say, in such hospitals, the children maintained
ought to be only of decayed citizens, and freemen, and be bred up
to good trades.

But in these small-parish charity-schools which have no support, but
the casual goodwill of charitable people, I do altogether disapprove
the custom of putting the children 'prentice, except to the very
meanest trades; otherwise the poor honest citizen, who is just able
to bring up his child, and pay a small sum of money with him to a
good master, is wholly defeated, and the bastard issue, perhaps,
of some beggar preferred before him.

And hence we come to be so overstocked with 'prentices and journeymen,
more than our discouraged country can employ; and, I fear, the
greatest part of our thieves, pickpockets, and other vagabonds are
of this number.

Therefore, in order to make these parish charity-schools of great
and universal use, I agree with the opinion of many wise persons,
that a new turn should be given to this whole matter.

I think there is no complaint more just than what we find in almost
every family, of the folly and ignorance, the fraud and knavery,
the idleness and viciousness, the wasteful squandering temper of
servants, who are, indeed, become one of the many public grievances
of the kingdom; whereof, I believe, there are few masters that now
hear me who are not convinced by their own experience.

And I am not very confident, that more families, of all degrees, have
been ruined by the corruptions of servants, than by all other
causes put together.

Neither is this to be wondered at, when we consider from what
nurseries so many of them are received into our houses. The first
is the tribe of wicked boys, wherewith most corners of this town
are pestered, who haunt public doors. These, having been born of
beggars, and bred to pilfer as soon as they can go or speak, as
years come on, are employed in the lowest offices to get themselves
bread, are practised in all manner of villainy, and when they are
grown up, if they are not entertained in a gang of thieves, are
forced to seek for a service.

The other nursery is the barbarous and desert part of the country, from
whence such lads come up hither to seek their fortunes, who are
bred up from the dunghill in idleness, ignorance, lying, and thieving.
From these two nurseries, I say, a great number of our servants come
to us, sufficient to corrupt all the rest. Thus, the whole race of
servants in this kingdom have gotten so ill a reputation, that some
persons from England, come over hither into great stations, are
said to have absolutely refused admitting any servant born among us
into their families. Neither can they be justly blamed; for although
it is not impossible to find an honest native fit for a good
service, yet the inquiry is too troublesome, and the hazard too great
for a stranger to attempt.

If we consider the many misfortunes that befall private families, it
will be found that servants are the causes and instruments of
them all:
Are our goods embezzled, wasted and destroyed? Is our house burnt
down to the ground? It is by the sloth, the drunkenness or the
villainy of servants.

Are we robbed and murdered in our beds? It is by confederacy with our
servants. Are we engaged in quarrels and misunderstandings with our
neighbours? These were all begun and inflamed by the false, malicious
tongues of our servants.

Are the secrets of our families betrayed, and evil repute spread
of us? Our servants were the authors.
Do false accusers rise up against us (an evil too frequent in this
country)? They have been tampering with our servants. Do our children
discover folly, malice, pride, cruelty, revenge, undutifulness in
their words and actions? Are they seduced to lewdness or scandalous
marriages?
It is all by our servants. Nay, the very mistakes, follies, blunders,
and absurdities of those in our service, are able to ruffle and
discompose the mildest nature, and are often of such consequence,
as to put whole families into confusion.

Since therefore not only our domestic peace and quiet, and the
welfare of our children, but even the very safety of our lives,
reputations, and fortunes have so great a dependence upon the choice
of our servants, I think it would well become the wisdom of the
nation to make some provision in so important an affair.

But in the meantime, and, perhaps, to better purpose, it were to
be wished, that the children of both sexes, entertained in the
parish charity-schools, were bred up in such a manner as would give
them a teachable disposition, and qualify them to learn whatever
is required in any sort of service.

For instance, they should be taught to read and write, to know
somewhat in casting accounts, to understand the principles of
religion, to practise cleanliness, to get a spirit of honesty,
industry, and thrift, and be severely punished for every neglect
in any of these particulars.

For, it is the misfortune of mankind, that if they are not used to
be taught in their early childhood, whereby to acquire what I call
a teachable disposition, they cannot, without great difficulty,
learn the easiest thing in the course of their lives, but are always
awkward and unhandy; their minds, as well as bodies, for want of
early practice, growing stiff and unmanageable, as we observe in
the sort of gentlemen, who, kept from school by the indulgence of
their parents but a few years, are never able to recover the time
they have lost, and grow up in ignorance and all manner of vice,
whereof we have too many examples all over the nation.

But to return to what I was saying: If these charity children were
trained up in the manner I mentioned, and then bound apprentices
in the families of gentlemen and citizens, (for which a late law
giveth great encouragement) being accustomed from their first
entrance to be always learning some useful thing, [they] would
learn, in a month, more than another, without those advantages, can
do in a year; and, in the meantime, be very useful in a family, as
far as their age and strength would allow.

And when such children come to years of discretion, they will
probably be a useful example to their fellow-servants, at least
they will prove a strong check upon the rest; for, I suppose,
everybody will allow, that one good, honest, diligent servant in a
house may prevent abundance of mischief in the family.

These are the reasons for which I urge this matter so strongly, and
I hope those who listen to me will consider them.

I shall now say something about that great number of poor, who, under
the name of common beggars, infest our streets, and fill our ears
with their continual cries, and craving importunity. This I shall
venture to call an unnecessary evil, brought upon us for the gross
neglect, and want of proper management, in those whose duty it is
to prevent it.

But before I proceed farther, let me humbly presume to vindicate the
justice and mercy of God and His dealings with mankind. Upon this
particular He hath not dealt so hardly with His creatures as some would
imagine, when they see so many miserable objects ready to perish for
want: For it would infallibly be found, upon strict enquiry, that
there is hardly one in twenty of those miserable objects who do
not owe their present poverty to their own faults, to their present
sloth and negligence, to their indiscreet marriage without the least
prospect of supporting a family, to their foolish expensiveness,
to their drunkenness, and other vices, by which they have squandered
their gettings, and contracted diseases in their old age.

And, to speak freely, is it any way reasonable or just, that those
who have denied themselves many lawful satisfactions and conveniences
of life, from a principle of conscience, as well as prudence,
that they might not be a burthen to the public, should be charged
with supporting others, who have brought themselves to less than a
morsel of bread by their idleness, extravagance, and vice?

Yet such, and no other, are far the greatest number not only in those
who beg in our streets, but even of what we call poor decayed
housekeepers, whom we are apt to pity as real objects of charity,
and distinguish them from common beggars, although, in truth, they
both owe their undoing to the same causes; only the former is either
too nicely bred to endure walking half naked in the streets, or too
proud to own their wants.

For the artificer or other tradesman, who pleadeth he is
grown too old to work or look after business, and therefore
expecteth assistance as a decayed housekeeper; may we not ask
him, why he did not take care, in his youth and strength of days,
to make some provision against old age, when he saw so many examples
before him of people undone by their idleness and vicious
extravagance? And to go a little higher; whence cometh it that so many
citizens and shopkeepers, of the most creditable trade, who once
made a good figure, go to decay by their expensive pride and vanity,
affecting to educate and dress their children above their abilities,
or the state of life they ought to expect?

However, since the best of us have too many infirmities to answer
for, we ought not to be severe upon those of others; and therefore
if our brother, through grief, or sickness, or other incapacity,
is not in a condition to preserve his being, we ought to support him
to the best of our power, without reflecting over seriously on the
causes that brought him to his misery. But in order to this, and
to turn our charity into its proper channel, we ought to consider who
and where those objects are, whom it is chiefly incumbent upon us
to support.

By the ancient law of this realm, still in force, every parish is
obliged to maintain its own poor, which although some may think to
be not very equal, because many parishes are very rich, and have
few poor among them, and others the contrary; yet, I think, may
be justly defended: For as to remote country parishes in the
desert part of the kingdom, the necessaries of life are there so
cheap, that the infirm poor may be provided for with little burden to
the inhabitants. But in what I am going to say, I shall confine
myself only to this city, where we are overrun not only with our own
poor, but with a far greater number from every part of the nation.

"The man you speak of, Mrs.
Grantly," said she, "was never known as a friend by Mr. Tickler."

"Oh, indeed," said Mrs. Grantly. "Perhaps I have made a mistake. I am
sure I have heard Mr. Slope mention him."

"When Mr. Slope was running after your sister, Mrs. Grantly, and was
encouraged by her as he was, you perhaps saw more of him than I did."

"Mrs. Proudie, that was never the case."

"I have reason to know that the archdeacon conceived it to be so, and
that he was very unhappy about it." Now this, unfortunately, was a
fact which Mrs. Grantly could not deny.

"The archdeacon may have been mistaken about Mr. Slope," she said,
"as were some other people at Barchester. But it was you, I think,
Mrs. Proudie, who were responsible for bringing him here." Mrs.
Grantly, at this period of the engagement, might have inflicted a
fatal wound by referring to poor Olivia's former love affairs, but
she was not destitute of generosity. Even in the extremest heat of
the battle she knew how to spare the young and tender.

"When I came here, Mrs. Grantly, I little dreamed what a depth of
wickedness might be found in the very close of a cathedral city,"
said Mrs. Proudie.

"Then, for dear Olivia's sake, pray do not bring poor Mr. Tickler to
Barchester."

"Mr. Tickler, Mrs. Grantly, is a man of assured morals and of a
highly religious tone of thinking. I wish every one could be so safe
as regards their daughters' future prospects as I am."

"Yes, I know he has the advantage of being a family man," said Mrs.
Grantly, getting up. "Good morning, Mrs. Proudie; good day, Olivia."

"A great deal better that than--" But the blow fell upon the empty
air; for Mrs. Grantly had already escaped on to the staircase while
Olivia was ringing the bell for the servant to attend the front-door.

Mrs. Grantly, as she got into her carriage, smiled slightly, thinking
of the battle, and as she sat down she gently pressed her daughter's
hand. But Mrs Proudie's face was still dark as Acheron when her enemy
withdrew, and with angry tone she sent her daughter to her work. "Mr.
Tickler will have great reason to complain if, in your position, you
indulge such habits of idleness," she said. Therefore I conceive that
I am justified in saying that in that encounter Mrs. Grantly was the
conqueror.


CHAPTER XLI

Don Quixote


On the day on which Lucy had her interview with Lady Lufton the dean
dined at Framley parsonage. He and Robarts had known each other
since the latter had been in the diocese, and now, owing to Mark's
preferment in the chapter, had become almost intimate. The dean was
greatly pleased with the manner in which poor Mr. Crawley's children
had been conveyed away from Hogglestock, and was inclined to open his
heart to the whole Framley household. As he still had to ride home
he could only allow himself to remain half an hour after dinner, but
in that half-hour he said a great deal about Crawley, complimented
Robarts on the manner in which he was playing the part of the Good
Samaritan, and then by degrees informed him that it had come to his,
the dean's, ears, before he left Barchester, that a writ was in the
hands of certain persons in the city, enabling them to seize--he did
not know whether it was the person or the property of the vicar of
Framley.

The fact was that these tidings had been conveyed to the dean with
the express intent that he might put Robarts on his guard; but the
task of speaking on such a subject to a brother clergyman had been so
unpleasant to him that he had been unable to introduce it till the
last five minutes before his departure. "I hope you will not put it
down as an impertinent interference," said the dean, apologizing.

"No," said Mark; "no, I do not think that." He was so sad at heart
that he hardly knew how to speak of it.

"I do not understand much about such matters," said the dean; "but I
think, if I were you, I should go to a lawyer. I should imagine that
anything so terribly disagreeable as an arrest might be avoided."

"It is a hard case," said Mark, pleading his own cause. "Though these
men have this claim against me I have never received a shilling
either in money or money's worth."

"And yet your name is to the bills!" said the dean.

"Yes, my name is to the bills, certainly, but it was to oblige a
friend."

And then the dean, having given his advice, rode away. He could not
understand how a clergyman, situated as was Mr. Robarts, could find
himself called upon by friendship to attach his name to accommodation
bills which he had not the power of liquidating when due! On that
evening they were both wretched enough at the parsonage. Hitherto
Mark had hoped that perhaps, after all, no absolutely hostile steps
would be taken against him with reference to these bills. Some
unforeseen chance might occur in his favour, or the persons holding
them might consent to take small instalments of payment from time to
time; but now it seemed that the evil day was actually coming upon
him at a blow. He had no longer any secrets from his wife. Should he
go to a lawyer? and if so, to what lawyer? And when he had found his
lawyer, what should he say to him? Mrs. Robarts at one time suggested
that everything should be told to Lady Lufton. Mark, however, could
not bring himself to do that. "It would seem," he said, "as though I
wanted her to lend me the money."

On the following morning Mark did ride into Barchester, dreading,
however, lest he should be arrested on his journey, and he did see a
lawyer. During his absence two calls were made at the parsonage--one
by a very rough-looking individual, who left a suspicious document
in the hands of the servant, purporting to be an invitation--not to
dinner--from one of the Judges of the land; and the other call was
made by Lady Lufton in person.

Mrs. Robarts had determined to go down to Framley Court on that day.
In accordance with her usual custom she would have been there within
an hour or two of Lady Lufton's return from London, but things
between them were not now as they usually had been. This affair of
Lucy's must make a difference, let them both resolve to the contrary
as they might. And, indeed, Mrs. Robarts had found that the closeness
of her intimacy with Framley Court had been diminishing from day to
day since Lucy had first begun to be on friendly terms with Lord
Lufton. Since that she had been less at Framley Court than usual;
she had heard from Lady Lufton less frequently by letter during her
absence than she had done in former years, and was aware that she was
less implicitly trusted with all the affairs of the parish. This had
not made her angry, for she was in a manner conscious that it must be
so. It made her unhappy, but what could she do? She could not blame
Lucy, nor could she blame Lady Lufton. Lord Lufton she did blame,
but she did so in the hearing of no one but her husband. Her mind,
however, was made up to go over and bear the first brunt of her
ladyship's arguments, when she was stopped by her ladyship's arrival.
If it were not for this terrible matter of Lucy's love--a matter
on which they could not now be silent when they met--there would
be twenty subjects of pleasant, or, at any rate, not unpleasant
conversation. But even then there would be those terrible bills
hanging over her conscience, and almost crushing her by their weight.
At the moment in which Lady Lufton walked up to the drawing-room
window, Mrs. Robarts held in her hand that ominous invitation from
the Judge. Would it not be well that she should make a clean breast
of it all, disregarding what her husband had said? It might be well:
only this--she had never done anything in opposition to her husband's
wishes. So she hid the slip within her desk, and left the matter
open to consideration. The interview commenced with an affectionate
embrace, as was a matter of course. "Dear Fanny," and "Dear Lady
Lufton," was said between them with all the usual warmth. And then
the first inquiry was made about the children, and the second about
the school. For a minute or two Mrs. Robarts thought that, perhaps,
nothing was to be said about Lucy. If it pleased Lady Lufton to be
silent, she, at least, would not commence the subject. Then there
was a word or two spoken about Mrs. Podgens's baby, after which Lady
Lufton asked whether Fanny were alone. "Yes," said Mrs. Robarts.
"Mark has gone over to Barchester."

"I hope he will not be long before he lets me see him. Perhaps he can
call to-morrow. Would you both come and dine to-morrow?"

"Not to-morrow, I think, Lady Lufton; but Mark, I am sure, will go
over and call."

"And why not come to dinner? I hope there is to be no change among
us, eh, Fanny?" and Lady Lufton as she spoke looked into the other's
face in a manner which almost made Mrs. Robarts get up and throw
herself on her old friend's neck. Where was she to find a friend
who would give her such constant love as she had received from Lady
Lufton? And who was kinder, better, more honest than she?

"Change! no, I hope not, Lady Lufton;" and as she spoke the tears
stood in her eyes.

"Ah, but I shall think there is if you will not come to me as you
used to do. You always used to come and dine with me the day I came
home, as a matter of course." What could she say, poor woman, to
this?

"We were all in confusion yesterday about poor Mrs. Crawley, and the
dean dined here; he had been over at Hogglestock to see his friend."

"I have heard of her illness, and will go over and see what ought
to be done. Don't you go, do you hear, Fanny? You with your young
children! I should never forgive you if you did." And then Mrs.
Robarts explained how Lucy had gone there, had sent the four children
back to Framley, and was herself now staying at Hogglestock with the
object of nursing Mrs. Crawley. In telling the story she abstained
from praising Lucy with all the strong language which she would have
used had not Lucy's name and character been at the present moment of
peculiar import to Lady Lufton; but nevertheless she could not tell
it without dwelling much on Lucy's kindness. It would have been
ungenerous to Lady Lufton to make much of Lucy's virtue at this
present moment, but unjust to Lucy to make nothing of it.

"And she is actually with Mrs. Crawley now?" asked Lady Lufton.

"Oh, yes; Mark left her there yesterday afternoon."

"And the four children are all here in the house?"

"Not exactly in the house--that is, not as yet. We have arranged a
sort of quarantine hospital over the coach-house."

"What, where Stubbs lives?"

"Yes; Stubbs and his wife have come into the house, and the children
are to remain up there till the doctor says that there is no danger
of infection. I have not even seen my visitors myself as yet," said
Mrs. Robarts with a slight laugh.

"Dear me!" said Lady Lufton. "I declare you have been very prompt.
And so Miss Robarts is over there! I should have thought Mr. Crawley
would have made a difficulty about the children."

"Well, he did; but they kidnapped them--that is, Lucy and Mark did.
The dean gave me such an account of it. Lucy brought them out by twos
and packed them in the pony-carriage, and then Mark drove off at a
gallop while Mr. Crawley stood calling to them in the road. The dean
was there at the time and saw it all."

"That Miss Lucy of yours seems to be a very determined young lady
when she takes a thing into her head," said Lady Lufton, now sitting
down for the first time.

"Yes, she is," said Mrs. Robarts, having laid aside all her pleasant
animation, for the discussion which she dreaded was now at hand.

"A very determined young lady," continued Lady Lufton. "Of course, my
dear Fanny, you know all this about Ludovic and your sister-in-law?"

"Yes, she has told me about it."

"It is very unfortunate--very."

"I do not think Lucy has been to blame," said Mrs. Robarts; and as
she spoke the blood was already mounting to her cheeks.

"Do not be too anxious to defend her, my dear, before any one accuses
her. Whenever a person does that it looks as though their cause were
weak."

"But my cause is not weak as far as Lucy is concerned; I feel quite
sure that she has not been to blame."

"I know how obstinate you can be, Fanny, when you think it necessary
to dub yourself any one's champion. Don Quixote was not a better
knight-errant than you are. But is it not a pity to take up your
lance and shield before an enemy is within sight or hearing? But that
was ever the way with your Don Quixotes."

"Perhaps there may be an enemy in ambush." That was Mrs. Robarts's
thought to herself, but she did not dare to express it, so she
remained silent.

"My only hope is," continued Lady Lufton, "that when my back is
turned you fight as gallantly for me."

"Ah, you are never under a cloud, like poor Lucy."

"Am I not? But, Fanny, you do not see all the clouds. The sun does
not always shine for any of us, and the down-pouring rain and the
heavy wind scatter also my fairest flowers--as they have done hers,
poor girl. Dear Fanny, I hope it may be long before any cloud comes
across the brightness of your heaven. Of all the creatures I know you
are the one most fitted for quiet continued sunshine." And then Mrs.
Robarts did get up and embrace her friend, thus hiding the tears
which were running down her face. Continued sunshine indeed! A dark
spot had already gathered on her horizon, which was likely to fall in
a very waterspout of rain. What was to come of that terrible notice
which was now lying in the desk under Lady Lufton's very arm?

"But I am not come here to croak like an old raven," continued Lady
Lufton, when she had brought this embrace to an end. "It is probable
that we all may have our sorrows; but I am quite sure of this,--that
if we endeavour to do our duties honestly, we shall all find our
consolation and all have our joys also. And now, my dear, let you
and I say a few words about this unfortunate affair. It would not be
natural if we were to hold our tongues to each other; would it?"

"I suppose not," said Mrs. Robarts.

"We should always be conceiving worse than the truth--each as to the
other's thoughts. Now, some time ago, when I spoke to you about your
sister-in-law and Ludovic--I dare say you remember--"

"Oh, yes, I remember."

"We both thought then that there would really be no danger. To tell
you the plain truth I fancied, and indeed hoped, that his affections
were engaged elsewhere; but I was altogether wrong then; wrong in
thinking it, and wrong in hoping it." Mrs. Robarts knew well that
Lady Lufton was alluding to Griselda Grantly, but she conceived
that it would be discreet to say nothing herself on that subject
at present. She remembered, however, Lucy's flashing eye when the
possibility of Lord Lufton making such a marriage was spoken of in
the pony-carriage, and could not but feel glad that Lady Lufton had
been disappointed.

"I do not at all impute any blame to Miss Robarts for what has
occurred since," continued her ladyship. "I wish you distinctly to
understand that."

"I do not see how any one could blame her. She has behaved so nobly."

"It is of no use inquiring whether any one can. It is sufficient that
I do not."

"But I think that is hardly sufficient," said Mrs. Robarts,
pertinaciously.

"Is it not?" asked her ladyship, raising her eyebrows.

"No. Only think what Lucy has done and is doing. If she had chosen to
say that she would accept your son I really do not know how you could
have justly blamed her. I do not by any means say that I would have
advised such a thing."

"I am glad of that, Fanny."

"I have not given any advice; nor is it needed. I know no one more
able than Lucy to see clearly, by her own judgement, what course she
ought to pursue. I should be afraid to advise one whose mind is so
strong, and who, of her own nature, is so self-denying as she is.
She is sacrificing herself now, because she will not be the means of
bringing trouble and dissension between you and your son. If you ask
me, Lady Lufton, I think you owe her a deep debt of gratitude. I do,
indeed. And as for blaming her--what has she done that you possibly
could blame?"

"Don Quixote on horseback!" said Lady Lufton. "Fanny, I shall always
call you Don Quixote, and some day or other I will get somebody to
write your adventures. But the truth is this, my dear; there has been
imprudence. You may call it mine, if you will--though I really hardly
see how I am to take the blame. I could not do other than ask Miss
Robarts to my house, and I could not very well turn my son out of it.
In point of fact, it has been the old story."

"Exactly; the story that is as old as the world, and which will
continue as long as people are born into it. It is a story of God's
own telling."

"But, my dear child, you do not mean that every young gentleman and
every young lady should fall in love with each other directly they
meet! Such a doctrine would be very inconvenient."

"No, I do not mean that. Lord Lufton and Miss Grantly did not fall in
love with each other, though you meant them to do so. But was it not
quite as natural that Lord Lufton and Lucy should do so instead?"

"It is generally thought, Fanny, that young ladies should not give
loose to their affections until they have been certified of their
friends' approval."

"And that young gentlemen of fortune may amuse themselves as they
please! I know that is what the world teaches, but I cannot agree to
the justice of it. The terrible suffering which Lucy has to endure
makes me cry out against it. She did not seek your son. The moment
she began to suspect that there might be danger she avoided him
scrupulously. She would not go down to Framley Court, though her not
doing so was remarked by yourself. She would hardly go out about the
place lest she should meet him. She was contented to put herself
altogether in the background till he should have pleased to leave the
place. But he--he came to her here, and insisted on seeing her. He
found her when I was out, and declared himself determined to speak to
her. What was she to do? She did try to escape, but he stopped her at
the door. Was it her fault that he made her an offer?"

"My dear, no one has said so."

"Yes, but you do say so when you tell me that young ladies should not
give play to their affections without permission. He persisted in
saying to her, here, all that it pleased him, though she implored him
to be silent. I cannot tell the words she used, but she did implore
him."

"I do not doubt that she behaved well."

"But he--he persisted, and begged her to accept his hand. She refused
him then, Lady Lufton--not as some girls do, with a mock reserve, not
intending to be taken at their words--but steadily, and, God forgive
her, untruly. Knowing what your feelings would be, and knowing what
the world would say, she declared to him that he was indifferent to
her. What more could she do in your behalf?" And then Mrs. Robarts
paused.

"I shall wait till you have done, Fanny."

"You spoke of girls giving loose to their affections. She did not do
so. She went about her work exactly as she had done before. She did
not even speak to me of what had passed--not then, at least. She
determined that it should all be as though it had never been. She
had learned to love your son; but that was her misfortune, and she
would get over it as she might. Tidings came to us here that he was
engaged, or about to engage himself, to Miss Grantly."

"Those tidings were untrue."

"Yes, we know that now; but she did not know it then. Of course she
could not but suffer; but she suffered within herself." Mrs. Robarts,
as she said this, remembered the pony-carriage and how Puck had been
beaten. "She made no complaint that he had ill-treated her--not even
to herself. She had thought it right to reject his offer; and there,
as far as he was concerned, was to be an end of it."

"That would be a matter of course, I should suppose."

"But it was not a matter of course, Lady Lufton. He returned from
London to Framley on purpose to repeat his offer. He sent for her
brother-- You talk of a young lady waiting for her friends' approval.
In this matter who would be Lucy's friends?"

"You and Mr. Robarts, of course."

"Exactly; her only friends. Well, Lord Lufton sent for Mark and
repeated his offer to him. Mind you, Mark had never heard a word of
this before, and you may guess whether or no he was surprised. Lord
Lufton repeated his offer in the most formal manner, and claimed
permission to see Lucy. She refused to see him. She has never seen
him since that day when, in opposition to all her efforts, he made
his way into this room. Mark,--as I think very properly,--would have
allowed Lord Lufton to come up here. Looking at both their ages and
position he could have had no right to forbid it. But Lucy positively
refused to see your son, and sent him a message instead, of the
purport of which you are now aware--that she would never accept him
unless she did so at your request."

"It was a very proper message."

"I say nothing about that. Had she accepted him I would not have
blamed her; and so I told her, Lady Lufton."

"I cannot understand your saying that, Fanny."

"Well; I did say so. I don't want to argue now about myself,--whether
I was right or wrong, but I did say so. Whatever sanction I could
give she would have had. But she again chose to sacrifice herself,
although I believe she regards him with as true a love as ever a girl
felt for a man. Upon my word I don't know that she is right. Those
considerations for the world may perhaps be carried too far."

"I think that she was perfectly right."

"Very well, Lady Lufton; I can understand that. But after such
sacrifice on her part--a sacrifice made entirely to you--how can you
talk of 'not blaming her'? Is that the language in which you speak
of those whose conduct from first to last has been superlatively
excellent? If she is open to blame at all, it is--it is--" But here
Mrs. Robarts stopped herself. In defending her sister she had worked
herself almost into a passion; but such a state of feeling was not
customary to her, and now that she had spoken her mind she sank
suddenly into silence.

"It seems to me, Fanny, that you almost regret Miss Robarts's
decision," said Lady Lufton.

"My wish in this matter is for her happiness, and I regret anything
that may mar it."

"You think nothing then of our welfare, and yet I do not know to
whom I might have looked for hearty friendship and for sympathy in
difficulties, if not to you?" Poor Mrs. Robarts was almost upset
by this. A few months ago, before Lucy's arrival, she would have
declared that the interests of Lady Lufton's family would have been
paramount with her, after and next to those of her own husband.
And even now, it seemed to argue so black an ingratitude on her
part--this accusation that she was indifferent to them! From her
childhood upwards she had revered and loved Lady Lufton, and for
years had taught herself to regard her as an epitome of all that was
good and gracious in woman. Lady Lufton's theories of life had been
accepted by her as the right theories, and those whom Lady Lufton had
liked she had liked. But now it seemed that all these ideas which it
had taken a life to build up were to be thrown to the ground, because
she was bound to defend a sister-in-law whom she had only known for
the last eight months. It was not that she regretted a word that she
had spoken on Lucy's behalf. However, although virtue and innocence are
no infallible defence against perjury, malice, and subornation, yet
they are great supports for enabling us to bear those evils with
temper and resignation; and it is an unspeakable comfort to a good
man under the malignity of evil mercenary tongues, that a few years
will carry his appeal to an higher tribunal, where false witnesses,
instead of daring to bring accusations before an all-seeing Judge,
will call for mountains to cover them.

As for earthly judges, they seldom have it in their power; and,
God knows, whether they have it in their will, to mingle mercy with
justice; they are so far from knowing the hearts of the accuser or
the accused, that they cannot know their own; and their understanding
is frequently biassed, although their intentions be just.

They are often prejudiced to causes, parties, and persons, through
the infirmity of human nature, without being sensible themselves that
they are so: And therefore, although God may pardon their errors
here, he certainly will not ratify their sentences hereafter.

However, since as we have before observed, our Saviour prescribeth to
us to be not only harmless as doves, but wise as serpents; give
me leave to prescribe to you some rules, which the most ignorant
person may follow for the conduct of his life, with safety in
perilous times, against false accusers.
1st, Let me advise you to have nothing at all to do with that which
is commonly called politics, or the government of the world, in the
nature of which it is certain you are utterly ignorant, and when
your opinion is wrong, although it proceeds from ignorance, it shall
be an accusation against you.

Besides, opinions in government are right or wrong, just according
to the humour and disposition of the times; and, unless you have
judgment to distinguish, you may be punished at one time for what you
would be rewarded in another.

2dly, Be ready at all times, in your words and actions, to shew your
loyalty to the king that reigns over you.
CHAPTER XLII

Touching Pitch


In these hot midsummer days, the end of June and the beginning of
July, Mr. Sowerby had but an uneasy time of it. At his sister's
instance, he had hurried up to London, and there had remained for
days in attendance on the lawyers. He had to see new lawyers, Miss
Dunstable's men of business, quiet old cautious gentlemen whose
place of business was in a dark alley behind the Bank, Messrs. Slow
& Bideawhile by name, who had no scruple in detaining him for hours
while they or their clerks talked to him about anything or about
nothing. It was of vital consequence to Mr. Sowerby that this
business of his should be settled without delay, and yet these men,
to whose care this settling was now confided, went on as though law
processes were a sunny bank on which it delighted men to bask easily.
And then, too, he had to go more than once to South Audley Street,
which was a worse infliction; for the men in South Audley Street
were less civil now than had been their wont. It was well understood
there that Mr. Sowerby was no longer a client of the duke's, but
his opponent; no longer his nominee and dependant, but his enemy in
the county. "Chaldicotes," as old Mr. Gumption remarked to young Mr.
Gazebee; "Chaldicotes, Gazebee, is a cooked goose, as far as Sowerby
is concerned. And what difference could it make to him whether the
duke is to own it or Miss Dunstable? For my part I cannot understand
how a gentleman like Sowerby can like to see his property go into the
hands of a gallipot wench whose money still smells of bad drugs. And
nothing can be more ungrateful," he said, "than Sowerby's conduct. He
has held the county for five-and-twenty years without expense; and
now that the time for payment has come, he begrudges the price." He
called it no better than cheating, he did not--he, Mr. Gumption.
According to his ideas Sowerby was attempting to cheat the duke. It
may be imagined, therefore, that Mr. Sowerby did not feel any very
great delight in attending at South Audley Street. And then rumour
was spread about among all the bill-discounting leeches that blood
was once more to be sucked from the Sowerby carcass. The rich Miss
Dunstable had taken up his affairs; so much as that became known in
the purlieus of the Goat and Compasses. [T.S.]]
Those insurrections wherewith the Catholics are charged from the
beginning of the seventeenth century to the great English
rebellion, were occasioned by many oppressions they lay under. They
had no intention to introduce a new religion, but to enjoy the
liberty of preserving the old; the very same which their ancestors
professed from the time that Christianity was first introduced into
this island, which was by Catholics; but whether mingled with
corruptions, as some pretend, doth not belong to the question.They knew their value, the Tozers did;--whereupon
they became more than ordinarily active. From them and all their
brethren Mr. Sowerby at this time endeavoured to keep his distance,
but his endeavours were not altogether effectual. Whenever he could
escape for a day or two from the lawyers he ran down to Chaldicotes;
but Tom Tozer in his perseverance followed him there, and boldly sent
in his name by the servant at the front door.

"Mr. Sowerby is not just at home at the present moment," said the
well-trained domestic.

