A simple finish is obtained by the application of a coat of paste filler
of a soft brown color, if oak has been used. Apply and clean this off in
the manner directed by the manufacturers and after it has had 24 hours
in which to harden, sand it lightly with No. 00 paper. Over this apply a
thin coat of shellac. Allow this to harden, then sandpaper lightly with
fine paper. Upon the shellac apply several coats of some good rubbing
wax. They stood jeering and scoffing the Spaniards, and bidding them
take better aim.

It must be remembered, that this was only three months after the
battle of Ayacucho, the greatest feat of arms which the South
American patriots had achieved during the whole of their protracted
struggle with Spain.

That victory had literally electrified the troops, and inspired
them with a courage and contempt of their enemy, that frequently
showed itself, as on this occasion, in acts of the greatest daring
and temerity.

At the gun by which Ready and myself took our stand, half the artillerymen
were already killed, and we had scarcely come there, when a cannon
shot took the head off a man standing close to me.

The wind of the ball was so great that I believe it would have
suffocated me, had I not fortunately been standing sideways in the
battery.

  At the same moment, something hot splashed
  over my neck and face, and nearly blinded
  me. I looked, and saw the man lying without
  his head before me.

I cannot describe the sickening feeling that came over me. It was not
the first man I had seen killed in my life, but it was the first
whose blood and brains had spurted into my face.

My knees shook and my head swam; I was obliged to lean against the
wall, or I should have fallen.

Another ball fell close beside me, and strange to say, it brought me
partly to myself again; and by the time a third and fourth had bounced
into the battery, I began to take things pretty coolly--my heart beating
rather quicker than usual, I acknowledge; but, nevertheless, I
began to find an indescribable sort of pleasure, a mischievous joy,
if I may so call it, in the peril and excitement of the scene.

Whilst I was getting over my terrors, my companion was moving about
the battery with his usual _sang-froid_, reconnoitring the enemy.

The shape at the bottom of the leg
is merely suggestive and may be modified as desired.

Lay out and work the tenons on the stretcher. Then lay out and work the
grooves upon the rails. Each side of each rail is grooved 1/8 in, to
allow the leg to be recessed. This is done to give the bench the bracing
that is needed to make it stand firmly. Work the grooves in the legs and
the mortises for the rails.

[Illustration: Piano Bench in Quarter-Sawed Oak]

It should be noted that the mortise for the key in the stretcher must be
laid out before the shoulders and cheeks of the tenon on which the
mortise is made are cut off. Otherwise there would be no place to put
the gauge in marking the sides of the mortise for the key.

Thoroughly scrape all the parts and then assemble them. No glue is
needed. The rails are held in place by dowel pins, the heads of which
are allowed to project slightly and rounded so as to give an ornamental
effect. The top is attached by means of small angle irons or by means of
blocks and screws fastened to the corners made by top and rails.


ANOTHER SCREEN


The screen shown in the accompanying illustration is made of burlap and
plain-sawed oak. The stock list follows:

  2 posts, 1-1/2 by 1-1/2 by 40 in., S-4-S.
  2 base pieces, 3 by 3 by 12-1/2 in., S-4-S.
  2 horizontals, 3/4 by 4-1/4 by 38 in., S-2-S.
  1 horizontal, 3/4 by 1-1/2 by 38 in., S-2-S.
  1 vertical, 3/4 by 1-3/4 by 20 in., S-2-S.
  4 braces, 1-1/8 by 4-1/4 by 6-1/2 in., S-2-S.

The two base pieces may be shaped first. The drawing shows the form and
the dimensions. Make use of a face edge in laying out the mortises in
the base pieces for the uprights, before these face edges are removed to
make the slanting sides.

Work the verticals to length, laying out and cutting the tenons at the
bottoms, and shaping the tops as shown.

Lay out and shape the three horizontals as shown, working the tenons
upon the ends of each and the mortises in the lower two for the tenons
of the middle vertical.

For the braces, secure a face edge on each piece and square one end of
each to that. Lay off the curve free-hand upon one block and cut it out.
Use this block as a pattern or template to lay off the others.

Thoroughly scrape and sandpaper all the parts, then assemble them,
using clamps and good hot glue. Take care to see that there is no warp
in the frame as it lies in the clamps. After the glue on the frame has
hardened, remove the clamps and attach the base blocks and the braces.
The braces are secured by means of round-head screws.

[Illustration: Plain-Oak Frame with Burlap Panels]

Remove the surplus glue and then apply a finish as desired.

For the paneling, frames will be needed about which to fasten the
burlap. These may be made of 1/2-in, soft wood and the following pieces
will be necessary:

  2 pieces, 1/2 by 2 by 36 in., S-2-S.
  2 pieces, 1/2 by 2 by 8 in., S-2-S.
  4 pieces, 1/2 by 2 by 18 in., S-2-S.
  4 pieces, 1/2 by 2 by 19 in., S-2-S.

Make these frames enough smaller than the openings they are to occupy to
allow for burlap and tacks. These frames are held in place by putting
fixed nails in the top of each frame before the burlap is attached.
Holes are bored in the rails to correspond to them. The lower edges of
the frames are held in place by nails inserted up through the rails upon
which the frames rest.

[Illustration: Detail of the Frame]


A FOLDING CARD TABLE


The accompanying sketch shows the details of a card table that can be
folded up and carried about or stored away when not in use. We would
advise making two tables at the same time, as the material for both can
be purchased nearly as cheaply as for one. The material necessary for
making one table is given in the following list:

   1 piece, 7/8 by 1-3/16 by 27-1/2 in., basswood or poplar.
   2 pieces, 7/8 by 1-3/16 by 29-1/4 in., basswood or poplar.
   4 legs, 1 in. square, 24-3/4 in. long; oak.
   4 pieces, 1 in. square, 5 in. long; oak.
   4 side pieces, 3/8 by 1-3/8 by 29-5/8 in.; oak.
   4 pieces, 27-1/2 in. long, single groove electric wire moulding with
     batten.
   1 piece cardboard, 1/8 in. thick, 29-1/4 in. square.
   4 pieces brass rod, 3-16 in. diameter, 15 in. long.
  30 small copper washers, 3/8 or 7/16 in. outside diameter and drilled
     3/16 in.
   4 brass corners, 1-3/8 in, deep.
   2-1/2 doz. No. 5 oval head brass screws, 3/4 in. long.
   4 No. 2, 7/8-in. rubber screw tips.
   1 piece felt, 1 yd. square.
   1 sheet wadding, 1 yd. square (if pad is wanted under felt).
   1 pt. wood stain.
   3 doz. No. 14 wire beads, 2 in. long.
  Some 2-oz., 4-oz., and 6-oz. flat-head tacks.

Begin by squaring up the four legs making them all 24-3/4 in. long and 1
in. square. Also square up the crosspieces marked B in the detail
drawing. These should be 5 in. long and should have 1/4-in. holes about
1 in. deep drilled in both ends of each for the 1/4-in. oak swivel pins.
Measure back 1-1/2 in. from one end of each and bore a 9/16-in. hole,
7/8 in. deep as shown. Now cut a tenon on one end of each leg, 3/4 in.
long, that will fit tightly in this 9/16-in. hole. Round the corners of
the piece B at the top as shown at C. Fasten the two pieces together
with glue and brads, being careful to get them square with each other.
After the glue is set bore a 3/16-in. hole in the center of the leg, 7
in. from the edge of the crosspiece, for the brace rod. Bevel the
corners as shown. Sandpaper them smooth, then stain and polish.

[Illustration: Detail of the Card Table]

[Illustration: Card Table Ready for Use]

Lay the two pieces marked D and E in the sketch on a level surface with
the 7/8-in. edge up, place the cardboard on top and tack it fast to the
pieces, using 6-oz. tacks. Place the center piece in and tack it fast
also. Fasten the ends to the other pieces with brads. The four pieces of
electric wire moulding should each measure exactly 27-1/2 in. long, or
the same length as the center piece. Fit a piece of wood about 4 in.
long in the groove at each end of the moulding, plane down and fasten
with brads. Next take the thin batten or covering strip that comes with
the moulding and bore a 1/2-in. hole in the center, 6 in, from one end,
and a 1/4-in. hole, 8-3/16 in. from the other end. With a gouge cut a
slot 1/4 in. wide from one hole to the other in the center as shown in
the section A-A. Sandpaper this slot smooth and then fasten the batten
to the moulding with small brads driven in about 2 in. apart. At a point
3/4 in. from each end and in the center drill 1/4-in. holes through the
moulding at the small ends of the slots. These are for the ends of the
brace rods to spring into, to lock the legs when they are open. Tack the
two pieces of moulding marked F and J on the remaining edges of the
cardboard with the slots facing in and the large holes of the slots at
opposite sides, then place the other two pieces (G and H) 5 in. inside
of these, or just the length of the cross ends of the legs, with the
slots facing the first two placed (F and J) and tack fast with 4-oz.
tacks. Use brads at the ends and be careful that they do not enter the
1/4-in. holes. This part of the table can now be stained or painted the
same as the legs. The 3/8-in. side pieces can also be stained at this
time.

The ends of the brass rods can be bent in a vise. One end should be 1
in. long and should be square with the stock. Measure 11-1/4 in. center
to center and bend in opposite direction, leaving this end at a slight
angle out from square. Just at this bend raise a burr with a sharp
chisel to keep the washer on. Now place five of the copper washers on
the 1-in. end and batter the end of the rod so they will not slip off.
They should be loose so that they will roll and slip on the brace. Slip
a washer on the other end and put the end of the rod through the
3/16-in. hole in the leg from the short end side, place another washer
on the rod, saw off and rivet down the end.

[Illustration: The Legs Fold on the Under Side of Top]

To put the legs in the table, slip the end of one of the braces and the
washers in the large hole in the slot, shove it up until the 1/4-in.
hole in the crosspiece and the one in the moulding meet, then drive an
oak dowel or rod into each end. This is the hinge or pivot that the legs
swing on. When the leg is extended the end of the brace rod should
spring into the 1/4-in. hole in the moulding and lock the leg in place.
Rubber tips should be put on the bottom ends of the legs. Two wooden
buttons should be made and fastened to the cardboard as shown at K for
locking the legs when they are closed.

The felt can now be put on the top of the table. Stretch it tightly and
then tack the edges securely to the sides of the table. Now fasten on
the 3/8-in. side pieces and the brass corners with the small brass
screws as shown on the drawing, and the table is complete.


MAGAZINE STAND


If you do not possess the necessary tools for getting out the material
used in this piece of furniture, it can be purchased from a mill already
planed, sanded and cut to lengths given in the list. Any kind of wood
can be used, but quarter-sawed red oak with a mission stain and waxed,
gives the best appearance. The following pieces will be needed:

  2 shelves, 3/8 by 8 by 15 in., S-2-S.
  1 shelf, 3/8 by 10 by 15 in., S-2-S.
  1 shelf, 3/8 by 12 by 15 in., S-2-S.
  8 slats, 3/8 by 1-1/8 by 38 in., S-4-S.
  2 slats, 1/4 by 1-1/8 by 38 in., S-4-S.
  4 doz. 1 in. No. 9 round-head screws.

Take the four shelves and line them up with their backs and ends even
and clamp them together firmly. Mark the places for the slats across the
edges of the shelves, making the first line 1/2 in. from their ends. Use
a square to get the lines at right angles to the surface. Another line
is drawn 1-1/8 in. from the first, or the width of the slat. The ends of
the shelves are marked in the same manner, beginning from the back edges
and making the first line 1/2 in. from them, and then another line 1-1/8
in. from the first, or the width of the slat. Make a line across the
ends, 1/2 in. from the front edge of the 8-in, shelves, and another
line 1-1/8 in. back from the first one. This will leave 2-1/2 in. and
4-1/2 in. of space respectively from the front edges of the 10-in. and
12-in. shelves. Shift the shelves so they will be even on the front
edges and mark them the same as the back. Make a 1/4-in. depth mark on
all edges between the lines and cut this material out. This can be done
while the shelves are clamped together.

[Illustration: Stand Complete]

[Illustration: Detail of Stand]

Place the shelves on end in their order and start by screwing on the
back slats on both ends first, then screw on the two front slats. Turn
the stand down and put on the two back slats. Attach the two front slats
on the top shelf first. Then bore the places for the remaining holes and
turn in the screws. This will bend the slats into place. The two
remaining slats are screwed on the ends of the shelves without letting
them in, making the spaces equal. Mark each slat 1/2 in. below the
bottom shelf and saw them off. The stand can be taken apart, sandpapered
and stained.


A TABOURET


The stock necessary to make a tabouret of craftsman design as shown in
the accompanying illustration can be purchased from the mill ready cut
to length, squared and sanded. It was then perfection.

  We had galloped to some purpose; for we
  had distanced the monarch and his eight
  carriages. The royal party had
  not yet entered the house; and I enjoyed, for a few minutes, one
of the most striking displays that the opulence and animation of a
great country can possibly produce--the _coup-d'oeil_ of a well-dressed
audience in a fine and spacious theatre.

Multitudes spread over hill and dale may be picturesque; the aspect of
great public meetings may be startling, stern, or powerfully impressive;
the British House of Lords, on the opening of the session, exhibits a
majestic spectacle; but for a concentration of all the effects of art,
beauty, and magnificence, I have yet seen nothing like one of the
English theatres in their better days. To compare it in point of
importance with any other great assemblage, would in general be
idle.

But at this time, even the assemblage before me, collected as it
was for indulgence, had a character of remarkable interest.

The times were anxious. The nation was avowedly on the eve of a struggle
of which no human foresight could discover the termination. The presence
of the king was the presence of the monarchy; the presence of the
assemblage was the presence of the nation.
The house was only a levee on a large scale, and the crowd, composed as
it was of the most distinguished individuals of the country--the
ministers, the peerage, the heads of legislature--and the whole
completed by an immense mass of the middle order, gave a strong and
admirable representation of the power and feelings of the empire.

At length the sound of the trumpets was heard, the door of the royal
box was thrown open, and "God save the King" began.

Noble as this noblest of national songs is, it had, at that period,
a higher meaning.

It is impossible to describe the spirit and ardour in which it was
received; nay, the almost sacred enthusiasm in which it was joined
by all, and in which every sentiment was followed with boundless
acclamation.

It was more than an honourable and pleased welcome of a popular king.
It was a national pledge to the throne--a proud declaration of public
principle--a triumphant defiance of the enemy and the Earth to strike
the stability of a British throne, or subdue the hearts of a British
people.

The king advanced to the front of the box, and bowed in return to
the general plaudits.

  It was the first time that I had seen
  George the Third, and I was struck
  at once with the stateliness of his
  figure and the kindliness of his
  countenance. Combined, they perfectly
  realized all that I had conceived of a
  monarch, to whose steadiness of
  determination, and sincerity
  of good-will, the empire had been already indebted in periods of
faction and foreign hostility; and to whom it was to be indebted
still more in coming periods of still wilder faction, and of hostility
which brought the world in arms against his crown.

As I glanced around for a moment, to see the effect on the house, which
was then thundering with applause, I observed a slight confusion, like
a personal quarrel, in the pit; and in the next instant saw a hand
raised above the crowd, and a pistol fired full in the direction of the
royal box. The King started back a pace or two, and the general apprehension
that he had been struck, produced a loud cry of horror. He evidently
understood the public feeling, and instantly came forward, and by a
bow, with his hand on his heart, at once assured them of his gratitude
and his safety.

This was acknowledged by a shout of universal congratulation; and
many a bright eye, and many a manly one, too, streamed with tears.

In the midst of all, the Queen and the royal family rushed into the box,
flung themselves round the king, and all was embracing, fainting, and
terror.
The work may be started by shaping the four legs and cutting the
mortises for the rails. Tenons are cut on the ends of the rails to fit
in the mortises made in the posts. They are then glued together, care
being taken to get the stool perfectly square.

The top frame can now be made and covered with the sheet of brass. The
frame has mitered corners and the inside of the frame must be even with
the inside of the rails. This in turn is fastened to the stool with the
two hinges on the back and the elbow catch on the front side to keep it
closed.

[Illustration: Detail of the Foot Warmer]

The design on the brass can be made by tacking it on a board, laying out
the design and piercing the background with some sharp-pointed tool.
This leaves the design raised with a smooth surface.

The brass can now be removed from the board, placed on the frame and
fastened with the ornamental tacks.

Turn the stool bottom side up and line the inside of the rails with
asbestos; then place the bricks on the inside of the stool. Both should
fit up tight to the brass when the bottom is in place.

[Illustration: Oak Stool with Brass Cover]

The stool is now ready for the finish, which can be of some stain to
match the other furniture in the room where it is to be used.


A PLATE RACK FOR THE DINING ROOM


This plate rack can be made of any kind of wood and finished to match
other pieces of furniture in the room, but as it is of mission design,
oak is the most suitable lumber, as it takes the mission stain so
nicely.

To the three per cents nothing is impossible."

  "Well, well," said the good-humoured prince,
  "that cannot happen for another hundred
  years; and in the mean time my prospect will
  never be shut out. Let them build, or pull
  down the pyramids, if they will.
  [Illustration: Detail of Plate Rack]

This stock is specified to exact thickness, but some allowance is made
for trimming on the edges and ends.

