Transcribed from the 1913 Methuen and Co. edition by David Price,
email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME AND OTHER STORIES


Contents

Lord Arthur Savile's Crime
The Canterville Ghost
The Sphinx Without a Secret
The Model Millionaire
The Portrait of Mr. W. H.


LORD ARTHUR SAVILE'S CRIME


CHAPTER I


It was Lady Windermere's last reception before Easter, and Bentinck
House was even more crowded than usual.  Six Cabinet Ministers had
come on from the Speaker's Levee in their stars and ribands, all the
pretty women wore their smartest dresses, and at the end of the
picture-gallery stood the Princess Sophia of Carlsruhe, a heavy
Tartar-looking lady, with tiny black eyes and wonderful emeralds,
talking bad French at the top of her voice, and laughing
immoderately at everything that was said to her.  It was certainly a
wonderful medley of people.  Gorgeous peeresses chatted affably to
violent Radicals, popular preachers brushed coat-tails with eminent
sceptics, a perfect bevy of bishops kept following a stout prima-
donna from room to room, on the staircase stood several Royal
Academicians, disguised as artists, and it was said that at one time
the supper-room was absolutely crammed with geniuses.  In fact, it
was one of Lady Windermere's best nights, and the Princess stayed
till nearly half-past eleven.

As soon as she had gone, Lady Windermere returned to the picture-
gallery, where a celebrated political economist was solemnly
explaining the scientific theory of music to an indignant virtuoso
from Hungary, and began to talk to the Duchess of Paisley.  She
looked wonderfully beautiful with her grand ivory throat, her large
blue forget-me-not eyes, and her heavy coils of golden hair.  Or pur
they were--not that pale straw colour that nowadays usurps the
gracious name of gold, but such gold as is woven into sunbeams or
hidden in strange amber; and they gave to her face something of the
frame of a saint, with not a little of the fascination of a sinner.
She was a curious psychological study.  Early in life she had
discovered the important truth that nothing looks so like innocence
as an indiscretion; and by a series of reckless escapades, half of
them quite harmless, she had acquired all the privileges of a
personality.  She had more than once changed her husband; indeed,
Debrett credits her with three marriages; but as she had never
changed her lover, the world had long ago ceased to talk scandal
about her.  She was now forty years of age, childless, and with that
inordinate passion for pleasure which is the secret of remaining
young.

Suddenly she looked eagerly round the room, and said, in her clear
contralto voice, 'Where is my cheiromantist?'

'Your what, Gladys?' exclaimed the Duchess, giving an involuntary
start.

'My cheiromantist, Duchess; I can't live without him at present.'

'Dear Gladys! CHAPTER III

"WELL, then, I'll tell you," said Maksim Maksimych.

"About six versts from the fortress there lived a certain 'friendly'
prince. His son, a brat of about fifteen, was accustomed to ride
over to visit us.

Not a day passed but he would come, now for one thing, now for
another. And, indeed, Grigori Aleksandrovich and I spoiled
him. What a dare-devil the boy was!

Up to anything, picking up a cap at full gallop, or bringing things
down with his gun!

He had one bad quality; he was terribly greedy for money. Once,
for the fun of the thing, Grigori Aleksandrovich promised to give
him a ducat if he would steal the best he-goat from his
father's herd for him; and, what do you think?

The very next night he came lugging it in by the horns!
He tells me I have a pure psychic hand, and that if my thumb
had been the least little bit shorter, I should have been a
confirmed pessimist, and gone into a convent.'

'Oh, I see!' said the Duchess, feeling very much relieved; 'he tells
fortunes, I suppose?'

'And misfortunes, too,' answered Lady Windermere, 'any amount of
them.  Next year, for instance, I am in great danger, both by land
and sea, so I am going to live in a balloon, and draw up my dinner
in a basket every evening.  It is all written down on my little
finger, or on the palm of my hand, I forget which.'

'But surely that is tempting Providence, Gladys.'

'My dear Duchess, surely Providence can resist temptation by this
time.  I think every one should have their hands told once a month,
so as to know what not to do.  Of course, one does it all the same,
but it is so pleasant to be warned.  Now if some one doesn't go and
fetch Mr. Podgers at once, I shall have to go myself.'

'Let me go, Lady Windermere,' said a tall handsome young man, who
was standing by, listening to the conversation with an amused smile.

'Thanks so much, Lord Arthur; but I am afraid you wouldn't recognise
him.'

'If he is as wonderful as you say, Lady Windermere, I couldn't well
miss him.  Tell me what he is like, and I'll bring him to you at
once.'

'Well, he is not a bit like a cheiromantist.  I mean he is not
mysterious, or esoteric, or romantic-looking.  He is a little, stout
man, with a funny, bald head, and great gold-rimmed spectacles;
something between a family doctor and a country attorney.  I'm
really very sorry, but it is not my fault.  People are so annoying.
All my pianists look exactly like poets, and all my poets look
exactly like pianists; and I remember last season asking a most
dreadful conspirator to dinner, a man who had blown up ever so many
people, and always wore a coat of mail, and carried a dagger up his
shirt-sleeve; and do you know that when he came he looked just like
a nice old clergyman, and cracked jokes all the evening?  Of course,
he was very amusing, and all that, but I was awfully disappointed;
and when I asked him about the coat of mail, he only laughed, and
said it was far too cold to wear in England.  Ah, here is Mr.
Podgers!  Now, Mr. Podgers, I want you to tell the Duchess of
Paisley's hand.  Duchess, you must take your glove off.  No, not the
left hand, the other.'

'Dear Gladys, I really don't think it is quite right,' said the
Duchess, feebly unbuttoning a rather soiled kid glove.

'Nothing interesting ever is,' said Lady Windermere:  'on a fait le
monde ainsi.  But I must introduce you.  Duchess, this is Mr.
Podgers, my pet cheiromantist.  Mr. Podgers, this is the Duchess of
Paisley, and if you say that she has a larger mountain of the moon
than I have, I will never believe in you again.'

'I am sure, Gladys, there is nothing of the kind in my hand,' said
the Duchess gravely.

'Your Grace is quite right,' said Mr. Podgers, glancing at the
little fat hand with its short square fingers, 'the mountain of the
moon is not developed.  The line of life, however, is excellent.
Kindly bend the wrist.  Thank you.  Three distinct lines on the
rascette!  You will live to a great age, Duchess, and be extremely
happy.  Ambition--very moderate, line of intellect not exaggerated,
line of heart--'

'Now, do be indiscreet, Mr. Podgers,' cried Lady Windermere.

'Nothing would give me greater pleasure,' said Mr. Podgers, bowing,
'if the Duchess ever had been, but I am sorry to say that I see
great permanence of affection, combined with a strong sense of
duty.'

'Pray go on, Mr. Podgers,' said the Duchess, looking quite pleased.

'Economy is not the least of your Grace's virtues,' continued Mr.
Podgers, and Lady Windermere went off into fits of laughter.

'Economy is a very good thing,' remarked the Duchess complacently;
'when I married Paisley he had eleven castles, and not a single
house fit to live in.'

'And now he has twelve houses, and not a single castle,' cried Lady
Windermere.

'Well, my dear,' said the Duchess, 'I like--'

'Comfort,' said Mr. Podgers, 'and modern improvements, and hot water
laid on in every bedroom.  Your Grace is quite right.  Comfort is
the only thing our civilisation can give us.

'You have told the Duchess's character admirably, Mr. Podgers, and
now you must tell Lady Flora's'; and in answer to a nod from the
smiling hostess, a tall girl, with sandy Scotch hair, and high
shoulder-blades, stepped awkwardly from behind the sofa, and held
out a long, bony hand with spatulate fingers.

'Ah, a pianist! I see,' said Mr. Podgers, 'an excellent pianist, but
perhaps hardly a musician.  Very reserved, very honest, and with a
great love of animals.'

'Quite true!' exclaimed the Duchess, turning to Lady Windermere,
'absolutely true!  Flora keeps two dozen collie dogs at Macloskie,
and would turn our town house into a menagerie if her father would
let her.'

'Well, that is just what I do with my house every Thursday evening,'
cried Lady Windermere, laughing, 'only I like lions better than
collie dogs.'

'Your one mistake, Lady Windermere,' said Mr. Podgers, with a
pompous bow.

'If a woman can't make her mistakes charming, she is only a female,'
was the answer.  'But you must read some more hands for us.  Come,
Sir Thomas, show Mr. Podgers yours'; and a genial-looking old
gentleman, in a white waistcoat, came forward, and held out a thick
rugged hand, with a very long third finger.

'An adventurous nature; four long voyages in the past, and one to
come.  Been ship-wrecked three times.  No, only twice, but in danger
of a shipwreck your next journey.  A strong Conservative, very
punctual, and with a passion for collecting curiosities.  Had a
severe illness between the ages sixteen and eighteen.  Was left a
fortune when about thirty.  Great aversion to cats and Radicals.'

'Extraordinary!' exclaimed Sir Thomas; 'you must really tell my
wife's hand, too.'

'Your second wife's,' said Mr. Podgers quietly, still keeping Sir
Thomas's hand in his.  'Your second wife's.  I shall be charmed';
but Lady Marvel, a melancholy-looking woman, with brown hair and
sentimental eyelashes, entirely declined to have her past or her
future exposed; and nothing that Lady Windermere could do would
induce Monsieur de Koloff, the Russian Ambassador, even to take his
gloves off.  In fact, many people seemed afraid to face the odd
little man with his stereotyped smile, his gold spectacles, and his
bright, beady eyes; and when he told poor Lady Fermor, right out
before every one, that she did not care a bit for music, but was
extremely fond of musicians, it was generally felt that cheiromancy
was a most dangerous science, and one that ought not to be
encouraged, except in a tete-a-tete.

Lord Arthur Savile, however, who did not know anything about Lady
Fermor's unfortunate story, and who had been watching Mr. Podgers
with a great deal of interest, was filled with an immense curiosity
to have his own hand read, and feeling somewhat shy about putting
himself forward, crossed over the room to where Lady Windermere was
sitting, and, with a charming blush, asked her if she thought Mr.
Podgers would mind.

'Of course, he won't mind,' said Lady Windermere, 'that is what he
is here for.  All my lions, Lord Arthur, are performing lions, and
jump through hoops whenever I ask them.  But I must warn you
beforehand that I shall tell Sybil everything.  She is coming to
lunch with me to-morrow, to talk about bonnets, and if Mr. Podgers
finds out that you have a bad temper, or a tendency to gout, or a
wife living in Bayswater, I shall certainly let her know all about
it.'

Lord Arthur smiled, and shook his head.  'I am not afraid,' he
answered.  'Sybil knows me as well as I know her.'

'Ah!  I am a little sorry to hear you say that.  The proper basis
for marriage is a mutual misunderstanding.  No, I am not at all
cynical, I have merely got experience, which, however, is very much
the same thing.  Mr. Podgers, Lord Arthur Savile is dying to have
his hand read.  Don't tell him that he is engaged to one of the most
beautiful girls in London, because that appeared in the Morning Post
a month ago.

'Dear Lady Windermere,' cried the Marchioness of Jedburgh, 'do let
Mr. Podgers stay here a little longer.  He has just told me I should
go on the stage, and I am so interested.'

'If he has told you that, Lady Jedburgh, I shall certainly take him
away.  "Are you satisfied with my obedience, Vera?" I said as I was passing
her.

She threw me a glance full of love and gratitude. I have grown
accustomed to such glances; but at one time they constituted my
felicity.

The Princess seated her daughter at the pianoforte, and all the company
begged her to sing. I kept silence, and, taking advantage of the
hubbub, I went aside to the window with Vera, who wished to say
something of great importance to both of us...

It turned out to be--nonsense...

Meanwhile my indifference was vexing Princess Mary, as I was able
to make out from a single angry, gleaming glance which she
cast at me...
Oh!

I understand the method of conversation wonderfully well: mute but
expressive, brief but forceful!...

She began to sing. She has a good voice, but she sings badly...
However, I was not listening.

Grushnitski, on the contrary, leaning his elbows on the grand piano,
facing her, was devouring her with his eyes and saying in an undertone
every minute: "Charmant!

Delicieux!"
"Listen," said Vera to me, "I do not wish you to make my husband's
acquaintance, but you must, without fail, make yourself agreeable
to the Princess; that will be an easy task for you: you can do
anything you wish.

It is only here that we shall see each other"...

"Only here?"...

She blushed and continued:

"You know that I am your slave: I have never been able to resist
you...

and I shall be punished for it, you will cease to love me! At
least, I want to preserve my reputation... not for myself--that
you know very well!...

Oh! I beseech you: do not torture me, as before, with idle doubts
and feigned coldness!

It may be that I shall die soon; I feel that I am growing weaker
from day to day...

And, yet, I cannot think of the future life, I think only of
you... You men do not understand the delights of a glance, of a
pressure of the hand... but as for me, I swear to you that, when
I listen to your voice, I feel such a deep, strange bliss that the
most passionate kisses could not take its place."

Meanwhile, Princess Mary had finished her song.

Murmurs of praise were to be heard all around.

I went up to her after all the other guests, and said something
rather carelessly to her on the subject of her voice.

She made a little grimace, pouting her lower lip, and dropped a very
sarcastic curtsey.

"That is all the more flattering," she said, "because you have not
been listening to me at all; but perhaps you do not like music?"...

"On the contrary, I do... After dinner, especially."
"Grushnitski is right in saying that you have very prosaic tastes...
and I see that you like music in a gastronomic respect."
"You are mistaken again: I am by no means an epicure. I have a most
wretched digestion.However, I suppose she had better have a black silk by her; it
always does for church, you know.  And now let us go to supper.
They are sure to have eaten everything up, but we may find some hot
soup.  Francois used to make excellent soup once, but he is so
agitated about politics at present, that I never feel quite certain
about him.  I do wish General Boulanger would keep quiet.  Duchess,
I am sure you are tired?'

'Not at all, dear Gladys,' answered the Duchess, waddling towards
the door.  'I have enjoyed myself immensely, and the cheiropodist, I
mean the cheiromantist, is most interesting.  Flora, where can my
tortoise-shell fan be?  Oh, thank you, Sir Thomas, so much.  And my
lace shawl, Flora?  Oh, thank you, Sir Thomas, very kind, I'm sure';
and the worthy creature finally managed to get downstairs without
dropping her scent-bottle more than twice.

All this time Lord Arthur Savile had remained standing by the
fireplace, with the same feeling of dread over him, the same
sickening sense of coming evil.  He smiled sadly at his sister, as
she swept past him on Lord Plymdale's arm, looking lovely in her
pink brocade and pearls, and he hardly heard Lady Windermere when
she called to him to follow her.  He thought of Sybil Merton, and
the idea that anything could come between them made his eyes dim
with tears.

Looking at him, one would have said that Nemesis had stolen the
shield of Pallas, and shown him the Gorgon's head.  He seemed turned
to stone, and his face was like marble in its melancholy.  He had
lived the delicate and luxurious life of a young man of birth and
fortune, a life exquisite in its freedom from sordid care, its
beautiful boyish insouciance; and now for the first time he became
conscious of the terrible mystery of Destiny, of the awful meaning
of Doom.

How mad and monstrous it all seemed!  Could it be that written on
his hand, in characters that he could not read himself, but that
another could decipher, was some fearful secret of sin, some blood-
red sign of crime?  Was there no escape possible?  Were we no better
than chessmen, moved by an unseen power, vessels the potter fashions
at his fancy, for honour or for shame?  His reason revolted against
it, and yet he felt that some tragedy was hanging over him, and that
he had been suddenly called upon to bear an intolerable burden.
Actors are so fortunate.  They can choose whether they will appear
in tragedy or in comedy, whether they will suffer or make merry,
laugh or shed tears.  But in real life it is different.  Most men
and women are forced to perform parts for which they have no
qualifications.  Our Guildensterns play Hamlet for us, and our
Hamlets have to jest like Prince Hal.  The world is a stage, but the
play is badly cast.

Suddenly Mr. Podgers entered the room.  When he saw Lord Arthur he
started, and his coarse, fat face became a sort of greenish-yellow
colour.  The two men's eyes met, and for a moment there was silence.

'The Duchess has left one of her gloves here, Lord Arthur, and has
asked me to bring it to her,' said Mr. Podgers finally.  'Ah, I see
it on the sofa!  Good evening.'

'Mr. Podgers, I must insist on your giving me a straightforward
answer to a question I am going to put to you.'

'Another time, Lord Arthur, but the Duchess is anxious.  I am afraid
I must go.'

'You shall not go.  The Duchess is in no hurry.'

'Ladies should not be kept waiting, Lord Arthur,' said Mr. Podgers,
with his sickly smile.  'The fair sex is apt to be impatient.'

Lord Arthur's finely-chiselled lips curled in petulant disdain.  The
poor Duchess seemed to him of very little importance at that moment.
He walked across the room to where Mr. Podgers was standing, and
held his hand out.

'Tell me what you saw there,' he said.  'Tell me the truth.  I must
know it.  I am not a child.'

Mr. Podgers's eyes blinked behind his gold-rimmed spectacles, and he
moved uneasily from one foot to the other, while his fingers played
nervously with a flash watch-chain.

'What makes you think that I saw anything in your hand, Lord Arthur,
more than I told you?'

'I know you did, and I insist on your telling me what it was.  I
will pay you.  I will give you a cheque for a hundred pounds.'

The green eyes flashed for a moment, and then became dull again.

'Guineas?' said Mr. Podgers at last, in a low voice.

'Certainly.  I will send you a cheque to-morrow.  What is your
club?'

'I have no club.  That is to say, not just at present.  My address
is -, but allow me to give you my card'; and producing a bit of
gilt-edge pasteboard from his waistcoat pocket, Mr. Podgers handed
it, with a low bow, to Lord Arthur, who read on it,


Mr.  SEPTIMUS R. PODGERS
Professional Cheiromantist
103a West Moon Street


'My hours are from ten to four,' murmured Mr. Podgers mechanically,
'and I make a reduction for families.'

'Be quick,' cried Lord Arthur, looking very pale, and holding his
hand out.

Mr. Podgers glanced nervously round, and drew the heavy portiere
across the door.

'It will take a little time, Lord Arthur, you had better sit down.'

'Be quick, sir,' cried Lord Arthur again, stamping his foot angrily
on the polished floor.

Mr. Podgers smiled, drew from his breast-pocket a small magnifying
glass, and wiped it carefully with his handkerchief

'I am quite ready,' he said.


CHAPTER II


Ten minutes later, with face blanched by terror, and eyes wild with
grief, Lord Arthur Savile rushed from Bentinck House, crushing his
way through the crowd of fur-coated footmen that stood round the
large striped awning, and seeming not to see or hear anything.  The
night was bitter cold, and the gas-lamps round the square flared and
flickered in the keen wind; but his hands were hot with fever, and
his forehead burned like fire.  On and on he went, almost with the
gait of a drunken man.  A policeman looked curiously at him as he
passed, and a beggar, who slouched from an archway to ask for alms,
grew frightened, seeing misery greater than his own.  Once he
stopped under a lamp, and looked at his hands.  He thought he could
detect the stain of blood already upon them, and a faint cry broke
from his trembling lips.

Murder! that is what the cheiromantist had seen there.  Murder!  The
very night seemed to know it, and the desolate wind to howl it in
his ear.  The dark corners of the streets were full of it.  It
grinned at him from the roofs of the houses.

First he came to the Park, whose sombre woodland seemed to fascinate
him.  He leaned wearily up against the railings, cooling his brow
against the wet metal, and listening to the tremulous silence of the
trees.  'Murder! murder!' he kept repeating, as though iteration
could dim the horror of the word.  The sound of his own voice made
him shudder, yet he almost hoped that Echo might hear him, and wake
the slumbering city from its dreams.  He felt a mad desire to stop
the casual passer-by, and tell him everything.

Then he wandered across Oxford Street into narrow, shameful alleys.
Two women with painted faces mocked at him as he went by.  From a
dark courtyard came a sound of oaths and blows, followed by shrill
screams, and, huddled upon a damp door-step, he saw the crook-backed
forms of poverty and eld.  A strange pity came over him.  Were these
children of sin and misery predestined to their end, as he to his?
Were they, like him, merely the puppets of a monstrous show?

And yet it was not the mystery, but the comedy of suffering that
struck him; its absolute uselessness, its grotesque want of meaning.
How incoherent everything seemed!  How lacking in all harmony!  He
was amazed at the discord between the shallow optimism of the day,
and the real facts of existence.  He was still very young.

After a time he found himself in front of Marylebone Church.  The
silent roadway looked like a long riband of polished silver, flecked
here and there by the dark arabesques of waving shadows.  Far into
the distance curved the line of flickering gas-lamps, and outside a
little walled-in house stood a solitary hansom, the driver asleep
inside.  He walked hastily in the direction of Portland Place, now
and then looking round, as though he feared that he was being
followed.  At the corner of Rich Street stood two men, reading a
small bill upon a hoarding.  An odd feeling of curiosity stirred
him, and he crossed over.  As he came near, the word 'Murder,'
printed in black letters, met his eye.  He started, and a deep flush
came into his cheek.  It was an advertisement offering a reward for
any information leading to the arrest of a man of medium height,
between thirty and forty years of age, wearing a billy-cock hat, a
black coat, and check trousers, and with a scar upon his right
cheek.  He read it over and over again, and wondered if the wretched
man would be caught, and how he had been scarred.  -madness; Mr.
Knight (with many eminent advantages as an editor) is too diffuse;
and we repeat our honest persuasion, that Mr.

White has thus far given us the best extant text, while the fulness
of his notes gives his edition almost the value of a _variorum_.

He had a dim memory of wandering
through a labyrinth of sordid houses, of being lost in a giant web
of sombre streets, and it was bright dawn when he found himself at
last in Piccadilly Circus.  As he strolled home towards Belgrave
Square, he met the great waggons on their way to Covent Garden.  The
white-smocked carters, with their pleasant sunburnt faces and coarse
curly hair, strode sturdily on, cracking their whips, and calling
out now and then to each other; on the back of a huge grey horse,
the leader of a jangling team, sat a chubby boy, with a bunch of
primroses in his battered hat, keeping tight hold of the mane with
his little hands, and laughing; and the great piles of vegetables
looked like masses of jade against the morning sky, like masses of
green jade against the pink petals of some marvellous rose.  Lord
Arthur felt curiously affected, he could not tell why.  There was
something in the dawn's delicate loveliness that seemed to him
inexpressibly pathetic, and he thought of all the days that break in
beauty, and that set in storm.  These rustics, too, with their
rough, good-humoured voices, and their nonchalant ways, what a
strange London they saw!  A London free from the sin of night and
the smoke of day, a pallid, ghost-like city, a desolate town of
tombs!  He wondered what they thought of it, and whether they knew
anything of its splendour and its shame, of its fierce, fiery-
coloured joys, and its horrible hunger, of all it makes and mars
from morn to eve.  Probably it was to them merely a mart where they
brought their fruits to sell, and where they tarried for a few hours
at most, leaving the streets still silent, the houses still asleep.
It gave him pleasure to watch them as they went by.  Rude as they
were, with their heavy, hob-nailed shoes, and their awkward gait,
they brought a little of a ready with them.  He felt that they had
lived with Nature, and that she had taught them peace.  He envied
them all that they did not know.

By the time he had reached Belgrave Square the sky was a faint blue,
and the birds were beginning to twitter in the gardens.


CHAPTER III


When Lord Arthur woke it was twelve o'clock, and the midday sun was
streaming through the ivory-silk curtains of his room.  He got up
and looked out of the window.  A dim haze of heat was hanging over
the great city, and the roofs of the houses were like dull silver.
In the flickering green of the square below some children were
flitting about like white butterflies, and the pavement was crowded
with people on their way to the Park.  Never had life seemed
lovelier to him, never had the things of evil seemed more remote.

Then his valet brought him a cup of chocolate on a tray.  After he
had drunk it, he drew aside a heavy portiere of peach-coloured
plush, and passed into the bathroom.  The light stole softly from
above, through thin slabs of transparent onyx, and the water in the
marble tank glimmered like a moonstone.  He plunged hastily in, till
the cool ripples touched throat and hair, and then dipped his head
right under, as though he would have wiped away the stain of some
shameful memory.  into which our thoughts run and out of which they
grow! We know what a word is worth here in Boston. Young Sam Adams
got up on the stage at Commencement, out at Cambridge there, with his
gown on, the Governor and Council looking on in the name of his
Majesty, King George the Second, and the girls looking down out of
the galleries, and taught people how to spell a word that wasn't
in the Colonial dictionaries!

_R-e, re, s-i-s, sis, t-a-n-c-e, tance, Resistance!_ That was
in '43, and it was a good many years before the Boston boys began
spelling it with their muskets;--but when they did begin, they spelt
it so loud that the old bedridden women in the English almshouses
heard every syllable!
With her soft, clinging dress
of crepe-de-chine, and her large leaf-shaped fan, she looked like
one of those delicate little figures men find in the olive-woods
near Tanagra; and there was a touch of Greek grace in her pose and
attitude.  Yet she was not petite.  She was simply perfectly
proportioned--a rare thing in an age when so many women are either
over life-size or insignificant.

Now as Lord Arthur looked at her, he was filled with the terrible
pity that is born of love.  He felt that to marry her, with the doom
of murder hanging over his head, would be a betrayal like that of
Judas, a sin worse than any the Borgia had ever dreamed of.  What
happiness could there be for them, when at any moment he might be
called upon to carry out the awful prophecy written in his hand?
What manner of life would be theirs while Fate still held this
fearful fortune in the scales?  The marriage must be postponed, at
all costs.  Of this he was quite resolved.  Ardently though he loved
the girl, and the mere touch of her fingers, when they sat together,
made each nerve of his body thrill with exquisite joy, he recognised
none the less clearly where his duty lay, and was fully conscious of
the fact that he had no right to marry until he had committed the
murder.  This done, he could stand before the altar with Sybil
Merton, and give his life into her hands without terror of
wrongdoing.  This done, he could take her to his arms, knowing that
she would never have to blush for him, never have to hang her head
in shame.  But done it must be first; and the sooner the better for
both.

Many men in his position would have preferred the primrose path of
dalliance to the steep heights of duty; but Lord Arthur was too
conscientious to set pleasure above principle.  There was more than
mere passion in his love; and Sybil was to him a symbol of all that
is good and noble.  For a moment he had a natural repugnance against
what he was asked to do, but it soon passed away.  His heart told
him that it was not a sin, but a sacrifice; his reason reminded him
that there was no other course open.  He had to choose between
living for himself and living for others, and terrible though the
task laid upon him undoubtedly was, yet he knew that he must not
suffer selfishness to triumph over love.  Sooner or later we are all
called upon to decide on the same issue--of us all, the same
question is asked.  To Lord Arthur it came early in life--before his
nature had been spoiled by the calculating cynicism of middle-age,
or his heart corroded by the shallow, fashionable egotism of our
day, and he felt no hesitation about doing his duty.  Fortunately
also, for him, he was no mere dreamer, or idle dilettante.  Had he
been so, he would have hesitated, like Hamlet, and let irresolution
mar his purpose.  But he was essentially practical.  Life to him
meant action, rather than thought.  He had that rarest of all
things, common sense.

The wild, turbid feelings of the previous night had by this time
completely passed away, and it was almost with a sense of shame that
he looked back upon his mad wanderings from street to street, his
fierce emotional agony.  The very sincerity of his sufferings made
them seem unreal to him now.  He wondered how he could have been so
foolish as to rant and rave about the inevitable.  The only question
that seemed to trouble him was, whom to make away with; for he was
not blind to the fact that murder, like the religions of the Pagan
world, requires a victim as well as a priest.  Not being a genius,
he had no enemies, and indeed he felt that this was not the time for
the gratification of any personal pique or dislike, the mission in
which he was engaged being one of great and grave solemnity.  He
accordingly made out a list of his friends and relatives on a sheet
of notepaper, and after careful consideration, decided in favour of
Lady Clementina Beauchamp, a dear old lady who lived in Curzon
Street, and was his own second cousin by his mother's side.  He had
always been very fond of Lady Clem, as every one called her, and as
he was very wealthy himself, having come into all Lord Rugby's
property when he came of age, there was no possibility of his
deriving any vulgar monetary advantage by her death.  In fact, the
more he thought over the matter, the more she seemed to him to be
just the right person, and, feeling that any delay would be unfair
to Sybil, he determined to make his arrangements at once.

The first thing to be done was, of course, to settle with the
cheiromantist; so he sat down at a small Sheraton writing-table that
stood near the window, drew a cheque for 105 pounds, payable to the
order of Mr. YESTERDAY I arrived at Pyatigorsk. I have engaged
lodgings at the extreme end of the town, the highest part, at the
foot of Mount Mashuk:
during a storm the clouds will descend on to the roof of my
dwelling.

This morning at five o'clock, when I opened my window, the room was
filled with the fragrance of the flowers growing in the modest
little front-garden.

Branches of bloom-laden bird-cherry trees peep in at my window, and
now and again the breeze bestrews my writing-table with their white
petals. The view which meets my gaze on three sides is wonderful:
westward towers five-peaked Beshtau, blue as "the last cloud of a
dispersed storm," [25] and northward rises Mashuk, like a shaggy
Persian cap, shutting in the whole of that quarter of the horizon.He had fully decided that
poison was the best means to adopt in this troublesome business.
Anything like personal violence was extremely distasteful to him,
and besides, he was very anxious not to murder Lady Clementina in
any way that might attract public attention, as he hated the idea of
being lionised at Lady Windermere's, or seeing his name figuring in
the paragraphs of vulgar society--newspapers.  He had also to think
of Sybil's father and mother, who were rather old-fashioned people,
and might possibly object to the marriage if there was anything like
a scandal, though he felt certain that if he told them the whole
facts of the case they would be the very first to appreciate the
motives that had actuated him.  He had every reason, then, to decide
in favour of poison.  It was safe, sure, and quiet, and did away
with any necessity for painful scenes, to which, like most
Englishmen, he had a rooted objection.

Of the science of poisons, however, he knew absolutely nothing, and
as the waiter seemed quite unable to find anything in the library
but Ruff's Guide and Bailey's Magazine, he examined the book-shelves
himself, and finally came across a handsomely-bound edition of the
Pharmacopoeia, and a copy of Erskine's Toxicology, edited by Sir
Mathew Reid, the President of the Royal College of Physicians, and
one of the oldest members of the Buckingham, having been elected in
mistake for somebody else; a contretemps that so enraged the
Committee, that when the real man came up they black-balled him
unanimously.  Lord Arthur was a good deal puzzled at the technical
terms used in both books, and had begun to regret that he had not
paid more attention to his classics at Oxford, when in the second
volume of Erskine, he found a very interesting and complete account
of the properties of aconitine, written in fairly clear English.  It
seemed to him to be exactly the poison he wanted.  It was swift--
indeed, almost immediate, in its effect--perfectly painless, and
when taken in the form of a gelatine capsule, the mode recommended
by Sir Mathew, not by any means unpalatable.  He accordingly made a
note, upon his shirt-cuff, of the amount necessary for a fatal dose,
put the books back in their places, and strolled up St. James's
Street, to Pestle and Humbey's, the great chemists.  Mr. Pestle, who
always attended personally on the aristocracy, was a good deal
surprised at the order, and in a very deferential manner murmured
something about a medical certificate being necessary.  We are glad
to see, likewise, with what becoming indifference the matter
of Shakspeare's indebtedness to others is treated by Mr. White in
his Introductions. There are many commentators who seem to think they
have wormed themselves into the secret of the Master's inspiration
when they have discovered the sources of his plots. But what he
took was by right of eminent domain; and was he not to resuscitate
a theme and make it immortal, because some botcher had tried his
hand upon it before, and left it for stone-dead?Lord Arthur put the capsule into a pretty little silver bonbonniere
that he saw in a shop window in Bond Street, threw away Pestle and
Hambey's ugly pill-box, and drove off at once to Lady Clementina's.

'Well, monsieur le mauvais sujet,' cried the old lady, as he entered
the room, 'why haven't you been to see me all this time?'

'My dear Lady Clem, I never have a moment to myself,' said Lord
Arthur, smiling.

'I suppose you mean that you go about all day long with Miss Sybil
Merton, buying chiffons and talking nonsense?  I cannot understand
why people make such a fuss about being married.  In my day we never
dreamed of billing and cooing in public, or in private for that
matter.'

'I assure you I have not seen Sybil for twenty-four hours, Lady
Clem.  As far as I can make out, she belongs entirely to her
milliners.'

'Of course; that is the only reason you come to see an ugly old
woman like myself.  I wonder you men don't take warning.  On a fait
des folies pour moi, and here I am, a poor rheumatic creature, with
a false front and a bad temper.  Why, if it were not for dear Lady
Jansen, who sends me all the worst French novels she can find, I
don't think I could get through the day.  Doctors are no use at all,
except to get fees out of one.  They can't even cure my heartburn.'

"It is nothing; just be brave! I am with you."
She grew better; she was about to disengage herself from my arm,
but I clasped her tender, soft figure in a still closer embrace;
my cheek almost touched hers, from which was wafted flame.

'Oh, but there is no nonsense at all about this, Lady Clem!  I
assure you it is a perfect cure.  You must promise to try it'; and
Lord Arthur brought the little box out of his pocket, and handed it
to her.

'Well, the box is charming, Arthur.  Is it really a present?  That
is very sweet of you.  And is this the wonderful medicine?  It looks
like a bonbon.  I'll take it at once.'

'Good heavens!  Lady Clem,' cried Lord Arthur, catching hold of her
hand, 'you mustn't do anything of the kind.  It is a homoeopathic
medicine, and if you take it without having heartburn, it might do
you no end of harm.  Wait till you have an attack, and take it then.
You will be astonished at the result.'

'I should like to take it now,' said Lady Clementina, holding up to
the light the little transparent capsule, with its floating bubble
of liquid aconitine.  I am sure it is delicious.  The fact is that,
though I hate doctors, I love medicines.  However, I'll keep it till
my next attack.'

'And when will that be?' asked Lord Arthur eagerly.  'Will it be
soon?'

